?c\j 



CD 



ftttttw 



CO 



W&rt 



Handle with 

EXTREME CARE 

This volume is damaged or brittle 
and CAN NOT be repaired! 



photocopy only if necessary 

return to staff 

do not put in bookdrop 



Gerstein Science Information Centre 




HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



the same Autlior. 



Foolscap 8vo, cloth, 5s., 

A MANUAL 

OF 

THE DISEASES OF INDIA 




HEALTH IN THE TROPICS; 



OE, 



SANITARY ART 



APPLIED TO 



EUROPEANS IN INDIA. 



BY 



W. J. MOORE, 





LONDON: 
JOHN CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 

MDCCCLXII. 



SEEN BY 
PRESERVATION 



SEi- 



ES 



" The largest material resources involve the heaviest moral responsibilities, 
and service rendered to the humblest and meanest of mankind is rendered to 
the Author of our common being." LORD STANLEY'S SPEECH ON INDUSTIUAL 
HAGGED SCHOOLS, at Liverpool, Jan. 1th, 1862. 



J. R. ADLARU, PRINTER, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE. 




BY PERMISSION, 
TO 

HIS EXCELLENCY 

THE 

EARL OF ELGIN AND KINCARDINE, K.C.B., 

VICEROY OF INDIA. 



PREFACE. 



No less authority than Ranald Martin has advanced 
the decided opinion, that a Sanitary Manual, contain- 
ing in a clear and concise form the great truths and 
principles of hygiene and sanitary art, should be pub- 
lished "by authority," and become the guide of both 
military and medical officers. 

In conversation with many gentlemen of both classes, 
the absence of such a work has been allowed to be 
an existing want. 

A volume on some such plan as the one now 
deferentially offered (perhaps, however, requiring some 
deductions, and certainly wanting additions), appears 
calculated to obviate the deficiency. And to make the 
work complete, the obsolete and standing orders relative 
to each subject, together with the reasons for the abolish- 
'ment of the former and the publication of the latter, 
should follow their appropriate chapters, or otherwise 
be placed in an appendix. 

I at first intended to have added these orders and 
references, but at an up country station there are not 
facilities for such a compilation. 

Time, and the sanction of authority to search records, 
would be required before all such regulations could be 
searched out and methodised. 



Vlll PREFACE. 



But it is not only to a particular class that the present 
volume may be expected to prove useful. All ranks 
of Europeans in tropical climates are exposed, cater is 
jparidus, to the causes of disease which produce the 
great mortality amongst the European soldiery; and, 
therefore, the same care and attention to sanitary mea- 
sures are required by the former as by the latter. 

The application of the sanitary regulations laid down 
in this work may be easily directed from the soldier to 
the civilian, in any condition of life, by the unaided 
perception of the latter. 

W. J. M. 



NOTE. Owing to the circumstance that this book, written in 
India, is printed in London, and the consequent absence of the 
author's revision, a few typographical errors can scarcely be 
avoided. As was stated, however, in one of the reviews of my 
former publication, entitled, ' A Manual of the Dieases of India,' 
it is hoped that in the present instance also, " such errors," 
should they occur, " will not diminish the general utility of the 
work." 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 

PAGK 

Slow progression of Science and Art Sanitary Art not readily received : 
Reasons Sanitary Art and Medicine Value of Statistics Deriva- 
tion of Hygiene and Sanitary Art The Advantage arising from 
.Sanitation : Civil Advantages ; Military Advantages The Crimea 
The China War General Peel's Opinion M. Thiers' Remarks 
Lord Herbert's Labours Code of Regulations for Medical Officers of 
the Army : Senior Medical Officer constituted ex officio Sanitary 
Officer ; Powers of Sanitary Officer The Principles of Hygiene 
should form part of the Education of Military Officers : Lord Her- 
bert's Opinion ; Hon. and Rev. W. H. Lyttelton's Opinions Forma- 
tion of a Sanitary Committee Ancient Sanitary Teachers Military 
Sanitary Teachers Evil Effects of Overcrowding ; of Uncleanliness ; 
of Improper Diet Health of Prisons ; of Hospitals What Sanitary 
Art comprises Soldiers suffer most from Climate Possession of 
India rests on Sanitation Duties of Medical Officers to the Soldier . 1 



CHAPTER II. 
ON THE CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 

Definition of Contagion and Infection Origin of Disease Soiled Air 
Composition of Air Respiration Effects of Soiled Air Meteorolo- 
gical Conditions Ozone Exact Causes of particular Diseases not 
known Kindred Properties of Disease Contagion Infection 
The Windsor Epidemic Extension of Miasm Value of a Respirator 
Conclusion . t . m . . . .16 

CHAPTER III. 
ON MALARIA. 

Opinions latterly advanced regarding Malarious Fevers Composition 
of Malaria not known ; localities where prevalent Indications of 
Malaria All Soils extricate Malaria Localities stated to be Non- 
malarious Value of Trees Moisture and Temperature necessary 
Effects of Malaria Period of Incubation of Malaria Malaria is 
Moveable Specific Gravity of Malaria Obstacles to Progress of 



CONTENTS. 

PACK 

Malaria Checks to Formation of Malaria Destruction of Malaria 
Elevations not exempt Some Races exempt from Malarious In- 
fluencesPractical Application of the foregoing . . .29 



CHAPTER IV. 

SHOWING THAT IN ALL AGES SANITATION HAS BEEN RE- 
QUIRED, AND ITS NEGLECT FOLLOWED BY DISEASE. 

Epidemics of the Middle Ages Leviticus Hindoos and Mahometans 
The Gaol Fever Mahammurree Dysentery Zymotic Disease : 
causes not understood Conveyance of Disease to Army and Navy 
Condition of the Soldier some years since : his Barracks ; his Dis- 
eases ; his Hospitals Deductions from the foregoing . . 43 



CHAPTER V. 

SHOWING THAT SANITATION IS MORE DEMANDED IN 
TROPICAL CLIMATES THAN IN ANY OTHER. 

Allusions to former Mortality of Europeans in India Recent Mortality 
A Contrast Invaliding Expense of Disease in India Mortality 
of Women ; of Infants and Children . . 50 

CHAPTER VI. 

SHOWING THAT PREVENTIVE MEANS ONLY WILL MATE- 
RIALLY LESSEN TROPICAL MORTALITY. 

Advances of Medicine Nature of the Medical Art; Homoeopathy; Hy- 
giene ; and Sanitary Art : powers of the four Sir Bartle Frere 
Indian Plague . . . . . .58 

CHAPTER VII. 

SHOWING THAT THE ONUS OF CONTINUED SICKNESS, MOR- 
TALITY, AND EXPENSE, FROM PREVENT1BLE AND 
MITIGABLE DISEASES, MUST HENCEFORTH REST ON 
THOSE WHO NEGLECT THE SPIRIT OF THE ORDERS 
OF GOVERNMENT, AND DO NOT ATTEND TO THE RE- 
COMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIALLY EDUCATED SANI- 
TARY OFFICER. 

Another Source of Expense Stations abandoned; Causes Mortality 
in Bombay and Poona Government Orders relating to Stations, 
Barracks, Hospitals, &e. Necessity of obeying the Spirit of such 
Orders The Army Medical School . .63 



CONTENTS. XI 

CHAPTER VIII. 
THE SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 

PAGK 

Ootocamund Simla Nynee Tal Darjeeling Mount Aboo Mahable- 
swar Landour Subathoo Dugshai Jacktatalla Coonoor Can- 
tonments in the Plains Fort William Dum - Dum Bombay 
Agra Cawnpore Bhooj . . . . .67 

CHAPTER IX. 
ON HILL SANITARIA. 

Importance of the Subject ; long since recommended by Medical Men 
Establishment of the first Sanitary Stations Use of Hill Climates 
Existence of Malaria on Hill Ranges Cholera Dysentery Opinions 
regarding the location of Troops on Hill Ranges : Objections refuted 
Proposal to send healthy men to Hill Sanitaria Peculiarities of 
Hill Climate : Temperature Use of Mercury Necessity of Sanita- 
tion in Hill Climates Diseases of Hill Climates Conservancy 
Clearing Drainage Site of a Hill Station Barracks at Hill Sta- 
tions Height of Hill Stations Danger of the Terae Locality for 
the Supreme Government: Bombay recommended; Reasons Lady 
Canning. . . . , . .83 

CHAPTER X. 
ON MARINE SANITARIA. 

Diseases not benefited by Hill Climates Diseases benefited by Sea Cli- 
mates Peculiarities of Sea Climates ; Advantages : Moist and Saline 
Atmosphere ; Iodine ; A Fish Diet Coasts to be avoided Locality 
to be chosen. ...... 107 

CHAPTER XL 
ON THE CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 

Stations in the Plains can never be wholly abandoned The Spleen-test 
of Locality Proximity of large Rivers Change of Course of Rivers 
Mouths of Rivers to be avoided Dry Beds of Rivers to be 
avoided Sand not Dry Soils to be avoided and chosen Water 
Cultivation Drainage Canal. Irrigation Uneven Countries con- 
demned Proximity of Mountains condemned Neighbourhood of 
Cities condemned- -Burial Grounds Prevailing Breeze Model. Can- 
tonment Time to choose the Site Conclusion. . . Ill 



Xll CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XII. 
ON CLEARING. 

I'AGE 

Necessity of Clearing : Trees not to be cut down ; discretion as to position 
and numbers insisted on Trees retain Malaria ; consume Oxygen 
by Night ; cease to inspire Carbonic Acid ; have periods of Sickness 
and Decay : Opinion of the Natives Deciduous Vegetation . 120 

CHAPTER XIII. 
ON BARRACKS. 

Position of Barracks ; Defects of Barracks ; Drainage ; Graveyards to be 
avoided ; Barracks to front prevailing Breeze Shape of Barracks ; 
Upper Sleeping Rooms; "Chaboutra" not recommended; Store- 
houses; Sleeping Apartments; other Advantages of ; Walls; Roof; 
Floors ; Colour of Walls ; Verandahs ; Lighting ; Ventilation Over- 
crowding : Diseases induced by Overcrowding Small bodies of 
Soldiers more healthy than large Cubic space Superficial space 
Small Corner Rooms objectionable Cooling of Barracks : Mr. Jeffreys 
Plan Tatties : Tatties and Thermantidotes recommended Cooling 
in Lower Bengal Air to be kept in motion Steam power Van 
Hecke's method of Ventilation applicable to India Latrines Urinals 
Disposal of Urine Disposal of Bath-room Water. . . 123 

CHAPTER XIV. 
ON HOSPITALS. 

Importance of good Hospitals Expense of bad Hospitals Hospitals of 
ancient periods Cesar's Army Paucity of Authors on Hospitals 
and their Construction Mortality at Scutari : a Warning -Medical 
Practice Towns to be avoided Origin of Regimental Hospitals 
Pringle's Rules Construction of Hospitals : Site ; Pavilion System ; 
the Breeze Separation of Medical and Surgical Patients Number 
of Wards for an Indian Hospital ; a Station Ward for Contagious 
Diseases recommended ; the Convalescent Ward ; Upper Stories ; 
Roof Location of Hospital Servants Hospital Out-offices ; Cook- 
rooms ; Latrines ; Ventilation Officers' Hospital a Want Nurses a 
Want . . . . 139 

CHAPTER XV. 
ON CONSERVANCY. 

Dangers of Neglected Conservancy : Remarks of Board of Health ; Appli- 
cation to Indian Stations System of Conservancy pursued in India 
Condition of Indian Cities Separateur System recommended 
Composition of Sewage Masses Effects of Inspired Sewage Air 



CONTENTS. 



Xlll 



Heat a Safeguard against Disease Bounty of Providence Indian 
Conservancy Establishments Regulations concerning Sanitary 
Officer Disposal of Ordure Bazaars Public Latrines Sanitation 
to be Compulsory in Indian Villages near Cantonments Deodorising 
Agents; Charcoal. . . . . 148 



CHAPTER XVI. 
ON WATER. 

Composition of Water Importance of Water in Animal Economy 
Importance of examining all Water, particularly in Tropical Cli- 
matesRain Water River Water Well Water Tank Water- 
Marsh, or Stagnant Water Diseases arising from Impure Water : 
Malarious Fever ; Goitre ; Paralysis Action of Water on Lead : 
Diarrhoaa; Dysentery; Cholera; Guinea- Worm ; Other Entozoa ; 
Yellow Fever ; Stone in the Bladder ; Dyspepsia ; Gout Tests for 
Water Purification of Water : Strychnos potatorum 



161 



CHAPTER XVII. 
ON CHOLERA. 

Sporadic and Malignant Cholera : Origin and Dissemination ; Meteorolo- 
gical Causes ; Local Causes Cholera Infests the Ground Cholera 
Faeces will induce Cholera Water a Medium of Cholera Cholera in 
the Black Sea Fleet Want of Sanitation causes Cholera Dangers 
of Sewers beneath Dwellings : Mr. Simon's Opinion Prevention 
of Cholera Sanitation insisted upon Movements of Troops insisted 
on Cholera in India follows the great lines of Human Intercourse : 
Deduction Good Results and Dangers from Railroads Hindoo 
Pilgrimages a Cause of Cholera Measures to be adopted when 
Troops cannot be marched away from Cholera Officers not so liable 
to Cholera as the Men 



175 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
ON THE SOLDIERS' DIET. 

Value of different Articles of Food Composition of Diets : Sufficiency 
or otherwise ; Suspected Effects Real Causes of Fatty Degeneration 
Indian meat : Prejudices of the Hindoos against killing Beef; 
Horse-flesh: Pork Tape-worm Characteristics of good Meat The 
Measle Vegetables : Importance of Potatoes Bread ; Faults of 
Bread ; Reform in the manufacture of Bread required ; Indian method 
of Fermentation ; Fermentation not necessary ; Sponginess of Bread 
a sine qua non ; Aerated Bread recommended; Indian Bakeries; 
Gritty Bread; Evil Results from Gritty Bread Decayed Teeth; 



XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Appointment of a Dentist recommended Drinks: Indian Brewed 
Beer recommended ; French Wines ; Composition of Ale and Spirits 
contrasted; Fergusson's Opinion Indian Cooking Inspection of 
Cooks Flies Ophthalmia Typhus Crockery, &c. Curries and 
Stews Tobacco : Opposition to use of Tobacco of no effect ; Eeasons 
against use of Tobacco ; Mental Disease ; Impairment of Generative 
Organs ; Arguments in favour of Tobacco ; Conclusions . . 195 



CHAPTER XIX. 
ON INTEMPERANCE. 

Alcohol renders the System prone to Disease, especially in the Tropics 
Shock from Alcohol Chronic Effects : on the Body ; on the Mind 
Origin of Crime Origin of Syphilis Prevalence of Intemperance : 
Native Opinions Teetotalism condemned Good Effects of Alcohol 
Army System with regard to Drinks Advantages of Malt Liquors 
Adulterations Allowance of Drink to Recruits Conformation 
of Soldiers to Moderation Temperance Societies . . 214 



CHAPTER XX. 
ON SCURVY. 

Former Ravages of Scurvy Now Endemic in India " Latent Scurvy "- 
Causes of Latent Scurvy ; Diet ; Light Prophylaxis Reaction of 
Scurvy on other Diseases Native Remedy . , 227 



CHAPTER XXL 
ON PROPHYLACTIC MEDICINE. 

Good results from Prophylactic Medicine in the Navy Same Plan recom- 
mended for Soldiers, in Malarious Seasons, during Cholera Respi- 
rators . . 232 



CHAPTER XXII. 
ON SYPHILIS. 

Times when Syphilis is most prevalent in Armies : Causes Prevalence 
at other periods Career of the Syphilitic Soldier Difficulty of 
Curing Syphilis False Modesty to be avoided Prevention of Sy- 
philis in the Army : Old Regulations ; Lock Hospitals Means most 
adapted for the Prevention of Syphilis : Syphilization . . 235 



CONTENTS. XV 

CHAPTER XXIII. 
ON DUESS. 

PACK 

General Remarks on Dress Former Dress of the Army Immediate 
effects of Heat on a Man at Rest ; in Motion Improvements in 
Indian Dress Full Dress The best Tropical Head-dress Objections 
to ventilating Hats Leather the best Material Form Theory 
The " Puggree" The Stock The Tunic Trousers Importance 
of a well-fitting Shoe Flannel Cotton The Sock Importance 
of the "Kummerbund" Use of the Puggree as a Kummerbund 
Use of the Beard . . 242 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE SPARE HOURS OF THE 
EUROPEAN SOLDIER IN INDIA. 

Why should the Soldier deteriorate more than other Europeans in Tro- 
pical Climates ? Ennui-^Intemperance and Vice proceed from Ennui 
Cause of failure of attempts to occupy the Soldier Sir H. Rose's 
Orders Numbers of Mechanics in a Regiment Soldier to be 
Utilized Objections refuted Soldiers at Hill Stations Sir H. 
Laurence and the Lahore Garden Colonel Robertson's Opinions 
High prices of European Labour Remedy Sir Hugh Rose's 
Opinions ...... 255 



CHAPTER XXV. 
ON CAMPS AND MARCHING. 

In all possible cases Sanitation should regulate the choice of Camp Sites 
Grounds to be Chosen and Avoided Space between Tents insisted 
upon Conservancy arrangements Graveyards to be Avoided 
Cholera Unhealthy Camps Period to March Causes of Disease to 
be avoided en route . 259 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
ON THE DESPATCH OF TROOPS BY SEA. 

Dr. Kirwan's Notes A Government Fleet of Transports Mortality of 
Troops on board Ship Favourable Contrast Vessels best adapted 
for Troops Requirements of a Troop Ship Live Stock Medical 
must be Sanitary Officer Duties Night Watches Awnings to be 
spread at Night Washing Decks . . . 267 



XVI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXVII. 
ON EUROPEAN COLONIZATION IN INDIA. 

PACK 

Opinions on the subject Policy and Practicability of Colonisation Im- 
practicability of Military Colonisation The British Soldier after 
discharge Objections to Military Colonies Colonisation of the 
Indian Plains Planters Dangers of Tropical Climates Acclima- 
tisation Colonisation of Hill Ranges Hill Ranges not sufficiently 
explored Sanitation on Hill Ranges Employment for the European 
Colonists Cinchona . 274 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

I OF THE ANGLO-I 
WIFE, WIDOW, AND CHILDREN. 

Mortality and Suffering from Climate The Unmarried Soldiers Means 
Can the European Woman increase her Income ? Proposed 
Allowance Indian Mutiny Fund The Anglo-Indian Army Wife and 
Widow Fund The Soldier's Wife's Habitation Married Quarters 
at Dugshai The Soldier's Widow The Soldier's Child His con- 
veyance to Europe . . . 285 

CHAPTER XXIX. 
REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 

History of Quarantine Objections to Quarantine Disseminations of 
Yellow Fever ; of other Diseases Quarantine not so necessary in 
Northern Latitudes Means of arresting Yellow Fever Typhus 
Complaints against Quarantine Quarantine requires Modification 
Will Goods convey Disease ? Fomites Caution . 296 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 

Slow progression of Science and Art Sanitary Art not readily received : 
Reasons Sanitary Art and Medicine Value of Statistics Derivation of 
Hygiene and Sanitary Art The Advantage arising from Sanitation: 
Civil Advantages ; Military Advantages The Crimea The China War 
General Peel's Opinion M. Thiers' Remarks Lord Herbert's Labours 
Code of Regulations for Medical Officers of the Army : Senior Medical 
Officer constituted ex officio Sanitary Officer ; Powers of Sanitary Officer 
The Principles of Hygiene should form part of the Education of Mili- 
tary Officers : Lord Herbert's Opinion ; Hon. and Rev. W. H. Lyttelton's 
Opinions Formation of a Sanitary Committee Ancient Sanitary 
Teachers Military Sanitary Teachers Evil Effects of Overcrowding; 
of Uncleanliness ; of Improper Diet Health of Prisons ; of Hospitals 
What Sanitary Art comprises Soldiers suffer most from Climate Pos- 
session of India rests on Sanitatiqn Duties of Medical Officers to the 
Soldier. 

FEW of the great scientific advancements from which we 
now reap manifold advantages have been established without 
encountering much opposition, oftentimes virulent, con- 
temptuous, and sarcastic. In whatever department of science 
or art we take a retrospective view, we find that its history 
most frequently develops one continued struggle against the 
prejudices and opinions of the age. In proof of this may be 
instanced the establishment of the spinning-jenny by Har- 
greaves, of the capabilities of the locomotive by Robert Ste- 
phenson, of the circulation of the blood by Harvey, and of 
vaccination by Jenner. 

1 



2 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

It has been observed, that the strongest evidence of human 
progress is the conquest of science over error and supersti- 
tion; and during recent periods, the more general diffusion 
of liberal education has allowed the demonstration of many 
startling projects in art and science, which, " sixty years 
since," would have been utterly scouted as impossible. Hence 
it has more than once happened that new designs and dis- 
coveries have been readily, indeed enthusiastically, received. 
Of these, the electric telegraph and chloroform may be cited 
as instances. 

Although attention to sanitary regulations has proved 
productive of wonderful results, and notwithstanding these 
results are demonstrated to be certain consequences of such 
care, still it is unhappily not the less a fact that sanitation 
and hygiene are not among those projects which have been 
readily received by mankind. Those essential arts are still 
struggling to arrive at maturity. 

And why is this? Chiefly because sanitary knowledge 
simply offers health, and not immediate wealth or honour, 
as rewards to her disciples ; secondly, because ignorance fre- 
quently causes her teachings to be regarded with derision or 
contempt ; and thirdly, from the fact that sarcasm has been 
directed towards sanitary improvements even by some among 
the ranks of the medical profession ! 

In honour, however, to the profession, let it be known 
that those who, by their writings, have tended to delay the 
general progress of sanitary reform are, with few exceptions, 
to be sought for among the reviewers ; in other words, among 
those who write anonymously, but whose efficacy for good or 
evil owing mainly to the use of the authoritative WE is, 
perhaps, greater than the influence of the independent 
author. 

Thus, in the 'Edinburgh Medical Journal/ November, 
1860, in the review on the ' Medical Regulations for the 
Duties of Medical Officers of the Army/ published 1859, the 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 3 

reviewer writes : " In connection with the great talk that 
we have heard about sanitary science, it is interesting to 
note what that is, when put in the form of precise regula- 
tions. It is found to consist in opening windows, in keeping 
privies clean, in enforcing a circulation of air about beds and 
bedding, and in attending to drainage, diet, and water supply 
all matters of great importance, of transcendant impor- 
tance, much more important than physicking after the man- 
ner of English apothecaries ; and, as the world is beginning 
to find out, involving considerations which are revolutionising 
the whole practice of medicine, but hardly to be put forward 
as a science. Sanitary science has been one of the current 
cants of the last few years ; statistics has been another." 

Here we have the reviewer, after giving a most meagre list 
of a few of the least important matters which sanitary know- 
ledge embraces, objecting to its being classed as a science; 
and yet in the same paragraph stating that this to which he 
denies a name is revolutionising the whole practice of medi- 
cine; yet medicine, in her present state, even the reviewer 
would scarcely designate in less honorable terms than 
science. 

As regards statistics, in India at least, let the researches 
of Waring, of Coles, of Ewart, and others the statistics of 
disease in the Indian armies, in the Indian gaols, speak for 
themselves ! 

The arts of hygiene and sanitation are not based on any 
special science of their own, but are the application to prac- 
tical ends of principles derived from other sciences. To 
become a teacher of either one or the other to apply such 
principles either to individuals or communities demands, as 
Lord Herbert observed, a considerable portion of that special 
knowledge which appertains to the " physician, physiologist, 
geologist, meteorologist, topographist, chemist, engineer, and 
mechanic." 

Whether henceforth sanitary progress will be classed as a 



4 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

science or an art, the practical importance of the principles 
involved remains the same, and their neglect, as heretofore, 
will be followed by the loss or diminution of that greatest 
earthly blessing, health 

" Which is than kingdoms far more precious." 

Under such circumstances, the sanitary reformer may well 
decline a contest for a name, and be content to call his pro- 
gress " art." 

The almost entire extermination of scurvy, dysentery, and 
intermittent fever in London, for instance, is one of the most 
striking facts in sanitary progress. One hundred years ago, 
agues and malarious fevers were among the most common 
diseases, not only of the metropolis, but of the whole of Eng- 
land. At the present time, owing to the almost universal 
drainage, exact cultivation, and more general adoption of 
sanitation, these diseases have, excepting in a few isolated 
spots, entirely vanished. In the 17th century, the annual 
deaths from dysentery and bowel complaint fluctuated in 
London from one to two thousand ; now the annual average 
does not exceed from twenty to one hundred ! And it cannot 
be doubted that we may confidently look forward to an equally 
complete extermination of the whole class of zymotic disease. 
Indeed, typhoid fever has come to be the accepted test of the 
sanitary condition of a locality, and a diminishing mortality 
from such maladies a certain sequel of attention to the prin- 
ciples which govern the action of sanitary regulations. So 
close is the connection between defects of sanitation and the 
disease just named, that Dr. Murchison has, with the assent 
of Dr. W. Farr, denominated it pythogenic fever, or fever 
generated by dirt. 1 

Passing from civil to military matters, we again find the 
strongest evidence of the paramount importance of sanitation, 
and of the truth of the great principles of hygiene, in the 

1 'Lancet,' Dec., 1861. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 5 

fact that the sanitary regulations which have been introduced, 
and are yet in progress, have raised the health-rate of the 
soldier in temperate climes from that of the baker and com- 
positor to the standard of the middle-class civilian I 

These sanitary arrangements were begun at home; but, 
Dr. Balfour's account, published in the late ' Army Statis- 
tical, Sanitary, and Medical Report/ demonstrates that in 
Canada, the North American stations, in the Mediterranean, 
in the West Indies, in St. Helena, in the Mauritius, and in 
Ceylon, improvements are observable. India, where we 
have some 80,000 European troops is not included in the 
report ; it still remains to be dealt with. 

What was it, excepting the general absence of sanitary 
regulations, which, in the earlier period of the Crimean war, 
caused the decimation of an army, and the lamentations of a 
nation ? And what but sanitary regulations enabled us to 
present to the admiration of the whole civilised world, during 
the latter portion of the same campaign, an army whose 
health, and therefore efficiency, was contrasted favorably 
with legions employed on garrison duty at home ! 

Nay, what was it but the thorough adoption of sanitary 
regulations which enabled us in the late China campaign to 
afford what has been designated "the almost unparalleled 
spectacle" of an army moving rapidly in an enemy's coun- 
try, and that country the sea-coast of a semi-tropical district, 
in the highest condition of health and efficiency, " where, 
thanks to the excellent arrangements of Dr. Gibson, the 
admirable hospital ship of Dr. Mapleton, and the efficiency 
of the medical officers, the soldier's health was equal 
to the highest average of the civilian at home, and the 
mortality just one tenth less than the mortality of the 
army in the Crimea, during the first seven months of that 
disastrous campaign? " 

Regarding the China war, General Peel 1 states : " Let 
1 ' Home News,' Oct. 18th, 1861. 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

me observe, that there never was any war which reflected 
greater credit on every one connected with its management. 
The organization, the equipment, the arrangements made for 
the comfort of the troops were really excellent." 

As Mons. Thiers remarks, in ordinary histories we see 
only armies completely formed and ready to enter into 
action the effort it has cost to bring the soldier to his post, 
to train, to feed, and cure him, if sick or wounded, are lost 
sight of. The nation sympathises deeply with the result of 
a battle ; the slaughter of a few hundreds by sword or ball 
excites the feelings to the utmost; but the tenfold loss 
occasioned by unnecessary exposure to the burning sun; 
by the unhealthy bivouac ; by the malarious encampment ; 
by the badly chosen cantonment; by the ill-adapted bar- 
rack, is looked on as the necessary consequence of military 
service or warfare. Let us hope that this has now ceased to 
be applicable to the British nation. 

The lessons of experience are often dearly bought, and 
quickly forgotten ; but, if a lesson were ever purchased by a 
nation at a cost of life and treasure which should redeem it 
from oblivion, it is, that the means of preserving the health 
of the soldier in the field and in garrison are precious 
beyond thousands sterling. The loss of many hundreds 
of soldiers, each of whom has cost the state 100 to train to 
his duty, has resulted from the neglect of sanitary regula- 
tions, and, it may be added, a long depreciation of the 
medical department. All these facts are now matters of public 
notoriety, and, in future, it may well be demanded, why any 
military body suffers from a large per-centage of disease; 
and with not less force because it is becoming generally un- 
derstood that disease, especially zymotic disease, is preventible, 
or at least mitigable. 

In the speech above referred to, General Peel proceeds to re- 
mark : " I have alluded to the sanitary arrangements made 
for the comfort of the troops in China, and I trust I may be 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 7 

permitted to avail myself of this opportunity of expressing 
my regret for the loss we have sustained in the death of Lord 
Herbert. No man was more anxious than he to promote 
the welfare of the British soldier ; and his great object was 
to impress on Parliament that prevention is better than 
cure. It was that conviction which induced Lord Herbert 
to establish a medical school with a hospital attached, in 
which young men might be qualified to become members 
of that body, than whom there is no more worthy class of 
men I mean the medical officers of the army." 

To Lord Herbert we are also indebted for the ' Code of 
Regulations for the Medical Officers of the Army/ pub- 
lished in 1859, which, if not perfect, is an immense advance 
in the required path. 

Paragraph 28, page 81, of these ' Regulations/ constitutes 
the senior medical officer of a station "ex officio sanitary 
officer." 

Prior to the promulgation of this order, sanitation can 
scarcely be said to have had a recognised existence in India ; 
and even now representation is all the power allowed to the 
medical officer : he may forewarn, but, like Cassandra, his 
prophetic voice is frequently not heeded until too late. 

As Lord Herbert, however, observes, <e The constitution 
of an army requires that the commanding officer should be 
supreme, as he is responsible within his command. It would 
be contrary to every principle of discipline that any other 
officer should dictate to him what he ought to do. If the 
education of military officers comprehended a knowledge of 
the principles of sanitary science, commanding officers might 
safely be left to their own judgment in adopting sanitary 
precautions for protecting the health of the men. Such, 
however, is not the case ; and the problem with which we 
have to deal is, how to supply the commanding officer with 
competent advice on which to form his judgment, and yet 
keep his supremacy absolute and intact." 



8 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

This has been attempted by requiring that the medical 
officer should state to the commanding officer in writing 
whatever representation he has to make on any matter 
affecting the health of the troops, and that the command- 
ing officer should take such recommendation into con- 
sideration, and act upon it or not, as he thinks right. But 
in the latter case, the commanding officer should state his 
reason for non-compliance in writing, so as to insure that 
the advice shall not have been inconsiderately rejected when 
the matter comes under review by superior military authority. 

In my work entitled ' A Manual of the Diseases of India/ 
page 37, I wrote " Would that natural philosophy and 
sanitary science entered more largely into the studies of the 
military officer." And it is only by such education of military 
officers that the full advantage from sanitary science and 
hygiene will be established in the army. In the meantime 
high special sanitary might be more immediately combined 
with superior military authority in reviewing the rejection of 
recommendations made by subordinate officers. 

ee They do these things better in France," is a remark too 
frequently most undeservedly applied, but it would appear to 
be apropos to the subject under consideration. Regular 
lectures on hygiene and sanitary matters have been lately 
delivered at the St. Cyr School, in France, where young 
gentlemen are trained for commissions in the army. As the 
editor of the ' Dublin Medical Press' observes, " This inno- 
vation will have very beneficial results in initiating military 
officers into the principles of hygiene, which may by them 
be applied for the advantage of their men." 1 

That Lord Herbert appreciated the difficult position of 
medical officers, is fully evident from the following: his 
lordship wrote : "When a medical officer goes to the general 
commanding, who, under a tropical sun, up a river surrounded 
with swamps, is feeding his troops with salt pork, and tells 

1 ' Dublin Medical Press/ Dec. 26th, 1861. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 9 

him that unless he gives them fresh meat and vegetables they 
will be down with scurvy and fever, he does no more than 
his duty, and what it is imperative that he should do. But 
if he is met by the man in authority by the rejoinder 
' Sir, when your advice is wanted it will be asked for/ he 
probably vows never again to expose himself to such a rebuke. 
Six weeks after he is called upon to cure disease which 
is not curable at all, or not curable in time, though care 
and prevention a few weeks earlier might have obviated 
much of it." 

Hence, as it is and ever will be contrary to every principle 
of discipline that a medical officer should dictate what the 
commanding officer is to do, the principles of sanitary science 
should form part of the educational course of every military 
officer. Having been made aware of the truth of those prin- 
ciples, there would be little danger of any superior officer 
questioning their practical application in matters of detail, 
the due observance of which must always be initiated by the 
professional knowledge of the medical officer. 

The remarks of the Hon. and Rev.W. H. Lyttletoni "On the 
Practical Teaching of Sanitary Science in National Schools," 
may be applied to the military educational establishments : 
" So long as the poor are unwilling to obey sanitary laws, we 
shall be but, Sisyphus-like, constantly rolling stones to the 
top of the hill, which will immediately roll down again. 
Let, then, the principles of sanitary science, the practical 
consequences of good and evil, which flow from obeying or 
neglecting its laws, be thoroughly taught in all schools." 

If this were the case, the extreme absurdity of appointing 
A BOARD CONSISTING OF ONE lieutenant-colonel and two bar- 
risters to draw up the ' Report on the Origin of Yellow Fever 
in Bermuda in 1853 ' would not be so self-evident. As it 
was, it appears an admirable example of placing the wrong 
men in the wrong place. 

1 ' Sanitary Review,' June, 1855. 



10 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

If ever a committee or board of the kind is to hold its true 
position, it must consist of men under competent presidency, 
who are acquainted with the principles of sanitary administra- 
tion. Its members, however, must not have merely a vague 
idea of the causes of disease, but some at least among them 
must know, too, the nature of disease itself, and we shall not 
receive the full benefit from sanitary knowledge until these 
broad and common-sense views are acted upon. Granted 
that the Bermuda board were aufait as to sanitary principles, 
it can scarcely be expected that even one among the number 
was conversant with the nature of disease. Nee scire fas 
est omnia 

" One science only can one genius fit, 
So vast is art, so narrow human wit." 

Although sanitary art is only now being brought so pro- 
minently forward, and notwithstanding it has but latterly 
been made a recognised part of our military system, indi- 
viduals have not been wanting, who, even in remote ages, 
acknowledged arid taught the great principles of hygiene. 

Without reviewing the sanitary teachings of Moses, 
Lycurgus, and Hippocrates, followed by Galen, Oribasus, 
^Etius, Paulus .ZEgmeta, King Alfred, and, in later days, 
Lord Bacon, Sanctorius, Ramazzini, Frank, and others, it 
will be sufficient to state, that more than one hundred years 
ago there were military surgeons who understood, and indeed 
by their writings taught, many of the great principles of 
sanitation. 

Thus Pringle l knew and acted upon such knowledge, that 
the best and cheapest of all medicine is a boundless profusion 
of fresh air, and would "rather shelter and treat sick soldiers 
behind a hedge-row, than in the reeking wards of a military 
general hospital/' 

" Air," says Pringle, " that is become putrid by confine- 

1 'Pringle's Campaigns.' 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 11 

ment, stagnation, and animal effluvia, is the cause of sick- 
ness the most fatal and least understood. These destructive 
steams work like a ferment, and ripen all distempers into 
putrescence and malignity " 

Again, as regards overcrowding in public buildings, Sir 
Gilbert Blane, who was the first to compare the treatment of 
the sick in hospitals with the treatment in private practice, 
records the general law, observable both among the lower 
animals and men, that when large numbers are congregated 
in ill-contrived tenements, so that the exhalation and excre- 
tion from the living body are not completely removed, then 
disease is produced. Thus glanders arises among horses; 
distemper among dogs; and typhus in gaols, hospitals, or 
ships, among human beings. 

Both past records and recent experience show that, when 
a ship, or gaol, or barrack, or an hospital, is overcrowded, 
deadly fever, or hospital gangrene, erysipelas, tetanus, or the 
so-called constitutional, irritative, or surgical fever will arise. 

If to overcrowding and bad air, or want of ventilation, 
be added uncleanliness, deficient clothing, or improper food, 
with so much the greater facility will these diseases be gene- 
rated. 

Of the effects of personal uncleanliness or of deficient 
clothing in hindering and retarding the action of that im- 
portant organ, the skin, it cannot be necessary to dilate ; 
and, as Dr. Ewart 1 observes, " There is scarcely a disease to 
which the human frame is liable that is not seriously in- 
fluenced in its origin, development, climax, and termination, 
by the nature, quantity, and quality of the diet which may 
have been employed." 

Thus the healthiness of most prisons in the United King- 
dom has of recent years been very greatly increased by the 
sanitary improvements which have been introduced upon 
the recommendation of medical officers ; and the same may 
1 ' Statistics of Indian Gaols/ p. 61. 



12 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

be said of many hospitals, workhouses, &c., from which 
typhus fever has been abolished. 

Thus it was set forth in the memorial of physicians and 
surgeons to Lord Panmure, dated April, 1855, that the 
health of the inmates of such establishments depends mainly 
upon the observance of certain hygienic laws which the 
science of medicine has pointed out and experience has 
proved to be necessary for the due performance of the 
functions of life. 

But it would be a vain attempt to preserve human health 
by confining attention to the interior only of a building ; 
hence sanitary art comprises also the condition of the ex- 
ternal atmosphere, and all the numerous accessories which 
exert an influence on that atmosphere. Thus the different 
essentials which unite in producing any given climate, the 
direction of the winds, the presence or absence of ozone, the 
rainfall, the temperature, the latitude and longitude, the 
presence or absence of rivers, marshes, forests, jungles, 
mountains, the geological formation of the ground, cultiva- 
tion, the situation of trees, structure, position, and condition 
of buildings, drainage, and, in short, both the labours of 
man and the works of nature, all require due consideration, 
under the head of sanitary science. 

When to all these are added special sanitation required for 
the soldier, under the varied and widely different positions in 
which he is placed in the field, on the march, in the transport, 
and in the tropics, it may be justly stated, that there is no 
branch of science requiring a more extended knowledge than 
sanitation and hygiene. 

General Peel states " It is not from war that the soldier 
suffers most. It is from the constant change of climate, 
and from the diseases to which the quarters in which he is 
from time to time stationed expose him.'" 

Marshall Saxe, a high authority in such things, was in the 
1 < Home News/ Oct. 18th, 1861. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 13 

habit of saying that, to kill a man in battle, the man's weight 
in lead must be expended. The ' Lyons Medical and Surgical 
Gazette' states that this -fact was verified at Solferino, even 
after great improvements in fire-arms. The Austrians fired 
8,400,000 rounds. The loss of the French and Italians was 
2,000 killed, and 10,000 wounded. Each man hit cost 720 
rounds, and every man killed cost 4,200 rounds. The mean 
weight of a ball is one ounce. Thus we find that it required, 
on an average, 272 rounds to kill a man. 

Colonel Hodgson 1 informs us that the British soldier who 
now serves in Bengal one year encounters as much risk of 
life as in three such battles as Waterloo. 

Such being the case, such being the danger from [battle, 
and so much greater mortality arising from climate, it may 
be truthfully stated, with regard to the application of sani- 
tation to the soldier in tropical climates, especially in India, 
that the economical possession of the latter country, rests 
mainly on sanitary art; for "what is the sword without the 
strong arm." "With reference to the adoption of sanitation 
to the European army, now so necessary in the East, we may 
well exclaim 

" In te omnis dornus inclinata recumbit." 

The manner in which we must consent to hold this 
country is beginning to be more clearly seen. It is per- 
ceived that there must be no expectation of brilliant 
individual fortunes, and that the country must become more 
tolerable and more habitable for those who venture to it. 
It is also beginning to be appreciated that health in India is 
to be promoted by the very same means and by attending to 
the very same considerations which are admitted to be those 
which regulate sanitary matters in other countries, bearing 
always in mind climatic peculiarities. 

In a lecture on military hygiene, delivered at the United 

1 Col. Hodgson's 'Military Miscellany.' 



14 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Service Institution at Poona, September, 1861, Dr. Fraser 
stated that the Sepoy army of India is the healthiest in the 
world, and the only military force wherein the mortality is 
not greater than that of the population from which it is 
drawn. This is ascribed to the separate huts in which the 
men live, and to their removal from dirty and crowded 
village habitations into spacious cantonments, and, in com- 
parison with their former mode of life, under efficient sanitary 
control. 

Deducting a certain mortality which must ever occur to 
the European residing in a tropical climate, that which has 
resulted in the native army may be as satisfactorily obtained 
in the British legions. In the meantime, until sanitation 
rules with imperial sway, the words of the poet must remain 
applicable to Europeans in India : 

" Art is long and time is fleeting, 

And our hearts, tho' stout and brave, 
Still like muffled drums are beating 
Funeral marches to the grave." 

What, therefore, can be more honourable employment for 
a medical officer in the service of the State, than a constant 
endeavour to improve the sanitary condition of the British 
soldier? And what more than such endeavour will enable 
him to say, at the termination of his somewhat hard career, 
" I have done my duty." 

Moreover, where shall be found a body of men more deserving 
of care than those composing the rank and file of our army ? 
" the race who (Miss Nightingale writes), with that handful 
of men, defended their trenches at Sebastopol as the Greeks 
held their position at Thermopylae, and who, when dying of 
slow torture in hospital, drew their blankets over their heads 
and died without a word, like the heroes of old. I have seen 
men dying of dysentery, but scorning to report themselves 
sick, lest they should throw more labour on their comrades, 
go down to the trenches and make the trenches their death- 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 



15 



bed. I have known intimately the Sardinian soldier, the 
French soldier, and the British soldier. The Sardinian 
soldier was much better appointed than we were j the French 
were both more numerous and much better appointed, and 
more accustomed to war ; yet I have no hesitation in saying 
that we had the better military spirit, the true volunteer 
spirit, to endure hardship for our country's sake." 

And that this is not an exceptional case, let our Indian 
battle-fields bare witness, from Assaye to Delhi ! 



CHAPTER II. 

ON THE CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 

Definition of Contagion and infection Origin of Disease Soiled Air Com- 
position of Air Respiration Effects of Soiled Air Meteorological Con- 
ditions Ozone Exact Causes of particular Diseases not known Kindred 
Properties of Disease Contagion Infection The Windsor Epidemic 
Extension of Miasui Value of a Respirator Conclusion. 

FROM the foregoing remarks it will be evident that sani- 
tary art comprises, as one of the principal items, a know- 
ledge of the origin and dissemination of zymotic disease, 
and, therefore, of the vexed questions of contagion and in- 
fection. 

By contagion should be understood a specific virus origi- 
nating within the body. 

By infection, a pestiferous atmosphere, originating without 
the body. 

Therefore some diseases, as eruptive fevers, are both conta- 
gious and infectious. 

It is commonly thought that a knowledge of such matters, 
concerns only the physician ; and, as Dr. Headland observes, 
' ' it is far too common a habit among men, to delegate to 
the medical practitioner the sole and undivided control over 
matters of such momentous importance" as relate to the 
science of health. If, however, diseases really are preventable, 
such knowledge is of vital consequence to every member of 
the community. 

Even supposing we believe, as was formerly so generally 
taught, that diseases such as smallpox or typhus fever are 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 17 

propagated by infection or contagion, there must still remain 
to be explained how the disease originated in the first 
instance ? 

If, however, we take another and more common view of 
the question ; if we recollect that the locality of such disease 
is where filth, overcrowding, and defective drainage are to be 
found., and if we consider that air can be soiled as well as 
water, we shall have little difficulty in arriving at the con- 
clusion that disease may be conveyed into the human system, 
and generated de rtovo. 

The bulk of the atmosphere consists, as every one knows, of 
a mixture by weight of twenty- three parts oxygen, to seventy- 
seven of nitrogen containing about 1000 part of carbonic acid, 
a variable amount of watery vapour, and a very changeable 
quantity of the body called ozone, excepting, perhaps, in the 
neighbourhood of tropical rivers, where vast quantities of or- 
ganic matter, the debris of a luxuriant vegetation, are rapidly 
undergoing decomposition; and in towns where a larger 
quantity of carbonic acid and a minute proportion of 
sulphurous and sulphuric acid, accruing from the oxidation 
of the sulphur in the burning coals, have been demonstrated. 
This identity of composition of the atmosphere is shown by 
the repeated experiments of chemists to be a fixed law. 
Whether taken from the summit of mountains or the centre 
of cities, chemistry refuses to recognise a difference in the 
composition of the atmosphere. Like water, its essential 
constituents are the same ; but, like the latter fluid, it may 
contain in suspension, or, perhaps, even in solution, immense 
volumes of most varied and most deleterious agents. 

It is not difficult to prove that animal and vegetable 
matter, during a state of putrefaction, disengages from its 
surface portions of its substance of sufficient tenuity to be 
invisible and to remain suspended in the air. Without re- 
ferring to offensive smells, which must be material, we have 
other sufficiently satisfactory proofs. If a bell-glass be in- 

2 



18 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

verted over decomposing matter, the inner surface of the 
glass becomes covered with microscopical filamentous fungi. 
Similarly it is found that the moisture which is deposited on 
the roof of sewers is rich in organic matter, which must 
have been derived from the air of the receptacle. Again, 
milk will turn sour, if exposed to putrid exhalations; 
butchers cannot successfully dress meat near a stinking 
gully or dirty ammoniacal stable ; flesh will not keep when 
the air is loaded with moisture, cloudy, and, therefore, more 
retentive of organic impurities. 

From enquiries made under the sanction of the Board of 
Health, in 1854 (' Report on Cholera/ p. 127), it was found 
that on certain air being passed through distilled water, the 
appearance of hyphaceous fungi in such fluid was an in- 
variable result. It was also found, that on passing the same 
air through sulphuric acid, the acid soon became dark-colored 
in consequence of the charring of the organic matter con- 
tained in the atmosphere. 

Still more latterly, Dr. A. Smith 1 , has performed some 
experiments by passing air through a dilute solution of 
permanganate of potash (the strength of which had been 
previously determined by its power of decomposing oxalic 
acid) and found that the quantity of oxidizable matter in the 
atmosphere was so much greater in towns than in the 
country, that the same quantity of the solution of perman- 
ganate which was decolorised by one bottle of air, obtained 
in a close court in Manchester, required twenty-two bottles 
to decolorise it on the hills in the neighbourhood ! 

In the' late ' Report of the ( Lancet' 2 Commission of Inquiry 
into the influence of Railway Travelling upon Public Health/ 
some further experiments performed by Dr. Smith with 
permanganate of potash are also recorded. From these it 
appears that on the high grounds north of Manchester, 

1 Smith, ' On the Air of Towns/ 
8 ' The Lancet/ Jan. llth, 1862. 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 19 

209,000 cubic incites of air were necessary for the decompo- 
sition of a given amount of the solution ; while in a bedroom 
in Manchester, 64,00 ; after the same room had been slept 
in, 56,000; and when the strong smell of a sewer entered the 
room, 8000 only were required ! The latter, be it observed, 
is the same result which occurred when the air of a closely 
packed railway- carriage was examined. 

Those who are conversant with the physiology of respira- 
tion, and understand the process of decarbonization of the 
blood, which takes place in the vesicular structure of the 
lungs who know that the vital fluid is there exposed to the 
respired air are well aware of the danger of a sudden or 
constant absorption of impure atmosphere. They who are 
ignorant of the anatomy, physiology, and chemistry of respi- 
ration, can only deduct from analogy; but all are more or 
less aware of the effect which follows the inhalation of chlo- 
roform ; of carbonic acid gas from burning charcoal ; of the 
aroma of wine in large vaults ; and of the deadly results from 
concentrated sewer gas. 

As a diluted strength of the agents above mentioned will 
induce their characteristic effects in a lesser degree of inten- 
sity, so will an atmosphere but partially charged with me- 
phitic matter insidiously destroy the constitution, depress 
and impair the functions of the whole body, particularly of 
those organs with which it is brought into contact, manifest- 
ing itself constitutionally by fever accompanied by prostra- 
tion, locally by affections of the respiratory and digestive 
mucous membranes. 

Dr. Letheby states (' Report to Commissioner of Sewers/ 
1858) : " One breath of the undiluted sewer gas will destroy 
life immediately. Mixed with common air, it will cause 
asphyxia and narcotism ; smaller quantities produce nausea, 
delirium, and gradual insensibility; while further dilution 
induces general prostration of vital power, failure of appetite, 
diarrhoea of a chronic character, exhaustion, and low fever." 



20 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

And these or similar results will accrue from the respira- 
tion of impure air, whether such tainted atmosphere arises 
from sewer gas, neglected conservancy, animal and vegetable 
decomposition, overcrowding in habitations, or diseased ani- 
mal life. 

The origin of, or rather the preparation of the system for 
zymotic disease having thus been demonstrated, the questions 
naturally present themselves, how it happens that such dis- 
eases prevail epidemically, or in greater intensity at some 
periods than at others, all originating circumstances appa- 
rently being unaltered. 

It has been already stated that there are certain days on 
which meat killed quickly turns putrid, and that such seasons 
have been noticed as marked by humidity, closeness, or still- 
ness of the atmosphere. It is evident, therefore, that atmo- 
spherical conditions have much to do with the activity or 
otherwise of the germs of zymotic disease. 

Of late years, the uncertain and somewhat obscure science 
of meteorology which Herschell compared to a "romance of 
interesting episodes" is illuminated by unexpected lights. 
Science no longer remains mute respecting the approaching 
terrors of fearful tempests ; and the globe is shown to be an 
immense laboratory, wherein are effected powerful combina- 
tions, which prepare and accomplish the grand perturbations 
of the atmosphere. 

In the present state- of our knowledge, there is more reason 
for referring "the epidemic constitution of the air" to the 
presence or absence of the matter known as ozone than to 
any other named agent. 

That ozone, either in excess or deficit in the atmosphere, 
has an influence over the human constitution is proved by 
several recorded observations, some of which date so far back 
as 1845. 

M. Houzeau 1 has proved that ozone reaction is destroyed 

1 'Variab. Norm, des Prop, de 1'Air. 3 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 21 

by urban contamination. Scoutellen, of Metz, found that in 
a close, nai*row street, with a cesspool at its head, ozone was 
only four times developed during a period of six months, while 
at the neighbouring military hospital it was always present. 
Dr. Boeckel noticed that malaria always occurs when the ozono- 
scope marks zero, or the lowest possible degree, and that 
marsh fevers rage most severely under exactly the same cir- 
cumstances. Ozone, moreover, as is well known, is rapidly 
absorbed by a great number of animal and vegetable sub- 
stances, such as albumen, caseine, and blood, and, from its 
oxidizing properties, is the most powerful disinfecting agent 
known. 

Dr. Pickford 1 remarks : " In confined places, where ozone 
cannot penetrate, plants and men become blanched, the skin 
grows pallid, the blood loses colour, lymph predominates, all 
the tissues soften, and serious disease of the adynamic type 
breaks forth," and more particularly the scorbutic diathesis. 

From such facts it appears more than probable that ozone 
is expended in destroying septic impurities. 

It is also equally probable that an excess of ozone, like 
undue quantity of very many other substances, is injurious. 

The effects of pure oxygen on the respiratory organs is 
well known ; and, as ozone is oxygen positively electrified, it 
is not surprising that its issues are still more decided. Thus, 
when the proportion in the atmosphere was raised from its 
normal standard of one ten-thousandth part to one two- 
thousandth, Scoutellen found it sufficiently powerful to kill 
small animals, and to induce in the human subject powerful 
respiratory excitation, bronchial spasms, or even inflam- 
mation. The excess of ozone in the atmosphere has several 
times been noticed concomitant with epidemics of influenza, 
complicated with bronchial irritation, and attention has 
been particularly directed to this subject by Schonbein at 
Berlin. 

1 Pickford, <0n Hygiene/ p. 70. 



22 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Again, the experiments of the authority just named de- 
monstrate that ozone is found during electrical disturbance 
of the air, and it therefore follows that epidemic disease would 
diminish after a thunder-storm, which, in popular language, 
clears the air. By parity of reasoning the same diseases 
would increase in intensity during hot, close, and heavy 
weather, and that this is the case we have abundant evidence. 
For several weeks before the great plague made its appear- 
ance in London l in 1666, there had been an uninterrupted 
calm. Diemerbroeck, 3 in giving an account of the plague at 
Nimeguen, mentions a similar condition of the atmosphere. 
During the periods of cholera epidemics in Great Britain in 
1832, 1849, and 1854, a still and oppressive condition of the 
atmosphere was observed to prevail. In the last year men- 
tioned, from the 1st of July to the 31st of October, a period 
of 123 days, a calm was noticed on more than half the num- 
ber. This was not only the case in England, but was more 
or less particularly observed throughout Europe, in every 
locality where cholera appeared. The same have been con- 
comitant on very many occasions in the East, of which the 
sultry, calm, and clouded atmosphere which prevailed pre- 
vious to and during the memorable ravages of cholera 
amongst the troops assembled in Kurrachee, in 1847, is a 
memorable instance. 

The close, still, heavy weather which happened during the 
cholera epidemic at Paris in 1849 ; at Berlin in 1855; at 
Auran, in Switzerland, in 1845 ; and at Strasburg, was ac- 
companied by the marked absence of ozone. 

" Calms," writes Dr. Pickford, 3 " are unquestionably pro- 
ductive of the most baneful and pernicious consequences, by 
favouring the concentration of miasmata, and of animal and 
vegetable effluvia, particularly among a crowded and un- 

1 Maitland's' History of London.' 

2 Quoted by Pickford, ' On Hygiene.' 

3 Pickford, < On Hygiene/ p. 106. 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 23 

cleanly population, and by delaying those changes in the 
atmosphere which are necessary to the removal of its purity." 

As would naturally follow, periods of epidemic and pesti- 
lential disease are associated with a high barometric reading, 
as was so evident during the cholera epidemics in Great 
Britain. 1 This atmospheric condition tends to prevent dif- 
fusion and aggravate stagnation of miasmatic exhalations. 
The denser atmosphere sustains more organic impurities than 
the rarified. The still atmosphere retains miasmata, which 
air in motion cannot do. Hence the fact of epidemic disease 
being less frequently prevalent on elevated regions and in the 
rarified atmosphere of Indian hill ranges than in the dense 
and more contaminated strata of air resting immediately on 
the plains below. 

The presence of epidemic disease has also been associated 
with the absence of positive electricity in the air ; and further, 
the mortality has been found to be in an inverse ratio with 
the amount of positive electricity in the atmosphere. 2 

It must, however, be recollected that epidemic disease has 
occurred without any change having been noticed in either 
ozone reactions, in the density or otherwise of the atmos- 
phere, or in the electrical indications which it presents. It 
would, however, appear certain that deficiency of ozone, a 
still and dense atmosphere, and a want of positive electricity, 
are most frequently concomitant, and probably are resulting 
effects of each other. Further, there is just ground for the 
belief that one or other of these conditions always occurs 
during epidemic disease, and that at some period, either 
previous to or during the ravages of the epidemic, all may be 
demonstrated. 

While, however, these numerous facts lead to the inference 
that ozone, calms, and electricity are powerful agents in the 
establishment of health and disease that their presence or 

1 Glaisher's ' Meteorology.' 

2 Glaisher's ' Meteorology of London/ 1855. 



24 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

absence favours the diminution or occurrence of zymotic dis- 
ease ; still, with all such facts before us, we are not justified 
in the assertion that any one of the three agents named, or 
any complication of the three, is the direct cause of any par- 
ticular class of maladies. 

In the same manner, why any peculiar meteorological con- 
dition, in conjunction with filth and sanitary defects, shall 
cause small-pox in one season or locality, scarlet fever at 
another period, or cholera at others, is a complete mystery. 
Experience teaches us that with such concomitants some 
one or other of these diseases will be originated ; but what 
subtle combinations are required to induce a particular 
malady will probably for ever remain unknown. It is, 
indeed, 

" Causa latet, vis est notissima." 

Hence, although we can foretell the origin of erysipelas, sur- 
gical fever, irritative fever, hospital gangrene, or puerperal fever 
in crowded, ill-ventilated and badly contrived hospitals, still 
we are unable to foresee which of these particular affections 
will become manifest. 

Still, however, all these diseases are ejusdem generis, 
and all exhibit the same class of symptoms in their origin, 
progress and termination, whether originating in the tem- 
perate or torrid zone. As Dr. Bennett x observes, " This 
fever of the country is no other than our own old enemy, 
typhus, under a Continental garb. Its characteristic features 
may be modified by some malarious or catarrhal element, but 
the type is the same. The cause, too, is identical in the 
Italian marble palace, and in the St. Giles hovel foul air 
inside and outside the house everywhere." 

The origin of zymotic disease de novo being allowed, 
the manner of progress and dissemination becomes the next 
question. 

1 Bennet, 'A Second Winter in Itaty.' 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 25 

The simplest kind of contagion is that where a disease is 
communicated in one way only, namely, by the transmission 
of a palpable poisonous matter, conveyed from the body of 
the sick, and applied to the healthy person either imme- 
diately or through the medium of anything which has been 
in contact with the sick, as for example, the bed or clothing : 
itch, some varieties of porrigo, syphilis, gonorrhoea, hydro- 
phobia, the effects of snake-bite, are in this category. 

But there is also every ground for believing that the 
poisonous matter of certain diseases may be transmitted from 
the infected to the healthy person, without direct or indirect 
contact with the palpable virus, and through the agency of 
the atmosphere. It would appear, also, that the poison 
passing off, and probably generated in the body of the sick, 
is identical with that formed externally, and which originated 
the disease. 

In the case of gonorrhceal and other kinds of ophthalmia, it 
has been frequently remarked, that a visit to a ward where a 
number of patients are congregated has been followed by an 
attack of the malady, even when every care has been taken 
to avoid coming in contact with the sick, or with any articles 
near them. 

Thus, latterly in the Orphan Asylum, near Prague, an 
epidemic of ophthalmia broke out, and ninety-two children 
were attacked. M. Eiselt examined the air with Pouchet's 
aeroscope, and, in the atmosphere of a ward where lay a 
great number of children, a quantity of large pus-cells were 
found. The cells were noticed on the instrument imme- 
diately the air was made to pass through the apparatus. 

In such cases, it may be probable, that the pus-globules 
floating in the air attach themselves to the eyes of healthy 
individuals, and so excite the disease; but there are other 
affections which arise from the atmospherical dispersion of 
the materies morbi, and its consequent absorption by the 
skin, lungs, or alimentary passages. Cholera, yellow fever, 



26 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

malarious fever, influenza, small-pox, plague, and the whole 
of the exanthemata, obviously belong to this class. 

Some of the diseases mentioned, however, are commu- 
nicable in both ways, viz., by direct contact or application, 
and also by atmospheric dispersion of fomites or materies 
morbi. Of these, small-pox (according to Mr. Youatt 
glanders) and puerperal fever are examples. 

It is frequently a matter of surprise that individuals are 
stricken with disease of the zymotic variety who have appa- 
rently never been exposed to contagious or infectious in- 
fluence, and who live without any great defect of sanitation 
being discernible in the locality of their residence. As was 
demonstrated, however, during the Windsor epidemic in 
1858, disease will originate if its causes accumulate, even in 
the proximity of the most stately residence. At that 
period, as has been remembered with suspicion 1 since the 
melancholy death of the Prince Consort, Dr. Murchison 
showed, that only one half of the Royal Mews participated 
in the efficient system of drainage applied to the castle. 
That part which was well drained, remained free from fever ; 
in the other portion, as in the insufficiently drained town of 
Windsor itself, disease was rife, thirty cases of fever and 
three deaths occurring among the royal servants. 

The question naturally arises, at what distance from the 
bodies of the sick, or from the localities of formation, is the 
miasm capable of inducing disease? This can scarcely be 
reduced to demonstration. Both classes of emanations be- 
come fatal, or prove innocuous, according to the extent to 
which they are diluted by pure air. Miasm may be, roughly 
speaking, said to diminish as the square of the distance; 
and, in fresh air, according to Dr. Alison, it does not extend 
beyond three feet from the patient. When, therefore, fever, 
erysipelas, or gangrene, spreads in an hospital, or originates 
in its wards, such an event proves that the laws of nature are 
1 ' Lancet,' Nov. 21st, 1861. 



CAUSES OF ZYMOTIC DISEASE. 27 

not being carried out that the miasms from the sick have 
so injured and dirtied the air, that it is unfit for the respira- 
tion of human beings. If, however, the same air is but 
partially soiled, it can only operate with a less degree of 
force. Therefore, when we take into consideration the pre- 
valence of draughts of air in various directions, particularly 
among buildings, and the probability of the presence in the 
atmosphere of various gaseous substances, which, like ozone, 
may have the power of destroying materies morbi, it ceases to 
be surprising that we cannot define the exact limits at which 
miasm loses the power of exciting disease. Indeed, as pre- 
viously stated, a small dose of the poison, that is to say, 
breathing less dirty air, will, perhaps, not induce the typhus 
or hospital fever from which it arises, but will cause headache, 
lassitude, or malaise instead. 

Moreover, much must depend on the state and condition 
of individuals. A weakened or fatigued person will become 
affected more easily than a robust and vigorous man ; the 
drunkard sooner than the temperate; and the hungry and 
poverty-stricken before the well-fed and opulent. Also sea- 
son exerts an influence as Dr. Smith 1 shows, depressing the 
vital powers to a minimum during the autumnal period, or 
just at the time when the cyclical change of the year induces 
the formation of the largest amount of materies morbi. 

Hence it cannot be stated with any exactness how near 
an individual may approach the poisonous locality (whether 
such locality be the bodies of the sick or other generators of 
miasmata), without running danger of becoming affected ; 
but we can in this manner account for the fact of individuals 
contracting disease who unknowingly inspire the poisoned 
atmosphere from an open door, an untrapped drain, or 
other locality, which, perhaps, one moment afterwards, in 
consequence of a current of air sweeping by, may be healthy 
for the next and more robust passenger. 

1 Smith, Cyclical Changes/ p. 161. 



28 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

It is on this principle that a windward position is always 
more healthy than the reverse. And it is this knowledge 
which enables the medical man so frequently to escape disease 
when visiting and examining the infected sick. If there be 
any draught,, the physician almost instinctively passes to 
windward of his patient, and before examination of the back, 
for instance, would allow time for a circulation of air between 
his patient's person and the bedding. 

It is also a rule worth remembering and acting upon, to 
clear the mouth and expectorate, after exposure to any pro- 
bable source of infection, by which means there can be little 
doubt that miasm may oftentimes be rejected, before it can 
enter the system. 

The researches of Schroder establish beyond doubt that 
the formation of the hyphaceous fungi previously referred to 
will not take place in a bottle containing organic matter 
previously heated to boiling, provided the neck of the flask 
be loosely plugged with cotton. The substance remains for 
years unaltered, fermentation and putrefaction being arrested 
by the cotton acting as an air-filter, and retaining the solid 
particles suspended in the atmosphere. The later experi- 
ments of Pasteur " on spontaneous generation," also led to 
the same results. Hence the value of a respirator to those 
exposed to soiled air. 

To conclude, experience has incontestibly shown, that just 
as disease never springs up primarily in a place where the 
atmosphere is fresh and pure, so it cannot continue to exist, 
far less to thrive, where such an atmosphere prevails. ' c The 
same aerial condition is necessary for the reproduction as for 
the original production of the morbific germ." 



CHAPTER III. 



ON MALARIA. 

Opinions latterly advanced regarding Malarious Fevers Composition of 
Malaria not known ; localities where prevalent Indications of Malaria 
All Soils extricate Malaria Localities stated to be Non-malarious 
Value of Trees Moisture and Temperature necessary Effects of Malaria 
Period of Incubation of Malaria Malaria is Moveable Specific 
Gravity of Malaria Obstacles to Progress of Malaria Checks to Forma- 
tion of Malaria Destruction of Malaria Elevations not exempt Some 
Kaces exempt from Malarious Influences Practical Application of the 
foregoing. 

SEVERAL authors have lately attempted to prove that the 
agent we call malaria has no existence, and that the parox- 
ysmal diseases generally associated with such miasmata are 
due to other causes. It is not difficult, in the absence of 
visible evidence, to give the apparent colouring of truth to 
any stated proposition, especially when the demonstration of 
the subject depends on analogous reasoning, instead of direct 
testimony ; but, on the other hand, it is comparatively easy 
to prove to all "who see but what they list" that certain 
events invariably following stated antecedents must have 
their origin in the latter. 

The theory of the author of the Brownonian 1 system of 
medicine, which, about the close of the last century, gained 
so great an ascendancy in both professional and public esti- 
mation, "that debility is the cause of intermittent, as well 
as of every other kind of fever," appears to be again obtaining 
supporters. 

2 Brown, * Elementa Mediciiisc 1 ,' prop. xxii. 



30 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Without referring to the opinions of the late Dr. Todd, 
whose heroic stimulating method of treatment bears on this 
subject, or to the ideas of those who support that lamented 
physician's views, it will be sufficient to allude to the state- 
ments of authors who have limited their remarks to malarious 
disease. 

Thus, Dr. Smart 1 " is disposed to consider that the fevers 
of Hong Kong must not be brought forward to swell the 
charge of insalubrity of climate," and remarks " that, in the 
majority of fever attacks at that place, it will be ascertained 
that simple exposure to the sun, disregard of sanitary pre- 
cautions, either voluntary or enforced, indulgence in habits 
that derange the digestive functions or depress the nervous 
pOAvers, have preceded the invasion of fever, standing in the 
relation of exciting causes." 

Again, Dr. Burdel 2 'regards marsh poison as a " myth," 
and looks upon malarious fever as a "perturbation of the 
cerebro-spinal centres and of the sympathetic system"- 
adopting nearly the same nomenclature as the one by which 
Bernard defines "glycosuria" (with which also Dr. Burdel 
connects paroxysmal disease), but at the same time forgetting 
to explain the reason of this " perturbation" of the nervous 
system. 

Another gentleman, Dr. Knapp, 3 President of the Univer- 
sity of Iowa, brings forward a remarkably easy doctrine 
allied to the homoeopathic absurdity viz., that the " scor- 
butic diathesis is primary pathology," and that all known 
causes of pestilence produce their results by impairing the 
nutritive functions, and thus does not admit any hypothetical 
causes, such as "supposed malaria, epidemic influences, or 
occult qualities," which terms the doctor states are only 
" cloaks for ignorance, and hinder the progress of science." 

1 Smart, " On the Diseases of Hong Kong," ' Lancet/ Aug., 1861. 

2 Burdel, L'Union Medicale,' No. 139, 1859. 

3 Knapp, ' Researches on Primary Pathology and Laws of Epidemics.' 



MALARIA. 



31 



That the scorbutic diathesis is a powerful predisposing 
cause of disease, will be sufficiently demonstrated in Chapter 
XX, "On Scurvy;" but that intermittent or paroxysmal 
affections will arise from this alone cannot be correct, or we 
should find malarious disease prevalent amongst Arctic 
voyagers, which, however, is not the case. 

Linnaeus, 1 in his thesis entitled ' Hypothesis Nova Febrium 
Intermittentium causa/ announced the true cause of ague to 
be ' aqua scilicet argillacea/ or the use of water impregnated 
with inorganic matter, while percolating through an argilla- 
ceous soil. That impure water induces malarious disease will be 
shown in the chapter devoted to a consideration of that fluid ; 
but the cause of this would appear to be, saturation of such 
water by malaria, and not the admixture of any other agents, 
which, as demonstrated in the chapter just referred to, excite 
diseases of a widely different nature. 

It will now be shown how far facts agree with the asser- 
tions or opinions of the authors quoted. 

It has already been advanced (Chapter II), that the most 
skilful analytical chemists have been unable to detect any 
alteration in the composition of the atmosphere, whether the 
air submitted to analysis was procured from mountains or 
plains, cities or deserts. It has also been shown that the 
peculiar decomposition originating any particular disease has 
not yet been ascertained. In like manner, the determination 
of the precise nature of malaria has hitherto eluded discovery, 
although both chemists and microscopists have devoted much 
time and attention to the investigation. 

Dr. Pickford 2 states : " Notwithstanding our ignorance of 
its chemical and physical properties, there is every reason to 
believe that malaria is an organic compound, chiefly com- 
posed of carbon and hydrogen." 

According to Schonbein 3 marsh miasm consists of gaseous 

1 ' Amcenitates Academicae,' vol. x. 

2 Pickford, ' On Hygiene/ p. 166. 

3 Schonbein, * Med.-Chirur. Trans.' vol. xxiv. 



32 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

matters, the products of purely chemical or physical or 
physiologically-chemical action, taking place within the earth 
or upon its surface, in stagnant water, or in the atmosphere 
itself. 

Galen, Aretseus, Celsus, and all the older authors, associ- 
ated malaria with swamps and marshes ; but it is now tho- 
roughly proved that, as Dr. Maculloch stated, "before 
malaria can be produced, it is necessary that the land should 
be visible and drying," or otherwise subject to peculiar alter- 
nations of dryness and moisture. When a swamp is covered 
with water, no malaria is extricated. It appears probable, 
from instances similar to those quoted in the chapter on 
water, that this fluid absorbs the malaria, and thus prevents 
its dissemination through the atmosphere. We cannot other- 
wise account for the fact of malarious fever following the use 
of stagnant water as a drink. The absorption of malaria by 
water also accounts for the idea that malaria cannot pass over 
the latter fluid ; although, indeed, the greater amount of 
ozone in the atmosphere above lakes and rivers must also 
have its share in destroying or neutralising the poison. 

Hence malaria chiefly abounds on the margins of swamps, 
or where the soil is boggy and drying ; on plains which have 
been flooded ; on alluvial shores ; on the deltas and in the 
course of tidal rivers which are twice in twenty-four hours 
influenced by the ocean ; in the dry beds of tropical rivers ; 
on plains and level countries presenting physical obstacles to 
drainage ; in the rocky hollows and alluvial soils of mountain 
valleys ; and in all soils generally which afford capabilities 
for the retention of moisture. 

A malarious soil is indicated by marshy vegetation, and the 
presence of amphibious animals of the Batrachian kind, such 
as frogs and tortoises. The presence of innumerable flies, of 
all shades and colour, locusts, insect-eating birds, birds of 
the genus Scolopax as was the case in the "valley of death" 
where our troops suffered so severely point out an unhealthy 
malarious climate. 



MALARIA. 33 

But not only is malaria extricated from marshy ground, 
but it is also produced on sandy alluvial plains, where little 
or no vegetation exists ; as at Walcheren, where 18,000 men 
died or were invalided in three months ; at Baia, where a 
French army of 28,000 men were reduced in a few days to 
4000 ; in Spain, on the plains of Estremadura ; at Ciudad 
Rodrigo ; and in very many tropical districts. 

Again, Sir Ranald Martin 1 has shown that many localities 
in India, where ferruginous soil or hornblende persist, are 
essentially productive of malarious disease. Sir Ranald has 
also demonstrated, by the aid of Sir Charles Trevelyan, that 
at Hong Kong, Sierra Leone, and other places, the same 
affinity exists between ferruginous soils and malarious disease. 
To this list, in my ' Report on the Medical Topography of 
Bhooj/ 2 I added the province of Kertch, in Western India. 
Dr. Heyne, 3 in his paper on the ' Hill Fevers of the South 
of India/ also dwells on the connection which appears to exist 
between ferruginous earth and malaria. 

It may, however, be asserted that all soils exhale malaria, 
some, probably, to a larger extent than others. The reason 
why miasm is more powerful in particular localities has now 
to be explained. 

It appears extremely likely that, as Dr. Parker 4 holds, 
malaria does not arise from any cause existing on the surface 
of the ground, but that it depends on chemical or volcanic 
action occurring beneath the surface. Otherwise, how is the 
presence of malaria to be explained in those districts which 
are arid, and devoid of vegetation ? It would seem, however, 
that the formation of malaria does not take place at any 
great depth below the ground, otherwise colliers and miners 
would be subject to intermittent disease, which certainly is not 

1 Martin, On Tropical Climates.' 

2 ' Bombay Med. and Phy. Soc. Transactions,' 1861. 

3 Indian An. Med. Science,' vol. i. 

4 Parker, * Causation and Prevention of Disease.' 

3 



34 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the case. Malaria, however, being extricated, becomes en- 
tangled in the damp vapours, air, and rotting vegetations 
of swamps, which will account for their pestiferous cha- 
racter. 

Dr. Hirsch 1 has latterly brought forward several arguments 
in opposition to the view previously entertained, that malaria 
is the product of decomposing vegetable matter, and instances 
several localities where there are moist swamps, apparently 
presenting all the climatic and terrestrial characters of other 
regions where malarious fevers abound, but which are free 
from such diseases. These localities are several places in 
Peru, the Pampas of Rio de la Plata, some positions on the 
delta of the Mississippi, and Negapatam in the Madras 
Presidency. Regarding the latter place, however, I have reason 
to believe that malarious disease exists there, as in most 
places in India. Yet it is an acknowledged fact, that peat bogs 
do not emit malaria, and also that the Dismal Swamp, a 
moist tract of 150,000 acres, on the frontiers of Virginia and 
Carolina, does not induce aguish fever. 

Hence it would appear that in such places, and also else- 
where, there must be some counteracting influence at work, 
preventing either the generation or extrication of miasmata, 
or destroying it immediately on formation. Analogous 
reasoning will not allow us to suppose that localities having 
identical similar climatic and other characteristics do not 
obey the same laws, and therefore it cannot be imagined that 
such surfaces as the Dismal Swamp soil do not generate 
malaria. It is, however, consonant with our knowledge of 
the mercy and bounty of Providence to suppose that, as He 
has appointed organic life to consume the expired carbon of 
animals, and the reverse, so in like manner vegetation may 
be made in other ways the cleanser and purifier of the atmo- 
sphere, and this, indeed, science gives us cogent reasons for 
asserting is the case. 

1 Hirsch's ' Handbook/ p. 67. 



MALARIA. 35 

Pliny long since maintained, that groves and trees absorb 
and destroy mephitic vapours. 

Dr. Kinloch Forbes holds that trees live on miasm ; but 
even if they simply decompose it and absorb the carbon, 
which appears to be one of its constituents, in the same 
manner as they decompose and absorb carbonic acid, the 
beneficial effect the destruction of malaria is realised. It 
has also been supposed that trees prove antagonistic to 
malaria in another manner, viz., that the oxygen they exhale 
into the atmosphere becomes positively electrified or, in other 
words, converted into ozone, the disinfectant powers of which 
have been already considered. 

That trees act in one, probably in both, of these methods 
on malaria, that they respire or absorb mephitic carbonaceous 
emanations from the earth's surface, and that the oxygen 
they so plentifully form becomes converted into ozone, for 
the more perfect destruction of marsh miasm, there are many 
convincing arguments. 

Malaria is most pestiferous and active from sunset to sun- 
rise, when plants respire oxygen, and give off carbonic acid ; 
when, in fact, they cease to absorb the latter, and, proba- 
bly, the carbon of malaria. 

Malaria has most effect on the system during the hours of 
sleep ; this obviously depending partly on its not being 
destroyed by night, and its consequent greater concentration 
and power, and partly on the known fact of the human 
system being less able to withstand subtle causes of disease 
when in the weary state, demanding sound repose. As 
noticed in chapter XII, " On Clearing," natives of India 
dread sleeping under trees having dense foliage, as the nimb 
and the tamarind. 

It is stated that several localities in America, formerly 
malarious, have been made the reverse by planting sun- 
flowers, which there attain the greatest bloom and vigour 
during the autumnal season, or at that period when most 



36 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

vegetation decays,, and the largest quantity of malaria is ex- 
tracted. Lieut. Maury, of the American navy, appears to 
have been the first to direct attention to the anti- malarious 
properties of the sunflower. 1 

The effects of malaria are, for the most part, produced in 
autumn, when vegetation is decaying and drying up, and 
therefore ceases to absorb carbon in the same quantities as 
before. 

Swampy localities not productive of malaria, as the Dismal 
Swamp, the delta of the Mississippi, &c., are covered with 
evergreen trees, which retain their foliage throughout the 
entire year. Peat bogs are constantly green. 

In hot climates, where malaria abounds, most of the trees 
are evergreens. 

A screen of trees between a swamp and town has rendered 
the latter healthy ; removal of groves the reverse. 

Lastly, malarious fevers have been observed especially 
virulent where no vegetation existed. 

Moisture and a somewhat elevated temperature are neces- 
sary to the development of malaria. This process, like 
putrefaction, is suspended by perfect dryness, and a tempe- 
rature below freezing point; also, to some extent, by the 
scorching heat of a summer tropical sun. Hence paroxysmal 
disease does not exist in the Artie regions, and not nearly to 
the same extent in the dry seasons of tropical climates. 

Malaria, in its diluted forms, gives rise to various anoma- 
lous symptoms, which have been latterly referred to by 
Dr. Handfield Jones, in his brochure on 'Neurolytic or 
Aguish Disorders prevalent iri London/ In tropical climates 
the saturation of the system by malaria is much more de- 
cidedly marked, and is the chief cause of those conditions 
described in my ' Manual of the Diseases of India/ under 
the heads of " Cachexia Loci," " Splenic Leucocythsemia," 
and " Masked Malarious Fever." 

1 Western Lancet,' 1860. 



MALARIA. 37 

In fact, malarious influences are the chief causes of that 
degeneration of blood and vis vitae which commences from 
the day the European sets his foot on a tropical or semi- 
tropical shore; and every disease in such countries is im- 
pressed either in its origin, progress, or termination, with 
the paroxysmal phenomena of the malarious taint. 

The malarious type of dysentery, is as Deputy-Inspector- 
General Cameron 1 truly observes, one of its most fatal forms, 
and " must be regarded, in a great measure, as essentially 
fever/' 

Some also have supposed that ardent continued fever, 
plague, pestilence, cholera, and epidemics of heat, asphyxia, 
are the results of malaria. 

Although there are arguments in favour of malaria being 
the exciting cause of the terrible diseases just named, still it 
appears most probable that malaria, as is the case with 
dysentery, merely aggravates their symptoms. As Mr. 
Murray 2 states of cholera, "Many of these cases towards 
the end of the epidemic assumed an intermittent form, with 
profuse perspirations, which modification was evidently 
caused by the miasmatous atmosphere ;" so it is found in all 
malarious countries that epidemics of any disease are in- 
fluenced by the atmosphere acting on a weakened constitution, 
and exciting those manifestations which it could not do in a 
state of health. 

In addition, however, to the malarious influence excited 
over epidemic disease, the same taint is recognised in other 
and widely different ailments. Thus, Dr. Francis 3 records 
several cases of gout having a malarious origin ; Dr. Geddes 4 
mentions convulsions as arising from miasm ; and Dr. Payne 5 
has recently published an ' Essay on Epileptiform Seizures' 

1 Cameron, " On the Employment of Quinine in Fevers." ' Lancet,' 1861. 

2 Murray, " Report on Cholera in India." ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. xiv. 

3 Francis, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci.,' vol. xiv. 

4 Geddes, ' Clinical Illust. of Disease in India.' 

5 Payne, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci.,' vol. xiv. 



38 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

dependent on malaria. Several authors have also described 
convulsions occurring to children in India as due to the same 
causes. In a more intense form, or in weakened or debilitated 
habits,, or in the autumn season,, when, in addition to the 
greater intensity of malaria from causes already explained, the 
human system is at the minimum as regards muscular and vital 
power, malaria gives rise to ague or intermittent fever. In 
cold countries, where the malaria is not so abundant, the 
tertian type is generally observed ; in the tropics, from the 
causes previously referred to, quotidian fever generally occurs. 
In still greater intensity malaria excites remittent fever, with 
all its complications and tendencies to become continued and 
typhoid. 

Malaria, however, may be so intense as to kill at once, as 
has occurred on many occasions both in semi-tropical and 
tropical climates, as in Italy, 1 India, and in the West Indies. 2 

In other instances bowel complaints, as the "dry colic" 
of the West Indies, the dhobee's colic of the Indian hill 
stations, and common diarrhoea, are induced by exposure to 
malaria, the poison appearing to expend itself in the flux in- 
duced." " Dhobees," or washermen, frequently suffer from 
colic and diarrhoea, after remaining long in the narrow 
ravines, where they proceed for the sake of water, and 
sportsmen are often attacked by diarrhoea after wandering 
through malarious localities. 

" Fever," says Dr. Maculloch, " may be induced within half 
an hour after exposure to malaria;" the more immediate effects, 
as above demonstrated, in even less time. Again, malarious 
fever may occur at sea, as happened in my own charge to 
individuals who had lost sight of land for ten or twelve days, 
and who had never before suffered from intermittent. 

"Malaria loves the ground," and therefore is found in 
greater intensity in valleys, which accounts for some of the 

1 Pickford, ' On Hygiene.' 

2 Fergusson, " On Marsh Poison ;" < Trans. Ed. Roy. Soc./ vol. ix. 



MALARIA. 39 

facts previously stated, and also is the reason why, in mala- 
rious countries, the inhabitants of ground floors are affected 
by disease in a greater proportion than those sleeping in 
upper apartments, as was painfully demonstrated in the 
hospital at Padua, 1 at Guadaloupe, 2 at Seringapatam, 3 at 
Calcutta, 4 in 1833, when the fort ditch was allowed to empty 
itself, and the inhabitants of lower storeys suffered in con- 
sequence, and at other places. 

It has already been stated that malaria may be entangled 
in fogs and mists, and hence it is the more readily movable 
by the winds, although indeed it may be so extended without 
the aid of damps as a vehicle. Thus Lancisi 5 mentionsthat 
out of a party of thirty, who had sailed to the mouth of the 
Tiber, twenty-nine were attacked with ague on the wind 
shifting and blowing over a marsh to windward. 

In America, Holland, India, and other countries, much 
the same results have been recorded. 

In consequence of the preceding facts, all writers on ma- 
laria, especially Drs. Fergusson, Corbyn, and Mackinnon, 
concur in insisting upon the evil effects of choosing a position 
to leeward, or within or at the mouth of a ravine, in the 
lowest depths of which, rarely thoroughly perflated in still 
weather, or visited by the direct rays of the sun, miasms 
stagnate, and from which they roll in a most concentrated 
form. Thus it is concluded that the specific gravity of ma- 
laria is greater than that of air. 

It has already been demonstrated that trees decompose or 
absorb malaria, and they must, therefore, in common with 
any other obstacles, as a high building, arrest the poison in 
its course. Unlike masonry, however, they retain it, and do 
not admit it to blow through or over their foliage at all 

1 Clarke, ' On Climate/ 

2 Fergusson, " On Yellow Fever ;" Med.-Chir. Rev./ vol. xiii. 

3 Ballingall. 

4 'Ind. An. Med. Sci.,' vol. i. 

6 Laucisi, * De Noxiis Paludum Effluviis.' 



40 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

events to any considerable extent. This fact has been fre- 
quently turned to practical account in India and elsewhere. 
Many places have been made comparatively healthy by plant- 
ing a screen of trees between them and a malarious locality ; 
while, on the other hand, many salubrious places have become 
the reverse, by destruction of their vegetable safeguards. 

' ' A forest/' says Mr. Haviland, 1 " intervening between a 
pestilential marsh and a city, often affords protection to the 
inhabitants " and Fergusson 2 wrote that, in the territory of 
Guiana, ' ' It is wonderful to see how near to leeward of the 
most pestiferous marshes the settlers, provided they have the 
security of trees, may venture with safety." 

Cutting down screens of trees has ever been a fatal opera- 
tion, as was demonstrated at Paramaribo, the capital of 
Surinam ; in the Campagna of Rome ; at the Convent of St. 
Stephano, and elsewhere. 3 

But although vegetation and trees are beneficial in the 
most extended sense, they may be made just the reverse, if 
any one perversely camps or resides under their shade when, 
from the character of the adjacent surface, there is reason to 
believe the accumulation of miasm may take place in their 
foliage. 

Nothing checks the generation and propagation of malaria 
so much as dense population and cultivation. Even, how- 
ever, in the latter salutary process there is a certain amount 
of danger. Inefficient drainage may just bring a swamp 
into that drying and boggy condition which is so peculiarly 
favorable to the extrication of malaria. This was the case 
after the partial draining of the marsh of Chartreuse. 4 Again, 
too profuse irrigation may induce disease ; and hence the ob- 



1 Haviland, ' Climate, Weather, and Disease/ p. 58. 

2 Fergusson, " On the Nature and History of Marsh Poison ;" ' Trans. 
Roy. Soc. Edinb./ vol ix. 

3 Pickford, 'Hygiene;' Art. "Malaria/' 

4 Martin, ' On Tropical Climates/ 



MALARIA. 41 

jection which Col. Baird Smith 1 states has been taken in 
Italy to rice cultivation. Indeed, it is forbidden in that 
country to establish these " marcite" meadows within 1000 
English yards of forts or fortified places, within three miles 
of the communes, and within five miles of the capital. It 
would be well if these regulations were made applicable to 
the irrigated land so frequently too near our Indian can- 
tonments. 

Again, the first cultivation of a district, the first ploughing 
up of the land, is said to be always productive of malaria. 2 

It has been stated that population tends to check the for- 
mation of malaria ; and this arises in two ways first, from 
the cultivation which a populated country undergoes, and, 
secondly, from the number of fires which population and 
civilisation demand. It is stated that the postmaster of a 
station in the Pontine Marshes preserved his health by keep- 
ing a large fire constantly burning day and night throughout 
the year. That fires, or their products, disseminated in the 
atmosphere, will destroy the epidemic constitutions of the air 
during times of plague, we have abundant proof, both from 
ancient and modern history. Thus Hippocrates and Pliny 
state that the Athenians were cured of the plague by lighting 
fires near the houses of the sick. The same disease disappeared 
after the great fire of London, in 1666. The large manufactur- 
ing cities of Manchester and Birmingham passed through the 
cholera period almost untouched ; the affection was arrested 
at Varna after the conflagration of the town. There can, 
therefore, be no doubt that fire exerts a destructive influence 
on malaria, as over the subtle atmospheric causes of disease. 
Hence the desirability of lighting fires round encampments 
placed in a malarious locality. 

In consequence of malaria being so much more powerful 
in valleys and hollows than on elevated sites (a fact which has 
been instinctively taken advantage of by the inhabitants of 

1 Smith, * Italian Irrigation/ 

2 Pickford, 'Hygiene;' Art. "Malaria." 



42 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

malarious countries, as in Sicily, and many parts of India, 
where the villages are frequently placed on hills), it has been 
thought that at a still greater elevation it could have no ex- 
istence. Hence it was fondly expected that our Indian hill 
stations would remove the dwellers thereon above the range of 
malarious disease. Unless, however, the elevation is sufficient 
to bring the inhabitants of such localities near the line of 
eternal snow, the concomitants of alluvial soil in ravines, pe- 
riodical rains, and a vivid sun will not fail in inducing the 
extrication of malaria, which, although less powerful than 
that generated on the plains below, will still induce its cha- 
racteristic manifestations. (See chapter on Hill Sanitaria). 

Lastly, people born and bred in a malarial country appear 
to become inured to it, and enjoy comparatively good health, 
where new-comers would suffer. The Garrows, on the frontiers 
of Assam, are a powerful race, but inhabit a country into 
which no European could penetrate without the almost 
certainty of contracting a dangerous fever 1 , and the slaves of 
the Confederal states of America find safe asylums in deadly 
jungles, knowing that their masters cannot follow them there 
without grave risk of life. 

Practically, our knowledge of malaria leads us to avoid 
marshes, fens, moors, valleys, low -lying ground, ferruginous 
soils, and sandy wastes, the banks of tidal rivers, the course 
of dried-up streams, and localities destitute of vegetation, 
as encamping ground for troops, or as sites for cantonments, 
&c. ; also, when obliged to occupy such localities, to pass to 
w r indward, to obtain a screen of trees, not to reside beneath 
trees, to live in upper buildings, to keep doors and windows, 
and tent " purdahs " closed, particularly those facing malarious 
localities ; to avoid the latter at night ; if exposure be obli- 
gatory, to fortify the system by a previous meal, with a small 
supply of fermented liquor, to use a respirator, or, perhaps, 
smoke tobacco. 

1 McAsh, ' Advice to Officers in India/ 



CHAPTER IV. 

SHOWING THAT IN ALL AGES SANITATION HAS BEEN 
REQUIRED, AND ITS NEGLECT FOLLOWED BY DISEASE. 

Epidemics of the Middle Ages Leviticus Hindoos and Mahometans The 
Gaol Fever Mahammurree Dysentery Zymotic Disease: causes not 
understood Conveyance of Disease to Army and Navy Condition of the 
Soldier some years since: his Barracks j his Diseases; his Hospitals 
Deductions from the foregoing. 

To prove this, it will not be necessary to detail the various 
accounts of ancient epidemics which are extant. It must 
be admitted that defective sanitation thousands of years 
since will have given rise to much the same diseases which 
it allows to occur at the present period ; otherwise, probably, 
Hecker's ' Epidemics of the Middle Ages/ and the account 
of the plagues of the sixth century which Gregory of Tours 
has recorded, will be satisfactory proofs of the foregoing 
remark. 

It may be supposed that even the most sceptical will not 
deny that many of the laws promulgated by the inspired 
Moses were sanitary regulations in their fullest acceptance, 
intended for the enforcement of cleanliness and, thereby, the 
removal of the causes of zymotic disease from the Israelitish 
camps. 

Among these may be mentioned, the directions what to 
eat and avoid (Leviticus, chap, vii, chap, xi) ; the purifica- 
tion of women (chap, xii) ; the laws concerning leprosy 
(chap, xiii) ; the disposal of excrete (chap, xv), &c. 

Had it not been for such wise regulations, we of the present 



44 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

day, with our knowledge of the ravages of epidemics in later 
times, have no difficulty in surmising the diseases which 
would, in a semi-tropical climate, have decimated the camps 
of the children of Israel. 

Again, we may trace sanitary regulations in very many of 
the religious ceremonies of the people among whom we live 
the Mahometans and Hindoos of the East. Were certain 
regulations of the above religions nullified, and the general 
meagre sanitation of European civilisation not substituted, 
the cities of India would become infinitely more prolific in 
the production of zymotic disease than is at present the case. 

From among the numerous examples which sanitary 
history presents, both in ancient and modern times, of the 
danger which results from neglecting the principles of health, 
it is almost difficult to choose. Perhaps the history of the 
gaol fever in England is as " apropos " as any other occur- 
rence of the kind. 

When we recollect the conditions of prisons and gaols, as 
described by Pringle 1 , by Mead 2 , by Howard, in his great 
work, and by Lord Bacon; when we recollect that such 
buildings were ill-contrived, frightfully crowded, that conserv- 
ancy was not practised in the slightest degree, that the diet 
was of the most meagre description, and that the operation 
of a sanguinary and ill-regulated penal code produced a cor- 
responding mental depression; when we recollect all these 
things, it ceases to be a matter of surprise that, as Mead 
wrote, "Very few escape the gaol fever, which is always 
attended with a degree of malignancy in proportion to the 
closeness and stench of the place." 

The first outbreak of gaol fever of which we have an 
authentic account, took place in 1414, when the prisons of 
Newgate and Highgate were severely visited. In 1522, an 
outbreak took place at the Session Hall, in the Castle of 

1 Pringle, ' Observations on the Gaol or Hospital Fever.' 

2 Mead, * Discourse concerning Pestilential Contagion/ 






SANITATION REQUIRED IN ALL AGES. 45 

Cambridge. This was followed, in 1577, by the celebrated 
black assize at Oxford, when 510 persons were infected and 
died. A similar outbreak to that at Oxford, took place at 
Exeter, in 1585. Gaol fever was found to prevail in the 
18th century, whenever from any cause gaols become 
crowded; as in 1730, from the large amount of crime; in 
1749, on the conclusion of the peace of Aix la Chapelle; and 
under similar circumstances in 1783. 

The sickness which originated in these over-crowded 
gaols was not, however, by any means confined to the in- 
mates of such buildings. The disease spread not only into 
the court-houses in which the prisoners were tried, but also 
even beyond those localities. 

Knowing what we now do of the cause and dissemination 
of disease, it ceases to be a matter of surprise that at the 
Old Bailey, in 1750, an outbreak occurred, when, curiously 
enough, as then thought, those to the right of the Lord Mayor 
generally escaped ; the reason being, that a stream of air from 
the window directed the materies morbi to the other side of 
the court. 

Neither can we wonder that as Baker relates, at the black 
assize at Oxford, July, 1577, " Suddenly they were surprised 
with a pestilent savour, whether rising from the noysome 
smell of the prisoners or from the damp of the ground is 
uncertain, but all that were present, almost every one, within 
forty hours died. There died Robert Rich, Lord Chief 
Baron, Robert D'Oylie, Sir William Babington, &c., &c., 
almost all the jurors, and 300 others, more or less"! Or 
that, in 1588, an infectious distemper destroyed the judge 
and most of the persons summoned to the Lent assizes 
at Exeter. That in 1730, at Taunton, Chief Baron 
Pengally, with his officers and servants, died, having taken 
an infectious disease from the prisons. That in 1742 a 
putrid fever appeared at Launceston, generated by the 
prisoners. That on May llth, 1750, at the sessions at the 



46 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Old Bailey, four on the bench, two or three of the counsel, 
an under-sheriff, several of the Middlesex jury, and others 
to the number of forty, were attacked with putrid fever, and 
perished, with many other instances of similar nature, which 
might be quoted. 

A parallel to the gaol fever may be found in the prevalence 
of " mahammurree " in the Himmalayahs, the history of which 
will be presently referred to. There the inhabitants, not 
attending to personal cleanliness, and in houses where the 
pure cold air is shut out as an enemy, and every crevice made 
as impervious as possible, have been wont to sacrifice health 
for warmth, endeavouring spontaneously, as the prisoners in 
English jails were formerly obliged to do, to live in defiance 
of every sanitary law, and paying the certain penalty, in the 
ravages of a disease of similar nature. 

It is well known that dysentery is a well-marked instance 
of a disease which, not primarily communicable, is apt to 
become apparently contagious under certain circumstances 
favorable to its existence. Thus we find that whereas the 
mortality from this disease does not now in England and 
Wales exceed from 20 to 100, in the eighteenth century it 
averaged from 1000 to 2000 annually. 

We seldom now hear of persons in comfortable circum- 
stances dying of dysentery in the United Kingdom ; but Dr. 
Chevas 1 enumerates a number of notable persons who died 
of this disease. Among them are the names of Prince Henry, 
son of Henry II ; Edward I ; Cardinal Wolsey ; Robert 
Dudley, Earl of Leicester ; Walter, Earl of Essex ; Henry 
VIII; James I; Oliver Cromwell; Charles II, &c. The 
dysentery in some instances was accompanied by malarious 
fever. 

The Report of the Registrar- General for 1859, contrasts the 
number of deaths from zymotic disease, occurring during the 
period from 1840 to 1859, with the mortality from 1660 to 

1 ' Ind. An. Mcd. Sci./ vol. xiii. 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN ALL AGES. 



47 



1679 j by which it appears that an individual was then in four 
times more danger of dying than he is now from such affec- 
tions. 

Before the publication of the works of Pringle, Howard,, 
Lind, and others in the last century, the true causes of such 
epidemics and their removal were but imperfectly under- 
stood. 

Hence, as the army and navy were in those days generally 
recruited from the gaols, it not unfrequently happened that 
the " sickness of the house " was conveyed to regiments and 
ships' companies. Indeed, the writings of Pringle, Bancroft, 
and Lind, demonstrate that hospital, barrack, and ship 
fevers, were precisely of the same type as that so prevalent in 
gaols. 

Dr. Lind, in his ' Essays on the Health of Seamen/ wrote: 
"The source of infection to our armies and fleets is un- 
doubtedly the jails ; we can often trace the importers of it 
directly from them. It often proves fatal on impressing men, 
on the hasty equipment of a fleet. The first English fleet 
sent last war to America lost by it above two thousand men." 
The seeds of infection were carried from the guard-ships into 
our squadrons, and the mortality thence occasioned was 
greater than by all other diseases or means of death put 
together. 

It was not, however, conveyance of disease from gaols, 
which alone caused the mortality amongst the army and navy 
in those days. 

Dr. Chevas 1 states : ( ' It was not until the first half of 
the eighteenth century was past that England could reconcile 
herself to a standing army. About 1739, several barracks 
were built in the neighbourhood of London, an innovation 
which excited a great deal of angry discussion in the public 
mind. These barracks were a sight to which this nation 
hath not been accustomed. They had very much the air of 

1 'lud. An. Med. Sci.,' vol. xiii. 



48 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

those citadels which in arbitrary countries are erected to keep 
the people in awe. The citizens of London took the alarm, 
and cried out with one voice, they would have no red-coat 
nurses. Indeed, one popular writer of the day was of opinion 
that if it had happened in the days of our ancestors, the 
director would have had very good luck if he had died in his 
bed." 

We may, therefore, readily expect to find that the comfort 
or health of the troops was not considered. 

In many of the barrack-rooms the men had to sleep in 
bunks, which were places arranged like the berths of a ship, 
one tier over the other. To each tier were told off four men 
(and they were hardly large enough to contain three), as it 
was supposed one man would be on guard or duty, so that 
three men only would have to sleep in it. These rooms were 
frequently over stables. Only imagine three or four men 
sleeping in the same bed, and these beds one above the other, 
not more than two feet between each, always two, sometimes 
more than three tiers high. Though this is hardly to be 
credited now, yet it is a fact ; and a room formerly used for 
this purpose may be seen at Woolwich, and is in the east 
square, on the left-hand side of the archway going out. 1 

What must this have been, if one or two drunken men got 
into the upper bunk what a treat for a steady sober man, to 
have to lie between two drunkards, men or women, the latter 
of whom were also frequently brought into barracks. 

We cannot, therefore wonder at the statement made by 
Dr. Brocklesbury, physician to the army, who, in 1763, 
declared ' ' that the register kept of the military who died of 
fever of various kinds proves that more than eight 
times as many fall by the petechial or jail fever, as by 
battle." 

If such diseases originated in barracks and gaols, how much 

1 ' United Service Magazine;' " The Soldier of Fifty Years ago," by Major 
Shaw. 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN ALL AGES. 49 

more rife must they have been in the hospitals of the period, 
where wounds and putrefying sores abounded, and where the 
disgusting custom of placing more than one patient in each 
hospital bed was usual. 

Dr. Trotter 1 states that, at the sick quarters at Dartmouth, 
men with fevers were found two and three in a bed ; and not 
only was this the case in military hospitals, but also a common 
practice in civil institutions of the period, both in England 
and on the Continent. 

In short, those who are aware of the former state of our 
barracks, hospitals, ships, gaols, and all public institutions 
during the earlier part of the last century, and previous to 
that period, and who are able to compare such condition with 
the existing state of things, must allow the truth of the 
heading of this chapter, in its most extended signification ; 
and more than this, they must also feel certain that extension 
of the present sanitary system will eventually, as stated in 
Chapter I, exterminate the whole class of zymotic disease. 

1 * Medicina Nautica/ vol. iii. 



4 



CHAPTER V. 

SHOWING THAT SANITATION IS MORE DEMANDED IN 
TROPICAL CLIMATES THAN IN ANY OTHER. 

Allusions to former Mortality of Europeans in India Recent Mortality A 
Contrast Invaliding Expense of Disease in India Mortality of Women ; 
of Infants and Children. 

SIR RANALD MARTIN 1 quotes numerous instances from the 
writings of older authors, showing the general unhealthiness 
of Calcutta. In addition to this, it is elsewhere stated 2 that, 
of the troops which Sir Abraham Shipman brought with him 
to Bombay, in 1662, there remained in 1664 only 93 out of 
500. Dr. Fryer, who visited Bombay in 1672, said of the 
Europeans there, " I reckon they walk in charnel-houses. 
In five hundred 100 survive not." Mr. Ives tells us that, 
at the time of Major Kilpatrick's death, in 1757, only five 
of the 250 soldiers who accompanied him from Madras in 
August of the previous year survived him. Captain Hamilton, 
who traded in India between 1688 and 1723, makes frequent 
allusions to the unhealthiness of Europeans, and Dr. John 
Clarke, who was in Calcutta in 1768, records that, out of 189 
cases of fever treated in ships, only 84 recovered ! 

That the mortality during the last few years has been 
enormous in tropical climates is sufficiently evidenced by the 
fact that the death-rate of European soldiers in India, as 
nearly as it can be ascertained from the most available data, 

1 Martin, < On Tropical Climates/ p. 141. 

2 Chevas, Ind. An. Med. Science/ vol. xiii. 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN TROPICAL CLIMATES. 51 

has been, excluding all sudden casualties, out of hospital, as 
suicide, accident, and killed in action 

62-45 annually in the thousand. 1 

The small amount, comparatively speaking, of mortality 
from other causes than disease, is demonstrated by the fact, 
that the annual rate of mortality to effective strength, among 
European corps in India, from 1838 to 1856, was, including 
all causes, according to Sir A. Tulloch 

65-6 per 1000 of strength. 2 

Dr. Ewart 3 demonstrates that the European army in India 
has hitherto disappeared 

In Bengal, in about every 10^ years ! 
In Bombay, in about every 13 years ! 
In Madras, in about every 17 years ! 
In all India, in about 13^ years ! 

To judge of this mortality, it should be contrasted with 
other existing rates, as given by Dr. Guy, 4 and quoted by 
Dr. Chevas. 

Death-rate per 10,000 per annum at the Soldiers' Ages. 

London Fire Brigade 70 

Metropolitan Police 76 

England, healthy districts 77 

Agricultural labourers 80 

Out-door trades in towns 85 

Navy home stations 88 

City Police 89 

England generally 92 

Household Cavalry 110 

Twenty-four large towns 119 

Manchester 124 

Dragoon Guards 133 

Infantry of the Line 187 

Foot Guards 204 

West Indies 625 

India 633 

1 Chevas, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. x, p. 633. 

2 ' Report of the Army Sanitary Commission/ p. 12. 

3 Vital Statistics of the Anglo-Indian Armies/ 

4 Guy, ' On the Mortality of the British Army/ 



52 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

In addition to this great loss of life by disease, there is the 
immense diminution of effective strength, occasioned by the 
number of men invalided and in hospital during each year. 

Thus, Colonel Sykes' tables show that, between the years 
1852 and 1844, the strength of the European troops of the 
three Presidencies was reduced in the following proportions : 



Average ratio per 1000 of number invalided 
to strength. 

Bengal 36'0 

Bombay 31'60 

Madras . , 2076 



Mean of the three 
Presidencies. 



29-4. 



Mr. Hugh Machpherson gives the annual average rate of 
invaliding in the European army for eight years at 26'3 per 
1000, being a near approximation to that arrived at by the 
former authority. 

The diseases which caused this amount of invaliding and 
sickness are, according to Mr. Machpherson : 

Debility and broken-down constitution . 146 per 1000. 

Rheumatic affections .... 142 

Bowel complaint 93- 5 

Diseases of the eyes .... 887 

Hepatic affections 74'0 

Diseases of the respiratory organs . . 65'3 

Wounds and injuries .... 55'1 

Mental disease 35-5 

Fevers 35'0 

Heart affections 34*6 

Diseased spleen, and other visceral de- 
rangements 27-3 

Venereal affections 23*4 

Paralysis and apoplexy .... 20'9 

Disease of bones ..... 19*9 

Epilepsy 19'5 

Hernia 16-5 

Disease of urinary organs . . . 14'1 

Scrofula, scurvy, &c 14'1 

Although febrile affections do not appear to hold a 
prominent place in the above list, it cannot be doubted that 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN TROPICAL CLIMATES. 53 

by far the great majority of the individuals who die from, or 
who are invalided for such causes as " debility and broken- 
down constitution/' " rheumatic affections," " hepatic affec- 
tions," " disease of the spleen," &c., would date the origin of 
their deteriorated health to attacks of malarious fever. The 
wards of any Indian hospital, or the records of any European 
regiment, would sufficiently demonstrate this assertion. In 
fact, Dr. Ewart 1 gives the ratio per 1000 of admissions for 
malarious fever alone, among the men of the Anglo-Indian 
army of Bengal, as 1002*5, the mean of the three presidencies 
being somewhat less per 1000 of strength. 

As it cannot be questioned that sanitary measures will, in 
a great measure, prevent the occurrence of malarious disease, 
the conviction is forced upon us, that the sickness, mortality, 
and invaliding, which have occurred in India, are, at the least, 
mitigable TO A VERY GREAT EXTENT. 

Taking the loss by death at 65-66 per 1000, and the loss 
from invaliding at 29*4, the total loss per 1000 annually is 
65-66 + 29-4, or 95-06 ! 

And since each man costs the state 120 before location 
in India, the loss by death and invaliding per 1000 per year, 
reduced to a money value, is 120 x 95'06, or 11,407 4s. 

Add the cost of passage home for 29"4 invalids, at 10 
each, and the total loss is increased to 1 1,701 4s. 

But, as nearly as I can calculate and I am far within 
bounds each man is in hospital, on the average of his ser- 
vice, six weeks during the year, therefore the state loses 
-3% of his nominal service, which comes to the same thing as if 
6 men out of every 52 (or 115-4 per 1000) spend the whole 
of their time in hospital, the others being supposed to be 
always well. The cost of treating these men in hospital for a 
year, at 2s. per day (and, on an average, each man will take 
that amount of quinine, medicine, wine, or necessaries), is 
^4,212 2s. 

1 Ewart, 'Vital Statistics of the Anglo-Indian Armies,' table xii. 



54 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Moreover, on account of these 115*4 men supposed to be 
always in hospital, the state expends daily pay (less by 
hospital stoppages) , IQd. per day each a sum amounting in 
a year to 1755 lOd. ; and even assuming that the men who 
die, and those who are invalided, are taken out of the class, 
there will still remain 20'34 men per 1000 in this class. The 
loss to the state on account of these men, above hospital 
expenses, and for food and pay, is 120 x 20' 34 = 2440 16s. 

We have then, on account of 1000 men 

s. d. 

Loss of service of men who die and are invalided . 11,701 4 

other men who remain in hospital . 2,440 16 
Daily pay and food to men who, being in hospital, are 

ineffective 1,755 10 

Actual expenses of medicine and medical comforts for 

keeping men in hospital 4,212 2 

Total . 20,109 2 10 

Whence, the total loss in India, which contains about 84,000 
European soldiers, may be estimated at 20,109 2s. IQd. x 
84 = 1,689,167 18s. 

This, however, is a low estimate for the whole of India; 
the same applied to the Bengal army, where the greatest 
number of men are stationed, and from which the greatest 
mortality and invaliding occurs, would increase the total loss 
very considerably. The calculation, applied to each of the 
three armies separately, shows that two millions of money are 
thus expended, or more than one fifteenth part of the whole 
revenue of India ! If the cost of the medical establishments 
were included, the sum would be doubly enormous ; but that 
would be foreign to the purpose, as also would be the in- 
cluding of expenditure on account of sick women and children. 
It is merely desired to demonstrate that a large amount of 
expense occurs from what must be believed preventable or 
mitigable disease. 

Still, however, this disease, and therefore expense, is not 
confined to soldiers alone. The following exhibits the mor- 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN TROPICAL CLIMATES. 55 

tality amongst European women in India, the death-rate 
between the same ages in England, viz., from 15 to 45, being, 
according to the Registrar- General's Report for 1854, 11*96 
per 1000 : 



Madras .... 24'7 per 1000. 
Bombay . . . . S0'5 
Bengal 44-4 



Mean. 
35-477. 



As Dr. Chevas observes, some of these woman are Indo- 
Britons or Eurasians ; and it is unfortunate that, as I believe, 
no separate tables exist, showing the mortality of the pure 
European woman or soldier's wife throughout India. When 
such tables are compiled, a much higher rate of mortality 
may be expected to be shown, probably, as is the case in 
temperate climates, nearly approaching the death-rates of the 
male sex. 

It is a well-established conclusion of sanitary science that 
infantile death-rates are among the severest and most accurate 
tests of the health of a community, because infants are not 
only the most delicate instruments for computing the force 
of agencies applied to all ; but many complex causes act on 
adult life which are not applicable to the periods of infancy. 
As Mr. Simon 1 observed, " it cannot be too distinctly recog- 
nised, that ' a high local mortality of children must always 
necessarily denote a high local prevalence of those causes 
which determine a degeneration of race/ " 

That this is the case in India there can be no doubt. The 
mortality of children, up to fifteen years of age, being in the 
Madras Presidency, 39'8; in Bombay, 70' 7; in Bengal, 84*2 
per 1000 annually : giving a mean for the whole of India of 
64*322 per 1000 ; the English rates between the same ages 
in twenty-four large towns being 22*36 ! 

According to Neison and Machpherson, the mortality 
amongst officers serving with regiments in India (Bengal), is 

1 Simon's Preface to Greenhow's Papers on * Sanit. Cond. of England.' 



56 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

24'032 per 1000 annually. That of officers serving at home, 
as with the Dragoon Guards, Household Troops, &c., being 
only 9*57 per 1000, and in regiments of the line, 11 -000 
per 1000. 

According to the same authority the rate of mortality 
among civilians in Bengal, at the same ages that is, below 
forty-five is 17'83 per 1000. 

From such statements, it appears unquestionable that the 
mortality amongst Europeans in India is even now very con- 
siderable amongst the classes who enjoy greater facilities for 
retaining health than the soldier does, who are better able to 
avail themselves of change of climate to Europe or else- 
where, and who live, as a rule, with more regard to sanitary 
requirements. 

The chief causes of this mortality are to be found in the 
climate, which, from its heat and malaria, causes a constant 
degeneration in the European system, commencing from the 
period the white man first enters the tropics. 

That this malarious cachexia or leucocythenic condition 
exerts an overpowering influence on any future attack of dis- 
ease is sufficiently well known, and, probably, every Indian 
surgeon will have recognised that blending together of 
dysentery, scurvy, typhus, syphilitic and malarious cachexia, 
noticed by Dr. Tholozan, in the hospitals of the Crimea. 

The fact that surgical patients recover with difficulty 
in places where marsh miasm is at all rife, that ague very 
frequently recurs from local injury when the patient has pre- 
viously had an attack of it, and the prevalence of intem- 
perance as a source of disease, must also be taken into con- 
sideration, as accounting for the sickness and mortality. 

Thus heat, malaria, intemperance, syphilis, and the scor- 
butic diathesis, are the chief excitants of disease in the 
tropics ; and as all are preventive, it is not too much to hope 
that a system of sanitation will eventually prevent the majority 
of affections which arise from these causes. 



SANITATION REQUIRED IN TROPICAL CLIMATES. 57 

Let no person imagine length of residence will climatise 
and prevent disease ; it is the reverse. (See Chapter XXVII, 
" On Colonisation in India.") 

To conclude, General Peel states 1 ' ' As a proof of the effects 
of climate on the soldier, I may refer to that lamentable 
account, recently published, which informs us that in India 
the 51st Regiment, in the course of fifteen days, lost one fifth 
of its whole strength, including its commanding officer ; and 
that one wing of the 9th, in the same time, lost nearly one 
fourth of its whole number. The general commanding did 
everything to cheer the spirits of the men. He ordered the 
bands to play, but, alas ! the bandsmen were numbered among 
the dead ! 

This occurred only last year from " cholera." It cannot be 
too strongly impressed on those having authority in tropical 
climates, that measures taken for the prevention of disease 
will save infinitely more lives than any means which can be 
adopted after disease is once present. (See Chapter XVII, 
"On Cholera.") 

1 'Home News/ Oct. 18th, 1861. 



CHAPTER VI. 

SHOWING THAT PREVENTIVE MEANS ONLY WILL 
MATERIALLY LESSEN TROPICAL MORTALITY. 

Advances of Medicine Nature of the Medical Art j Homoeopathy; Hygiene; 
and Sanitary Art : powers of the four Sir Bartle Frere Indian 
Plague. 

ALTHOUGH it is undeniable that the science of medicine has 
made rapid advances during the last half century, still these 
advances have been, in a great measure, confined to the art 
of diagnosis. The means of cure which the physician of the 
present day is enabled to call to his aid are scarcely, with 
the exception of quinine, larger than his predecessors en- 
joyed at the commencement of 1800. The greater apparent 
success of the former is, however, to be explained by the fact 
that he places more confidence in the vis medicatrix naturae ; 
and instead of, as Listen used to describe physicians' practice, 
" hitting here and there, like a blind man interfering with a 
combat," he declines " physicking" his patient, without hav- 
ing a good reason for the administration of any particular 
medicine. 

Moreover, the practitioner of the present day abjures the 
spoliative system of former years, and no longer abstracts 
blood by the pound, or " throws in" calomel by the ounce. 
On the contrary, disease, especially tropical disease, affecting 
Europeans, is now recognised as decidedly tending to the pro- 
duction of cachexia and debitity. Hence, as a rule, lowering 
measures of treatment are eschewed. 



PREVENTIVE MEANS REQUIRED. 59 

In the e Indian Annals of Medical Science/ No 14, is a 
most able article from the pen of Dr. Ewart, entitled, " A 
Review of the Treatment of Tropical Diseases," which clearly 
demonstrates that curative remedies are exhibited on a more 
rational system than heretofore. 

As Dr. Tofbes 1 observes, " There is hardly anything which 
is so little understood as the real nature of the medical art, 
and its actual power in ministering to the relief and cure of 
diseases. Respecting this latter point its power the igno- 
rance of the lay public is literally extreme. The belief 
commonly entertained is that, in the vast majority of cases 
of disease in which the patient is restored to health, the 
principal, if not the sole agent in this restoration is the 
artificial treatment, that is, the drugs and other remedies, 
prescribed by the medical attendant. By such persons 
nature, or, in other words, the inherent powers of the animal 
economy, are either entirely ignored as having any share 
in the result, or their share in it is regarded as extremely 
slight and unimportant." 

Hence the medical practitioner is frequently unjustly blamed 
in consequence of the unfortunate termination of a disease, 
or otherwise is lauded with that credit which should rightly 
be given to the vis medicatrix natures. 

It is the curative powers of nature which have given so 
much importance to the absurd homoeopathic system of 
medicine. This is forcibly referred to by Sir Benjamin 
Brodie, who, in his communication to ' Eraser's Magazine/ 
September, 1861, states, " If any one were to engage in prac- 
tice, giving his patient nothing but a little distilled water, 
and enjoining a careful diet, and a prudent mode of life other- 
wise, a certain number of his patients would perish from the 
want of further help, but more would recover ; and homoso- 
pathic globules are, I doubt not, as good as distilled water." 

By the previous remarks I do not intend in the slightest 

1 Nature and Art in the Cure of Disease.' 



00 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

degree to insinuate that the curative powers of medicine are 
slight. The efficacy of treatment is proved in every day's 
practice. Attacks of acute disease are frequently cut short 
and subdued by appropriate remedies. Every one admits the 
power of quinine and other periodics over malarious fever ; 
the influence of various remedies in scorbutic affections ; the 
power of iron compounds in anaemic disorders ; with many 
other triumphs of medicine, which need not be enumerated 
here. 

I do,, however, mean to submit that there are many diseases 
over which curative medicine has but little power, but which 
hygiene is able to prevent or remove ; and the great majority 
of these diseases are those of the tropics. 

The period has now passed when " physicians only boast 
the healing art/' In addition to that art, they now declare 
that they have the means of preventing or mitigating that 
disease which, when established, they can scarcely cure. 
" Preventive medicine is the highest boon, which the medical 
profession has in late times offered to the state." 

Among the opprobrium medicorum of curative medicine 
cholera holds a primary place. Experience, however, proves 
that this disease has always been most rife and fatal in those 
localities where sanitary matters were least attended to, and 
the same may be stated of typhus fever, typhoid fever, con- 
tinued fever, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, gaol fever, plague, 
smallpox, and all diseases of a similar nature. 

The want of due attention to sanitary matters in the pro- 
per materials of diet, in the absence of solar light, is equally 
productive of scurvy, and the numerous class of diseases, 
as dysentery, diarrhoea, albuminuria, and beri-beri, which 
attack the scorbutic patient. Attention to the same matters 
of sanitation will as certainly prevent and remove such dis- 
eased conditions. 

Overcrowding in tropical climates will as certainly tend to 
induce heat -asphyxia, as the opposite condition retards the 



PREVENTIVE MEANS REQUIRED. 61 

establishment of that disease. It has been frequently noticed 
that more attacks of coup de soliel, or rather heat-asphyxia, 
take place during the hours of sleep, when the men are in 
crowded barracks, than at other periods of direct exposure. 

The neglect of drainage will as surely give rise to the 
generation of malaria and malarious fevers, as attention to 
this point will prevent their occurrence. 

When it is considered that by far the greater number of 
deaths which take place in India have their origin either 
directly or indirectly from malarious fever, no care can be 
too great to obtain sites for cantonments, &c., free from all 
causes] calculated to generate malaria, and to carry out those 
principles of sanitation, under all circumstances, whether in 
the field, in garrison, or on the march, which will render the 
human system less affected by the presence of malaria. It 
may be truthfully stated that no European ever resides in 
India without becoming more or less deteriorated by mala- 
rious atmosphere. 

Sufficient, perhaps, has been stated to render it apparent 
that, although curative medicine is frequently at a loss to 
check the ravages of disease, preventive medicine will always 
mitigate, oftentimes prevent, the origin of such disease. It 
has, however, too frequently occurred in India, as in other 
countries, that 

"Advice is sporting while infection breeds." 

Should sanitary science become a portion of the studies of 
the military officer, this would quickly cease to be the case. 

That the work of sanitation has been begun in India is, 
however, evident from the report of Dr. Grierson 1 , on 
cholera in Scinde, in 1861, where, after detailing the causes 
(consisting of "impure air from the refuse and waste of 
organized life, combined with famine and atmospheric dry- 
ness ") the author states : " In the great stations where the 
1 < Bombay Med. and Phy. Soc. Trans.,' 7th Dec., 1861. 



62 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

disease was less severe, the conditions of life were different. 
The regularly paid, well fed troops suffered but very little ; 
the other inhabitants comparatively little; for in these 
stations, and others to some extent, hygiene has not been 
unknown. It is due to Sir Bartle Frere, K.C.B., to state, 
that in Kurrachee first, and afterwards elsewhere, he ori- 
ginated changes and improvements in this direction which 
only require extension, improvement, and diligent super- 
vision, to give Scinde a character of excellence in this respect, 
and to protect in a great measure its inhabitants from the ill 
effects of epidemic states of the air. Not simply the re- 
moval of refuse, offal, waste, filth of all descriptions, is in- 
sisted on ; but the disposal of all noxious matters, by inhu- 
mation, and incrimation in furnaces, constitutes the peculiar 
features of the hygienic measures adopted in the province ." 

A striking instance of the good results arising from simple 
sanitary measures, is to be found in the history of the 
mahammurree or Indian plague, which formerly ravaged the 
Himmalayahs, from the Snowy Range downwards. 

This disease, of which mention has been made in Chap. IV, 
first appeared in the provinces of Kutch and Goojerat, in 
1815. In 1836, it broke out with renewed force in Hajpoo- 
tana, especially in the city of Pali, from whence it acquired 
the name of the Pali plague. Having traversed the greater 
part of Marwar, it became epidemic in Ghurwal and Kumaon, 
and other hill ranges of the Lower Himmalayahs, whence, 
in 1853, it finally disappeared, under the influence of sani- 
tary measures which the affected villages were bound to adopt. 



CHAPTER VII. 

SHOWING THAT THE ONUS OF CONTINUED SICKNESS, 
MORTALITY, AND EXPENSE, FROM PREVENTABLE AND 
MITIGABLE DISEASES, MUST HENCEFORTH REST ON 
THOSE WHO, HAVING AUTHORITY, NEGLECT THE SPIRIT 
OF THE ORDERS OF GOVERNMENT, AND DO NOT ATTEND 
TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIALLY EDU- 
CATED SANITARY OFFICER. 

Another Source of Expense Stations abandoned; Causes Mortality in 
Bombay and Poona Government Orders relating to Stations, Barracks, 
Hospitals, &c. Necessity of obeying the Spirit of such Orders The 
Army Medical School. 

IN addition to the expense referred to in Chap. V, there 
is another source of immense loss to the state, in endeavours 
to improve naturally unhealthy localities, which were fixed 
upon in former years, either from ignorance of the sanitary 
requirements of a station or from political necessity. 

Not a few of such stations have been mercifully abandoned, 
by order of government, as cantonments for European 
troops, and as instances, Berhampore, Kurnaul, Loodiana, 
Lahore, Masulipatam, Secunderabad, Bhooj, and Kaira may 
be mentioned. 

The descriptions of these stations show that they are sur- 
sounded by low irrigated land, marshes, or jheels. Kurnaul, 
for example, is close to a canal which is higher than the 
surrounding country, and hence no drainage can take place ; 
Loodiana is on the banks of a dry water-course, formerly the 
channel of the Sutledge ; Lahore or Anarkullie has on one 



64 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

side a stagnant nullah, and on the other Mahometan grave- 
yards, and also lies lower than the surrounding country ; 
Masulipatam is situated at the mouth of a branch of the 
Krishna, and surrounding the fort is a saline swamp ; Kaira 
is low, surrounded by irrigation, and the country traversed 
by water-courses ; Bhooj is surrounded by the 480,000 square 
miles of the Runn of Kutch. 

Such concomitants would, it is hoped, at the present period 
prove insurmountable objections to the establishment of 
European troops in the locality. 

According to Mr. Wells, previous to the year 1846, the 
death-rate in Bombay never fell lower than 101 '0 per 1000. 
During 1842, it was 2037 per 1000; and the average of 
eight years was 147*2 in the 1000 of European troops 
stationed there. 

In 1845, in consequence of this excessive mortality, the 
majority of the forces were located at Poona, and Kirkee. 
Dr. Coles 1 shows that during the years 1855-6, the death- 
rate was reduced at those stations to 9*0 per 1000 ! ! 

Poona, it may be observed, is the head- quarters of the 
army during a considerable portion of the year, is situated 
in the comparatively speaking salubrious table-land of the 
Deccan, and has some pretensions to a satisfactory sanitary 
condition. 

We have suffered, and indeed in many instances are now 
paying the penalty of faults committed years gone by, in 
choosing unhealthy localities for cantonments, stations, and 
public buildings. 

The following references to government orders (the 
majority of recent date) sufficiently prove that the principles 
reiterated over and over again by army surgeons ' ' that it 
is cheaper to keep veterans in health and readiness for service 
than to be ever recruiting and training new men, and that 

1 " Hospital Statistics of the Bombay Presidency }" ' Bombay Med. Phy. 
Soc. Trans./ 1857. 



RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENT OFFICERS. 65 

there is an irreparable condition between the preservation of 
efficiency of armies and submission to the laws of medical 
and sanitary science " are now thoroughly acknowledged. 

' Public Works Code/ chap, v, sec. 1, par. 3, states: "The 
health and comfort of the troops are to be held as paramount 
considerations, to which all others must give way." 

Again, ' Government General Orders/ Aug. 8th, 1853, 
states : " It being essential to the health of the troops that 
great attention should be paid to the position and aspect of 
all barracks and hospitals, the superintending surgeon of the 
division, or, in his absence, the senior medical officer of the 
station, shall, previous to the laying of the foundation of such 
buildings in all future cases, be invariably consulted on the 
subject, and commanding officers will conform to the opinion 
of such medical officers given in writing, or refer the question 
should they see cause, for the decision of government." 

It is also ordered in the ' Code of Regulations of the Public 
Works/ that committees, composed, when practicable, of two 
experienced medical officers, in conjunction with a military 
officer, must be assembled to select sites for barracks, 
hospitals, &c. 

The ' Code of Regulations for Public Works Department/ 
1858, chap, viii, p. 82, enforces on the executive engineer 
that he must examine the position of neighbouring buildings, 
cultivation, tanks, j heels, jungles, note the direction of pre- 
vailing winds, and the character of the country over which 
they blow, and must obtain the opinion of medical officers as 
to the salubrity of the site, with reference to these and all 
other circumstances. 

The ' Medical Regulations for the Army of 1859/ par. 9, 
page 79, states : " Before any new barrack or hospital is 
erected, the plans and site will be submitted for approval, in 
so far as regards the healthiness of the building, to the Director- 
General." 

Separate general orders, under the head " Cantonments 

5 



66 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

and Quarters," provides for the sanitary condition of the 
former. 

And so on might be quoted orders on almost every subject 
connected with sanitation, the spirit of which should be in- 
variably carried out. 

Lest it should be objected by a senior and superior officer, 
that a junior and subordinate officer is not qualified to offer 
advice on sanitary matters, and lest the medical officer should 
be again requested to confine his attention to his hospital and 
patients therein, the army medical school has been estab- 
lished, in which future army surgeons after their reception 
by the usual examination into the ranks of the medical pro- 
fession will be instructed in all causes which specially affect 
the health of the soldier. There army surgeons will learn 
all that is known respecting the preservation of the soldier's 
health. Diet, clothing, education, habits, peculiar duties in 
times of peace, situation and circumstances in time of war, 
principles of ventilation, warming, draining, cleansing, archi- 
tectural arrangement, influence of geological formation, 
epidemics and their causes, camp diseases, form only a small 
part of the special knowledge, now to be conveyed to the 
young medical officer ; in fact, he is fortified at his entrance 
into the service with that special knowledge which others 
before him have only acquired after years of experience and 
research, and is rendered capable, at the onset of his career, 
of advising on all sanitary subjects. 

The truth of the heading of this chapter requires, I think, 
no further demonstration. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 

Ootocamund Simla Nynee Tal Darjeeling Mount Aboo Mahableswar 
Landour Subathoo Dugshai Jacktatalla Coonoor Cantonments in 
the Plains Port William Dum-Dum Bombay Agra Cawnpore 
Bhooj. 

IN this chapter I shall quote from a few published reports, 
or from communications I have been favoured with from 
various medical officers ; and as the importance of hill climates 
as a means of preserving the health of Europeans is becoming 
daily more evident, I shall first refer to a few of these 
localities. 

Dr. Mackay 1 reports, the station of Ootocamund, in the 
Neilgherry mountains, is divided by a deep valley, a large 
portion of which is filled with water, forming a lake. " At 
the upper extremity of this, the large station bazaar is situated ; 
the houses there are crowded together, those in the lower 
street are built close to the water, many of them on a founda- 
tion formed by the rubbish thrown out from the houses above, 
and the filth washed down by the rains from the upper street. 
With every natural facility for doing it effectually, drainage 
has been totally neglected, not only in the bazaar, but 
throughout the whole station. It will hardly be believed that 
undrained swamps still intersect this important sanitarium. 
The invalid may shoot snipe in some of these without leaving 
the compound of his house. Some of the best houses are 

1 Madras Journal of Medical Science/ vol. v, p. 61. 



68 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

built over these swamps, some on a level with them, and not 
a few on a lower level than the swamp itself." The potato 
cultivation, the noxious weeds, nettles, brambles, giant 
thistles, and lobelias, are described as most luxuriant and 
objectionable " In short, the whole station is a strange 
mixture of snipe-bogs, neglected compounds, and neat flower- 
gardens. Every convenient bush is made use of to deposit 
filth under, of every description. The sweepings and refuse 
of each dwelling are thrown wherever they can be conveniently 
disposed of. It is argued that the station has been healthy, 
that such things are better left as they are, that no injurious 
consequences can result in this region." Dr. Mackay states, 
however, that the deaths are twice as numerous in the lower 
as in the upper street of the bazaar. Also, although he has 
only seen one case of cholera on the hill, " yet, should the 
preparation for its reception continue, in the way of a dis- 
regard of all sanitary arrangements, there is every reason to 
fear that cholera will some day exhibit its virulence on the 
Neilgherries as it has done in other temperate climates." 

Prophetic words ! but, like Cassandra' s voice, unheeded ! ! 
The ' Neilgherry Star/ of November 13th, 1861, reports, 
" Another case of cholera terminated fatally in the dispensary 
last Wednesday. The dreadful disease has now unmis- 
takeably made its appearance among us." 

According to Mr. Grant, 1 " Nothing could be worse than 
the state of conservancy at Simla." He describes the smells 
along all the bye-paths as being most disgusting, from accu- 
mulations of human ordure, offal, and dead animals in the 
ravines that intersect the station; in fact, a native popu- 
lation, amounting to 10,000 or 12,000 people, were scarcely 
restrained by any police rules, and hence an amount of 
nuisance scarcely credible. 

That the sanitary condition of Simla is not much improved 
in the year of grace 1862 is evident from the subjoined in- 
1 ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ 1852. 



SANITARY CONDITION OP INDIAN STATIONS. 69 

formation afforded me by Assistant- Surgeon J. J. Clarke, now 
in medical charge. 

Dr. Clarke writes (10th January, 1862) : " The native 
bazaar is built of tiers of houses on the south side of the hill, 
and cuts the station of Simla in two, with about the same 
number of European houses on the eastern as on the western 
side of it. Its main street, which is a thoroughfare, and the 
high road from Chota Simla to Boileau Gung, is kept clean, 
and is drained by means of open drains, which flank it 
on either side. Its lower streets are, for the most part, filthy, 
badly drained, and with no well-adapted means for clearage. 
It is densely populated, and the nuisances of this large 
population are allowed to ooze and dribble forth of them- 
selves, finding their way into the several ' nullahs' which run 
down the side of the hill ; so that, in truth, the whole filth 
of this extensive bazaar lies hoarded in these several cess- 
pools during the hot season until the rains, impregnating the 
air with emanations most detrimental to health. 

" There is no conservancy officer here ; and neither the. 
local nor municipal authorities appear to have instituted any 
measures for providing for a complete system of drainage." 

When this is the condition of our principal Himmalayan 
hill sanitarium only so in name no wonder that diarrhoea 
is there so common, as to have obtained the name of " Simla 
trots," that Dr. Mackinnon, Deputy-Inspector-General of 
Hospitals, should remark " Of late years Simla has rather 
retrograded in public opinion as a sanitarium." 1 

Of Nynee Tal it is stated : " The Aya Puetun side of the 
lake is dreadfully damp ; hundreds of trees might be felled 
with advantage to those who live on that side; a place so 
shut in by nature as is Nynee Tal requires no superabundance 
of trees, and still less of jungle, to make it unhealthy ; and 
those who have passed a rainy season there, can hardly 

1 'Report on the Extent and Nature of Sanitary Establishments for European 
Troops/ p. 73. 



70 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

forget the one drawback to a residence in that beautiful 
spot the cold damp smell that arises before sunset, and con- 
tin aes throughout the night, which a dozen sharp hatchets 
might remove in a short time. 1 

A late writer 2 states of the same station " Let the brush- 
wood and jungle be cleared away, leaving only so much timber 
as is necessary for fire-wood and for scenery. If any one doubt 
how unhealthy Nynee Tal is becoming, let him go into the 
grave-yard and count the number of new graves, and then 
let him go into the soldier's hospital, and see the pale yellow 
faces of men in whom hope has died away, who are worse than 
when they came up. . . . Another great nuisance of Nynee Tal 
I have alluded to, I mean the rank state of the weeds in 
the lake, and the jungle round the lake. To walk round 
the lake on the lower mall is quite enough to give a Weak 
man a dangerous fever, so great is the malaria." 

Dr. Porter writing to me from Nynee Tal, January 25th, 
1862, gives an account of the conservancy arrangements at 
this station, which consist of the objectionable method of 
cess-pools emptied every two or three days. The drainage is 
stated to be excellent, from natural configuration of the 
ground. Dr. Porter, however, adds : " I regret to say that 
the jungle is very thick in the civil station, but the canton- 
ment is properly cleaned." 

"The Hills," describes Darjeeling as "a dismal hole, sub- 
ject to fever on the spot." Smallpox is stated to be there 
an indigenous disease, and is described by Dr. Collins, as 
" the scourge of these hills." It may be recollected that 
Miss Nightingale, at page 17 of her ' Notes on Nursing,' 
while dissenting from the doctrine that disease, having once 
originated, is handed down from one generation to another, 
declares that she has seen and smelt variola, forming in 



1 " Kumaon and its Hill Stations ;" ' Calcutta Eeview/ June, 1856. 

2 ' Times of India,' Sept. 7th, 1861. 



SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 71 

various localities, the abodes of filth, and destitute of sani- 
tary arrangements. 

In my ' Annual Report of the Mount Aboo Sanitarium/ 
dated 1st January, 1862, after depicting the beauty of the 
station, the fact of its height being sufficient to carry it 
above the range of the hot winds of the plains, the temperate 
range of the thermometer, the excellent condition of the 
water, the vegetables which the climate permits to flourish, 
the perfect freedom from cholera which the mountain affords, 
the small amount of diarrhoea, and the mild type of the 
malarious fever occurring, I proceed as follows : 

' ' Thus, therefore, it may with truth be stated, that Mount 
Aboo presents most of the essentials for a sanitary station. 
I regret, however, being obliged to repeat the statement 
made in my last ' Annual Report/ that the labour of man has 
not fully developed and increased the advantages and capa- 
bilities of the locality, and that sanitary science and medical 
hygiene are not yet made available to the extent which I 
again respectfully submit ought to have been the case." 

It would scarcely appear credible that numerous indi- 
viduals, probably from ignorance, view with contempt and 
neglect the most common sanitary precautions. Such persons 
by their good fortune, or, perhaps, from a naturally powerful 
constitution, having escaped disease for a considerable period, 
almost forget that they are mortal, until, sooner or later, 
having imbibed a large dose of the poisoned air, they call upon 
the medical man to cure them of that disease, which prior 
attention to his ex necessitate superior sanitary knowledge 
would have, in all human probability, utterly prevented. To 
such persons, I would say, study the different sciences on 
which the preservation of health in tropical climates depends, 
the etiology of disease, physiology, chemistry, geology, &c., 
&c., and then act as you think fit. As Dr. Johnstone truly 
observed, ' ' A blockhead can deny more in a single hour than 
one hundred doctors have proved in one hundred years." 



72 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

As Dr. Mackay writes of Ootocamund, I have also heard it 
argued with regard to Mount Aboo, viz., that it is better to 
let such things alone ; that in such a climate no harm can 
result; that as matters have always been the same, it is 
better to allow them to remain in statuo quo ' ' Ignorantla 
facti excursat" 

When the feelings of a community, with regard to preserva- 
tion of health, are represented by such expressions and writing 
as " How do you think we managed to exist and enjoy good 
health before all this fuss about sanitary reform ? " " Wait 
till the rains and all the dirt will be washed away ! " " Why 
should I clean my compound when only here for a short 
time?" When a gentleman, just previous to the rains, 
makes use of the abandoned commencement of a well to 
deposit debris in, and when this is declared no nuisance ! 
When this represents the feelings of a community, how can 
anything excepting orders from superior authority be ex- 
pected to produce any very beneficial result. 

Notwithstanding improvements effected during the brief 
existence of an honorary sanitary committee, Mount Aboo 
now remains with only imperfect efforts at drainage; de- 
ciduous vegetation arises and decays almost unchecked ; the 
water from the lake is allowed to overflow large surfaces, 
rendering them malarious in the extreme ; there are no public 
latrines; bushes and ravines are made into native temples 
of Cloacina ; and there is not, nor ever has been, a single 
public scavenger entertained for the civil portion of the 
station ! 

Such being the case, as I stated in a report on the subject, 
' ' Mount Aboo is dirtier now than it was when first resorted 
to by Europeans, thirty years ago," or when first described 
and recommended as a sanitarium by the late Sir Alexander 
Burnes. 

Any person conversant with the laws of disease in tropical, 
or, in fact, in any climates, will not be surprised to learn that 



SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 73 

malarious fevers are rife on Mount Aboo to the extent, during 
the period from 1855 to 1860 inclusive, of 1222*74 per 1000 
of strength annually ! The admissions to strength throughout 
the armies of Bengal, Bombay, and Madras, being respectively 
1002-5, 631-9, 284-6. 1 

While, however, the admissions are so greatly in excess, 
the mild type of the fever is forcibly demonstrated in the 
fact that, for the same period, the deaths at Aboo from 
malarious fever were only 1*55 per 1000, while in Bengal 
they amount to 10'08; in Bombay, to 4'9; and in Madras, to 
1'6 per 1000. Malarious fever presenting so mild a type 
may certainly be easily removed by sanitary measures. 

In considering the amount of fever prevalent amongst the 
men on Mount Aboo, it must be recollected that although 
many of the soldiers were convalescent, sent up for the re- 
covery of health, and thus, therefore, more liable to relapsing 
attacks, still a certain number of robust and healthy duty 
men are included in the returns. 

When I state that the prevalence of malarious disease 
among the men of a detachment of her Majesty's 33rd 
Regiment, not composed of convalescents despatched to Aboo 
for the restoration of their health, but of effective soldiers 
stationed here on garrison duty, was, during November and 
December, 1860, and January, 1861, respectively 194'0, 
373-1, and 328'3 per 1000 of strength, and during May, 
September, and October, 1860, 50'0, 50'0, and 88'2, there 
will, I think, be little doubt that sanitary art is required on 
Mount Aboo. 

If matters are allowed to continue as they are, future 
medical officers will have to report not a mild, but severe 
type of malarious fever; not isolated cases of typhoid, but 
epidemics of that disease ; not immunity from cholera, but 
its ravages, on the excrete-loaded ground of the mountain 
station. 

1 Ewart, ' Vital Statistics of the Indian Armies,' table xii. 



74 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

The same want of public scavengers would appear to exist 
at Mahableswar. Dr. Lord, the latterly appointed super- 
intendent of that station, informs me that " the cleansing of 
that station is a matter more of private than public arrange- 
ment. The avenues and gardens are all kept swept by the 
' mollees/ and the usual domestic arrangements provide for 
the removal of the filth from the immediate vicinity of the 
dwelling-houses, as well as from the hospital and sanitarium." 
Those conversant with Indian ' ' domestic conservancy/' will 
be at no loss to understand what becomes of the debris and 
ordure. In the absence of public bazaar latrines and public 
conservancy establishment,, it becomes mixed and incorporated 
with the surface-soil, and forms the ground, which sometime 
or other cholera and typhoid may infect. 

Inspector- General Mackinnon 1 reports of Landour : " The 
barracks are ill adapted for the purpose for which they are in- 
tended. They are all bungalows, and are used to accommodate 
from sixteen to twenty men or more each. All are narrow, 
low-roofed, and without any ventilation, except what is ob- 
tained through the doors and windows. When convalescents 
are crowded together, as they often have been in these bunga- 
lows, they have not a fair chance of regaining their health." 

At Subathoo 2 the barracks have been erected for several 
years, and have all the faults in ventilation and construction 
to be met with in our older barracks. 

Mr. Bradshaw, writing to me from Dugshai, January 9th, 
1862, thus describes the hospital at that station : 

" The hospital for men has also an excellent site, but is 
built, in my opinion, upon a very faulty plan. It is like a 
barn, is divided into large rooms, ventilated and lighted by 
rather small dormer windows ; and between these rooms and 
the verandah are long, narrow, gallery-like rooms, which 
appear to shut out, to a great extent, light and air from the 

1 ' Report on Extent and Nature of Sanitary Establishments/ 

2 Op. cit. 



SANITARY CONDITION. OF INDIAN STATIONS. 75 

interior of the building, rendering it in rainy or cloudy 
weather very gloomy, cheerless, and close." 

For a description of the married men's quarters at this 
sanitarium, I refer to Chapter XXVIII, " On the Soldier's 
Wife, Widow, and Children." 

The barracks at Mount Aboo are built in a valley, overhung 
by rocks 1000 feet high. The valley communicates with the 
lake by a ravine, and is insufficiently drained. In addition 
to this, the buildings are placed gable-end on to the prevail- 
ing breeze, and in a direct windward position to No. 1 both 
wash-house, urinal, and latrines are placed ! 

After this detail of sanitary defects, it affords me pleasure 
to be able to quote accounts of other hill stations, which 
have pretensions to be called sanitaria. 

Dr. Sinclair, in a letter to me from Kussowlie, states of 
that station : 

" Drainage is chiefly natural, and where required, tempo- 
rary drains have been dug and sewers made. 

" The south side of the hill is but sparingly wooded, and 
around the bungalows the trees have been well cleared. 

"The conservancy arrangements are good. They consist 
in constantly cutting down the rank vegetation, in lopping 
off the lower branches of the trees to permit free circulation 
of air, the strictest attention to cleanliness in and around 
the barracks, and removal of all filth to a long distance, pre- 
venting the natives committing nuisances, &c. Latrines are 
constructed for the use of the inhabitants of the regimental 
bazaar, and occupants of houses are also recommended to have 
the same for their servants. The state of the bazaar is also 
attended to, no filth nor pools of water being allowed to accu- 
mulate. 

The grave sanitary defect existing at Mahableswar, in the 
absence of public scavengers, has been previously referred to. 
In other respects this hill station appears to be well looked 
after. Dr. Lord, in the communication previously men- 



76 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

tioned (dated 8th March, 1862), "The compounds here are 
generally large, varying in extent from fifty to five acres, and 
between them large tracts of untenanted ground. Houses 
are, therefore, far apart, generally placed on elevated "sites, 
selected as points of view, &c., and the buildings are mostly 
placed towards the west, as from that direction we get the 
soft and cool sea breeze. The easterly or land winds are 
harsh and dry at some times, and slightly heated at others. 
Sometimes they are also cold and cutting, so that people 
avoid exposure to them in building houses. The sea is visible 
about fifty miles distant from many of the residences. The 
bazaar is the only collection of houses, and the cleansing of 
this is under the ' Foujdar. 5 It is only a small place, and 
four sweepers (kept up and paid from local means) are 
generally found sufficient for keeping the streets clean. 

( ' In the days when the Chinese and Malay convicts were 
kept in the gaol here, the roads were swept and kept as clean 
as the avenues to the houses, but now we have no such means 
at our disposal, and must content ourselves, after the leaves 
have fallen (about the middle of April), with one general 
sweeping of principal roads, which must be done by hired 
labourers, paid for out of the road fund, which is liberally 
supported by voluntary contributions from residents, house- 
owners, and visitors at the hills. 

' ' No malaria is believed to be generated here, and there is 
no clearing of the jungle encouraged. Water is abundant, 
and from the hill by the village of Mahableswar no less than 
seven rivers the Krishna, and six of lesser note are said 
to take their rise." 

Dr. Leslie informs me that " the military station of Wel- 
lington (formerly called Jackatalla) is two miles distant from 
the civil station of Coonoor, in the Neilgherries. It is situated 
in a large amphitheatre of hills, which opens towards Coonoor. 
Magnificent barracks are erected here to accommodate 1200 
men, with every necessary appurtenance. The supply of 



SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 77 

water is abundant, and of pure quality. The drawbacks to 
the locality are, that the heat is sometimes great, and the 
winds occasionally very harsh. 

" Coonoor, altitude 6000 feet, is situated on the summit 
of the Ghaut. The residences are situated on a series of 
hills, intersected by wooded ravines, through which beautiful 
streams flow over rocky bottoms." 

The climate of Coonoor is equally agreeable, more so, it is 
stated, than either of the other Neilgherry hill stations. Public 
scavengers would, however, appear to be a want here as else- 
where. 

Dr. Sparrow informs me of Landour " During the rainy 
season an extra conservancy establishment is entertained. In 
my belief, there is not a better drained or cleaner station in 
India. The bazaar is well kept, well drained, and clean ; this 
is owing, in my opinion, to the fact of its being under military, 
and not civil control/' 

Any person perusing the foregoing descriptions of the sani- 
tary condition of hill stations, will probably be amazed that 
such continues to exist, but the reason has just been stated 
by Dr. Sparrow. Those sanitaria under military control alone 
are, I have reason to believe, generally cleaner, and in a 
better sanitary condition than either where divided autho- 
rity or civil control alone exists. This arises from the fact 
that hill stations are made the summer residence of civil and 
political officers, who leave for their various duties during the 
cold weather, and on many occasions are absent during the 
rains also. Such individuals only seeing the station when all 
appears dry, and when the malarious season has passed, 
either do not believe the deleterious effects arising during 
other periods, or, if so believing, congratulate themselves 
that they will not be present during the unhealthy period. 
In the mean time, they add to the general sanitary de- 
fects, which cannot fail, sooner or later, to originate epidemic 
disease. 



78 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

It cannot, of course, be expected that government should 
be at the expense of sanitary arrangements and establish- 
ments for hill stations frequented by visitors, civilians, and 
others, who go there for their own pleasure and amusement, 
or to escape the heat of the plains below. The most that the 
state can afford is, the means of sanitation for purely military 
hill cantonments, and authority for the imitation of the same 
at other places. The expense of the latter should be met by 
visitors to the hills, and by those individuals who make a 
profit of letting houses to such visitors. On either one or 
the other, or on both, a compulsory tax should be imposed, 
and the proceeds devoted to road-making, drainage, clear- 
ance, public scavengers, the erection of latrines, and all other 
sanitary requirements. Such an imposition would not be 
felt by the classes who can afford the expense of a yearly 
journey to a hill retreat ; neither w r ould it weigh heavily on 
those house-owners who make large profits by exorbitantly 
rented bungalows. The tax, however, should be compulsory, 
and levied by authority, otherwise, if optional, many would 
decline payment. Such a tax should not extend to military 
officers present on duty, or who have been sent up on sick 
certificate, or to occasional visitors, who may only remain on 
the hill for a few days. These classes might well be exempt, 
both on pecuniary and just grounds. 

The proceeds of the tax should be placed at the disposal of 
a sanitary committee, or, where such cannot be formed, should 
be under the control of the station medical superintendent, 
or, when this functionary has not been appointed, should be 
administered by the medical officer in charge. 

The same officer should also have under his superinten- 
dence a number of prisoners, from some of the overcrowded 
gaols in the plains, who, after hutting themselves, would suffice 
for the sanitary work of the place, a lesser number being re- 
tained after the station was once placed in thorough order. 
This plan would not entail extra expense on the state, and 






SANITARY CONDITION. OF INDIAN STATIONS. 79 

its beneficial results can scarcely be considered in too favor- 
able a light. 

With regard to cantonments in the plains of India, it may 
be stated that the great majority exhibit grave sanitary de- 
fects, either in their site or in the position and structure of 
the public buildings. Thus, as Dr. Chevas 1 states, " we have 
a set of stations where the mortality never falls in any one 
year, even after a pestilential visitation, to the highest Eng- 
lish standard, and where in many years the sickness and loss 
of life are truly appalling." Amongst these are Dinapore, the 
decennial range of sickness being from 23-037 to 110' 75 5 ; 
Cawnpore ranges from 23*933 to 145-679; Chirisurah from 
26-316 to 142*857 ; Fort William range 39773 to 88*710. 
Dum-Dum 31-153 to 200-280; Bombay and Colabah, be- 
tween the years 1830 9, 109*20; the last, however, of which, 
owing to the removal of troops to Poona, as before referred 
to, and attention to sanitation, is now much healthier ; and 
in 1850 1, according to Dr. Coles, 2 not showing a greater 
mortality than 79*8 per 1000. 

The unhealthiness of Bombay is attributed in a great mea- 
sure to the over-population of the island, and to the proximity 
of salt marshes in Salsette and other more immediate locali- 
ties. The barracks, moreover, at Colabah are situated on a 
low, narrow spit of land, jutting out into the sea, which, 
from the lowness of the site, was only kept out by embank- 
ments. (See Chapter XIII, on Barracks.) 

Dr. Lownds, 3 in his article entitled " Sanitary Aspect of 
Bombay," observes "At the present time, the drainage of 
Bombay, both as regards ordinary house- drainage and the 
monsoon water, is as defective as can be. Even close to the 
public roads we see vile attempts at drainage which would 
disgrace a nation just emerging from barbarism." 

1 * Ind. An. Med. Science/ vol. xii. 

2 "Hosp. Stat. of the Bomb. Pres." 'Bomb. Med. Phy. Soc. Trans./ 
1857. 

3 ' Bombay Quarterly Review/ 1858. 



80 HEALTH IN THE TEOPICS. 

Although much improved during the last few years, the 
sanitary state of Bombay is most imperfect. 

Calcutta, the spot on which the fortress of Fort William 
is built, and where the soldiers' barracks are located, was a 
most pestilential swamp, and although now thoroughly drained, 
and therefore in the cool season harmless enough, no sooner 
does the rainy season commence, than the excessive heat and 
moisture call forth unmistakeable signs of miasmata. " The 
soldiers' barracks are also so constructed, that it is impossible 
for the cool breeze to pass through them during the hot 
season, and they are not placed high enough to be above the 
reach of marsh miasm. The consequence is, that the mortality 
of soldiers in Fort William is great/' 1 

Dum-Dum, again, is surrounded by " paddy fields," and is 
so ill drained, that, in the height of the rainy season, one 
cannot pass from one part of the cantonment dry-shod, ex- 
cept on made brick and "concker" roads. The barracks, 
however, are infinitely better than the neighbouring ones of 
Fort William. 2 

Dr. Chevas states that the new European cantonments at 
Agra occupy so dead a level, that nearly the whole of the 
rain-water is absorbed into the ground where it falls, and it 
has been found necessary to make raised foot-paths, to enable 
the men to pass from one barrack to another dry-shod. The 
consequence is, malarious fevers are rife among the troops 
who occupy ' ' the beautiful and costly barracks" erected there. 

Inspector- General Mackinnon reports of the new canton- 
ment at Cawnpore, that much of the ground is so level as to 
render it difficult, if not impracticable, to drain it thoroughly; 
the water never appears to drain away, but percolates slowly 
through the spongy surface. 

The same is said to be the case, to a greater or less extent, at 
Mean,Meer, Allahabad,Barrackpore, and in many other places. 

1 ' Report of the Army Sanitary Commissioners.' 

2 Op. cit. 



SANITARY CONDITION OF INDIAN STATIONS. 81 

In my report on the medical topography of Bhooj, pub- 
lished by permission of the Director-General of the Medical 
Department, in the 4th number 1 of ' The Bombay Medico- 
Physiological Society's Transactions/ after a full description 
of the barracks at that place, I state : "All things considered, 
I am constrained to form the opinion that these barracks are 
unfitted for the residence of European soldiers ; not, however, 
so much from the faults inherent in their construction, as 
from their unfortunate situation and locality, being, as they 
are, close to a heat-absorbing sandstone rock, fronting the 
opposite direction from which the wind blows during ten 
months in the year, and being still more shut out from the 
breeze, the one by the other, and the latter by the gun-shed. 
It is difficult to imagine what military reason could exist for 
placing these barracks in their peculiar position; and it is 
equally impossible to opine what hygienic or sanitary recom- 
mendations led to this spot being fixed upon for their loca- 
tion, particularly as, half a mile or more to the south-west, 
there is a dry, elevated spot, which, as far as can be the case 
in the Bhooj cantonment, presents all the desideratives re- 
quired for a barrack site." 

It would, however, be an endless and ungracious task to 
quote more sanitary defects of site or buildings. It must be 
recollected that political reasons, in former days, led to many 
of our stations being fixed in unhealthy localities ; on the 
banks of movable rivers, in the neighbourhood of large cities, 
or on low-lying lands. Military necessity must also have 
caused the erection of many barracks in their present position, 
but some, as is the case with the buildings at Bhooj and 
Aboo, seem to have been constructed in downright ignorance 
or defiance of sanitary laws. 

At the present period, with an era of peace inaugurated 
over India, with the knowledge of past errors, and the 

1 New Series. 



82 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

consequent sacrifice of human life, and enormous expense 
thereby entailed, it behoves us to endeavour to place our 
troops on the most healthy sites, and in the most scientifically 
constructed buildings. We may remain assured, as regards 
disease, of the truth of the quotation 

" Sublata causa tollitur effectus." 



CHAPTER IX. 

ON HILL SANITARIA. 

Importance of the Subject ; long since recommended by Medical Men Esta- 
blishment of the first Sanitary Stations Use of Hill Climates Existence 
of Malaria on Hill Ranges Cholera Dysentery Opinions regarding the 
location of Troops on Hill Ranges : Objections refuted Proposal to send 
healthy men to Hill Sanitaria Peculiarities of Hill Climate : Tempera- 
ture Use of Mercury Necessity of Sanitation in Hill Climates Diseases 
of Hill Climates Conservancy Clearing Drainage Site of a Hill Sta- 
tion Barracks at Hill Stations Height of Hill Stations Danger of the 
Ferae Locality for the Supreme Government: Bombay recommended; 
Reasons Lady Canning. 

AMONGST all the numerous means which are required to be 
adopted to preserve the health of Europeans in India, there 
are none of such vast importance as the establishment of hill 
stations, or sanitaria. Now that it is evident that a large 
European force must be retained in the country, the subject 
of the location of troops in hill climates is receiving more 
attention than heretofore. That this -is the case is evident, 
from the interest which the present Commander-in-Chief of 
India and the Commander-in-Chief of the Bombay army 
evince in the matter. That considerable progress has latterly 
.been made in the establishment of sanitary stations, in 
various localities, is also shown in the ' Report of the Extent 
and Nature of the Sanitary Establishments for European 
Troops in the three Presidencies/ recently published by 
authority, where a more or less detailed account of some 
thirty of these stations is given. Much, however, yet remains 
to be effected; and I venture to prophecy that, as time 
develops the advantages of a hill climate, combined with a 



84 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

strict sanitary system; as railroads traverse the land; as 
civilisation advances ; as the natives of India, becoming more 
aware of our resources, cease to imagine the local absence of 
European soldiery results from decline of power that 
eventually the great majority of our soldiers will reside on 
the hills, and that it will come to be the exception, and not 
the rule for a European regiment to be stationed on the 
plains. 

Medical men have long since urgently recommended the 
location of European troops serving in tropical climates 
should be effected on elevated regions. Thus, Dr. Lind 
devoted a portion of his work, published in 1768, to the 
selection of healthy spots, and recommended a removal into a 
temperature, " where the heat of the day seldom exceeds 80, 
and the cold of the night is about 54." Jackson and Hunter 
wrote in much the same manner. 

The establishment of the first sanitary station in the 
Himalayas appears to have been due to the recommenda- 
tion of Dr. Gilb, of the Bengal army, who, as early as 1820, 
was exerting himself in this direction. This officer was ably 
seconded by Julius Jeffreys, who, in 18.24, wrote his ' Essay 
on the Climate of the Hill Provinces of the Himalayas/ 
In consequence of this essay the attention of government, was 
more immediately directed to the subject, and the military 
sanitary stations of Simla, Missouri, and Landour, shortly 
afterwards fixed upon. 1 Now, as before stated, this number 
has increased to upwards of thirty. 

As Dr. Mack ay 2 observes, " Both the profession and the 
public have shown a tendency to overrate hill climates in 
India, with reference to their suitability for sanitary stations. 
I feel convinced that the true value of these hills will ulti- 
mately be found to consist in their possessing a climate in 
which Europeans can maintain their health and vigour. 

1 Jeffreys, ' The British Army in India.' 

2 Mackay, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. v. 



HILL SANITARIA. 85 

They are, therefore, better suited for European settlers, and 
stations for troops, than for depots of sick." 

Dr. Murray stated his opinion, that there is nothing more 
likely to bring the Indian hill stations into disrepute than an 
over-estimate of the merits of their climate " It is calcu- 
lated to convey an erroneous impression of their qualities, 
and to raise up expectations which must end in disappoint- 
ment." 

Dr. Morehead wrote i 1 " The hill climates are not merely 
to be regarded as conducing to the recovery of suitably selected 
convalescents, but also as materially assisting in maintain- 
ing, at a high standard, the general health of European soldiers 
and their families." The same authority in his ' Report on 
the Sanitaria of the Poona Division of the Army/ dwells much 
on the injurious action of the cold season of hill climates in 
certain forms and stages of disease. 

In another place : 2 Dr. Morehead remarks, " The cold 
season of all hill climates of India will excite dysentery in 
cachetic individuals, irrespective of the conditions of mala- 
rious generation." 

In my f Manual of the Diseases of India/ chap, iii, ' On 
Hill Sanitaria/ I state : " Although the curative properties 
of hill climates are thus limited, I believe that the preventive 
powers are almost unlimited; and hence I must enter my 
humble protest against the hill climates of India being only 
regarded as convalescent depots. Broadly speaking, organi- 
cally diseased patients should never be sent to the hills." 

Every medical officer who has had charge of a hill station 
will readily admit, that invalids only do well in such climates 
when no internal organ has become structurally diseased; 
that abdominal affections, as diarrhoea and dysentery, are 
invariably rendered more severe by removal to hill stations ; 

1 Morehead, Letter to the Right Hon. Sec. of State for India,' 17th Sept., 
1861. 

2 ' Clinical Researches,' vol. i, p. 65. 



86 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

that affections of the liver are rarely benefited ; that rheum- 
atisms are frequently increased ; that the cold stage of 
fever is often prolonged by the greater cold of the climate ; 
that affections of the brain are not improved ; that diseases 
of the respiratory organs are generally aggravated ; and that 
neuralgic complaints are more painful. 

The class of cases benefited by removal to the hills are 
cases of debility after fever; fevers recurring at particular 
seasons on the plains ; all cases of local cachexia ; or splenic 
leucocythsemia, provided the spleen is not permanently large ; 
syphilitic cachexia, if unattended with rheumatism, and all 
cases of debility after cholera. 

It is, therefore,, evident that the capabilities of the hill 
climate as a curative agent are but exceedingly limited. 

Although the idea held by certain individuals that malaria 
cannot exist at an elevation of 4000 or 5000 feet above the 
level of the sea is a complete fallacy (see chapter on Malaria), 
still it is equally a fact, that the malaria generated on the 
summit of mountain ranges, while sufficiently powerful to 
induce repetition of paroxysmal fever is only in comparatively 
exceptional instances capable of originating intermittent 
disease de novo, in individuals who have not become dete- 
riorated and cachectic by residence on the Indian plains. 
Hence, an individual coming from Europe, and being located 
as soon as possible in a hill climate, would escape malarious 
degeneration, malarious fevers, and all the secondary affec- 
tions arising therefrom, simply because, in the majority of 
instances, the European's natural vigour of constitution 
would enable him to withstand the diluted malaria of the 
mountain-top ; and that it is diluted, is certain, from the mild 
type of intermittent which it alone induces. (See Chapter 
VIII, Sanitary Condition of Mount Aboo) . 

Again, although cholera has occasionally visited hill stations 
in the Himalayas, yet there are other mountain ranges 
where it is unknown, as, for instance, on Mount Aboo, and, 



HILL SANITARIA. 87 

until last year, at Ootocamund. Even although the neglect of 
sanitary regulations may have prepared the way for cholera 
on some hill stations, still it cannot for one moment be 
thought that this disease visits these elevated regions nearly 
so frequently as the arid plains below. Hence the Euro- 
pean located on the mountain has every chance of escaping 
death by cholera. 

Dysentery also is not near so fatal or prevalent on moun- 
tain regions as in the plains below, a tendency to deter- 
mination to thoracic organs usurping the abdominal affec- 
tions consequent on the greater heat of the lower climate. 

Thus, notwithstanding it appears beyond doubt that Euro- 
peans on hill climates, who go there in health, are in- 
finitely less liable to contract disease than others who remain 
on the plains, yet our greatest authorities decide against the 
location of British troops on hill stations. 

Dr. Morehead states -, 1 " To place permanently at such 
elevations as Ootocamund all the British troops in India, 
even if politically practicable, would not prove, in my judg- 
ment, the best method of fitting the European soldier for 
the maximum of efficient service with the minimum sacrifice 
of health and life. Doubtless, Europeans permanently resid- 
ing in a hill climate, such as Ootocamund, would retain much 
of their native vigour, but they would not be efficient for 
the contingencies of military service in India. If suddenly 
called to the plains for service in the hot season, there would 
be a heavy sick list from seasoning fevers and biliary derange- 
ments, and a rapid loss of vigour and stamina would result. 
Then, the service over, and the men exhausted by heat, 
fatigue and sickness, moved back to their hill cantonments, 
would be subjected to much mortality and invaliding from 
these forms of disease, for which the cold and rainy seasons 
of hill climates are unsuitable. Were it possible to transport, 
in a few hours, troops from the camp at Aldershot to the 

1 ' Letter to the Secretary of State for India,' Sept. 17th, 1861. 



88 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

plain of the Ganges,, any time between March and November, 
use them for active service, and return them, broken in 
health, in a few hours from India to Aldershot, any time 
between October and May, the result need not be told. It 
would be analogous in kind to that which may be anticipated 
from the permanent location of troops in such positions as Ooto- 
camund and the interior Himalayas, and their rapid transfer 
any time between March and November, in the one instance 
to Malabar, the Concan, or Carnatic, and in the other to 
the plains of the Punjaub or of the Ganges, with their return 
to their hill cantonments between September and April." 

In proof of the heavy sick list which would result from the 
conveyance of troops from the hills to active service on the 
plains, Dr. Chevers brings forward the cases of the 1st 
Fusiliers, 2nd Fusiliers, and 75th regiments. 

The 1st Fusiliers were ordered to march on May 13th, 
1857, on the breaking out of the mutinies, from the Him- 
alayan Hill Station of Dughshai (elevation 5,600 feet) to 
Umballa. They started the same day and marched in shirt- 
sleeves, and halted at Kalka (fourteen miles), where cholera 
was prevalent ; at 1 a.m. the following morning they marched 
on Pinjore, when, after making a short halt, they proceeded 
to Chundeeghur, arriving there at half-past 6 a.m. After 
resting all day, they marched at 5 p.m., and halted at 10 p.m. 
at Mobarackpore, where cholera was also prevalent, and made 
its first appearance in the regiment. After three hours' rest, 
they marched on Umballa, and arrived there at 7 a.m., May 
15th, having accomplished sixty miles in thirty-eight hours ! 
A few days after cholera prevailed in the regiment epi- 
demically. 

The 2nd Fusiliers marched from the hill station of Subathoo 
on the 14th May, 1847. At the foot of the hills they were 
met by bullock carts, in which the men rode alternately. 
They arrived at Umballa on the 17th, having left their 
" bheesties" behind, and having been obliged to drink water 



HILL SANITARIA. 89 

from stagnant pools and irrigated rice fields on the road-side. 
Cholera also prevailed in an epidemic form in this regiment. 

The 75th had only been one month at Kussowlie, and 
marched forty-seven miles in two marches, and were also 
afterwards attacked by cholera. 

It is stated by Marshall and the statement is endorsed 
by every Indian medical officer that excessive exertion in 
warm climates never fails to add to the sick list ; and it is 
also well known that fatigue is a most powerful predisposing 
cause of cholera. Here we have soldiers, some of whom had 
been only one month in the hills, and must necessarily have 
been cachectic from former residence in the plains, suddenly 
called upon to make most excessive exertions in the hottest 
month of the year, obliged to pass through a district where 
epidemic cholera prevailed, marching in shirt-sleeves, without 
tents, carriage, water, or commissariat. As an almost inevitable 
consequence, these men suffered severely from disease ; and 
others would do so again, if called upon to make the same 
exertions under similar circumstances. Such circumstances 
may never occur again. Although, in the eventful year of 
1857 the State required the services of its troops at any sacri- 
fice of health, money, or convenience, still the history of 
British India scarcely presents a similar emergency. On any 
future occasion, it is but rational to suppose that the exi- 
gencies of the service will at least allow of time being given 
for some preparation for the line of march, otherwise one of 
the chief desideratives, viz., the stability of the empire, which 
was expected to arise from the ruins of the cumbersome 
system of double government will not answer expectations. 

Be this, however, as it may ; let there be in future days 
parallel instances to the 1st and 2nd Fusiliers and the 95th 
Regiment; let numbers of men die from sudden removal 
from the hills for service on the plains ; let cholera desolate 
regiments so moved still I maintain that the mortality in 
any lengthened period, from such exceptional cases, would be 



90 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

infinitely less than tlie common rate of mortality in regiments 
on the plains ! 

/ am not, however, at all prepared to admit that every 
regiment moving from the hills to the plains would syffer in 
like manner. On the contrary, I believe such would not be the 
case, and it certainly would not be so in the cold weather. 

Moreover, there can be no doubt that Europeans descend- 
ing from the hills, would take the field with an amount of 
animal spirits which they would not bring with them from 
their stations in the plains ; their blood would be without 
deterioration by heat and malaria, and although some of 
course would fail as would be the case in a European cam- 
paign the majority would require months to bring them to 
that state of cachexia which they would have acquired in the 
plains before the order for active service arrived. 

Dr. Morehead, in the remarks previously quoted from his 
( Letter to the Secretary of State for India/ speaks of the 
heavy sick list which would result from " seasoning fevers ;" 
but a perusal of this talented physician's ( Clinical Researches n 
would lead any unbiassed reader to the conclusion that there is 
no such thing in India as seasoning fevers, that "the general type 
of disease in India, both in Europeans and natives, is asthenic," 
and that ; as I have stated in this work and elsewhere 2 enun- 
ciated, the European enjoys the best health during his first 
years of residence in this country, and that his physical and 
vital powers deteriorate in an inverse ratio with his length of 
residence. Granted, that " if it were possible to transport, in 
a few hours, troops from the camp at Aldershot, to the plain 
of the Ganges, use them for active service, and return them 
in a few hours," a heavy sick list, and great mortality would 
be the consequence ; granted that the same would occur on 
troops moving for active service, during the hot weather, from 
the hills still I believe that the disease and death rate would 

1 Morelieacl, ' Clinical Researches on Diseases in India. 3 

J The Author's ' Manual of the Diseases of India,' ehap. i iii. 



HILL SANITARIA. 91 

be infinitely less than is the case at the present time, when our 
troops are moved out already deteriorated by heat and malaria, 
by residence in unhealthy stations on the plains. 

If, however, the campaign occurred during the cold season, 
I am not prepared to admit that any great sickness must 
necessarily result. 

But it is argued that, on the conclusion of the service, and 
on the regiment being moved back to the hills, " exhausted 
by heat, and fatigue, and sickness," the result would be 
" much mortality and invaliding from congestive inflam- 
matory and organic visceral disease." It is further stated, 
" that the proof of this is no fancied picture, will be readily 
found in what takes place under the ordinary circumstances 
of troops fresh from England, arriving at the commencement 
of the hot season, and in what has taken place between the 
years 1840 and 1850, on the transference to the Himalayan 
hill stations of several European regiments, weakened by 
service, climate, and disease." 1 

It is, however, just that weakening, debilitating, and 
organic disease, which unfits regiments for residence on hill 
stations, which renders them prone to congestive and visceral 
disease. It is certain that this debility would not be induced 
by a cold weather campaign ; neither would active duty pro- 
longed into the hot season debilitate a European regiment 
fresh from the hills to the same extent which would occur 
if the men took the field with the degeneration half accom- 
plished, by simple residence in unhealthy stations on the 
plains. Hence, on return to the hills, Europeans who had 
formerly resided there, and only left for a time of duty on the 
plains, would not be so prone to diseases engendered by a 
lower atmospheric range as others who may be sent to the 
hills already weakened by a longer exposure or lengthened 
residence in an adverse climate, and therefore in the state 

1 Dr. Morehead's ' Report on the Sanitaria of the Poona Division of the 
Army.' 



92 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

most liable to organic disease. It may be taken as a fact, 
that the longer a European lives on the plains, the less 
likely is he to receive benefit from the hill climates, for during 
his residence 011 the plains he is daily in danger of con- 
tracting those diseases or tendency to diseases to which 
sudden removal into a colder atmosphere becomes an obvious 
and powerful aggravating cause. It also appears most probable 
that men descending from the semi-tropical climate of 
mountain ranges, where they would learn many desideratives 
of Indian service, would take the field with far greater proba- 
bilities of health than others could be expected to do, fresh 
from Europe, and inexperienced in the every-day necessities 
of tropical duty. In short, they would acquire experience 
and habits of self- care, and therefore in this respect be better 
fitted to withstand the effects of climate than if just landed, 
ignorant, and heedless of exposure to the latter. 

It is with thegreatest deference I advance these opinions; but 
holding them after mature consideration of the subject, under 
all its various aspects, after attentive perusal of nearly all that 
has been written regarding the effects of hill climates, and also 
after some personal experience, I do not hesitate in avowing 
my belief. 

At the present period it is impossible to locate all our 
infantry 011 hill ranges political necessities will not allow 
of this, however desirable the removal may be. Artillery and 
cavalry, again, can never be quartered where difficulties of 
carriage and access forbid. But it is not impossible to render 
hill stations more available than they are at the present time, 
and to send not only sick, but healthy men, to the less heated, 
less malarious, and, therefore, more salubrious climates ; in- 
stead of sending only the sick to hill stations, transporting 
invalids, many in a state of suffering and exhaustion, I would 
advocate sending all men. Thus, if a detachment of from 
fifteen to thirty per cent., from every European corps cavalry, 
artillery, and infantry were marched to the nearest hill 



HILL SANITARIA. 93 

station, so as to arrive in February, and all those not re- 
quiring a winter in the hills, ordered to rejoin head-quarters 
in November and December, the greatest benefit would result 
to the greatest number. A seven months' residence in the 
hills is sufficient to renew the physique of a man not organi- 
cally diseased, and such men should be selected by the medical 
officers of each regiment, with reference to their state of 
health during the past year. 

The only objection besides expense and the latter would 
be quickly repaid by less disease and mortality which can be 
brought forward against allowing all the European corps to 
benefit in an equal degree by the hill sanitaria is, that the 
men would suffer in their drill, or fall off in their discipline. 
With selected commanding officers, however, this need not be 
the case; and even admitting that there were temporary 
deteriorations, and that the men returned to their corps a 
little slack in their duties, better this than having to replace 
them by raw recruits ; better that they should appear a little 
round-shouldered, with the ruddiness of health, than be 
stretched out on hospital cots, and carried about in a dying 
state in " doolies" " better far to be in the hands of the 
drill-sergeant than the doctor/' 

Such a plan as this might be carried out at the present 
period ; and in the course of time, as civilisation, and a better 
knowledge of our home resources, increases among the natives 
as railroads extend over the country, and as more hill 
ranges are explored, a still greater number of Europeans 
might be permanently stationed on the latter. 

The remarks previously made naturally lead to a considera- 
tion of the peculiarities of hill climates. This, however, is 
an immense subject, and cannot be satisfactorily treated of 
in the present limits. Most hill ranges, most ' ' islands in the 
plain/' have excellences peculiar to themselves, and it is only 
a general approximation of these qualities which can be now 
shown. 



94 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Dr. Frankland 1 observes : " So intimate are the relations 
of man to atmosphere, that even the variations in the pres- 
sure of the aeriform mass surrounding our globe exercise 
a marked influence on the phenomena of animal life." 

M. Von Muhry divides the atmosphere into three strata: 
The lower or hot region extending upwards 3,000 feet ; the 
middle or temperate, extending from 3,000 to 12,000 feet, 
and the arctic above that heighth. In the first, terrestrio- 
miasmatic affections are prevalent in an intense degree ; in 
the second, fluctuations of physiological phenomena are the 
characteristics according to the seasons in winter, inflamma- 
tory, and tending to thoracic complications ; in summer, 
congestive, and affecting the abdominal organs ; in the third, 
none of the diseases first named, and a less amount of the 
latter, frost-bite, scurvy, and loss of vital power from cold, 
being the phenomena observed. 

In Indian hill-ranges, it is not the terrestrio -miasmatic 
causes of disease alone which are partially escaped; it is 
the absence of intense heat, the lowering of the temperature 
some 10 or 15 degrees, which allows the European to recover 
his elasticity of vital and physical powers which the fervid 
heat of the plains depresses to the lowest existing point 
which allows him to obtain a moderate quantity of exercise, 
without undue fatigue and exhaustion, and which conduces 
to his obtaining rest and sleep by night, free from the forbid- 
ding causes of the plains, heat and musquitoes. 

As a natural consequence, the body not only becomes in- 
vigorated and inspirited, but the mind also is more active, 
and capable of greater and sustained action. 

A clear intellect and a temperature of 88 Fahr. are almost 
incompatibilities, when long and continued mental exertions 
are required ; and it may be stated that the capabilities of an 
individual as regards the latter, vary inversely as the heat of 
the climate. Intense application and deep thought have 

1 " Introductory Lecture, St. Bartholomew's ;" ' Lancet,' Oct., 1861. 



HILL SANITARIA. 95 

never prospered for long together, where the body is always 
on the qui vive to keep itself cool. The hands, perhaps, may 
be taxed, but not the head. The latter, after a certain time, 
either fails, or performs its work unsatisfactorily. 

Hence in hill stations, whether for good or for evil, there 
is generally a fresher, more energetic, and, it perhaps may 
be added, more intellectual tone than is met with amongst 
dwellers on the plains. There is not the heat to feel and 
talk about, and the climate seems to instil a new life into 
both mind and body. It gives a greater elasticity, and 
enables Europeans to undergo more than they could possibly 
endure under the "punkah/ 3 and "tatties/ 7 or exposed to 
the heat without those necessaries. It is the circumstance 
of a hill climate being a sanitarium for the mind as well as 
the body, which adds so immensely to its value. 

Roughly speaking, the climate of hill ranges may be said 
to differ from that of the plains, in having a mean tempera- 
ture of some 10 to 15 degrees cooler than that of the latter ; 
in being above the range of the hot winds, and in the greater 
damp which exists during the monsoon season. Of course, 
various localities differ in minor points, the fall of rain for 
instance, on some mountain ranges being excessive, as at 
Mahableswar, where, in 1834, 297 inches; and at Nynee Tal, 
where, in 1853, 100 inches were measured. Again, in the 
Himalayas, a greater elevation will procure a colder climate; 
but the broad outlines of distinction are as just stated. 

In all mountain stations the sun's rays are very powerful 
during the hot weather, and individuals are necessitated to 
recollect, that it is still the Indian sun which is above them. 
Hence the turban is required as it would be in the plains. 
Notwithstanding the power of the sun, the temperature is, 
however, considerably less, and hence those who in ascending 
neglect the precaution of warmer clothing, frequently suffer 
from an attack of liver, or diarrhoea. Natives from the plains 
who, either from negligence or want, do not adopt additional 



96 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

garments, generally grow sick, particularly when badly shel- 
tered, or indifferently fed, as is too often the case. 

It has also been noticed by Dr. Mackay, on the Neilgherries, 
by Grant, on the Himalayas, and by myself on Mount Aboo, 
that salivation is easily induced. Hence in mountain climates, 
mercury, if ever necessary, should be exhibited with caution. 

Whatever may be the value of hill climates, it cannot be 
too frequently reiterated that such benefit can only be very 
partially obtained, unless sanitary matters are strictly attended 
to at all hill stations. 

A common-sense consideration of a hill climate, and a 
comparison with the climate of the plains, will demonstrate 
the fact that the former requires even more sanitary atten- 
tion than any other locality either in or out of the tropics. 

In temperate climates the putrefactive process is fre- 
quently arrested or mitigated by cold. 

On the plains of India the same effect is produced by in- 
tense heat, the bodies of animals exposed to the glare of the 
summer tropical sun scorching and drying up like mum- 
mies, no decomposition taking place. 

As Jeffreys 1 observes, " Under the action of the weather, 
where neither intense cold or heat retards the putrefactive 
decomposition, this process goes on via siccd, and, excepting 
in the confinement of cesspools and sewers, of a character 
by no means so injurious in its products as that which takes 
place via humida. 

Hence, in hill climates, where neither intense cold nor 
ardent heat retard the putrefactive process, more remains to 
be effected by sanitation than in any other locality. 

Moreover, as would naturally be expected by any one con- 
versant with the laws of disease, hill ranges are just those 
localities where the worst diseases of both temperate and 
tropical climes can exist where neither heat nor cold being 
ever sufficiently intense to destroy the germs of disease, the 

1 Jeffreys, ' The British Soldier in India/ 



HILL SANITARIA. 97 

most favorable circumstances are presented for its genera- 
tion. 

Thus, Dr. Welb found that at Simla hepatitis both in 
the acute and chronic form is equally met with amongst 
Europeans and natives, and I have the same knowledge of 
hepatitis being prevalent on Mount Aboo. The cold of the 
mountain climate appears to disturb the portal system of 
the inhabitants of the plains of India, to render it torpid, and 
predisposed to congestive complaints. Dr. Welb also men- 
tions that scrofula is very common at Simla, showing itself 
in tubercular deposit in the glands of the neck and axilla, in 
phthisis, and in caries of the spine. 

In the year 1858, cholera in its worst form appeared at Munee 
at an elevation of 7330 feet above the sea level. The same 
disease was very prevalent at Dhurmsala in 1856 and 1857, 
at an elevation of 7000 feet. Dr. Baikie states, cholera 
has once occurred as an epidemic in the Neilgherries, at 
Coonoor, which is about 6100 feet above the sea level. 
Again, Dr. Balfour 1 states that in 1854 a very destructive 
epidemic prevailed at Coonoor, resembling cholera, but 
more fatal than that pestilence is usually observed to be. 

Also Dr. Welb gives an account of typhus fever (generally 
found to prevail in temperate climates), which occurred in 
Simla in 1841. Nine years later, Mr. Grant witnessed 
typhoid fever in the same locality. Typhoid remittent was 
not unfrequent, some years ago, amongst the Europeans at 
Darjeling, and I also have seen isolated cases of continued 
and typhoid fever on Mount Aboo. 

Epidemics of croup and diphtheria have latterly occurred 
on the hill ranges. 

.Smallpox has raged with great virulence amongst the in- 
habitants of most hill regions in India. 

I believe it may be stated that malarious fevers, inter- 
mittent or remittent, originate occasionally on all hill 

1 'Localities in India exempt from Cholera.' 

7 



98 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

stations in India, in individuals who never had fever before ; 
and relapses continue to occur for years. These fevers are, 
however, of a milder type than others of the same nature, 
originating on the plains. 

Colds, coughs, and pectoral complaints are more pre- 
valent on the hills than on the plains below. 

But, in addition to the diseases of both temperate and 
tropical climates which have their chief locality of union on 
hill ranges, the latter have also diseases sui generis, and 
which only originate in such places. 

Reference has already been made to the " Mahammurree," 
or Indian plague ; by some described as a malignant fever 
of a typhus character, accompanied by external glandular 
tumors, and by others regarded as the true plague which, 
having commenced its ravages near Kedarnath, in the snowy 
range, traversed the Himalayas, from thence downwards. 

There is, however, another disease which occurs with more 
or less intensity in most hill climates; I allude to "hill 
diarrhoea/' or ec diarrhoea alba," a disease characterised by 
painless diarrhoea, occurring generally in the mornings and 
evenings copious, white or slightly yellow evacuations, and 
progressive wasting or cachexia, from which the patient 
ultimately sinks. This disease is so prevalent at Simla as 
to have acquired the vulgar name of " Simla trots." It is 
also frequently seen at other hill stations, and a full account 
of it may be found in my work, entitled, ' A Manual of the 
Diseases of India/ 

A consideration of the various maladies I have mentioned 
as prevailing in hill climates, will demonstrate the fact that 
the great majority of such diseases are of the zymotic variety, 
and therefore preventible, or at least mitigable. 

Conservancy, for the reasons previously advanced, requires 
more attention on the hills than in the plains below. As is 
shown in the chapter on this subject, the means of con- 
servancy most applicable to India is manual labour ; and to 



HILL SANITARIA. 99 

this end men should be employed with bullocks and panniers, 
where carts cannot be used, to carry away all ordure and 
other refuse matter. This is a system I have vainly en- 
deavoured to establish on Mount Aboo, but, until the present 
day, the refuse of each house is thrown somewhere in the 
locality, and this will ever be the case until public scavengers 
are entertained. As I stated in my 'Annual Report for 
1861/ until this is effected, the inhabitants of Mount Aboo 
will not be on a level, as regards this essential point of 
civilisation, with the Israelites of old, who, under the inspired 
Mosaic laws, were obliged to remove and bury their excrete. 

In all hill stations, public latrines should be erected for 
the use of the natives, and should be cleansed at stated periods 
by public scavengers. Otherwise as is the case at Aboo, as 
is the case at Ootocamund, as was the case at Simla the 
natives make use of every bush and ravine, as temples of 
" Cloaca," and heap dirt stratum super stratum, the 
stench of which rivals the smells described by Coleridge 
as existing at Cologne. 

The entire station and its neighbourhood should be 
cleared of deciduous vegetation, and while trees are religiously 
preserved, the growth of the former should be prevented. 

Of still more importance is the subject of drainage ; 
and regarding the necessity of this work much ignorance 
exists, many imagining that such means to carry off water is 
not required on a mountain elevation. That drainage, 
however, on hill ranges can hardly receive too much attention 
may be quickly proved. 

Mountain ranges consist of rocks, in the valleys and 
hollows of which, during the lapse of ages, a rich alluvial soil 
has collected, formed from the crumbling and disintegration 
of the rocky sides, and the decay of vegetable material. This 
earth is exceedingly porous, and retains water like a sponge, 
which, moreover, cannot drain from or percolate through the 
rocky depressions and cavities into which it gravitates ; hence, 



100 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

under a tropical sun, this moisture is constantly drying, such 
process being attended, as is the case in every other locality, 
by the extrication of malaria. 

From the reasons already advanced it must, however, be 
evident that sanitation is even more requisite in the hills 
than in the plains. Unless clearing, draining, conservancy, 
structure, position, aspect, and locality of buildings, are made 
matters of chief importance, our stations in the hills will be 
merely refuges from heat during the hot months, and 
sanitaria only in name. 

The site of a hill station should be fixed, if possible, on the 
windward side of the mountain range, the summit of which 
should not be crossed ; otherwise, as is the case with Aboo, the 
the station will be situated in a basin or hollow, thorough 
perflation of ravines will not be obtained, and drainage will 
be rendered most difficult, if not impossible. 

If a station can be situated, as Poorundhur, for instance, on 
the declivity of the range, it receives the air fresh from a 
boundless expanse of atmosphere. If, on the other hand, the 
locality is fixed on the leeward side of the range, or in the 
centre thereof, the air, in passing through the intervening 
ravines and jungles, becomes impure and malarious, and very 
different from what it was when it first struck the mountain- 
top. 

Sir Ranald Martin 1 observes : "As to barracks on hill sta- 
tions, provided the site be of sufficient elevation, well cleared, 
drained and levelled, with a good water supply, the material 
need not be of a costly character, well- constructed huts for 
the accommodation of ten or twelve men forming a good pro- 
tection against the inclemency of the weather. Such simple 
and cheap structures will, I believe, prove more conducive to 
the health of the European soldier on the mountain-ranges 
of India, than the most costly barracks ; and the same may 

1 ' Letter to Chairman of Court of Directors/ 1857. 



HILL SANITARIA. 101 

be said of hospital huts for the reception of the same number 
of men." 

Sir Ranald then quotes the experience of European cam- 
paigns, where soldiers who were hutted fared well, and those 
massed in barracks or hospitals perished at enormous rates ; 
also the fact of the Irish typhus fever patients perishing in 
large numbers in the workhouses and hospitals, and recover- 
ing along the road and under the hedges in goodly propor- 
tions ; also that Sir Charles Metcalf built only huts in the 
mountains of Jamaica, and that Indian experience shows that 
costliness of materials will not prevent disease. 

With the greatest deference to this high authority, and to 
others who hold the same opinion, I venture to express 
my conviction, that residences intended for Europeans in 
Indian hill climates should be erected, in most essentials, as 
though intended for other climates. In the cold season of 
the hill climate, although the rays of the sun may still be 
powerful, the interior of dwellings are considerably colder, 
and it is a common practice of soldiers and others to leave 
the interior of their barracks and bungalows, and sit out in 
the sun and warm themselves. Again, when the sun sinks 
below the horizon the cold becomes intense; hoar frost 
generally covers the ground, and in the Himalayas snow 
may fall. Hence, if the soldier is not in a position to defend 
himself from the inclemencies of the weather, the diseases of 
colder climates such as pectoral affections and scrofula are 
apt to develope themselves. Also, as has already been stated, 
the heat during the hot weather, without being intense, as 
it is in the plains, is frequently excessive ; and for this cause a 
thick but not too massive building as the latter would absorb 
heat and radiate again at night is essentially required. 
The arguments and similes brought forward by Sir Ranald 
Martin are, moreover, scarcely applicable to hill stations. It 
is beyond doubt that, were crowding of human beings to 
take place in India hill climates, as occurred in barracks and 



102 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

general hospitals in the former European campaigns, or as 
happened during the Irish famine and typhus epidemic, 
disease and great mortality would be the result ; but crowd- 
ing ought never to occur in Indian sanitary barracks and 
hospitals ; and if this be the case, such arguments carry no 
weight. On the other hand, the diseases which arise from 
exposure to cold, or from residence in low, draughty and 
leaky huts, are self-evident ; and although these diseases are 
not so virulent as others arising from overcrowding, still it is 
advisable to erect dwellings equally free, and to keep them 
equally free, from both the latter and from the former 
sanitary defects. 

As a rule, with few modifications, the barracks and 
dwellings best calculated as residences for Europeans on the 
Indian plains will be found to afford the best means for the 
preservation of the health of the same classes on Indian 
mountain ranges. 

The position and aspect of barracks on hill stations is not 
of that paramount importance which it should be considered 
on the plains. From the peculiar formation of mountains, it 
is frequently impossible to obtain a space of level ground 
sufficiently large to allow of the erection of barracks fronting 
the prevailing breeze a desiderative which ought never to be 
neglected in the plains. In elevated regions, however, on 
account of the diminished temperature, and the greater cool- 
ness of the breeze, barracks, &c., may be erected at consider- 
able angles to the quarter from whence the wind blows ; and 
although I cannot conceive it possible for any person to 
recommend the erection of barracks gable-end on to the 
v^ind, as the barracks at Aboo at the present time are 
situated, still the ground may often only admit of a diagonal 
direction being taken. This, however, in hill climates will 
permit that ventilation and perflation which it would prevent 
in the plains. 

Regarding the position of buildings, little need be said. 



HILL SANITAKIA. 103 

With strict sanitary regulations there would be no danger 
of human residences being erected near or over marshes, as 
is the case on the Neilgherries, and at other hill stations. 
Strict sanitation would prevent this, by the simple drainage 
of such malaria-generating spots, even should any one be 
sufficiently perverse to erect his private residence in a 
naturally unhealthy locality. For barracks and public build- 
ings the driest and most elevated spots should be selected, 
and valleys avoided. The idea formerly prevalent, and which 
appears to have been acted upon at Mount Aboo, that an 
overhanging rock or mountain shelters the barracks from too 
cold breezes, should be utterly abandoned. The evil of 
placing barracks in a valley, overhung by a mountain 1000 
feet high, is shown by the amount of fever which originates 
in the Aboo barracks. The advantage of placing the men 
on one of the most elevated spots on the range has been 
equally forcibly demonstrated during the last season, when, 
by my advice, the soldiers left the barracks and camped on 
the last-named elevated site. 

The proper height at which to establish a hill station has v 
been a subject of much discussion, and even now may be 
considered as sub judice. Many have held the idea that 
malaria ceases to exist at a certain height above the level of 
the plain, but that at a little greater elevation the European 
is brought within the range of another class of diseases, 
namely, that of bowel complaint. The first of these theories 
is still more erroneous than the latter, for the liability to 
fever depends, as cannot be questioned, more on the character 
of the soil and geological substratum than on height or any 
other circumstance (for remarks on this point see the 
chapter on " Malaria.") That the latter idea is not correct 
may be inferred from the facts that at Mahableswar, Mount 
Aboo, and on intertropical hill ranges generally, bowel com- 
plaints do not occupy a prominent position, and may fre- 
quently be traced to neglect of suitable clothing, or, as is 



104 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

probably the case at Simla, to the dirty condition of the 
ground. 

Height, then, that is to say, any specified height, such as 
six, seven, or eight thousand feet, above the level of the sea, 
is not a sine qua nan for a hill station. It is sufficient if 
the elevation removes the European from the stratum of hot 
air, and, therefore, above the influence of the fiery winds. 
If the height be sufficient to effect this, it is, I believe, nearly 
all that is required in this respect. Saussure's theory was, 
that temperature decreases one degree in every 350 feet of 
ascent, and an abrupt elevation of about 5000 feet will not 
only reduce the temperature sufficiently, but, moreover, be 
quite high enough to escape the heated winds of the plains. 
If the mountain range does not present an abrupt elevation, 
and undulates gradually into the plains, it will, for obvious 
reasons, have a higher therm ometric scale than the reverse, 
and probably require a longer ascent. 

Such chains are, however, not well fitted for sanitary sta- 
tions. These undulations at the base of mountains are always 
unhealthy, and where either these or a " terae" exists, the 
ascent and descent of the mountain will always, at certain 
periods of the year, be fraught with danger. I do not, how- 
ever, understand why, as some have stated, a mountain range 
bounded by a terae should be unhealthy in itself, if the eleva- 
tion were sufficiently abrupt, and high enough to prevent 
malaria being rolled from the terae on to the summit. 

The question of locating the supreme government in one 
of the Himalayan stations has been latterly mooted, and a 
few words may, with propriety, be here devoted to the subject. 
It is more important that the high officers of state should 
retain their health than any other members of the community. 
When the reverse is the case, their work stops, as it cannot, 
like an officer's, be done just as well by any one else, simply 
because there is no one to do it. Meanwhile, though their 
work stops their salaries go on ; so that, on the mere vulgar 



HILL SANITARIA. 105 

grounds of expense, their inability to superintend the ma- 
chinery of which they are directors is a most serious loss. 
Again, a clear intellect is more especially necessary for the 
rulers and heads of departments than for any other classes ; 
and it has already been demonstrated that this is incompatible 
with continued exertion and the heat of the plains for any 
lengthened period. 

There are, however, objections to making any of the Hi- 
malayan stations the seat of government. Such a plan would 
place the ruling power a thousand miles away from the sea, 
which has always been the origin, and must continue to be 
the seat of British supremacy in India. We have conquered 
India from the sea ; and if we leave the ocean, we endanger 
the continuance of our hold on the country ; "for if our com- 
munications with England are maintained, we could always 
reconquer India, even if it were for a time wrested from our 
grasp. " 

The capital of India, then, ought to be a sea-port, in the 
immediate vicinity of which a mountain retreat might be 
found. Calcutta is only approached by a journey of many 
miles up the Hooghley river, and has no hill sanitaria nearer 
than the Himalayas ; Madras has no harbour, and is there- 
fore unfitted for a large commercial emporium; Bombay, 
however, has both a most commodious anchorage and the 
hill stations of Matheran and Mahableswar, at a distance, 
respectively, of a couple of hours and a day's journey, and 
both connected with the city by railroad. 

In addition to the great political advantages of Bombay, 
as possessing the finest harbour, as being the nearest point 
to England, and the natural thoroughfare to all parts of 
India, there are sanitary excellences peculiar to the locality. 
These consist in the sea breeze, which is always ventilating 
Bombay, and prevents that muggy, stagnant atmosphere so 
prevalent in Calcutta, in the proximity of the comparatively 
healthy table-land of the Deccan, where, according to Dr. 



106 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Morehead, the rain season of the south-west monsoon is less 
inimical to the European constitution than in most other 
parts of India, and in the exemption of the hill stations 
named from a fever-belt or terae at the base, of the danger 
of passing through which at certain seasons the lamented 
fate of Lady Canning furnishes sad demonstration, her death 
being understood to have been occasioned solely by malarious 
fever, contracted in the jungle which occurs in the descent 
from Darjeeling. 



CHAPTER X. 

ON MARINE SANITARIA. 

Diseases not benefited by Hill Climates Diseases benefited by Sea Climates 
Peculiarities of Sea Climates ; Advantages : Moist and Saline Atmosphere j 
Iodine ; A Fish Diet Coasts to be avoided Locality to be chosen. 

IT has been demonstrated in the foregoing chapter, that 
the curative powers of hill climates are extremely limited, and 
also that there are many diseases over which the atmosphere 
of the elevated regions exerts even a baneful influence. Such 
affections are diseases of the lungs,, particularly scrofulous 
changes or consumption ; dysentery, diarrhoea, and indeed 
all disturbances of the bowels ; liver diseases ; head affections ; 
neuralgic complaints, if not malarious; malarious fevers, 
during the cold season ; and generally all cases of rheumatism. 
The removal of a person affected with lung disease, such as 
tubercle, or vomicse, into the ten or fifteen degrees less heated 
atmosphere of the mountains, is frequently followed by acute 
congestion, and fatal haemoptysis. In dysentery, liver disease, 
head affections, the same congestion of internal organs, 
caused by the sudden application of cold, cannot fail to aggra- 
vate any disorder which may be present in a diseased, and 
therefore weakened part ; while rheumatism, the first or cold 
stage of ague, and neuralgic remedies, as every one knows, 
are but very rarely (the second affection never) benefited by 
cold. Briefly, it may be accepted as a truth that all cases of 
organic, or threatened organic disease will not be benefited 
by the hill-climates of India, and it is in such instances that 
the value of removal to the sea-coast becomes apparent. 



108 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

The influence of the sea on climate is of vast importance, 
and arises from several causes,, the principal of which are as 
follows : 

The first difference, viz., the greater uniformity of climate 
on the sea-coasts, depends substantially on the peculiar 
physical properties of the water and land. The former 
having a great capacity for heat and a feeble conducting 
power grows warm only slowly from the power of the sun, 
while the latter rapidly absorbs the solar rays. From the 
same physical properties, the superficial layer of water, 
being cooled by evaporation, becomes heavy, sinks down, and 
gives way to the warmer molecules of the inferior strata, 
while the soil, since it cannot be so displaced, is not only 
heated, but also cooled in a considerably shorter space of time. 

It will, therefore, be evident that, although the sun may 
shine on both sea and land, the sea must be colder than 
the land during the day, and warmer during the night. In 
the same manner, taking the different seasons of the year, in 
summer the sea is colder than the land, in winter it is warmer ; 
it preserves the mean temperature, while the land experiences 
the extremes ; and the air of the sea-margins, sharing in the 
uniformity of temperature which belongs to the surface of the 
waters, helps to give the sea climate its peculiar characters. 

Air in motion, however, is always cooler than stagnant 
atmosphere, and hence the land and sea breeze combine in 
lowering the temperature of the coast several degrees below 
that of inland districts. In proportion as the sun rises above 
the atmosphere, the land becomes warmer than the neigh- 
bouring sea. Their respective atmospheres participate in 
these unequal temperatures. The fresh air of the sea rushes 
from all directions, under the form of a sea-breeze which makes 
itself felt along the whole coast, the warmer and lighter air 
of the land ascending into the atmosphere. During the 
night the reverse happens ; the land loses heat and cools 
more rapidly than the sea. Its atmosphere, having become 



MARINE SANITARIA. 109 

heavier, rolls into that of the sea, under the form of a land 
breeze, and this lasts until the temperature and density of 
the two atmospheres has again become the same. 

Thus with uniformity of climate we have combined air in 
constant motion, and a temperature slightly less than that of 
the interior of continents, all of which are well calculated to 
benefit the cases of disease previously mentioned. 

These, however, are not the only advantages which a sea 
climate affords. The moisture of the atmosphere and its im- 
pregnation with saline particles and iodine, is frequently most 
beneficial to the invalid who has resided in the interior, 
subject to the influences of the hot, arid, and parching winds ; 
a removal into the moist atmosphere of the sea- coast is a 
change which invigorates both mind and body ; while in par- 
ticular cases of disease the saline atmosphere and the iodine 
given up from the water to the air may be expected to exert 
a beneficial effect. In short, "the sight and sound of the 
ocean are as refreshing to the exhausted spirit as the breeze 
that blows from it is to the exhausted mind. The air from it 
is redolent of health." 

In addition to the effects of sea climates over disease there 
is another advantage which the invalid may desire from the 
locality of the ocean, and that is, a daily supply of fresh fish. 
To the sick man from the interior, whose appetite has failed 
and whose convalescent diet has consisted of indifferent com- 
pounds prepared from poor meat, and farinaceous food, the 
value of a supply of fresh sea fish, is great indeed, and may 
in many instances prove the means of a speedy recovery of 
health, instead of a long and tedious convalescence. Sea 
bathing may also be beneficial in very many instances. 

Although these advantages are to be derived from a sea- 
coast residence, still it is not every ocean boundary which 
will afford them. Some coasts are low-lying, flat, have im- 
mense surfaces of mud and decaying seaweed uncovered at 
the ebb-tide, permit no vegetation for miles inland, and are 



110 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

otherwise so situated as to be not only unadvisable residences, 
but also unhealthy. It is in such low-lying coasts that 
scurvy (see Chap. XX), beri-beri, leprosy, and kindred dis- 
eases are endemic, and hence much care will be required 
when fixing on the site for a marine sanitarium. All arms 
of the sea and gulfs should be avoided, the blue and open 
ocean in front being a sine qua non. Low, flat, sandy coasts 
are most frequently unhealthy in the tropics, and, therefore, 
not to be recommended, and, of course, the same remark 
applies to all localities near the mouths of creeks and rivers. 

A rocky shore, with elevated cliffs, and the open ocean in 
front is the only locality which can be recommended for a 
marine sanitarium, and if such a position, from jutting out 
into the sea is surrounded on both sides by water, it will be 
an additional desiderative, reducing, as it must do, providing 
no large surface is left exposed, the formation of malaria to a 
minimum (see chapter on ( Malaria'), and rendering the tem- 
perature and moisture of the atmosphere still more agreeable 
and uniform. 

Of course the surface of the ground composing the shore 
and the surrounding country, its capabilities for drainage, 
and freedom from marsh and jungle, and from overhanging 
mountains, with the water supply, and physical condition of 
its inhabitants must be taken into consideration when fixing 
the site of a marine sanitarium, according to the same rules 
laid down as applicable to stations on the plains. (See 
Chap. XI.) 

Dr. Macpherson has latterly recommended the island of 
Martaban, which, from its geological characteristics, size, 
and proximity to both Madras and Calcutta, would appear 
admirably adapted for a marine sanitarium. Islands, how- 
ever, unless well raised from the surface of the sea, are not 
generally healthy, and it is essentially necessary that such 
localities should be observed during the winds, damp, and fog 
of the monsoon, as well as in the fairer seasons of the year. 



CHAPTER XL 

ON THE CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 

Stations in the Plains can never be wholly abandoned The Spleen-test of 
Locality Proximity of large Rivers Change of Course of Rivers 
Mouths of Rivers to be avoided Dry Beds of Rivers to be avoided 
Sand not Dry Soils to be avoided and chosen Water Cultivation 
Drainage Canal Irrigation" Uneven Countries condemned Proximity 
of Mountains condemned Neighbourhood of Cities condemned Burial 
Grounds Prevailing Breeze Model Cantonment Time to choose the 
Site Conclusion. 

As time develops the capabilities of hill climates in the 
prevention of disease among Europeans, it is more than 
probable that stations and cantonments in the plains will be 
gradually deserted for mountain sites ; but even in this case, 
political necessity will always render it impossible for our 
troops to vacate the plains altogether. Moreover, the diffi- 
culties of carriage, and the height and inaccessibility of 
mountains are such as to forbid the hope that artillery and 
cavalry, especially the former, can ever be, excepting in 
exceptional instances, located at hill stations. Hence, a 
short consideration of the desideratives of cantonments on the 
plains must be undertaken. 

The most important point to take into consideration in 
fixing the site of a new station, is the condition of the in- 
habitants as they appear when engaged in their every-day 
occupations. Are they a robust and healthy race ? As Dr. 
Dempster truly observes, " To an eye accustomed to the 
various races and castes of India, the aspect of the inhabi- 
tants of any particular district will convey useful informa- 



112 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

tion, provided always the inquirer does not deceive himself 
by any preconceived opinion." 

In 1845 a Committee was appointed to report on the cause 
of the unhealthiness of Kurnaul, and of the portions of the 
country along the line of the Delhi canal. It was suggested 
by the medical member, Dr. Dempster, to examine the spleen, 
a course which should never be neglected, as almost the most 
important method of determining the healthiness or other- 
wise of any given locality in a malarious country. 

In such districts where intermittent or remittent fevers 
are prevalent, a certain proportion of the population will be 
found affected with chronic enlargement of the spleen a 
disease which, either primarily or secondarily, is a certain 
manifestation of the presence of malaria, and has been well 
designated by Dr. Dempster as the Experimentum crucis of 
the whole investigation. 

Where this disease is found to exist in a large proportion 
of the inhabitants, the locality ought to be unhesitatingly 
condemned as a cantonment for European troops ; for 
although the district might possibly be made healthy by 
drainage, clearing, and other sanitary regulations, still it 
may be stated as a fact, that such procedure would entail an 
enormous outlay of the public funds. 

The presence or absence of spleen- disease having been 
ascertained, as the most important matter, the proximity or 
otherwise of large rivers should next be inquired into. It is 
a well-known fact that Indian rivers, flowing through alluvial 
soils, change their course, generally to leeward, in the course 
of years ; and hence it happens that many river stations are 
bounded in the rear by a creek, or chain of shallow pools, 
representing the old course of the river. The destruction of 
the ancient city of Gour has been referred by Dr. Chevas 1 to 
this cause; and the towns of Dacca, Mymensing, Hooghly, 
Nuddea, Dinapore, Berhampore, and some others, are cited 

1 Chevas, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. xi. 



CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 113 

by the same author as occupying unfavorable situations of 
this kind. 

The mouths of rivers, and indeed within the tidal influence, 
are especially to be avoided, as the localities for cantonments. 
Most Indian rivers demonstrate this by the number of mouths 
through which their contents are poured into the ocean. The 
Ganges, the Indus, indeed all the large rivers, present nu- 
merous ancient channels to the sea. Lyell, 1 in his account 
of the delta of the Ganges, states there are eight openings, 
each of which has evidently, at some remote period, served 
in its turn as the principal channel of discharge. 

It is not, however, these large rivers alone which should 
be avoided, and it is not merely the facts of their having in 
former times changed their course, and left a tract of marsh 
or nullahs, which renders their locality unhealthy. All rivers 
which in the dry season become comparatively narrow water- 
courses, and which, therefore, leave on either side an enor- 
mous tract of sand, are essentially malarious, and therefore, 
like the damp and drying banks of larger streams, unfit the 
locality for the residences of European troops. 

An opinion is very prevalent that sand is dry, and it not 
unfrequently happens that tents are pitched on so-called dry 
sandy beds. Removal of a few shovelsful of the dry-looking 
surface would soon demonstrate the reverse; and, indeed, 
the very individuals who place their tents on such places 
may frequently observe their servants digging to obtain the 
water underneath. Moreover, all decomposable matter which 
the floods deposit upon the sand, te not finding any neutral- 
ising agents there, undergo disintegration on the surface, and 
pollute the atmosphere." The evil results of placing stations 
too near to large rivers have been demonstrated over and 
over again in India, and many cantonments have been de- 
serted from this cause. Thus Loodianha, now forsaken as 
a European station, was situated on the banks of a water- 

1 Lyell, * Principles of Geology/ 

8 



114 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

course, formerly a channel of the Sutlej, which now flows 
seven miles to the north ! Berhampore, where the annual 
mortality was at the rate of 90' 69 per thousand, was deserted 
in 1826,, the cantonments being placed between the Ganges 
and a jheel formerly the old bed of the river. Ghazeepore, 
Cawnpore, the forts of Allahabad and Agra, are all situated 
immediately on the verge of rivers, and all have from time to 
time proved most unhealthy for European troops. 1 

The next point to be ascertained is the nature of the soil, 
and geological characteristics of the district. Stiff clay lands, 
and such as are retentive of moisture, are not fitted for the 
location of troops. Light, friable, and gravelly soils, on the 
other hand, are well adapted for cantonments. Lands, how- 
ever, which, although gravelly on the surface, present a sub- 
stratum of clay at a very moderate depth, should not be 
chosen. This, however, although occasionally occurring, is 
not a very prevalent geological characteristic in India. Soils 
having laterile for a foundation are frequently healthy, and 
often escape epidemic attacks of cholera; while those con- 
sisting of alluvial deposit, resulting from the decomposition 
of trappean or metamorphic rock, are generally the reverse, 
and especially liable to the latter disease. 

It has been noticed in the chapter on malaria that ferru- 
ginous soils, and indeed all grounds destitute of vegetation, 
are essentially malarious. 

A most important consideration is that of water, a plentiful 
supply of which is, of course, a sine qua non in the imme- 
diate locality of a cantonment. As Mr. Dempster remarks, 
" good water to a native of India comprehends everything we 
express by a perfectly healthy locality, and therefore the in- 
habitants of the district should invariably be questioned on 
this important subject." For further remarks on this matter, 
and for the chemical and ready methods of testing water, I 
refer to the chapter under that head. 

1 Dempster's ' Rules for the Selection of Sites for Cantonments.' 



CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 115 

The amount of cultivation and the capabilities of drainage 
must next be taken into consideration. There are few locali- 
ties which will not allow of the former being carried out, to 
a greater or less extent ; but it is incumbent to fix the posi- 
tion of a cantonment in that spot where the natural slope 
and formation of the ground will leave the engineer but little 
to effect in the matter of drainage. By so doing, both the 
liability to disease will be most materially lessened, and also 
a source of original and continual expense will not be in- 
curred. As a general rule, open drains of a rudimentary 
description should be adopted. A shallow surface-drain, 
says Dr. Hathaway, made on the ground with bricks, is the 
f ' best means of carrying off rain-water, and it can be effec- 
tually cleansed or renewed from time to time without ex- 
pense." It must never be lost sight of that marshy spots 
formed by simple water induce intermittent fevers and their 
consequences, as well as other circumstances more particu- 
larly noticed under the head malaria; while want of drainage 
of foul water and filth localise and spread epidemic diseases, 
and cause in the inhabitants who live near them a proclivity 
to such affections, and a general adynamic state of constitu- 
tion, or, in more familiar terms, a state of health "below 
par." Whatever locality, therefore, presents insurmountable 
obstacles to thorough drainage, whether from the configura- 
tion of the surface or the peculiarities of the soil, should be 
rejected as the site for the dwellings of human beings. 

The presence or absence of cultivation will in many coun- 
tries, particularly in tropical and semi-tropical regions, exert 
a great influence over the health of the inhabitants. Expe- 
rience has again and again demonstrated that malarious dis- 
ease will arise from a drying surface of moist earth; and 
therefore irrigated lands, such as rice-plantations, in the 
neighbourhood, and especially to windward of stations, cannot 
be too strongly deprecated. If it were possible to irrigate 
cultivated fields, supplying them with just sufficient water 



116 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

to promote the growth of the crops and no more, the malaria 
arising from such grounds would be comparatively small. 
Hence gardens which are not profusely irrigated do not prove 
deleterious in the neighbourhood of residences, and indeed 
may, under certain restrictions, be considered salubrious. 
If, however, these same gardens were as extensive, and 
flooded with water in the same manner as rice-crops are ; if 
stagnant puddles were allowed to exist in gardens, as is the 
case in cultivated lands; and if gardens were situated in 
valleys, or at the tail of ponds, as cultivated lands are fre- 
quently placed, the former would prove as inimical to human 
health in tropical regions as the latter. 

Canal irrigation will always prove more unhealthy than 
irrigation from wells, simply because the supply of water is 
more abundant, and more readily obtainable from streams 
which communicate directly with a noble river ; and thus the 
ground becomes more saturated, and a large quantity of 
stagnant puddles result. Cultivation in India being fre- 
quently only limited by the difficulty of obtaining water, it 
follows that in the neighbourhood of canals the greatest 
surface of cultivation must exist, which, as above stated, is 
another cause of increased malaria. Lastly, artificial canals 
are sometimes little less than embankments conveying the 
water over the country at a greater elevation than the surface 
of the soil. Where this is the case, any kind of drainage 
is quite impossible, either natural or artificial, and mala- 
rious disease is therefore rife. 

A country abounding with shallow ponds, j heels, and 
nullahs must be condemned as the locality for a cantonment, 
as such surfaces can scarcely be drained without the expendi- 
ture of enormous sums. 

The immediate proximity of mountains must also be con- 
demned, whether the elevations are of sufficient magnitude 
to transmit water enough during the rains, to keep the 
country at their base in a perpetual state of moisture, and 



CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 117 

so give rise to a ferae; or whether they are merely small 
rocky formations, capable only of intercepting the breeze or 
radiating the heat. The unjaealthiness of a ferae does not 
require demonstration again, and any one who has lived in a 
cantonment surrounded or overhung with black rock, will 
willingly admit its absorbing and radiating powers. 

The immediate neighbourhood of large cities, especially in 
the leeward direction, are not satisfactory localities for our 
troops. The sanitary condition of all Indian towns cannot 
be described as less than vile, and the situation of many has 
been chosen more on the score of convenience, as being near 
a river, &c., than from any other cause. Former political 
necessities led to many of our cantonments being fixed in 
the immediate locality of large cities, and their unhealthiness 
has already been referred to. In other respects also, as 
allowing of greater intemperance and immorality, their prox- 
imity should be avoided. 

Old grave-yards must be shunned altogether. This would 
appear a superfluous caution ; but it has happened, as at Suk- 
kur, that Indian cantonments have been located either on 
such surface or in the immediate locality. In like manner, 
new cemeteries should neither be established in the centre or 
to windward of stations, but at some distance to leeward. 
The same remark applies to Hindoo places of incremation. 

In this country Western India at least the breeze con- 
tinues during the greater portion of the year blowing from 
one direction, viz., south-westerly ; but we find that some of 
our military cantonments are fronted to the east, and have 
the refuse of the camp placed in rear, that is, to the westward, 
from which the breeze blows. Not only is this the case, but 
outhouses, such as cook-rooms, servants' rooms and stables, 
are often found also between the wind and the dwelling-house ; 
and worse even, if possible, as a general rule, the bath- 
rooms and necessaries will be found occupying the same 
relative position within or at the sides of dwellings. A recent 
writer in the ' Times of India' (September, 1861) asks, under 



118 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

such arrangements, " How is it possible that pure air can be 
obtained?" 

The same author observes : 

" Did space permit of it, a table of the monthly winds 
would prove equally instructive and valuable. The great 
burial-grounds at Poona are so placed as to be between the 
camp and the two most prevalent winds, and in that direction 
more than half the refuse and excrements of the camp used 
to be deposited. Yet, with this and other malarrangement, 
Poona, owing to its naturally salubrious position, has been a 
healthy station for Europeans. How much more so it might 
have been, had the great value to health of the pure westerly 
breeze been understood and recognised, it is impossible to say. 
Doubtless, the elevated plains of the Deccan are naturally 
the most healthy locality within the tropics for European 
troops, unless it be on the tops of the hills, and I believe 
we may safely set down half the mortality that occurs there 
to the want of sanitary science, as evidenced in the bad 
arrangement of almost everything affecting the health of our 
cantonments." 

All the foregoing unadvisable concomitants being avoided, 
an Indian cantonment would be placed at a distance of 
some miles from and to windward of both large rivers and 
cities. It would be located on the summit of a gentle un- 
dulation, or on the slope of a rising ground, not sufficient to 
overhang the station, to intercept the breeze, or to radiate 
heat. The surface would be light, friable, or gravelly soil, 
without a substratum of heavy, retentive material. Water 
would be plentiful, to be obtained at a moderate depth, and 
of good quality, according to the requirements and tests laid 
down in a future chapter on this important subject. A 
country intersected by nullahs, abounding in jheels and 
tanks, and liable to flooding, would be avoided. Localities 
not susceptible of easy and perfect drainage would be 
shunned, and old grave-yards and the sites of ancient cities 
also escaped. The whole cantonment would front the pre- 



CHOICE OF STATIONS IN THE PLAINS. 119 

vailing winds ; native houses, bazaars, burial-grounds, places 
of Hindoo incremation, in fact, all essentials, excepting wells, 
would be placed rearward to European residences. 

In addition to these requirements, the station should be 
surrounded by a zone of one or two miles radius, free from 
cultivation and irrigation. Such extent of country should 
be grass land with clumps of trees or occasional gardens; 
sanitary matters should be strictly attended to throughout 
the whole extent, and all refuse from the cantonments should 
be removed by manual labour without these limits, if not 
susceptible of being destroyed by fire within such space. 

A cantonment situated as above described, in which sani- 
tation was carried out, not only with respect to removal of 
filth and debris, but also as regards the structure, aspect, and 
requirements of buildings, would give the European as great 
a chance of escaping the diseases and deterioration of health 
inseparable from residence in a tropical climate as the class 
from which the rank and file are at present drawn enjoy in 
their best aspects in most portions of the United Kingdom, 
of escape from the ills which their lot is there heir to. 

Dr. Dempster very properly insists upon the necessity of 
choosing new sites for stations, not in the dry and cold 
season when all appears clear and dry, but in, or immediately 
after the rains, when the defects of locality, as regards natural 
drainage, the presence in the vicinity of pools, marshes, or 
water-courses which overflow their banks and flood the ad- 
joining levels, together with the presence or absence of rank, 
deciduous vegetation, which is eaten up by cattle, or other- 
wise disappears during the cold season, may be readily and 
unmistakably ascertained. 

In conclusion, I would wish to see, in the laying out of any 
new cantonment, the gymnasium commenced as soon as the 
parade ground, the cricket field ordered as well as the 
"conjee" house, and the soldier's garden sanctioned as soon 
as the canteen. 



CHAPTER XII. 

ON CLEARING. 

Necessity of Clearing : Trees not to be cut down j discretion as to position 
and numbers insisted on Trees retain Malaria; consume Oxygen by 
Night j cease to inspire Carbonic Acid ; have periods of Sickness and 
Decay : Opinion of the Natives Deciduous Vegetation. 

IT is admitted by all sanitary authorities that in tropical 
climates the entire neighbourhood of barracks and hospitals 
should be cleared of all jungle at any cost of money and 
labour, so that the locality may be free from all sources of 
miasmata and all cover for accumulating filth and decompos- 
ing matter. 

From the number of human beings who inhabit barracks 
and hospitals, clearance is of more importance near such 
buildings than around residences giving a larger cubic space 
to their occupants. 

Clearing of deciduous vegetation is, however, sufficiently 
momentous to render it incumbent that the limits of all 
Indian stations should be completely freed and maintained 
clear of all such causes of disease. 

By clearing is not to be understood the cutting down and 
destruction of large trees, which, on the contrary, should be 
carefully preserved. The grateful shade they afford, the 
pleasant green they present to the eye ; the collection and 
condensation of vapours, and the equalisation of rain-fall 
they induce; the less rapid evaporation, and consequent 
greater coolness resulting from their presence ; the prevention 



CLEARING. 121 

of the ground becoming so heated as their absence would 
allow ; the probability that springs draw their supplies from 
sources in the immediate vicinity of trees, and that their 
absence dissipates the water, are cogent reasons for their 
preservation. 

It is however, necessary to exercise discretion as to number, 
and more especially as regards position. Thus, they should 
not be allowed to intercept the prevailing breeze; they should 
not be placed in immediate proximity to, or allowed to over- 
hang inhabited dwellings, and their spreading boughs should 
be trimmed to within seven or eight feet of the ground. If 
permitted in positions where they intercept the prevailing 
breeze, they deny thorough perflation and ventilation ; and 
moreover, air passing through the thick foliage of many 
Indian trees, becomes more or less charged with organic 
impurities, and enters the dwelling in a less satisfactory con- 
dition than if it had met with nothing to obstruct its onward 
course. The odour from some trees is also very disagreeable. 

The power which trees exert in retaining malaria amongst 
their foliage (see chapter on Malaria,) is another urgent 
reason against their being allowed to overshadow a tropical 
residence, as, besides danger of malaria passing through the 
tree, any person going in or out would be exposed to miasm, 
attracted by the foliage above, and falling down from its 
inherent specific weight before it could be consumed or 
decomposed. 

The probability, also, that trees inspire oxygen by night, or 
at all events the fact that they cease to inspire carbonic acid, 
is another reason against their proximity to dwellings. By 
consuming oxygen so rarely in excess in our rarified Indian 
atmosphere they lessen the amount present in a stagnant 
air for the respiration of human beings, and by ceasing to 
inspire, or even by exhaling carbonic acid, they, equally with 
animals, help, during the absence of sunlight, to render the 
atmosphere impure. 



122 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Again, as Dr. Chevers observes, " Trees, like men, have 
their periods of accidental sickness and of natural decay, and 
an unhealthy tree at our chamber window is certainly no 
desirable companion during the nights of an Indian autumn." 

Some trees would appear to attract malaria to a greater 
extent than others. In most parts of India the dense foliage 
of the tamarind and nimb tree is dreaded by the natives as a 
canopy during the night; indeed, it is a popular saying 
amongst the inhabitants of Bengal, " that he who has a tree 
near his house keeps death at his door." 

Thus, although the absence of trees is a certain cause of 
disease (see chapter on Malaria) in malarious localities, still 
their presence in any improper position is equally to be 
deprecated. 

With deciduous vegetation, however, the matter is different. 
"Mudar grass," gigantic convolvulacese, with their sickly 
odour, the prickly pear, or any species of cactus, should be 
ruthlessly rooted up and destroyed. Their presence are fre- 
quently signs of undrained ground ; their decay retains 
malaria, and pollutes the atmosphere, and they are the abode 
of numerous insects and reptiles, which live, die, and decay 
amongst their stems. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



ON BARRACKS. 

Position of Barracks; Defects of Barracks; Drainage; Graveyards to be 
avoided ; Barracks to front prevailing Breeze Shape of Barracks ; Upper 
Sleeping Rooms ; "Chaboutra" not recommended; Storehouses; Sleep- 
ing Apartments ; other Advantages of; Walls; Roof ; Floors ; Colour of 
Walls; Verandahs; Lighting; Ventilation Overcrowding: Diseases in- 
duced by Overcrowding Small bodies of Soldiers more healthy than 
large Cubic space Superficial space Small Corner Rooms objection- 
able Cooling of Barracks : Mr. Jeffrey's Plan Tatties : Tatties and 
Thermantidotes recommended Cooling in Lower Bengal Air to be hept 
in motion Steam power Van Hecke's method of Ventilation applicable 
to India Latrines Urinals Disposal of Urine Disposal of Bath-room 
Water. 

DR. CHEVERS states, " The highest, clearest, and driest 
spot in a contonment that best exposed to the prevailing- 
currents of air, and most remote from any permanent source 
of malaria that which a Roman general would have taken 
for himself and his praetorian cohort should be selected, 
regardless of all other considerations, for the barracks and 
hospital." 

The histories of very many European regiments during their 
service in India incontrovertibly prove that a large propor- 
tion of the excessive sickness and mortality which prevails 
among soldiers in India, is traceable to defects in the site, 
aspect, construction, or sanitary economy of the residences 
they have occupied. 

The following are among the most prominent faults in the 
construction of the older barracks now existing. Where 



124 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

barracks have been built in forts, they have necessarily been 
low, bomb-proof, unventilated buildings, as were the Town 
Barracks in Bombay, the Old Barracks in the Fort of 
Bellary, in Fort William, &c. &c. Numerous barracks as 
Gwalior; the Royal Barracks, Fort William ; the Barracks 
on Mount Aboo ; at Bhoqj ; and elsewhere have been erected 
gable-end on to the prevailing breeze. Other barracks have 
been built under the shadow, and within the effects of radia- 
tion from black rocks ; in the vicinity of burial-grounds, as at 
Dinapore ; or in damp and malarious localities, as at Aboo ; 
at Colabah, where Sir Charles Napier walked through the 
sleeping apartments on planks laid in water covering the 
floor ; and at Loodianha, where Dr. Dempster reports that the 
barracks " wanted in nothing except the means of preventing 
the monsoon water, flooding the level surface around, from 
entering the verandahs." 

Having fixed upon any spot, high, clear, and dry, and, 
therefore, apparently eligible as the site for barracks, con- 
sideration must next be paid to the subject of drainage; and 
where from the nature of the soil or surface this cannot be 
thoroughly effected, there the erection of barracks is forbidden. 
Clay, for instance, is highly retentive of moisture, and where 
this material forms the sub-soil, it will keep the ground, and 
indeed the air over large districts always more or less damp, 
and is thus unfitted for the location of barracks. Soils which 
extend to a considerable depth in gravel and sand, with 
perhaps, a foundation below of marl, and which are so far 
self- draining, are the best possible sites for barracks and 
hospitals. Of course, if an elevated and dry spot be chosen* 
valleys, muddy and marshy ground, will be avoided ; and 
should any unavoidable nullah or ravine exist in the locality, 
it must be filled up and converted into a surface-drain, if it 
may not be altogether disposed of. It cannot be too 
urgently insisted upon, that ravines and nullahs are certain 
to become the depositories of filth and debris, and hence 



BARRACKS. 



125 



will not fail to prove injurious in the locality of human 
residences. 

It may seem superfluous to state that a barrack or hospital 
should not be built over an old grave- yard, or on or near 
ground charged with organic matter ; such, however, has 
been done in more than one instance. 

It should be a sine qua non in Indian barrack and hospital 
building, that such erections front the prevailing breeze. 
If the locality will not admit of this being effected, such 
position ought to be abandoned. During the Indian hot 
weather, a building in which air is motionless is oppressive 
both by day and night. Move, however, several feet into the 
influence of the breeze, and air in motion produces a 
sensation of coolness ; retire in the latter, and freedom from 
mosquitoes and sleep will be obtained. Attempt to slumber 
in Indian still air, and restlessness, debility, and proneness to 
disease are the results. Again, during the hot weather, the 
benefit of tatties cannot be obtained in buildings where the 
windows and doors front that quarter from which the breeze 
does not come. I repeat, all Indian buildings ought to be 
exposed to the breeze which prevails during nine months in 
the year ; and the violence of that breeze should be capable 
of being moderated by glass windows, doors, and Venetians. 

If this desiderative is to be carried out, the shape of the 
barracks does not allow of much choice. The square, as 
has been proved in other instances besides that of the town 
barracks in Bombay, is highly objectionable. Barracks en 
echellon, or on the pavilion system, alone fulfil all require- 
ments of perfect ventilation, and such buildings only should 
be erected. If the military objection be advanced, that this 
arrangement extends the cantonment to large dimensions, 
I would reply, that the choice lies between so doing, or 
otherwise crowding the men, and rendering them liable to all 
that disease, or tendency to disease, which arises from con- 
taminated atmosphere. 



126 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

The experience of all ages concurs in the fact that human 
habitations, particularly in tropical and semi-tropical coun- 
tries, are healthy in comparison with their height from the 
surface of the earth (see Chapter III, on Malaria) ; and it 
is also admitted that miasm is more powerful on the human 
system during the hours of sleep or night, than at any other 
period. Hence the desirability that all barracks in India 
should be constructed with upper sleeping apartments, the 
lower being used as reading, dining, or sitting rooms. 

The system of building houses and barracks on raised 
platforms, so common in India, must be but one step less in- 
jurious than erecting them on the surface of the ground, as. 
in too many instances the " chaboutra" is formed of rubbish 
and debris. A striking instance of this was latterly pre- 
sented in the barracks newly fitted up at Lucknow for a 
Queen's regiment, where the elements of disease, in the 
shape of stable litter, were concealed beneath the surface to 
such an extent as to produce a large amount of sickness, 
thereby rendering inquiry, investigation, and removal of the 
nuisance imperative. 

For much the same reason, store-houses should never be 
permitted to exist beneath barracks, becoming, as they can 
hardly fail to do, receptacles of damp and vitiated air, which, 
of course, finds its way to the apartments above. 

There are, however, other forcible arguments in favour of 
upper-roomed barracks. The men, during the day, have 
two roofs over head instead of one, and thus better protec- 
tion from the sun. The sleeping apartment becomes 
thoroughly aired and ventilated, which cannot take place if 
it be occupied day and night. The upper story is cooler 
during the hot weather than a lower stratum of air would 
be ; any breeze which may be present is felt above when it 
may not be below; and, in consequence of the greater 
breeze, and because, like malaria, musquitoes love the 
ground, men sleeping in upper stories are infinitely more 



BARRACKS. 127 

likely to obtain refreshing rest, than if exposed to the greater 
intensity of disturbing agents which exist below. Not to 
sleep at night in India, is to prepare the system for disease, 
especially malarious disease. Had all soldiers upper sleeping 
apartments, we should, probably, have never heard of soldiers 
taking their "dram/' or even intoxicating themselves to 
procure sleep amongst heat and musquitoes ; and thus another 
source, alcoholic degeneration, and its aid in the preparation 
of the system for the ravages of disease, would be removed. 

The walls of barracks should be constructed of thin stone 
masonry. Massive walls absorb during the day, and radiate 
during the night a large amount of caloric, and hence it is 
advisable, that strength only should be considered ; the idea 
that thick and solid walls, mostly composed of mud, render 
interiors cool being both theoretically and practically erro- 
neous. 

Unburnt bricks cemented together by mud a frequent 
material of building in India should never be allowed in 
the construction of barracks and hospitals. During the mon- 
soon this mud absorbs and retains moisture, and renders the 
habitation damp long after the surrounding atmosphere is 
dry. Moreover, when any accidental crack occurs, it be- 
comes the abode of numerous specimens of the insect tribe, 
who, perhaps, die and decay in the interstices. Stones 
should be used for the walls of hospitals and barracks, and if 
stones are not available, fire-burnt bricks. In most Indian 
stations, however, sandstone, trap, or other rock formation 
may be easily obtained. 

The masonry, instead of being plastered together with 
mud, should be joined by lime mortar; and, although we are 
told by Liebig, 1 that houses are unhealthy when first in- 
habited, in consequence of the lime of the dry hydrate of the 
mortar combining with the carbonic acid supplied by the 
lungs and skin, and parting with and setting free as moisture 
1 ' Lumleian Letters,' p. 340. 



128 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the 24 per cent, of water chemically combined with it, still, in 
the heated atmosphere of this country, the above process 
would soon cease, probably before the building could be in 
other respects ready for habitation. 

All Indian barracks and hospitals which have not upper 
sleeping apartments should be supplied with a double roof, 
which, even if collectively thinner than a single covering, 
will, from the stratum of air between the two layers being a 
non-conducting medium, prove cooler for those who reside 
underneath. Although the inner roof may be simply com- 
posed of mats or canvass, the air passing horizontally between 
this and the roof of tiles above, through apertures left for the 
purposes, will, as Mr. Jeffreys 1 observes, be " an ever watch- 
ful corrector of heat." A good form of roof would be that 
composed of a succession of earthern pots as used in Syria. 

Cow-dung or beaten earth floors cannot be too strongly 
condemned. They are always out of repair, absorb moisture 
during the monsoon, and emit clouds of dust in the hot 
weather. Moreover, the periodical application of cow-dung, 
as layer after layer is smeared on, not only causes dampness 
for the time being, but adds to the collection of matter 
which is gradually decaying, and, therefore, constantly 
emitting a diluted malaria. Dr. Arnott 2 writes "The 
barrack floor should always be flagged. No material but 
stone will stand the thick, iron-heeled shoe of the soldier 
mohrusee and chunam are soon broken up, and quickly get 
out of repair ; and to keep such a floor neat and comfortable 
is quite impossible." 

Greenstone granite, glazed encaustic tiles, slates, or wood 
are the materials for flooring ; the latter, however, would be 
the most expensive. Cow-dung, earth, chunam, soorkie, 
brick, asphalt, and dammered floors, are unsuitable for bar- 
rack floors, as they retain moisture, rapidly wear .out, and 

1 ' The British Soldier in India,' 

2 < History of the 1st Bombay Fusiliers/ 



BARRACKS. 129 

the dust of their destruction has a tendency to irritate the 
eyes, and induce ophthalmia. 

Instead of the inner walls being whitewashed, they should 
be coloured a slightly amber or pink tint. The constant 
glare of whitewash is painful to the eyes in a well-lighted 
apartment, and a very small amount of colouring obviates 
this. Care should be taken that the wall is well smoothed 
with fine chunam previously to the application of the lime- 
wash, otherwise organic matter will collect in the cracks, and 
there decompose. Walls should invariably be scraped before 
the periodical application of lime-wash, which certainly is a 
cheaper, and, probably, better method of treating Indian 
interiors than the application of a " pure white, polished, non- 
absorbent cement" alone, which has been recommended. 

Inner and outer verandahs should encircle all buildings to 
which an upstairs apartment is not attached. Each verandah 
should be from ten to twelve feet broad, the inner of which 
may be used as dining, reading room, &c. Where upper 
sleeping rooms are added, one verandah may be dispensed 
with, the remaining one being built somewhat broader. It 
has been recommended to make the roof of the outer verandah 
flat, as a terrace for air and exercise ; but with upper sleep- 
ing apartments this could scarcely be requisite. 

The absence of light directly tends to lower the vital forces, 
and render torpid the secreting and excreting processes, and 
thus predisposes to the inroads of zymotic disease. Moreover 
the deprivation of sunlight has a great influence in inducing 
scurvy a disease which will be shown is endemic in extensive 
districts throughout India (see Chap. XX, on " Scurvy"). 
Hence, the windows, while capable of being closed by Vene- 
tians or " chicks," should be spacious and numerous, facing 
each other on opposite sides ; and care must be taken that 
the verandah roofs are not brought sufficiently low to darken 
the interior. 

A barrack or hospital built according to this sketch would 

9 



130 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

require little in the way of ventilation. In India,, where 
doors and windows are so commonly kept open, it is not 
difficult to secure thorough perflation, provided the residence 
is situated favorably with reference to the prevailing breeze; 
if a building be not so situated, no scheme of ventilation will 
fulfil the desired purpose. Hence, natural ventilation is 
alone to be kept in view in Indian buildings. In a barrack 
or hospital situated and constructed as described, I would 
simply recommend ventilation in the roof, and apertures com- 
municating with the space between the two roofs, and with 
the upper stratum of air in the building, as aids to natural 
ventilation. 

Want of ventilation, insufficient space, or overcrowding 
are now known not only to induce deviations of health, from 
the most trivial to the most deadly, but also, without appa- 
rently being the cause of disease, to aid that deterioration of 
the system which is always progressing from the heat and 
malaria of India, and which results in cachexia loci., splenic 
leucocythaemia, and the enlarged livers and spleens which 
follow in due course. 

Dr. Chevers observes : " While in temperate climates the 
crowding together of human beings in small, unclean, and ill- 
ventilated buildings generates phthisis, diarrhoea, typhus, and 
puerperal fever, in India the like causes have usually the 
effect of adding tenfold to the prevalence and destructive- 
ness of the ordinary diseases of the country." Thus, common 
malarious fever assumes the remittent or typhoid type ; hepa- 
titis, dysentery, and diarrhoea are developed in their worst 
form ; cholera and heat asphyxia are known by experience to 
occur ; and fatty degeneration, with its insidious changes, 
aids malaria, heat, syphilis, alcohol, cachexia loci, splenic 
leucocythsemia, and the scrofulous taint, in the induction of 
the more rapidly destructive diseases named above. 

It is also well known that a tendency to mental disease is 
induced or aggravated by the continued imbibition of air 



BARRACKS. 131 

rendered impure by overcrowding. This has been noticed by 
Dr. Jarvis in America, particularly in the state of Massa- 
chusetts ; in England by Dr. Noble, in his ' Psychological 
Medicine / and also has been brought prominently forward 
in a late ' Report of the Commissioners of Lunacy in England 
and Wales/ from which it appears that mental disease is 
forty times more prevalent among the poor, who reside in 
crowded localities, than amongst the upper classes, who have 
clearer air and more space to breathe in ! 

It is a peculiar circumstance that small detachments, such 
as companies of artillery, enjoy remarkable immunity from 
mortal disease. This is explained by the facts that they are 
generally well lodged, are seldom or never overcrowded, often 
occupying barracks that were designed for larger bodies of 
men, while full regiments of infantry are frequently, from 
necessity, placed in more disadvantageous circumstances 
with regard to air and space. Other causes, however, will 
probably exert an influence over the health of the latter ; as a 
larger body of men attach around themselves, on a more 
extensive scale than a smaller number, "those fertile causes 
of intemperance, vice, and disease, which accumulate in 
every large military station/' 

Dr. Ewart 1 remarks : " Evils do not always arise from 
overcrowding, but sometimes from want of ventilation in a 
large space;" and it must be borne in mind that narrow, 
high rooms will not prevent the deleterious effects of con- 
taminated atmosphere. Beds cannot be placed near together, 
in the most spacious and lofty apartment, without exposing 
their occupants to a vitiated atmosphere, and obliging each 
to inhale the carbonic acid just exhaled by his neighbour. 
Hence, barracks must be spacious enough to allow each man 
seventy feet of superficial space, and as much as 1200 feet of 
cubic space, as the minimum in tropical climates. 

1 Ewart, ' Sanitary, Condition of Indian Gaols.' 



132 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Dr. Walker/ in his ' Report on Epidemic Typhoid Fever 
occurring in I860, in the Agra Gaol/ remarks " We are too 
apt to apply the tape-line, and measure out a certain number 
of cubic feet of space as capable of supplying a human being 
with air to fill his lungs and keep him in health," and insists 
upon the importance of relieving the atmosphere of the 
breathing and exhalations which arise from the continued 
occupancy of any one space by bodies of men. This, as 
already remarked, forms a cogent argument in favour of 
upper-roomed barracks, and also for the occasional removal 
of the occupants of Indian prisons into tents or other 
buildings. 

A frequent and powerful source of vitiation of the atmo- 
sphere in barracks arises from decaying teeth, which a large 
proportion of the men, in tropical climates especially, will be 
found to possess. The effluvium arising from a decayed tooth 
is probably sufficiently well known, and when many such 
exist in the persons of soldiers sleeping in a common room, 
the contamination of the atmosphere caused therefrom must 
be equally obvious. This affords another reason for the 
employment of a soldiers' dentist, as recommended in Chapter 
XVIII, on Diet. 

All corner-rooms, made by partitioning verandahs or 
otherwise, are most objectionable, being necessarily small, 
hot, and unventilated, and denying thorough perflation of 
parts behind. 

The method of cooling Indian buildings is a subject of 
great importance, not only to the comfort but also to the 
health of the occupants. 

Mr. Jeffreys 2 describes a plan of ventilating and cooling 
barracks by the subterranean absorption of heat, the process 
consisting of conveying air through a multitude of wells sunk 

1 ' Government Report on Epidemic Fever in the Gaols of the North-west 
Provinces/ 1861. 

" Jeffreys, < The British Army in India,' <p. 132. 



BARRACKS. 133 

in front of the barrack, one shaft of which opens in the in- 
terior of the building. This, however, would only thoroughly 
take place during the prevalence of high winds ; and it is not 
improbable that air so passed through the ground would 
become saturated with damp and malaria, as, indeed, is 
reported to have been the case when the system was 
tried, thirty-five years since, at the Cawnpore European 
Hospital. 

Until some better means for cooling large buildings can 
be devised, recourse must be had to the old system of tatties, 
punkahs, and thermantidotes, which, notwithstanding the 
inconveniences attaching to their use, are unquestionably 
more conducive to health than allowing the uninterrupted 
play of the hot and arid wind upon the skin, or, in other 
words, allowing the surface of the body to act as a tatty. 

With tatties, constant vigilance only suffices to keep them 
from becoming dry ; and, from partial evaporation or greater 
force of wind, the temperature of a room so cooled rises 
and falls many times during the day eight or ten degrees, 
which is certainly trying to the constitution, and tends to 
induce rheumatism and bronchial complaints. 

If punkahs or thermantidotes only are used, all doors and 
windows being shut, as is necessary to exclude the hot air, 
the atmosphere of a room containing many occupants, al- 
though kept in motion, would become hot, close, and satu- 
rated with effluvia. If ventilating apertures were formed 
sufficiently large to obviate this, they would be capacious 
enough to allow the passage of sufficient heated air to negative 
the effects of the fans ; and although it is undoubtedly better 
that men should breathe hot pure air than foul cooler atmo- 
sphere, still a judicious use, both of ta,tties and punkahs, 
thermantidotes, or other blowing machines, will secure the 
advantages of both, with a minimum of the injurious effects 
arising from either. Hence it appears desirable that barracks 
and hospitals should be supplied both with ventilating fans 



134 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

and tatties in certain proportion, according to the size of the 
building and force of the wind. The tatties, without pre- 
senting surface enough to cause those sudden alternations of 
temperature spoken of, should have an area sufficient to afford 
free perflation. The fans would immediately disseminate the 
air from the tatties equally throughout the apartment ; and 
the small ventilating apertures, previously described, with the 
ill-fitting doors and windows inseparable from an Indian 
climate, while sufficient to promote the action of the tatties, 
would not be large enough to heat the apartment, which would 
be supplied with pure air through the latter. 

For the ventilation of barracks, however, during the period 
the heat renders it necessary to close doors and windows, a 
much superior method would be the construction of a large 
chimney, with an opening on the roof, which would allow of 
being directed towards the prevailing breeze. This would, in 
fact, be applying the principle of the wind-sail used on board 
ship for the ventilation of the vessel. A tatty in the lower 
opening of this chimney would effectually prevent the en- 
trance of heated air. 

In those districts as in Lower Bengal where, from the 
absence of winds, tatties will only act imperfectly, the plan 
of extracting air at one end of the building (as employed in 
certain factories in Europe) might be introduced, and the 
atmosphere suffered to pass in at the other extremity of the 
range through tatties erected for that purpose. 

Care must be taken that a sufficient number of fans, pun- 
kahs, &c., are used to keep the air in motion throughout the 
lohole space of the apartment ; otherwise, those who happen 
to be in the direction of the column of air will receive all 
the benefit their neighbours none. 

I am not aware that steam-power has been used in India 
to work cooling apparatus, but no doubt can exist that 
machinery might easily be adopted, which would move both 
punkahs and thermantidotes, or other blowing machines, and 



BARRACKS. 135 

water the tatties at the same time. Such machinery would, 
I imagine, prove less expensive than manual labour. 

Of late the ventilation and warming of large buildings 
has received considerable attention, not only in England, but 
on the continent of Europe also. Of the various systems 
proposed, that of Van Hecke would appear to be the most 
successful. "This system/' says Dr. Pettenkofer, of Munich, 
in his recently published ' Remarks on Warming and Ven- 
tilation/ "has completely upset all our ventilating tradi- 
tions, and is now employed in the Chamber of Representa- 
tives, at the Hague, in the Hospital Necker, at Paris, and at 
other places. The method appears extremely simple, and 
has been latterly brought before the Metropolitan Association 
of the Medical Officers of Health, by Mr. Phipson, C.E. 
Fresh air is propelled along a channel, by means of a pecu- 
liarly shaped fan, into an air chamber, containing a warming 
apparatus, where it is warmed and moistened, and whence it 
is distributed over the whole building. An anemometer and 
dynamometer placed before the fan indicate at any moment 
the amount of air supplied. The minimum is stated to 
be 2200 cubic feet per hour per patient, supplied without 
draught. 

If, as undoubtedly might easily be effected, a cooling chamber 
were substituted for a warming space, such an apparatus would 
be invaluable as an adjunct to hospitals, barracks, public 
buildings, or even private houses in India. 

The necessity of out-houses being placed to leeward of 
inhabited dwellings, has already been dwelt upon in the 
chapter on "Cantonments and Stations." 

All barrack latrines should be placed to leeward of the 
habitations, or at all events in such positions that the pre- 
vailing breeze cannot pass from their quarter towards the 
barracks. The seats should always be furnished with lids, 
the aperture should consist of a whole circle, instead of a 
semi-circle, and the seat should not be so high as to prevent 



136 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

a moderately tall man placing his feet on the ground when 
using the convenience. These buildings should be at least 
thirty or forty yards from the barracks j and as the great 
majority of individuals use them at morning or evening, the 
distance would not lead to exposure to the sun. They should 
be kept clean by bi-daily manual labour. (See chapter on 
" Conservancy .") 

Both bath-rooms and urinals should, I think, be built under 
one roof (with a partition wall), in order that the water from 
the former may be used daily, or as occasion may require, 
to flush and cleanse the latter. 

Urinals, although kept in a very cleanly state, will at times 
emit an offensive and unhealthy effluvia, which, if the build- 
ing be placed too near the barrack, will, in calm weather, and 
notwithstanding a leeward locality, be recognisable in the 
latter building. If the urinals are placed too far off, the men 
will hesitate to use them, and micturate on the ground. In 
order to meet these objections, the urinal should be about 
thirty feet from the barracks, with a covered communication, 
raised, if such be necessary from the condition of the surface, 
several feet from the level of the ground. The urinal should 
be a long building, with compartments and trough for the 
reception of fluid, and raised four or five feet from the earth. 
In front, steps should lead into the interior ; while behind, 
doors should open into the cavity between the under surface 
of the floor of the urinal and the ground. In this cavity 
should be placed iron receptacles for the collection of the 
urine, which should flow from the troughs by a communi- 
cating pipe. The floor of the urinal should also slope, in order 
to prevent lodgment of accidentally spilled fluid, and also 
communicate by an additional pipe with the iron chest 
below. This chest should be emptied and cleansed night 
and morning by the conservancy establishment, and be fur- 
nished with handles, to allow of its being carried away for 
that purpose. 



BARRACKS. 337 

The bath-room should also be raised from the ground, and 
be divided into compartments, with a trough for the reception 
of " ghindees," rather wider and at a higher elevation than 
the trough of the urinal. This would enable the latter to be 
flooded from the former, as requisite, through the medium of 
a pipe in the division wall. Tubs may also be placed in the 
bath-room. 

The exit of the water has, however, to be provided for ; and 
if the surface of the ground is such as to prevent drainage 
taking place by gravitation, a well should be sunk under- 
neath the bath-room, into which the water would be con- 
veyed. In most soils, at a certain depth, water is found, 
and it cannot be argued that an addition to this moisture, 
caused by the bath-room water, would make the locality more 
unhealthy. The simple fluid certainly would not, and the 
small amount of dirt from the bodies of the men, or the salts 
from the soap used, could not be sufficient to induce disease, 
all entrance of debris into the well being effectually stopped 
by a grating convex upwards over the orifice. This plan has 
been recommended by Major C. B. Young, Chief Engineer in 
Bengal, and, I believe, actually practised for the reception of 
urine ! Masses of urine, however conveyed into a well, must 
quickly develop a pestiferous fluid mass, and on sanitary 
grounds is to be strongly condemned. With water, however, 
the matter is different ; and I believe the suggestion of this 
method of disposing of bath-room water was first made by 
myself, in a recent recommendation with regard to the Mount 
Aboo Barracks. Whatever objections may be taken to the 
plan, it must certainly be a better one than allowing the 
ground to become wet, sodden, drying, and malarious from the 
water flowing on the surface. On the other hand, where 
capacities for drainage exist, the latter should be had recourse 
to, and, until a well or other method of disposal is established, 
manual labour should be employed for the removal of the 
water. 



138 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

There are many objections to the disposal of urine, ordure, 
or refuse, by conveyance into running streams, as such 
procedure pollutes the water, and frequently induces dis- 
ease, or tendency to disease. (See chapters on " Cholera," 
" Water/' and " Encampments/') 



CHAPTER XIV. 

ON HOSPITALS. 

Importance of good Hospitals Expense of bad Hospitals Hospitals of 
ancient periods Caesar's Army Paucity of Authors on Hospitals and 
their Construction Mortality at Scutari : a Warning Medical Practice 
Towns to be avoided Origin of Regimental Hospitals Pringle's Rules 
Construction of Hospitals : Site ; Pavilion System ; the Breeze Sepa- 
ration of Medical and Surgical Patients Number of Wards for an Indian 
Hospital] a Station Ward for Contagious Diseases recommended; the 
Convalescent Ward; Upper Stories; Roof Location of Hospital Ser- 
vants Hospital Out-offices ; Cook-rooms ; Latrines ; Ventilation 
Officers' Hospital a Want Nurses a Want. 

DR. MOSELEY long since wrote "It is a solecism in eco- 
nomy to have a bad hospital," and his experience at Castille 
Fort where " in three months more value in men was lost, 
from the miseries of the hospital, than would have been 
adequate to the expense of erecting a proper one for all the 
troops," is the experience of every medical man who has 
seen human beings massed and crowded in small, ill-con- 
structed, ill- adapted, or unventilated buildings, especially 
when such individuals have been emitting the emanations of 
diseased action. 

As the writings of Caesar and Xenophon make no mention 
of hospitals for the reception of the sick and wounded, it 
has been asserted that the records of ancient times are silent 
regarding such establishments. This, however, is not the 
case, as the organization of the ( ' valetudinarium" in the 
Roman camp, is described by Hyginus Gromaticus, and 
the same is referred to under the term " contubernales " by 



140 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Vegetius. We have also authentic data 1 that four medici 
were attached to each cohort, and Velleius Paterculus, in his 
account of the expedition into Germany, describes the pro- 
vision of physicians, and of other requisites for the health of 
the army, as in such profusion, that "only home and domestics 
were wanting." 

From the eminent discipline of the Roman army, from the 
physical force which enabled Csesar to write " Veni, vidi, vici," 
it is unquestionable that the so-called civil departments 
on which, as Sir Ranald Martin truly observes, ' ' not only 
the efficiency, but the very existence of armies depend " 
must have existed in excellent executive condition, as an in- 
trinsic portion of the Roman system. 

Be this, however, as it may, it is none the less a fact that 
our systematic treatises on medicine are silent on the impor- 
tant subject of hospital construction. Only scattered writings 
referring to the matter, and these from the pens of military 
surgeons, are to be found. These commence at the recent 
date of 1764, with Pringle's work ' On Diseases of the 
Armies/ wherein separate regimental infirmaries, and isola- 
tion of the sick, is advocated. This was followed by the 
( Medical and Economical Observations of Brocklesby/ pub- 
lished 1758, and the latter by the works of Sir Gilbert Blane, 
Iberti, Mr. Henderson, and Sir W. Blizard, all of which 
refer more or less to hospital construction. 

During the first fifty years of the present century, with 
the exception of a paper by Sir George Ballingall in the 
1 Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery/ nothing appears to have 
been published regarding the construction of hospitals until, 
in 1856, Mr. Robertson read before the Manchester Statis- 
tical Society a paper on the subject. Since that period the 
matter has been much discussed in the columns of the 
' Lancet/ 'The Builder/ ' British and Foreign Medico- 
Chirurgical Review/ and other periodicals ; the mortality in 

1 Orellius ct Hcnzcn, ' Inscript. Latin Select. Collectio.' 



HOSPITALS. 141 

the hospitals at Scutari, in 1854-55, having apparently revived 
the opinions and fears previously expressed regarding ill- 
adapted hospitals by Pringle, Brocklesby, Blane, and Blizard. 

A recent writer observes: "It is with the greatest difficulty 
that any important principle can be made to attract the 
attention of the public. Doctrines must be embodied in some 
material or substantial form, before they make any impression 
on the general community." So far as the construction of 
hospitals is concerned, this is most true; such impression, 
however, was made during the Crimean war, and its fruits 
were apparent in the exertions of Miss Nightingale, Lord 
Herbert, Dr. Sutherland, and some others. 

It now demands that the experience of the last decade, 
and the warning voices which have arisen, shall not be passed 
over, as were the writings of Pringle, Howard, Hales, Blane, 
and others of the last century. If unhappily such be the 
case, if large hospitals are built defiantly as regards sanitary 
requirements, if crowding again takes place, if hygiene be 
not strictly attended to in every respect, then the certain 
results to which we may look forward will be, a repetition of 
the Crimean hospital mortality, a second edition of the mortal 
sickness of the Hotel Dieu, in 1771, and the experiences of 
Howard, Pringle, Lind, Blane, and the authors of the last 
century, again displayed in the next generation. 

It has been remarked that the practice of physicians, 
whether good or bad, according to orthodox medical views, 
does not materially influence the ultimate mortality of an 
hospital. Of this I was afforded a striking proof during the 
three years I was resident surgeon at the Queen's Hospital. 
To this institution three physicians were attached, of whom 
one treated his patients with stimulants scarcely in less 
quantity than the late Dr. Todd ; a second had a decided 
preference for the Hamiltonian system of blue pill at night 
and black draught in the morning; the third treated his 
patients without any peculiar bias. On examining the records, 



142 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

I found there was very little difference between the mortality 
and cured among the patients of the three doctors, who I 
trust will pardon me this mention of their practice. 

It has now become an established fact, that a large town 
is usually less favourable to health than a small one, and the 
country is even more conducive to efficient sanitation than 
the latter. Miss Nightingale remarks ' ( If the recovery of 
the sick be the object of hospitals, they will not be built in 
towns ;" and although, for obvious reasons as the reception 
of acute medical and surgical cases hospitals can never be 
wholly located in the country, still, with military hospitals 
the conditions are different ; and henceforth sick soldiers 
may be removed from London to the purer air of Netley; 
from Bombay to the bracing atmosphere of the Western 
Ghauts; from Calcutta to the pure ocean air of the Sand- 
heads; from Madras to the Neilgherries. 

Pringle long since recognised the evil effects of massing 
together great bodies of sick in general hospitals, thereby 
generating a "hospital atmosphere;" hence his recommenda- 
tion of separate regimental infirmaries the germ of the 
regimental hospital system of the present day. " Hospitals," 
wrote Pringle, " are among the chief causes of mortality in 
armies, on account of the bad air, and other inconveniences." 
In every campaign he records the fatal effects of hospital 
fever, and lays it down as a rule that the more air that can 
be let into a hospital the less danger to sick and attendants. 
Separation of the sick in separate regimental infirmaries, 
and space sufficient in those infirmaries to make a person 
unacquainted with bad air imagine there was room to take in 
double or triple the number, were the means of escape from 
the diseases generated in hospitals, which this author so 
urgently pointed out. 

To find that construction which will accommodate the 
greatest number of patients upon a given area, with the 
greatest facilities for economy, administration, and recovery in 



HOSPITALS. 143 

the shortest possible time, is still a desiderative as regards large 
general hospitals. In fact, with the knowledge that pyaemia, 
erysipelas, surgical fever, irritative fever, &c., are still 
frequently epidemic in our best London and provincial 
hospitals, we may still demand with Pouteau, " Are hospitals 
more pernicious than useful to humanity ?" 

The subject of the construction of large general hospitals 
is too extensive to be entered upon here ; and the following 
remarks are intended as chiefly applicable to Indian regi- 
mental hospitals in the " Mofussil." 

The first point to be attended to is, undoubtedly, the 
selection of the site ; but in this there is not much choice. 
Where the locality of a cantonment has been well selected, 
and the position of the barracks chosen with due attention to 
sanitary requirements, there will be little difficulty in 
arranging for the hospital, which should be placed as near 
the former as the requirements of healthy locality, venti- 
lation, and space will admit; but the sanitary demands of 
this building above all others must not be sacrificed to beauty 
and uniformity of architectural design. 

The general plan which embodies the only sound principle 
of hospital construction is that which is known as the 
" pavilion system," that is, the separating or breaking up of 
the hospital into a number of distinct erections, capable of 
containing about fifty sick each. The simplest plan is to 
build such a hospital in a straight line, fronting the prevailing 
breeze, and leaving all angles open to permit thorough 
perflation. 

Pages might be written, and hundreds of instances 
adduced, of the danger of placing surgical and medical 
patients in the same apartment. Compound fractures, or 
other severe surgical cases, cannot be expected to progress 
favourably in the immediate neighbourhood of bowel com- 
plaints and fevers, surrounded by air contaminated by the 
exhalations from the lungs, bodies, and faeces of such patients. 



144 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Neither can medical cases be favourably influenced when 
exposed to the effluvia from large, unhealthy, or gangrenous 
sores. Dr. Chevers 1 writes : " I am firmly convinced that, 
sanitate as much as we may, we shall never be quit of the 
danger of surgical fever, until we make proper arrangements 
for the segregation of our surgical patients." I am quite of 
this opinion ; and moreover believe that, especially in cities 
and malarious countries, a medical case is quite as dangerous 
a neighbour to a surgical case as the latter is to the former. 

Separation was an arrangement insisted upon by Howard 
as a sine qua non in hospital management, and has since 
been advocated by Blane, Pringle, Sir J. McGregor, Dr. 
Simpson, and others. Dr. Simpson observes: "Hospitals 
get deteriorated by long use. Old surgical wards and old 
surgical hospitals seldom offer such good returns from 
practice as newer hospitals and newer wards/' 2 

Thus, an Indian hospital should consist of at least three 
detached wards : a surgical, a medical, and a woman's ward. 
But it is also desirable that a fourth or convalescent ward 
should be established and not only this, but a fifth, for the 
reception of all contagious diseases; as scabies, cholera, 
smallpox, &c. 

As, however, surgical cases are not so numerous in Indian 
practice (times of warfare of course excepted), the surgical 
ward may be considerably smaller than that intended for 
medical cases. 

I also think that in all large stations a building might be 
appointed for the reception of contagious cases from every 
corps belonging to the brigade, and that the sick might be 
there treated by their own medical attendants. 

The advantage of a convalescent ward will not be questioned. 
The sick unto death and those rejoicing in returning health 
should not sleep and live together. The noise of the latter 

1 Chevers, 'Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. xiii. 

3 Simpson, " On Diseases of Women." 'Mod. Times,' May, 1859. 



HOSPITALS. 145 

annoys the former, and the former in their turn depress the 
spirits, and hence retard the recovery of the convalescing. 
In fact, the Queen's Regulations of 1859 demand that in all 
hospitals, when practicable, wards should be set apart for 
convalescents. 

The reasons given for recommending upper-roomed bar- 
racks are applicable with still more force to hospitals. The 
latter should always have upper apartments, and the lower 
might be used as convalescent, day, reading, or sitting rooms. 
Next to upper stories, the plan of elevating hospitals on arches 
is most desirable. 

The roofs should be double, and the walls faced internally 
with polished cement, which, like lime-wash, does not present 
a rough surface for the lodgment of organic impurities, 
always arising from the bodies and lungs of the sick. The 
flooring should be composed of tiles, and no cow-dung or 
other material capable of decomposition should ever be placed 
underneath or upon the lower structure. 

The most convenient location of the hospital attendants, 
as the apothecary, serjeant, and other assistants, is a question 
of some little difficulty. When hospitals are constructed 
with upper rooms, it may be allowable to convert some part 
of the lower story into apartments for the subordinate officers. 
If, however, upper rooms are not provided, these essential 
attendants should be accommodated in detached buildings ; all 
corner rooms, divisions and partitions of the main structure 
tending to deny thorough atmospheric perflation, and there- 
fore, if possible, are to be avoided. This, however, as will be 
immediately referred to cannot always be effected in hos- 
pitals. 

A hospital ought to have none of its offices in duplicate. 
It should have one kitchen, so situated that the diet can be 
easily carried to any ward on the shortest possible notice. 
Of course neither kitchen, sewer, nor drain should be allowed 
to exist under any part of the building. Bath-rooms, closets, 

10 



146 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

and latrines should be placed to leeward, but communicating 
with the hospital, in which a corner room must be allowed to 
be used by the seriously sick only, as the latter. This room 
should be supplied with trapped portable pans, which, with 
others of the same description necessitated at the bed-side, 
should be immediately removed by the sweepers. The use of 
any description of pipe or drain is liable to lead to deposit 
and unhealthy exhalations, and is inadmissible in an Indian 
hospital. 

Dr. Alison remarks that when fever, erysipelas, or gangrene 
spreads in a hospital, or originates in its wards, such an event 
means that the laws of nature, as to the abundance of fresh 
air, are not being carried out. Hence the ventilation of a 
hospital demands even more care than is required for the 
perflation of barracks, as deleterious emanations are given off 
in increased abundance and with increased rapidity from the 
sick, as compared with those from the healthy. Thus the air 
of a ward is liable to become vitiated in a much smaller space 
of time, when filled with sick, than if it contained the same 
number of healthy individuals ; and, moreover, certain dis- 
eases, as fevers and surgical cases, contaminate the air more 
rapidly than others. 

The same means, however, which have been recommended 
for the ventilation of barracks, combined with every aid from 
natural ventilation, is the only plan which can be adopted in 
India with any great hopes of success. Artificial ventilation 
has been sufficiently practised in European hospitals, but has 
not yielded results so satisfactory as to counterbalance the 
enormous expense attending it, excepting on the Van Hecke 
principle, previously referred to. Newly invented " self- 
acting" punkahs are now being experimented on in Bengal, 
the value of which, however, in large buildings, as hospitals, 
has, I believe, yet to be demonstrated. 

Every Indian medical officer will admit the great existing 
want of a hospital to which sick officers might be taken ; and 



HOSPITALS. 147 

such should be built near every Indian cantonment. An 
erection on the plan of a traveller's bungalow would suffice 
for the purpose. A European nurse should be retained, 
with a sufficient number of native servants, and the whole 
placed under the control of the station staff medical officer. 

The advantages of such an establishment would be mani- 
fold. At the present time, the sick bachelor officer lies in 
his bungalow, dependent on the kindness of his comrades, 
and on the oftentimes lazy and unwilling attendance of his 
native servants ; moreover, as the young officer can seldom 
afford to keep a good cook, he is dependent on the mess for 
his sick wants, and is frequently vilely supplied. Should he 
become delirious or helpless, he must either be left to the 
care of natives, or become a tax on the kindness of his brother 
officers, who, to their credit be it said, are ever ready to feed, 
tend, wash, to sit up with in fact, to act as nurses. This, 
however, should not be ; a man cannot perform the office of 
nurse ; it is a woman's province ; and thousands and thousands 
of officer's sick beds have demanded, and are still demanding, 
that care which woman alone can give. Many an officer who 
goes home sick, would not have been obliged so to do had he 
obtained good nursing during his illness in this country, and 
thus this expense and loss of service would have been saved 
to the State. Whether, however, the establishment of officers' 
hospitals and nurses would prove economical, or the reverse, 
there can be no question that humanity calls for their pre- 
sence. I believe nurses have been organized in Calcutta, for 
service there, and in some of the larger Bengal stations. 
The sooner such is the case all over India the better ; and 
I commend this subject to any lady ambitious of following 
in the glorious paths of Miss Nightingale. 



CHAPTER XV. 

ON CONSERVANCY. 

Dangers of Neglected Conservancy : Remarks of Board of Health ; Applica- 
tion to Indian Stations System of Conservancy pursued in India Con- 
dition of Indian Cities Separateur System recommended Composition 
of Sewage Masses Effects of Inspired Sewage Air Heat a Safeguard 
against Disease Bounty of Providence Indian Conservancy Establish- 
ments Regulations concerning Sanitary Officer Disposal of Ordure 
Bazaars Public Latrines Sanitation to be Compulsory in Indian Vil- 
lages near Cantonments Deodorising Agents ; Charcoal. 

FOREGOING chapters prove that it has become an established 
principle that neglected conservancy will almost inevitably 
give rise to typhoid fever, typhus, diarrhosa, dysentery, 
cachexia, or some other deterioration of health, according to 
the nature of the climate, the diet, mode of health, and other 
concomitant circumstances. 

It has been shown in previous remarks that epidemic 
pestilences are the direct consequences of certain meteorolo- 
gical conditions combined with a local cause, such causes 
being filth, moisture, stagnant, and soiled air, and especially 
the emanation arising from decomposition. Indeed, as will 
be afterwards referred to (Chapter XVII, "On Cholera"), 
there is strong reason for supposing that the cholera germ 
itself is nothing else than the choleraic faeces in a state of 
decomposition. We also know that dysenteric dejections in 
the same condition will multiply dysentery. 

The General Board of Health, in one of their minutes, 
remark : " The habits of a people with respect to cleanliness 



CONSERVANCY. 149 

and more especially with respect to their care to protect their 
habitations from pollution by excrementitious matter, are 
clear indications of their progress in civilisation. Archdeacon 
Paley was accustomed to direct the particular attention 
of travellers in foreign countries to the mode in which people 
dealt with their excrete, stating that, from this fact, 'a greater 
insight might be gained into their habits of cleanliness, 
decency, self-respect, and industry, and in general into their 
moral and social condition, than from facts of any other 
class/' 

And again, in the minute dated 1852, it is laid down as 
established : " All offensive smells from the decomposition 
of animal and vegetable matter indicate the generation and 
presence of the causes of insalubrity and of preventible dis- 
ease, at the same time, that they prove defective local ad- 
ministration." 

That this is the case in numerous Indian stations, is pain- 
fully evident from what has been stated of Simla, Ootoca- 
mund. Mount Aboo, from what Dr. Balfour writes of Delhi 
" That the rocky range called the Hindoo Rao is made a 
temple of Cloaca, so that when heavy rains fall, polluted 
streams run down as far as the Sepoy 's lines, where the slope 
stops, and where nearly all the moisture is absorbed" and 
from very many other reports which might be quoted. 

The system of conservancy pursued in India is that known 
as the dry system ; and indeed, in our Indian cantonments, 
none other, excepting the objectionable one of cesspools, 
could be employed. Sanitarians, however, in all civilised 
countries, have been long acquainted with the pernicious 
nature of the effluvia exhaled from such receptacles, and 
hence have done their utmost to convince the public of the 
deleteriousiJess of sewage matter, when allowed to accumulate 
and undergo chemical decomposition in or near the habita- 
tions of human beings. 

Any other plan excepting the two mentioned above would 



150 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

be most difficult and costly to establish and carry out in an 
Indian cantonment ; the distance between the different resi- 
dencies rendering a system of drains too expensive, and the 
want of a supply of water in most stations forbidding the 
possibility of carrying off refuse by such means, even if no 
other objections to this mode of disposing of debris existed. 

It is chiefly due to the exertions of sanitary reformers, 
as Martin, Mackinnon, Hathaway, Chevers, Lownds, and 
others, that the dry system has obtained in India instead of 
cesspools. 

In the thickly populated districts of large Indian towns, 
as the presidency cities, drainage is employed, but of such a 
character as would, in the words of a recent author, 1 " dis- 
grace a nation just emerging from barbarism." A very 
short walk through any Indian city is quite sufficient to 
demonstrate that the germs of disease pervade every locality ; 
and the fruits of this are evident in the mortality which exists 
in such cities, and in the almost constant prevalence of 
cholera, either in a sporadic or epidemic form. 

" In point of sanitary philosophy," writes the editor of the 
' Bombay Times/ " it is hard to say which of the presidency 
cities is worst off. According to current testimony, there is 
not one of them that is not justly described as a ' stinking 
hole/ A few days' absence from Bombay, and return, is all 
that is required to make one conscious of the filthy atmos- 
phere in which we live." 

From a recent report, it appears that the system now 
generally adopted in Paris for the removal of sold and liquid 
excreta, is that of movable separateurs. The separateur is 
an iron box, open at the top, and the sides of which are per- 
forated with numerous holes, the purpose of which is to 
retain all solid matters, and to allow all liquids to percolate 
into the sewers, by which they are conveyed away. It is so 
fixed as to be easily removed and reinstated, and it is said 

1 Lownd's ' Sanitary Aspect of Bombay/ 



CONSERVANCY. 151 

that this process occupies but a few minutes, and gives rise 
to no annoyance whatever, the full boxes being placed im- 
mediately on their removal in an air-tight case for transpor- 
tation. 

This separatenr system not only prevents, in a great mea- 
sure, the pollution of the river, or wherever the drainage is 
received, but is also free from the serious drawback arising 
from the existence of an impure subterranean atmosphere of 
immense extent, which exists in the sewers of all large towns ; 
or if such impure atmosphere does exist, it is but in a 
less intensity, and may be readily destroyed by substances 
capable of averting putrefaction such as mineral acids, 
creosote, and carbonic acid, or of substances capable of 
decomposing and destroying putrescible matter, as chloride 
of lime, &c. 

Sewers sufficiently large to convey solid matter must, in 
time, become depositories of the same, and, of whatsoever 
material constructed, will allow the permeation of deleterious 
gases, which eventually find their way into houses, not only 
through every chink and crevice, but also through the structure 
of the sewer itself. 

Hence it appears undoubted that the separateur system is 
that most adapted to tropical cities, as Bombay and Calcutta, 
for instance, the solid refuse being taken away, and the 
liquid matters allowed to flow into the sea or the river, 
through a system of small drains. 

Dr. Letheby, in his report to the Commissioners of Sewers, 
1858, states that the chief constituents of sewage masses, 
are carbonate of lime, common salt, and alkaline sulphates 
and phosphates. The animal products are spirulina, vibriones, 
monads, paramecium, and other infusoria. Vegetable growths 
are oscillatoria and conferva. Gases are sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, a powerful narcotic poison; carbonic acid, also a nar- 
cotic ; ammonia and its compounds with the two former, and 
coal gas. The effects of breathing sewage effluvia has already 



152 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

been referred to (Chapter II, " On the Causes of Zymotic 
Disease") . 

If such be the case in the colder climate of England, where 
putrefaction in closed drains and cesspools does not occur 
with half the rapidity with which it takes place in the 
tropics ; where the atmosphere contains in any given bulk 
from its more rarified condition in hot climates more of 
the vivifying oxygen ; where the vital powers of human beings 
are not degenerated or prostrated by heat and malaria ; where 
the extremes of dryness and moisture do not exist at dif- 
ferent seasons how much more inimical to human health 
must the emanations from putrefactive process be in India ? 

Our great safeguard against this quicker and more ex- 
tensive diffusion of deleterious gas in India, from neglected 
conservancy consists, as has already been hinted, in the very 
heat of the climate itself, where " baggage animals drop 
down dead on the line of march, but there is no decom- 
position ; they appear to dry up in the sun like mummies." 1 

Did not this scorching take place in the hot weather during 
four or five months in the year, and to a certain extent in 
the cold and rainy season also, the neglected conservancy of 
Indian cities and stations, the daily masses of ordure de- 
posited by the natives, and, indeed, by the Europeans also, 
on the surface of the ground, would quickly induce a pesti- 
lence such as the world has never yet seen. 

Providence, however, is bountiful, and will not allow 
human beings to suffer beyond a certain extent. Providence, 
however, while providing means to establish a certain equi- 
librium between health and disease, " helps those still more 
who help themselves ;" and sanitary art points out the way to 
a preventive system, which, with the blessing of the same 
overruling Power, may ultimately free our Indian possessions 
from all the mitigable class of diseases. 

1 Lowe, " Med. Hist, of Mad. Sappers and Miners;" * Madras Quarterly 
Journal/ No. 1. 



CONSERVANCY. 153 

In most sanitary cantonments, a conservancy establish- 
ment is entertained, consisting of men and carts, and such 
are either placed under the barrack-master, if there be such 
a functionary, or otherwise under the commissariat depart- 
ment. 

By Her Majesty's recent regulations, however, as before 
stated, the senior medical officer at every station is, ex qfficio, 
the sanitary officer, and all medical officers communicate with 
him on sanitary subjects, as a part of their ordinary duty. 
The senior medical officer, however, has no power to carry 
out any sanitary improvements, and, as just pointed out, the 
conservancy establishment is q^uite independent of him. 
Under such circumstances, but little good can be expected 
to arise. The arrangement is one which cannot work satis- 
factorily. The sanitary officer should be as supreme in all 
matters connected with preventive medicine as he is now 
with respect to curative medicine. Certain regulations, 
public to all, being laid down for his guidance, ' ' abuse of 
power" would be impossible. 

At present, the ex officio sanitary officer performs his 
duties without extra allowance. If, however, such duties are 
to be rendered satisfactorily, they demand a larger amount of 
energy and knowledge of specialities than suffices for the daily 
routine of the most successful medical practice. Moreover, 
it may be taken as an axiom, that unpaid labour is generally 
not satisfactorily performed. Therefore, as there certainly is 
little honour attaching to such an appointment, and as it is 
beyond the possibility of doubt that such duties, if well per- 
formed, would prove an immense saving to the State, it is not 
too much to suppose, that the time is not far distant when 
the sanitary officer will be paid for his work. 

All ordure, or other putrefying animal or vegetable matter, 
should be taken by the conservancy establishment at least 
two miles, in the opposite direction to the prevalent wind, 
from camp limits, and there daily buried in trenches or 



154 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

pits. At some seasons it might be used to fertilise any 
cultivated land existing to leeward of the cantonments ; but, 
as a general rule,, it should be covered with earth, after as 
much as possible has been consumed. The trenches or pits 
need not be more than four or five feet deep; otherwise 
combustion will not take place. At this depth, however, all 
inflammable material, such as stable litter, &c., would 
burn, and the bulk of the mass be sufficiently reduced to 
allow of its being covered with several feet of earth. 

It is little good carrying refuse a few yards without the 
camp limits, and depositing it in heaps, as is frequently done. 
The mode prescribed by the Mosaic ritual a method re- 
sulting from an inspired prophet is the only satisfactory 
manner of disposing of excrete in a tropical country. 

Dr. Hathaway states the best way of disposing of refuse 
matter from gaols is, to have a trench cut at the further end 
of the garden, to be kept ready dug, and filled up. Decom- 
position is effected in about six months. E arth is a capital 
deodoriser, as the grave-yards of every city testify, and, if 
sufficiently covered, no danger is to be apprehended from this 
method of disposal of ordure. Prisoners should be marched 
from the gaols to trenches at a considerable distance, each 
morning or evening ; a plan pursued at the Kurrachee gaol, 
when under the superintendence of Major Arthur. 

It is, however, the bazaars, and the rear of bazaars attached 
to Indian cantonments, where sanitary regulation and con- 
servancy are most required. Any ravine, nullah, or clump 
of trees becomes, like the rocky slope of the Hindoo Rao at 
Delhi, a temple of Cloacina. This should not be permitted. 
Health and decency alike forbid. Public necessaries, both 
male and female, should be constructed, to which all should 
be made to resort, and these places should be daily cleansed 
by the conservancy establishment. 

In a former chapter, (Chapter X,) the subject of drains was 
mentioned. These, in all cantonments, should be open, and 



CONSERVANCY. 155 

only -used for efflux of rain-water. Moreover, they should be 
swept from one end of the cantonment to the other by the 
public sweepers. 

In all large towns which are near to cantonments a system 
of conservancy should be made compulsory on the inhabi- 
tants. When certain objects are to be effected, the natives of 
India show no want of alacrity in combining to effect them. 
Tanks and temples have been constructed in this way, without 
the assistance or interference of Government, in accordance 
with the conceptions of the inhabitants as to what was 
needful and proper. 

Their idea, however, with regard to sanitary matters being 
very primitive, all large towns in the vicinity of military 
stations should be compelled to adopt the machinery of Act 
xxvi, of 1850, for enabling the inhabitants of any place of 
public resort or residence to make better provision for pur- 
poses connected with public health and convenience; or 
otherwise to find their own machinery, as " punchayets," for 
effecting what might be necessary to be done. 

The latter, indeed, would appear to be the easiest mode of 
dealing with the conservancy of native cities. State what is 
to be done, and leave the natives to carry it out in their own 
manner. 

In Indian towns and villages no one thinks of combining 
with his neighbour for anything which is not immediately 
productive, and therefore, it requires authoritative orders 
before the natives will move in sanitary matters. In all 
bazaars, villages, or towns in the neighbourhood of canton- 
ments, sanitary measures should be insisted upon, otherwise, 
from a disregard of the commonest precautions, the luxuri- 
ance of vegetation will not be repressed, the tank will not be 
cleared out, the stagnant water find no outlet, and the dis- 
eases and squalor visible in the faces of the natives be con- 
veyed to their European neighbours. 

A few shovelfuls of earth would repair the village road or 



156 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the narrow embankment which goes right across the plain, 
and serves for intercommunication during the rainy season, 
and three trunks of trees with some earth would make a 
bridge over the deep ditch at the outskirt of the village ; but 
men and women tramp through the water up to their middle 
because these simple repairs are not executed, and because 
the inhabitants roar to the Hindoo Jupiter, instead of getting 
out of the mud themselves. These evils will only be cured 
by enlightenment and education ; but in the meantime they 
should not be endured in the neighbourhood of military can- 
tonments. 

In both public and private necessaries the latter including 
those attached to barracks and hospitals deodorising agents 
should be made use of; and a few words on this subject can- 
not be misplaced. 

Dr. Letheby 1 states : " The right knowledge of the action 
of disinfectants dates from a very recent period. They all 
act in one of two ways ; they either give stability to the 
organic matter, and so check its tendency to decay, or they 
operate on the putrid vapours, and destroy their offensive 
properties." This they do either by fixing the effluvium and 
forming compounds which are inert thus breaking up the 
putrid molecule and changing its nature or by expediting the 
process of decay, and hurrying it to the last stage of oxy- 
dation. 

Those substances which give stability to organic matters 
are called " anti-septic" or " anti-putrescent." Salt, sugar, 
vinegar, creosote, and the empyreumatic oils, alum, and the 
astringent matter of many vegetables, are examples of this 
class. They are, however, scarcely applicable for purposes of 
deodorising and disinfecting, although of extensive use in 
manufactures and arts. 

Of the second class of substances, those which may be 
called deodorisers, or, in other words, those which combine 

1 " Sewage and Sewer Gases j" ' Sanitary Review,' October, 1858. 



CONSERVANCY. 157 

with the putrid gases and fix them in an involatile form, 
there are numerous examples. Such are the metallic oxides 
and their salts, as sulphate and chloride of zinc, the latter form- 
ing the patent compound known as Sir William Burnett's 
Disinfecting Fluid. Acetate and nitrate of lead ; sulphate, 
muriate, and pyrolignate of iron; muriate of manganese; 
the fixed alkalies, and some salts of lime also act in the same 
way. Most of these agents unite with the sulphuretted 
hydrogen and ammonia of sewage matters, and, therefore, 
destroy the offensive smell, but do not affect the organic 
vapours. All these, however, are too costly for general and 
extensive use. 

Of the same class some substances act chemically on vola- 
tile matters, and form new compounds, which are inert. Of 
these, which may more probably be designated disinfectants, 
the most important are chlorine, chloride of lime, hypo- 
chlorous, sulphurous, nitrous, and carbolic acid, the latter 
now recommended by Major Curtis one of the municipal 
commissioners for use in Bombay. The first of these, 
viz., chlorine and its oxi-compounds operate by extracting 
hydrogen from putrid vapours, and by decomposing water 
and setting free oxygen to destroy miasm. Those substances 
containing chlorine may be described as both deodorising 
and disinfectant, as they not only act in the manner just 
stated, but also unite with sulphuretted hydrogen and 
ammoniacal compounds. Chlorine compounds, however, are 
costly, and like sulphurous and nitrous acids, when in excess, 
are powerful irritants, and even dangerous of themselves. 

The last class of disinfectants are those which expedite 
decay, and cause putrid matters to combine with oxygen. 
Of this class there are two divisions, namely, those which act 
chemically and supply oxygen of themselves to offensive 
compounds, and those which merely facilitate oxidation by 
their physical properties. 

The manganates and per-manganates of potash are the 



158 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

best examples of the first class. They contain a large 
amount of oxygen, which they give freely up to putrid 
organic matter, and so destroy it by a slow process of oxida- 
tion or burning, which is called eremacausis. Dr. Angus 
Smith's experiments on foul air with permanganate of potash 
have been already referred to (Chap. II on " Zymotic Dis- 
ease "), and the same substance has been patented under the 
name of Condy's Disinfectant. 

The second of this class of disinfectants are the agents 
which promote oxidation by a physical property, that is, by 
bringing the putrid matters into contact with atmospheric 
oxygen. These are fire, water, and porous solids. 

The value of fire as a disinfectant is well known, and has 
been recognised from remote periods. Dr. Letheby ob- 
serves : " The sacrificial altars of early nations were the 
rude methods by which this agent was employed." Fire as 
a destroyer of miasm has been already referred to (Chap. Ill 
on " Malaria"), has been recommended as a purifier of the 
atmosphere during epidemic cholera visitations (Chap XVII, 
on " Cholera"), and also as the means of disposal of debris, in 
one of the pages immediately preceding. 

The disinfectant powers of water are great indeed, as is 
evidenced by the immense masses of sewage discharged into 
sewers, and which there undergo oxidation. But it has 
also been demonstrated (Chapters XVI and XVII, on 
" Cholera and Water"), that water may become the medium 
of dissemination of disease ; and the state of the Thames 
proves that the disinfecting powers which any volume of 
water possesses may be too severely taxed, and that, under 
certain atmospheric conditions, it may become offensive, and 
insidiously destructive to health, even if not actively dele- 
terious. 

The last means of destroying offensive matter is by the 
agency of a porous solid. The best examples of such agents 
are common clay and charcoal. Both of these operate in 



CONSERVANCY. 159 

the same way, by condensing the putrid vapours within their 
pores and on their surface, so as to cause them to unite 
with oxygen, forming slow combustion, on the eremacausis 
before mentioned. To effect this, however, there must be 
free access of atmospheric air, and the substances must be 
dry, otherwise the power of deodorisation is reduced. 

The power of common earth as a deodoriser has been 
already referred to in this chapter, and this knowledge recom- 
mended to be made use of for the destruction of cholera 
fseces. (See chapter XXI, "On Prophylactic Medicine"). 

Charcoal, besides expediting the oxidation of injurious 
matters by virtue of its porosity, is capable of absorbing im- 
mense quantities of gaseous bodies. This property of charcoal 
was noticed by Saussure as far back as 1814, but Dr. Sten- 
house was the first to propose it as a purifier of foul gases 
which escape from decaying matters. Of the different kinds 
of charcoal, vegetable is the most effective, and this is doubt- 
less due to the greater porosity. Liebig states that the 
pores in a cubic inch of beech-wood charcoal, must, at the 
lowest computation, be equal to the surface of 100 square 
feet. Hence, when this substance is exposed to an atmosphere 
containing the putrid products of decomposition, it absorbs 
and oxidises them by the species of combustion referred to 
" as effectually as if they were passed through a furnace." 
Boxes of charcoal, placed in latrines and other places where 
the products of decomposition abound, will absorb any gas 
with which the charcoal comes in contact up to ninety times 
its bulk, and the only precaution necessary is to keep the 
charcoal perfectly dry ; for when wet, it materially loses its 
power of deodorisation. Ewart, 1 however, remarks : " Ex- 
posure to an Indian sun is quite sufficient to expel the 
moisture absorbed from the air. But if, after long use in the 
more humid climates of this country, or in the monsoon 
months, this simple measure fails, reignition for a few minutes 

1 Ewart, ' Sanitary Condition of Indian Gaols,' p. 155. 



160 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

in a closed space or vessel, will always suffice to restore its 
original vigour/' 

The editor of the ' Lancet/ 1 in an article on the relation of 
typhoid fever and filth, informs us, that an interesting ex- 
periment has been proceeding for two years in a large and 
crowded district in the city of London, for the purpose of de- 
termining the value of charcoal filters on the atmosphere of 
sewers. Dr. Letheby has reported that, as far as his observa- 
tions have gone, the results from the use of this deodoriser 
are most satisfactory." In examining the charcoal after two 
years' work, he finds it charged not only with sewer miasms 
in an alkaline form, but also with the products of their 
oxidation. 

To conclude, the importance of rigid conservancy in all 
India cantonments cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Of 
this subject it may be emphatically observed 

" Though low the subject, it demands our praise." 
1 ' Lancet,' January 18th, 1862. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

ON WATER. 

Composition of Water Importance of Water in Animal Economy Import- 
ance of examining all Water, particularly in Tropical Climates Rain 
Water River Water Well Water Tank Water Marsh, or Stagnant 
Water Diseases arising from Impure Water : Malarious Fever ; Goitre ; 
Paralysis Action of Water on Lead : Diarrhoea ; Dysentery ; Cholera ; 
Guinea- Worm ; Other Entozoa ; Yellow Fever ; Stone in the Bladder ; 
Dyspepsia; Gout Tests of Water Purification of Water: Strychnos 
potatorum. 

WATER, as every one knows, or at least should be so aware 
of, is composed of two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, united in 
the proportion of eight parts by weight of oxygen to one 
of hydrogen. It is also the universal solvent of nature, and, 
forming more than half the weight of all animal and vege- 
table bodies, plays a most important part in the economy 
of life. It is employed to dissolve the materials of the food, 
that they may gain entrance from the gastro-intestinal pas- 
sages into the blood ; in the latter fluid it holds the nutrient 
matters in solution, and carries them to every part of the 
body for the removal of its component parts; it conveys 
away effete and decaying material no longer required; in 
short, performs a most essential part in the actions of diges- 
tion, nutrition, circulation, secretion and excretion. Hence 
no care can be too great to secure an unsullied supply of this 
indispensable necessity. 

The deleterious effects of contaminated water having been 
so repeatedly observed, it has become important that the 

11 



162 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

physician and sanitarian should contemplate such contami- 
nations as belonging to the proximate causes of disease. 
Moreover, it is not sufficient that the purity of the water of 
a district should be examined into ; but it is absolutely neces- 
sary that the non-contamination of the water used in a bar- 
rack, hospital, or residence, should be authoritatively assured. 

In tropical climates, from the prolific abundance of animal 
and vegetable growth, it is doubly incumbent that the quality 
of the water receives thorough investigation. It frequently 
happens, especially in India, that besides containing excessive 
quantities of chloride of sodium, nitrate of potash, lime, salts, 
and other inorganic solutions, water contains remains of de- 
composing animal and vegetable substances, and also living 
organisms, which act as irritants on the intestines, enter into 
the tissues of the body, or otherwise influence the condition 
of the solids and fluids of the system. 

Next to artificially distilled water, rain water, in the product 
of nature' s distilling process, is most pure. This, however, fall- 
ing on the earth, exerts its solvent powers, and as it percolates 
through the ground acquires those impurities, and becomes 
productive of those diseases now about to be briefly noticed. 

Next to distilled or rain water, river water is perhaps the 
most free from impurity in its natural state, although, as 
Dr. Eanken observes, " The rivers of India, however pure 
on issuing from remote mountains, are more and more pol- 
luted in their course by the confluence of rivulets and smaller 
streams." These " nullahs" are formed by the rain, which, 
falling upon trees, herbs, and grass, dissolve a portion of 
their substance, and, in addition, serve as the common sewers 
of the wide regions which they traverse. They are the last 
receptacles of all that has ceased to live, from the bodies of 
men and quadrupeds and myriads of animalcule and aquatic 
plants that breed and rot on their margins. 

Thus it frequently happens, that river water, in addition 
to the ordinary twenty grains of saline matter to the gallon 



WATER. 163 

(consisting chiefly of carbonate of lime, common salt, and 
sulphate of lime), contains in a state of mechanical suspen- 
sion a large quantity of other decomposing mineral and 
organic matter. And this is, of course, especially the case 
in those streams which receive the sewage and refuse of large 
cities. 

Hence, notwithstanding pure river water is well fitted for 
drinking purposes, that in the neighbourhood of, or below 
large cities, is quite the reverse ; although, from the absence 
of large quantities of earthy salts such water is well adapted 
for domestic use, as washing, soap not being precipitated by 
it to any great extent. It may also be used with safety for 
cooking purposes, the process of boiling tending to destroy 
all animal impurities, and to decompose and precipitate the 
inorganic solutions. 

Well water. As well or spring water passes through a con- 
siderable mass of soil before it collects in crevices and chasms 
below the surface of the earth ; it is apparent that it must 
become the solvent of a large amount of mineral material. 
In percolating through the soil it dissolves all the soluble 
mineral matter within its reach, and hence the fact that 
spring water is the " hardest" of the waters in common use. 

In ordinary cases it contains about thirty grains of calca- 
reous or other salts in each gallon, as well as carbonic acid gas. 
If, owing to any peculiarity of the soil there is a large quan- 
tity of saline or mineral matter present, the water becomes 
a mineral water, and is unfit for common use. 

The earthy salts in spring water decompose and precipitate 
soap, and thus the fluid is unfitted for washing purposes. 
Owing also to the larger amount of mineral matter present, 
its solvent power is less than that of " softer" water as 
rain or river water which contains a smaller per-centage of 
inorganic material. Hence it is not so well adapted for cook- 
ing purposes, although, during the boiling process, it becomes 
" softer," from escape of carbonic acid gas and deposition of 



164 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

lime on the utensils,, which/ indeed, forms the "fur 5 ' house- 
wives complain of on the inner surfaces of their tea-kettles. 

Well water, however, being free from obvious causes of 
impurity is popularly considered pure, and is universally 
preferred for drinking purposes. As a general rule, unless 
the amount of earthy salts be excessive, spring water may be 
drank with safety. There are, however, certain complaints 
which it cannot fail to aggravate, as some forms of dyspepsia, 
gout, all calculous affections, and most diseases of the kid- 
neys and bladder. 

In addition to inorganic impurities, well water is fre- 
quently contaminated by inorganic matter, and then be- 
comes exceedingly deleterious to health. If the soil through 
which the feeding water percolates is highly charged with 
organic constituents, the fluid is liable to .be filled with 
oxygen largely impregnated with such compounds. More- 
over, well water is frequently contaminated in a more direct 
manner by decomposing organic matter. First by the direct 
deposition of dead animal and vegetable substances, as insects 
and leaves, into it ; and secondly, by the percolation of sewage 
and other decomposing materials through chinks in masonry, 
or fissures in the side of the shaft. As proof of this, the 
fact of wells in the neighbourhood of church-yards containing 
nitrates and other results of the decomposition of animal 
remains may be referred to. In like manner, neglect of 
conservancy will lead to contamination of water in wells. 

Tank water becomes rapidly contaminated by decomposing 
organic matter, especially when, as is too often the case in 
India, filth and vegetable growth is allowed to accumulate on 
the margins, or in the hollow of the receptacle. The solution 
of such organic matter is greatly facilitated by the com- 
paratively small proportion of earthy and alkaline salts origi- 
nally present in such water. 

In marsh or stagnant water the impurities are chiefly dis- 
solved organic matter, with the different forms of algae and 



WATER. 1()5 

infusoria. It is in such fluid that the germs of guinea- worm , 
hydatids, tape-worm, and other entozoa are most probably 
generated, and it is from such water that carburetted and 
sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid gases are evolved. 
There is also good reason for stating that stagnant water 
absorbs malaria. 

The chief diseases which are known to arise from the use of 
impure water are malarious fevers, goitre, paralysis, diar- 
rhoea, dysentery, cholera, guinea- worm, other entozoa, yellow 
fever, stone in the bladder, dyspepsia, gout. 

These diseases are of a widely different character, and 
each springs from agents of a peculiar nature, some organic, 
others inorganic, but all conveyed into the system by the 
medium of water ; and, according to their composition, these 
agents are either mechanically suspended or chemically dis- 
solved in the fluid. 

That malarious fevers are produced, amongst other causes, 
by the use of contaminated water, there is abundant proof. 
M. Bondin records that, in 1834, eight hundred soldiers 
arrived in Marseilles, from Bona, in three [transports. On 
board one ship ninety-eight men were taken into hospital, 
thrteen of whom died from remittent, with typhoid symptoms. 
On inquiry being made, it was ascertained that on board 
the affected ship, the water supplied for the soldiers, owing 
to haste on embarkation, had been taken from a marshy 
place near Bona, whilst the crew, who were supplied with 
wholesome water, did not furnish one case of fever. 

Mr. Cornish, 1 in his medical history of the Shervaroy 
Hills, states that the hill tribes have a great dislike to the 
low country. The water of the plains, they believe, causes 
fever. 

Mr. Bettington, 2 of the Bombay Civil Service, has latterly 

1 'Madras Quarterly Med. Journal/ October, 1861. 

2 Bettington, " On the Water of Nullahs in Jungle Districts ;" Bombay 
Government Kecords,' No. 20. 



1G6 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

brought forward good reasons for concluding that the use of 
stagnant water containing decomposing vegetable matter, as 
is the case with many of the wells and tanks of India, is an 
exciting cause of malarious fever. 

Dr. Mackinnon also states that fever is occasioned by 
drinking stagnant water. 

Within my own knowledge, an officer out shooting large 
game was cautioned by his "shikarree" against drinking 
water from a stagnant pond. The officer, disregarding this 
prohibition, drank copiously, and, as his servant prophesied, 
within three months suffered a severe attack of jungle fever, 
for which he was ultimately obliged to take a furlough to 
Europe. 

Instances of a similar nature are frequently observed by 
Indian officers, many of which I have heard related. 

Dr. Pidduck, 1 bearing in mind the theory of Linnseus 
referred to in the chapter on " Malaria," that intermittent 
arises from drinking water impregnated with argillaceous 
soil, dwells upon the practical application of the idea, and 
states that he has succeeded in curing intermittents and 
remittents, simply by interdicting the use of any but distilled 
water. 

Marsh water is also stated to induce cachexia in sheep ; and 
in Albania the shepherds are particular not to allow their 
charges to drink otherwise than from well-known healthy 
sources. 2 

That impure water induces the formation of wens and 
goitre is unquestionable. The hill tracts of Derbyshire, the 
Swiss mountains, some of the Indian ranges, the limestone 
hills in south Staffordshire, in all of which the water is more 
or less impregnated with gypsum and magnesian salts, may 
be quoted as localities where the bulky condition of the 

1 ' Lancet/ May, 1861. 

2 Dr, Marsden, " On Ague on Board Ship." < Edin. Med. Journ.,' February, 
1862. 



WATER. 167 

thyroid gland, or goitre, or even cretinism is frequently ob- 
served. 

The inmates of the Durham jail furnished a forcible ex- 
ample of the foregoing. In 1843 a well was sunk for the 
use of the prisoners, and during the time it was used ten 
years glandular enlargement about the neck was common 
among the patients. In 1853 the inmates were supplied 
with water from the Weir, and the disease quickly declined. 

Dr. McLelland's work on the ( Medical Topography of 
Bengal and the North-west Provinces/ proves that there is 
an intimate relation between the occurrence of limestone in 
the sources from which the inhabitants of both the plains and 
hill tracts of India derive their drinking water and the pre- 
valence of goitre and cretinism. On those calcareous soils, 
called by the natives "bhat" lands, yielding twenty-five per 
cent, of carbonate of lime, dogs and cats are also affected 
with goitre. 

It is very probable that, besides gypsum and magnesia, 
a superabundance of any solid matter in drinking water may 
lead to the development of goitre, and that thus the disease, 
although most frequently observed in connection with the 
above-named formations, is not always the result of a par- 
ticular salt. As a rule, however, this disease is most usually 
found on a calcareous soil ; and it appears that this connection 
has been latterly further demonstrated by Kolliker, who found 
that in cretins the base of the skull becomes, at an early period, 
unusually ossified and thickened, thus leading to disease of 
the brain, by narrowing the foramina of the nutritious 
arteries. Kolliker supposes the excess of lime, introduced 
into the system through the medium of the water, leads to 
this ossification. 

Paralysis. Of the power of water in conveying the poi- 
sonous salts of lead into the human system, and thus giving 
rise to lead-colic, or paralysis, there are, unfortunately, too 
many examples. The danger of such pipes was indeed known 



168 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

to Galen and Vitruvius, and, in later days. Dr. Christison 
relates the history of an epidemic, which occurred some forty 
years since in the town of Tunbridge, from the use of leaden 
pipes. But it will be needless to multiply either individual 
or collective examples of disease arising from drinking water 
impregnated with lead. During the three years I was resi- 
dent surgeon at the Queen's Hospital, I suppose two or three 
such cases were always under treatment, and every medical 
man who has seen much public or private practice must have 
met with instances of a similar nature. To such, the pecu- 
liar drop of the wrists, the blue line round the teeth, and the 
expression of the patient, are quite sufficient to declare the 
character of the disease. 

According to Dr. Hassall, lead in contact with water is 
oxidized in three ways : through the oxygen of the air ; 
through the decomposition of certain substances present in 
the water, as the nitrates ; and by the decomposition of 
water. Thus hydrated oxide of lead is formed, a substance 
in itself not soluble in water, and, therefore, innocuous ; but 
meeting with carbonic acid, more or less present in all 
waters, it forms a soluble and highly poisonous compound. 

Diarrhoea. Organic or inorganic matter suspended or dis- 
solved in water, will alike induce diarrhoea. Most people 
who have drank the water of Aden, Nusseerabad, Beawr, 
Ajmere, Mullye, and similar soils, will admit its power in 
inducing the affection. Mr. Cox, l in his paper entitled 
' Epidemics and their Every-day Causes/ gives some striking 
instances of diarrhoea from organically impure water. 

Dysentery. The same impure water which will induce 
diarrhoea is also capable of exciting even dysentery. Nume- 
rous instances of dysentery arising from contaminated water 
might be quoted. The disease prevailed in the West India 
islands 2 so long as the troops were supplied with water ren- 

1 ' Sanitary Review/ October, 1858. 

2 Op. cit. 



WATER. 169 

dered impure in its course, and ceased altogether so soon as 
the same water was kept free from impurities by being con- 
veyed through a well- constructed aqueduct ; and it is noto- 
rious that the disease is most rife during a period of drought, 
when, from scarcity of water, the inhabitants of any district 
are compelled to use that from ponds and other stagnant 
collections. 

That the germs of cholera may be conveyed through the 
medium of water there exists, unfortunately, little doubt. 
Dr. Snow's conclusive argument is well known. Sixteen 
sub-districts of the metropolis, from Southwark to Camber- 
well, received their water supply from two sources : from 
the Southwark and Vauxhall Company, which collected its 
supply at Battersea Bridge, and which fluid contained an im- 
mense quantity of the sewage of London ; and from the 
Lambeth Company which obtained its supply at Thames 
Ditton, a pure source. Thus with regard to drinking water, 
the thousands inhabiting the said districts were divided, 
during the cholera epidemic, into two classes, one being sup- 
plied with water containing the sewage of London, the other 
having water free from such impurity. Cholera was fourteen 
times as fatal among the persons having impure water as 
among other groups otherwise subject to the same influences. 
It is not, of course, asserted that impure water is the cause 
of cholera, but that the germs of the disease the decompos- 
ing cholera faecal evacuations may be conveyed into the 
system by the medium of water, and thus directly excite 
choleraic symptoms. Moreover, as Dr. Sutherland states 
" The use of water containing any organic matter in a state 
of decomposition is one predisposing cause of cholera, and 
also very much aggravates the result." It is stated in the 
' Allahabad Gazette 1 that at Mean Meer, where last year 500 
soldiers fell victims to cholera, the well water has been found 
to contain sulphuretted hydrogen. (For further remarks on 
cholera, see Chap. XVII.) 



170 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Guinea-worm. Mr. Carter/ of Bombay, discovered that 
minute worms, having great resemblance to the young of the 
Guinea worm, existed in abundance in some of the ponds 
near Bombay, and the same had also been previously noticed 
at other places by different observers, as Messrs. Duncan and 
Forbes. Although some investigators, as Mr. Greenhow, 3 of 
the Bengal service, have not been able to find these worms 
in other localities where dracunculus prevailed, still the 
weight of evidence appears in favour of the supposition that 
the worms in question are the young of the guinea-worm, 
perhaps slightly altered by different circumstances of exist- 
ence. There is, moreover, good reason for the belief that the 
guinea- worm may effect an entrance from water into the 
human system in two ways, viz., by the mouth, and via the 
sudoriferous channels. This question, however, is foreign to 
the purport of the present work, but is fully treated of in my 
( Manual of the Diseases of India. It may, however, be 
remarked that as by " embolism," Professors Virchow and 
Cohn account for the conveyance of substances detached not 
only from the valves of the heart to the cerebral arteries, but 
also from a far off nidus amongst diseased tissues, whence 
such substances travel along the veins to the heart, so in like 
manner may the germ of the guinea-worm be conveyed from 
its entrance by the lactiferous ducts of the digestive organs, 
to all parts of the body. And that the germ may escape the 
action of the latter is evident from the following : 

Other Entozoa. Elliotson relates the case of a whole 
family becoming affected with ascarides from using the water 
of a well in which minute worms were subsequently found, 
and losing the disease when they discontinued drinking the 
water. The same author relates the case of a child who dis- 
charged numbers of maggots after eating " high pheasant." 
The fact of the gadfly arriving at maturity in the stomach 

1 Carter, "Notes on Dracunculus;" 'Trans. Bomb. Med. Phy. Soc./ 1853. 

2 Greenhow, ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ vol. vi. 



WATER. 171 

of horses is also a well- authenticated fact. Infusorial, ciliated 
organisms, existing in water, have latterly been asserted to be 
the embryos of the Bothriocephalus lata, or broad tape- worm. 1 

The French army on entering Syria suffered from drinking 
water containing the Sanguisaga ^Egyptica, a very thin and 
small leech, which existed in the muddy pools. Caterpillars, 
larvae of flies, and other living bodies are occasionally intro- 
duced through the medium of water. 

Yellow Fever. On the subject of yellow fever in relation 
to water supply, but little can be said of a positive nature. 
It is, however, certain that wherever yellow fever has appeared 
there has the water been generally in a filthy and faulty state ; 
and much bearing on the subject, and leading to the proof of 
the above assertion, may be found in ( Papers respecting the 
Origin of the Yellow Fever in Bermuda, in 1853.' It is 
there stated that the tank water which supplied the barracks 
in Fort Cunningham became so offensive that it could not be 
used, and the great mortality which took place in that 
quarter of the barracks was attributed to the use of this 
water and the effluvia generated. 

In the town of Bermuda itself there were no proper 
arrangements for the supply of water at all. In the majority 
of cases, the water is stored in tanks, and impregnated with 
sulphuretted hydrogen. When to these facts are added the 
statements that in Bermuda drainage and sewage are neg- 
lected altogether ; that the contents of privies and cesspools 
are allowed to accumulate in natural pits and hollows, and 
on the ground surface, and that the tanks are filled with 
water percolating through this impure soil, there is not 
wanted much further evidence to prove that the effects of the 
vile water, which must at the time of the pest have been 
hourly consumed, had no small share in intensifying, if not 
producing the disease. 

1 < St. Petersburg!! Medical Gazette,' Jan., 1861. 



172 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Stone in the bladder. Wherever the water is overcharged 
with saline matter, particularly lime salts, calculus vesicse is 
a prevalent disease ; as examples, may be instanced some 
parts of Derbyshire, portions of South Staffordshire, the 
Province of Kutch, in Western India, Hyderabad in Scinde, 
and many other places. 

That dsypepsia and gout will be aggravated by the use of 
impure water, particularly that containing certain inorganic 
material, is sufficiently evident to all who understand the 
nature of the diseases named. 

Pure water should remain limpid on the addition of lime- 
water, chloride of barium, nitric acid, oxalate of ammonia, or 
hydro-sulphuric acid, thus showing the absence of carbonic 
acid, sulphates, chlorides, and lime salts. 

If peas or beans be boiled in water containing carbonate of 
lime, the carbonic acid is expelled, and the lime precipitated, 
incrusting the cooking vegetables, which, therefore, remain 
hard. Resinous substance also will not mix with water con- 
taining lime, and soap is decomposed in the same fluid, the 
alkali of the soap uniting with the acid of the earthy salt, 
while the oil and earths combine to form insoluble mixtures, 
which swim on the surface. Hence these latter may be 
called " ready methods" of judging of the " hardness" or 
" softness" of water. 

The soap test may be otherwise applied in a sufficiently easy 
manner. If a drop or two of solution of soap, in ether, be 
added to a test-tube half filled with water, a greater or less 
opacity will be produced, according as the fluid contains more 
or less lime. 

The ammonia test may also be very readily applied. Drop 
into the specimen one drop of solution of ammonia, and then 
two drops of a solution of oxalate of ammonia. The lime 
present will be thrown down in the form of a white oxalate. 
The formations from these two tests should be compared with 
the results from the addition of the same to distilled water, 



WATER. 173 

by which an approximation may be made by the eye as to 
the quantity of earthy salts contained in the fluid. 

Purification of water. Boiling water destroys confervse, 
infusoria, the germs of guinea- worm, and other entozoa, and 
also will probably render organic matters, as the cholera germ, 
innocuous. The same process precipitates lime, and never 
ought to be neglected where contaminated water is obliged 
to be used. 

If the water be afterwards passed through a common sand 
and charcoal filter, which every bhistee knows how to con- 
struct, it will be cleansed from all impurities, and be pleasant 
to the taste. Such a plan should be adopted in most bar- 
racks, hospitals, and residences in a tropical country. It 
would be attended with little expense, care, cleanliness, and a 
few " gharras" (earthen pots), filled with sand and charcoal, 
being all that is required. 

The fruit of the Strychnos potatorum is made use of by 
the natives in some parts of India, to cleanse their water. 
Its Hindoo name is " Nirmulee," and it grows chiefly in the 
forests of Southern India. Unlike other varieties of strych- 
nos, it has no poisonous properties, and the cut fruit being 
rubbed on the side of a vessel is sufficient to clear the most 
muddy water in a few minutes. Dr. O'Shaughnessy 1 thought 
this property due to its astringency, but Dr. Pereira 2 has 
latterly shown that it depends on the presence of albumen 
and casein. 

The common bazaar alum called "phitkare," is also very 
useful as a purifier of dirtied water. 

If water from muddy ponds or tanks must be used, the 
following is a good and ready method of obtaining it partially 
purified : Place a barrel in the water, the sides and bottom of 
which have been previously perforated ; in this barrel let a 
sheet containing fine sand and charcoal be suspended. The 



1 < Bengal Dispens./ p. 443. 

2 Phar. Journal/ 1850, p. 478. 



174 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

water passes through the barrel and sheet, and may be 
obtained tolerably clear from the surface of the filtering 
mixture. 

A small filtering stone, to which a flexible tube is attached, 
is a very convenient article for private use. It is manu- 
factured as a pocket case, and the stone being placed in 
water, the liquid may be sucked through the tube, quite free 
from all organic impurities. On a campaign this is an ex- 
ceedingly useful article to carry about the person. 

It is stated that the country onion is a safeguard against 
thirst. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

ON CHOLERA. 

Sporadic and Malignant Cholera : Origin and Dissemination ; Meteorological 
Causes ; Local Causes Cholera Infests the Ground Cholera Faeces will 
induce Cholera Water a Medium of Cholera Cholera in the Black Sea 
Fleet Want of Sanitation causes Cholera Dangers of Sewers beneath 
Dwellings : Mr. Simon's Opinion Prevention of Cholera Sanitation 
insisted on Movements of Troops insisted on Cholera in India follows 
the great lines of Human Intercourse : Deduction Good Results and 
Dangers from Railroads Hindoo Pilgrimages a Cause of Cholera 
Measures to be adopted when Troops cannot be marched away from 
Cholera Officers not so liable to Cholera as the Men. 

SPORADIC cholera appears to have occurred in all ages. 
Hippocrates 1 enters into details respecting its history and 
symptoms. Aretceus 2 gives an admirable account of the dis- 
ease. Celsus 3 also delineates its most striking features. 

The malignant or Asiatic form appears to have first shown 
itself in India, at Madras, in 1774. 4 In 1780 it destroyed 
20,000 persons assembled at the Hurdwan festival. In 1810 
it occurred at Jessore, 5 and ultimately spread over the whole 
country. Since that period it has always prevailed with 
more or less intensity, and under the most varied conditions 
of climate, at the level of the sea, and in the Himalayan 
range, desolating small villages and populous towns, sparing 
neither age nor sex. 

1 ' De Morbus Popularibus,' lib. v. 
3 ' Aretoeus/ lib. ii, chap. v. 

3 * Celsus/ lib. iv. 

4 Curtis, ' Diseases of India.' 

5 Roupell, ' On Cholera.' 



176 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

And yet, notwithstanding the varied circumstances under 
which the disease has existed, the laws under which it 
originates and pursues its course, and hence its preventive 
treatment, are much more satisfactorily demonstrated than 
the method of cure when the disease is present. 

Isolated outbreaks of cholera cannot leave any doubt that 
the disease may arise without communication from any in- 
fected source. Such occurrences are only explicable by the 
fact, that the poison of cholera is capable of production 
under favourable circumstances. This, of course, does not 
negative the transference of the poison, which may thus, 
forming independently, be the means, on being removed to a 
fresh locality possessed of the requisite local conditions, of 
again exciting a similar form of decomposition ; and the 
meteorological conditions which have been so frequently 
found to precede or accompany epidemic visitation of cholera 
are undoubtedly favorable to the particular form of decom- 
position which gives vigour to cholera poison. 

Hence the circumstances under which epidemic cholera 
has occurred are referable to two heads, meteorological and 
localizing causes. Allowing for differences in climate, certain 
meteorological phenomena have most generally accompanied 
outbreaks of cholera; the chief of which conditions have 
been found to be a somewhat variable, but elevated tem- 
perature, a still and peculiarly oppressive state of the atmos- 
phere, more oppressive than simple elevation of the ther- 
mometer can account for, conjoined with a certain degree 
of moisture, and frequent absence of ozone. 

Seasons, however, presenting all the characteristics of 
what may be termed the choleraic pestilential constitution of 
the atmosphere have existed very frequently where there has 
been no accompanying or following pestilence. 

Another co- efficient at least is therefore required, in order 
to give character and energy to the seasonal conditions which 
favour the development of cholera, and this is to be found in 



CHOLERA. I/ / 

local causes. That such cause is strictly local, is evidenced 
by the fact that an analysis of the history of cholera epidemic 
shows them to be most frequently made up of a succession of 
partial local outbreaks, and this not only as regards different 
regions, but also in the same place. Thus, although whole 
districts partake of the same meteorological influences, some 
usually escape an epidemic visitation, at the very period 
when others in the immediate vicinity are suffering severely 
from the disease. Even in the same town or camp, when the 
inhabitants of some streets or lines of tents are being deci- 
mated, those dwelling in others not far distant altogether 
escape ; or, as frequently happens, the inmates of certain 
houses suffer severely, while their neighbours are entirely 
spared. 

Nay, more, in my own experience, it has occurred that 
choleraic diarrhoea has been confined to those sleeping on 
one side of a troop-ship, where temporary side houses had 
been rigged outside the vessel for the accommodation of the 
soldiers; the same quarter being exposed during a voyage 
of ten or twelve days to the prevailing monsoon breeze. In 
this case the diarrhoea ceased on the removal of the side 
houses of the ship. Had we been under an epidemic con- 
dition of atmosphere, or had foul weather obliged us to close 
most of the ports, there is little doubt that cholera would 
have resulted. 

In former years we have the authority of Trotter to the 
effect that the stench from the head entering the sick bays of 
our ships was an evident cause of disease, especially diarrhoea 
and typhus. 

Thus, as Dr. Farr observes, the intensity of cholera de- 
pends " both on local and meteorological circumstances." 

Among the local causes which have been demonstrated as 
developing an outbreak of cholera we have lowness of level, 
bad arrangement of streets, houses or tents ; defective venti- 
lation in the same ; want of cleanliness, over- crowd ing, damp- 



178 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

ness, impure water, effluvia from the decomposition of the 
various organic debris allowed to collect in poor and neglected 
localities ; the emanations from human or animal excrement, 
whether accumulated in cesspools, or allowed to rot in foul 
drains ; the malaria from fetid ditches ; the miasm from 
city grave-yards ; the stench from knacker' s yards, and from 
some offensive mercantile establishments, as catgut spinning 
and other injurious trades. 

The general rule that the mortality of cholera is inversely 
as the elevation of the people assailed above the sea level, is 
demonstrated by Sir Ranald Martin, and at a still later 
period by Pettenkofer, who states that " cholera prevails 
more intensely in the low districts, because, all the organic im- 
purities of the higher grounds gravitating thither, these un- 
dergo chemical action/' The latter author 1 also entertains 
the belief that cholera never prevails epidemically on rock, 
and accounts for the supposed fact on the principle that ex- 
crement cannot penetrate into the soil, and that rock neither 
absorbs nor gives off moisture. 

Those authorities who have not ventured to ascribe the 
cause of cholera to any particular local error, do not hesitate 
to class it as one of those diseases which affect the ground. 
Thus, Mr. Simon 2 states "cholera is one of those diseases 
which infect the ground." Budd 3 states : " Like malignant 
cholera, dysentery, yellow fever, and some others that might 
be named, this (yellow fever), is one of the group of diseases 
that infect the ground " and Dr. Greenhow 4 says, not only 
did cholera manifest a liking for particular localities, but in 
those localities it affected particular houses ; and Indian re- 
ports afford ample evidence that cholera has been partial to 
localities where the atmosphere was vitiated by the products of 

1 ' Investigations on the Propagation of Cholera.' Munich, 1855. 

2 Disregard of the Laws of Health /' ' The Times/ June 17, 1861. 

3 < Lancet/ July 23rd, 1859. 

4 " Report on Cholera in Tynemouth /' ' Sanitary Review/ June, 1855. 






CHOLERA. 179 

faecal decomposition deposited on the ground ; as at Jessore in 
1817, at Meerut in 1819, at Vipery, and many other places. 
That the excretae of cholera will produce cholera, receives 
very convincing proof from the experiments and researches 
of sundry investigators. Becker says, in 1853, four young 
physicians tasted the cholera evacuations, and each suffered 
from choleraic manifestations. M. Pinel inoculated himself, 
and suffered, I believe, from diarrhoea. M. Foy tasted the 
faeces, and had the same disease. An assistant in the Clinical 
Hospital of Berlin tasted the faeces, and had cholera. Dr. 
Thiersch, of Munich, shows that cholera excrement, although 
not at first capable of producing cholera, did bring on symp- 
toms of the disease, after being kept six or eight days, and 
then administered to animals. Dr. Lindsay's experiments 
are also affirmative. 

On the other hand, instances have occurred where the dis- 
ease was not induced by swallowing cholera faeces, and Dr. 
Snow refers to the case of a dispenser at Newcastle, who 
drank by mistake some rice-water evacuation, but was not 
attacked. 

It seems probable that, as Dr. Thiersch states, a certain 
amount of decomposition of cholera faecal matter must occur 
before the material will induce the disease. Much, however, 
would certainly depend on the state of health, both morally 
and physically, or the presence or otherwise of the mens 
sana in corpore sano of the individual experimenting. 

That impure water has a powerful influence over the inten- 
sity of cholera outbreaks is unquestionable, and has already 
been noticed in a former chapter (Chapter XVI, " Water") . 
Dr. Sutherland, in ' A Report to the Board of Health/ states : 
( ' A number of the most severe and fatal outbreaks were 
referable to no other cause except the state of the water 
supply/' and this especially where the water was obtained 
from wells into which* the contents of sewers, privies, or the 
drainage of grave-yards had escaped. Dr. Acland 1 also re- 
1 ' Memoir of Cholera in Oxford.' 



180 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

cords two valuable examples one in the parish of St. Clement, 
the other in the county gaol. The researches of Dr. Snow 
on this point have been already given, and appear almost 
conclusive that water will convey one at least of the materies 
morbi of cholera. 

From the report on cholera in the Black Sea fleet, it ap- 
pears that on the water, as everywhere else, the most crowded, 
worst ventilated, and, in all respects, least sanitary places 
generally suffer most. Dr. Rees, surgeon of the " Britannia/' 
attributes the outbreak on board that vessel in a great 
measure to defective ventilation, and adds that, when a re- 
turn to port was Decided upon, the continued violence of the 
scourge, the crowded state of the middle-deck, the discharge 
from the bowels and stomachs of the sick, and the continued 
want of adequate ventilation, had continued to render the 
ship a laboratory of pest-poison. In the "Albion," 419 
cases of diarrhoea and cholera occurred, among a crew of 
800, of which 69 proved fatal. The surgeon accounts for 
this mortality because the evacuations from those previously 
affected had accumulated and acquired a much more deadly 
influence from imperfect ventilation, in consequence of the 
state of the weather. Supposing that the earlier cases had 
received the disease on shore, and that their discharges ac- 
cumulated between decks in the manner named by Mr. Rees, 
and the surgeon of the "Albion," there is no longer any 
difficulty in understanding how, in the hot, close, confined, 
still atmosphere of a ship's lower-deck, miasin would arise 
and become concentrated, just as was formerly the case in 
gaols and prisons, and so induce the subsequent disastrous 
outbreak. 

Having thus found that there are numerous localising 
causes of cholera, the question presents are any or all of 
these necessary to the existence of the disease ? All of them 
certainly are not so necessary, and frequently it may appear 
that cholera has arisen without any such concomitants. I 
believe, however, that the scientific physician who has studied 



CHOLERA. 



181 



the laws and habitats of cholera, will but rarely be at fault, 
in fixing upon the local cause, although such local cause may 
be hidden from, and, in fact, not admitted by the public ; may 
require meteorological conditions for its development ; or may 
have been presented miles from the place where it developes 
itself in cholera. 

Thus we find individuals dying of cholera, who, living 
without sanitary defects in their immediate locality, imbibe 
the disease in their walks or drives abroad. They pass 
through a locality ninety-nine times, and the hundredth their 
system happens to be in a particular condition predisposing 
them to disease ; they take cholera or other malady, and die 
victims to a want of general sanitation. 

The result of all observation has been, that an atmosphere 
impregnated with the products of fermenting excretse, is at 
once one of the most obvious, and most constant concomi- 
tants of cholera. Such exhalations have often been found 
in houses where the existence of any palpable cause of in- 
salubrity would scarcely be suspected, and thus the fact of 
the pestilence sometimes passing over the houses of the poor, 
and appearing in the mansions of the rich, may be explained. 
The crevice in the drain, the crack in the sewer, passing 
beneath the house, insensibly contaminates and poisons the 
air. 

Mr. Simon in his ' Fifth Annual Report to the Commis- 
sioners of Sewers/ writes : " Through the unpolluted atmo- 
sphere of cleanly districts it migrates slowly without a blow ; 
that which it can kindle into poison lies not there. To the 
foul damp breath of low-lying cities, it comes like a spark 
to powder. Here is contained that which it can swiftly 
make destructive, soaked into the soil stagnant in water, 
griming the pavement, tainting the air, the slow rottenness 
of unremoved excrement, to which the first contact of this 
foreign ferment brings the occasion of changing into new 
and more deadly combinations." 



182 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

It is indeed true that the chemist has been unable to 
detect the peculiar poison of cholera, or the peculiar decom- 
position which is its exciting cause ; but he is equally at 
fault, as has already been shown (Chap. Ill, on " Malaria "), 
regarding the detection of the paludal poison, or in discover- 
ing the nature of the peculiar conditions of which typhoid 
poison is the product. 

As, however, malarious disease, or degeneration will cer- 
tainly be induced in the system of the human being sub- 
jected to such influence, so it is equally certain that cholera 
and kindred affections will arise under certain other con- 
ditions of life. It has long been known that, under such con- 
ditions the inspiration and absorption of an atmosphere im- 
pregnated with animal decomposition the alimentary canal 
becomes disturbed, and fluxes occur. Dr. Cullen, years since, 
remarked that the effluvia from very putrid animal substances 
readily produce diarrhoea an observation confirmed by daily 
dissecting-room experience, and by the prevalence of diarrhoea 
and cholera in those localities where decomposition abounds. 

If there be one particle of truth in the foregoing remarks, 
the prevention of cholera in India as everywhere else de- 
pends upon the adoption of a thoroughly efficient sanitary 
system, and on the immediate removal of all decomposing 
matter, which can possibly result in the formation of the 
cholera poison, or add to its virulence on its approach from 
another quarter. It is not attention to any one particular 
sanitary matter which will prevent the epidemic prevalence of 
cholera ; it is a thorough regard to all the dictates of sanitary 
science, which will render the epidemic intensity of the dis- 
ease impossible. 

Hence it is not sufficient that an Indian cantonment be 
kept merely apparently clean ; the prevention of cholera de- 
mands more than this. Scavengers should be superintended 
by a competent officer, refuse disposed of as recommended in 
Chapter XV of this book, drainage of the whole locality 



CHOLERA. 183 

thoroughly effected, holes and hollows filled up, and no col- 
lection of rubbish allowed to exist, bazaars placed under 
strict sanitary supervision, latrines erected and their use 
enforced, the state of the barracks, canteens, soldiers' dor- 
mitories, wash-houses, urinals, guard- room, diet, means of 
cooking, and places of recreation narrowly inspected, duty 
lessened short of fatigue, and the mind occupied and kept 
in a healthy state, free from anxiety regarding the approach 
of the disease in short, the prevention of cholera demands 
the strict application of all the recommendations made under 
the different heads which compose this volume. 

When cholera ^unhappily prevails in a district, carriage, 
tents, and commissariat supplies should be ordered, so that 
on the first appearance of cholera at a cantonment, the whole 
body may change ground, leaving their barracks for positions 
assigned to them in different directions. It may not be 
necessary to move out more than a few miles; but this 
should be done at first, without delaying, and thus allow- 
ing the disease to depress the spirits of the men, which 
occurs at times to so great an extent, that, as was the case 
in September, 1861, at Lahore, suicide becomes almost an 
epidemic. 

Listlessly to await the approach of cholera, to allow soldiers 
to brood over the coming danger, without healthy excitement 
or distractions to lighten their minds and divert their atten- 
tion, is simply to prepare them for death. If, however, the 
initiative be taken if the soldiers, instead of remaining idle, 
and dejectedly awaiting the steadily approaching pestilence 
with vague alarm, are busied with preparations for moving 
the prospect of change and excitement will raise the spirits of 
the men, and prepare them to resist disease. This pourse has 
been pursued so many times with success, that arguments in 
its favour are not required. As when yellow fever attacks a 
ship's crew, standing orders should direct the vessel's course 
to northern latitudes, so, on cholera approaching an Indian 



184 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

station, the rule should be, evacuation of such cantonment by 
European troops. 

It is a well-known fact that cholera in India has appeared 
to follow the lines of human intercourse, the great rivers and 
roads stretching through the vast extent of territory. 

It is, therefore, incumbent, on marching troops, to avoid 
such routes, otherwise the contaminated ground will surely 
give rise to the disease. Dr. Chevers 1 states : " As a general 
rule, subject, unhappily, but to few exceptions, outbreaks of 
cholera may be anticipated whenever it becomes necessary to 
move troops in Lower Bengal, whether by boat, by carriage, 
or by marching." And so, indeed, it will e,ver be, as long as 
the great lines of human intercourse are contaminated by the 
crowds of natives who travel thereon, without the slightest at- 
tention to sanitation, or even cleanliness ; as long as the large 
rivers are made the receptacle of the refuse from hundreds of 
cities so long will our troops, travelling by such routes, be- 
come the prey of epidemic disease. It is not possible to re- 
form the habits of the natives, it is not possible even to reform 
the sanitary condition of their large cities, and, therefore* 
the only course left is to avoid the more frequented routes, 
whenever this may be at all practicable, and the railways are 
fast enabling us to do this. 

While, however, the latter may empower us, in many 
instances, to move our troops without attacks of cholera en 
route, they would appear also to disseminate disease, as a 
communication to the ' Times of India/ November 23, 1861, 
now quoted, demonstrates. That the yearly concourse at 
the various shrines of India tends to originate and spread 
disease, particularly cholera, there can be no doubt; and 
nothing that I can write will add force to the following lines. 
Let it be recollected that Punderpoor is only one of many 
similar resorts of religious enthusiasts ! 

te The general public has very little conception of the con- 

1 ' Indian Annals of Med. Sci./ vol. x, p. 702. 



CHOLERA. 185 

cern they have in the scenes of Punderpoor. Hundreds of 
miles it may be from them ; it is nevertheless that festering 
social spot which yearly gathers, and then bursts, on all the 
surrounding country. I allude to the plague of cholera, which 
is a scourge rarely absent from Punderpoor at this season of 
pilgrimage. On the present occasion, the number seized was 
very great, and well on to 300 are believed to have died on 
the spot in seven days' time. Fatigued with long marches 
of 50, 100, 200, and even 500, in certain cases 1000 miles, 
hurt by indifferent food and the use of bad water on the way, 
the poor pilgrims reach the spot very often with fainting 
hearts, weak and aching frames, swollen feet, and emptied 
pockets. They encamp in the sandy bed of the river, for the 
most part, out of which vapours are doubtless ever reeking 
into their little tents. When all are gathered, there is a 
whole day's fast observed, as if to diminish the chances of 
life to the utmost. Every cause, moreover, contributes gra- 
dually to fill the air with poison and pollution. The influx 
of 50,000 to 100,000 people, their close aggregation, and 
their habits and necessities, soon contaminate the whole 
atmosphere; they are quickly seized and carried off by 
cholera, and either burned or buried close to the scene of 
their death, and in the view of the thousands who are run- 
ning the same terrible risk. On the present occasion, from 
which I have just returned, the sand of the river-bed was a 
kind of cemetery; it was occupied partly by the living and 
partly by the dead. 

" Had bullets been flying about, the results would not have 
been more fatal. A severe engagement on these sands be- 
tween contending armies would not have left more, perhaps, 
for burial on the spot than the pestilence was doing a few 
days ago. The wretched sufferers seemed to have the vital 
powers mysteriously checked ; their pulse was generally gone, 
and their eyes were horribly sunk in their sockets. Families 
in which a breach was made by death sometimes fled -panic- 



186 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

stricken ; and yet the orthodoxy of Punderpoor teaches that 
death there is the sure road to heaven. A degrading famili- 
arity with death, and a rough treatment of the dead bodies, 
struck me as painful features in the sad scene. Horrid sights 
witnessed still flit before my imagination. Some of the dead 
appeared to be buried in a sitting posture, and destitute of 
covering; none seemed to be allowed a grave of the full 
length of the body. The funeral piles of those castes which 
burn were ever blazing, and the sides of the river were full 
of extinct but recent piles. The odour of the burning dead 
was another occasional grievous offence in the atmosphere. 
A more sad and mournful scene could hardly be imagined. 

" To the horrors of the place must be added the horrors 
propagated in all directions from it. The routes of the pil- 
grims homeward are ravaged by the disease, and the villagers 
along them fall victims as well as the pilgrims themselves. 
In all the villages along my homeward road at which I in- 
quired, I found cholera to have been and to be at work. On 
reaching the railway, I found they had carried it to Shola- 
poor, and the very train which brought me to Poona contained 
cases which ripened on the way so as to end in death at the 
Poona station. Poona and Sholapoor are now, on the return 
of the pilgrims, much more full of fatal sickness than they 
were. The same influence is at work all over the country, 
and it is here the public has so much interest, in respect of 
both health and life, in the Punderpoor jattra. They should 
look to their interests; and the fatal consequences to the 
whole country side would form a most just ground for the 
active interference of Government, to prevent, as far as pos- 
sible, not only the self-destruction of hundreds, but the 
devastating ruin which they spread far and near, in every 
direction. The seeds of disease are sown broadcast over the 
land, and many months sometimes elapse ere it is eradicated 
or spends itself out. Our cities and cantonments are in yearly 
and imminent danger from the clouds of disease which are 



CHOLERA. 187 

wont to gather at Punderpoor, and then pour themselves over 
the whole of the Bombay side of India. 

" That men should be senseless enough to leave their homes, 
neglect their avocations, ruin their health, waste oceans of 
money (not less, probably, than a million of rupees yearly in 
the total), in order to worship a senseless image of black 
stone, known as Vithoba, and wash away their sins in the 
Bheema (called at Punderpoor the Chandrabhaja), may be 
bad enough. That they should worship a being of limited 
knowledge, and an adulterer which the stories in vogue re- 
garding Vithoba make him out to be may also be a painful 
proof of man's utter stupidity and depravity. The follies and 
evils of Punderpoor, moreover, may be enough to disgust 
right-thinking men with the heartless and unworthy course 
pursued by the youth of India generally, who have received 
the benefit of a measure of education, who practically yield 
the whole weight of their influence to the support of this 
shocking system, and who, trembling at the consequences, 
refuse to withdraw from connection with these systems of 
wicked deception, striving to varnish them over with a worth- 
less philosophy. All this and much more may be most proper 
both to think and say; but the great matter, Mr. Editor, 
which I should wish, for the interests of the public, to be 
considered is, whether annual inundation of the country with 
disease and death from the bed of the Chandrabhaja, is com- 
patible with the general safety and welfare ? Let death at 
our doors answer the question. So long as this vile and de- 
grading pilgrimage continues, we shall have the certainty of 
cholera appearing from time to time. There is more need 
than ever now to look to the matter, as the railway communi- 
cation tends to increase the number of pilgrims. It has done 
so already in the yearly aggregate j but it may possibly yet 
increase the crowding on the great occasions. Vithoba' s fame 
is rising ; and I fear the highest inventions of our age may, 



188 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

in present circumstances, do no more than facilitate Hindu 
superstition." 

The ' Poona Observer' also, of December 3rd, 1861, states: 
" We hear by letter from Punderpore that there were more 
than 40,000 pilgrims collected together this yea rat the 
fair. Deaths from cholera are reported at forty daily, and 
the managing committee of the God Vithoba are in trouble, 
and for trial before the Mamlutdar of Punderpore." 

If the observations previously referred to, of Professors 
Thiersch 1 and Pettenkofer 2 are recollected, and which appear 
to prove that cholera evacuations undergoing decomposition 
will excite the disease, the diffusion of the contagion, by 
returning pilgrims, becomes sufficiently evident. As Profes- 
sor Pettenkofer remarks, an " infective influence is exerted 
by the faeces of such persons in the soil of ill-conditioned 
places to which they go." An infection of this kind would 
probably extend itself to the polluted well waters of such 
soils, and would render them capable of exciting cholera. 
Dr. Gibb informs us that an epidemic of smallpox was the 
result of the opening of a cemetery at Quebec, where, years 
since, a large number of patients, the victims of variola, had 
been buried. In similar manner there is every reason to 
believe that cholera germ may remain quiescent for an inde- 
finite period, until called into vitality by meteorological and 
atmospheric conditions. It should be recollected that the 
faeces of choleraic diarrhoea may be sufficient to excite the dis- 
ease, and that decomposition of fbeces may commence even 
before they leave the body. Probably, even ordinary faeces 
during an "epidemic period" may, as suggested by Mr. 
Simon, 3 acquire a specific infectious property. 

1 Thiersch, ' Infectionsversuche an Thieren mit dem Inhal. des Cholera- 
(lermes/ 1856. 

y Pettenkofer, ' Uber die Verbreitungsart tier Cholera/ 1854. 
:i Simon, ' Sanitary State of the People of England,' 1858. 



CHOLERA. 189 

On those melancholy occasions when, from military neces- 
sities or other paramount causes, troops cannot, as was the 
case with the 52nd regiment at Lucknow, be marched away 
from the disease, certain measures should be adopted, which 
experience shows have, in former instances, tended to check 
the epidemic. 

Fires should be lighted in the neighbourhood of barracks 
and cantonments, their action being, as referred to in the 
chapter on " Malaria," to purify the air, and destroy morbid 
material. 

The diet should be more especially attended to, and 
matters likely to induce abdominal irritation prohibited. An 
extra dram of spirits may also be allowed at night with 
advantage. 

Employment and amusement short of fatigue is impera- 
tively demanded; work should be lessened, and amusing 
employment increased during visitations of cholera. 

The propriety of confining the men to barracks during 
cholera epidemics is very questionable. The fact of ordering 
them to remain in barracks, or within certain limits, tends to 
depress them, and thus renders them more liable to be 
attacked by the disease. It will be sufficient that they 
should be prohibited visiting those spots were cholera is 
known to exist, in bazaars or otherwise; and that they 
should be cautioned against wandering into those localities 
which the sanitary officer points out as unwholesome. 

During cholera visitations prophylactic medicine should 
be had recourse to, as recommended in Chapter XXI, on that 
subject. The method of neutralising and disposing of cholera 
excreta there suggested should be particularly attended to. 

It is a fact well authenticated, that officers in India are 
less liable to cholera than the men under their command. This 
arises from the more satisfactory sanitary conditions under 
which the former live ; from their being surrounded by greater 
comforts;' committing, as a body, less excess; being less debili- 



190 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

tated from former disease, and therefore not so predisposed 
to take epidemics; from the cubic space in their dwellings 
being greater than that which falls to the lot of the private 
soldier ; and from their earlier application for medical aid on 
the first symptoms of the disease. 

Since the foregoing remarks were written in fact, after 
the manuscript of this work had been forwarded to England 
for publication the following admirable general order was 
published by his Excellency Sir Hugh Rose, and which at 
once demonstrates that the era of sanitary improvement has 
commenced in India. The strict application of these regu- 
lations must indissolubly connect the name of one of the 
greatest soldiers of the age with another brilliant victory, 
over an enemy not less deadly, but infinitely more appalling, 
than either the suns or battles of the ever-memorable Central 
India Campaign ; and resulting, moreover, in a diminished 
mortality, perhaps even an exemption, from the fell disease 
against which the directions are framed : 

" Head- quarters, Simla, 7th April. 

"Officers commanding divisions, stations, &c., will make 
themselves thoroughly acquainted with the ground in the 
neighbourhood of their stations to the extent of twenty miles, 
with a view to at once selecting sites for encampments in the 
event of cholera appearing, and care will be taken to ensure 
these places being always kept in a fit state for occupation by 
troops, and with a sufficient supply of wholesome water avail- 
able on each. 

" The officers of the Quarter-Master General's department 
of each division will prepare a plan of the required extent of 
country, with the different encamping grounds marked on it, 
so that when the disease approaches, measures may be at 
once taken to place the troops under canvas without delay. 

" On the outbreak of cholera in an epidemic form, either 
in neighbouring villages or cantonments, officers commanding 



CHOLERA. 



191 



stations will be prepared to move the troops into the selected 
camps on the shortest notice. 

( ' As soon as any case of cholera is reported in the station 
staff, the troops will be moved into camp, and no unfavor- 
able condition of the weather is to prevent this movement 
being carried out. 

" The force will be broken up into as many detachments as 
the number of the medical officers will admit, allowing one 
to each party. Should the medical staff be insufficient to 
afford such medical aid to the several detachments, expe- 
rienced medical subordinates will be placed in charge of the 
smaller or less distant parties. 

" Officers commanding stations are authorised to call 
directly for aid from other stations, divisions, or districts 
free from cholera. 

" The sick labouring under other diseases than cholera will 
move with the force and share the benefit of removal from 
the choleraic atmosphere. 

"It must be insisted on that all discharges from the 
stomach and bowels of cholera patients be instantly removed 
and buried in pits. 

" Strong deodorants are to be thrown into the receiving 
vessels, as well as into the pits, latrines, and privies. 

"Should cholera follow the troops, they will be moved 
short distances at right angles, if possible, to the prevalent 
wind and track of the disease, every second or third day, 
care being taken that the marches in no way fatigue the 
men. 

" The breaking out of cholera in a regiment or at a station 
is, on no account, to cause the supension of the soldiers' 
daily amusements and occupations, care being taken that the 
latter in no way fatigue them ; and commanding officers will 
use their utmost exertions to develop any recreation or 
employment of which the effect is to keep the men's minds 
in their normal state, 



192 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

" It often occurs that soldiers on a visitation of cholera 
indulge in the use of spirituous liquors, in the belief that 
they are a preventive against the disease. The medical 
authorities unanimously condemn this supposed remedy as 
a certain promoter of the disease : commanding officers are 
therefore enjoined to use their utmost endeavours to prevent 
so baneful a practice. 

" One of the several cholera antidotes is the early treat- 
ment of premonitory symptoms, of which looseness of the 
bowels is a principal one. Commanding officers are therefore 
requested to give the most precise orders on the subject, and 
to cause all men affected by premonitory symptoms to be 
placed at once in a premonitory ward. 

" The troops are not to return to cantonments until all 
traces of the cholera shall have disappeared from the neigh- 
bourhood, either amongst the European or native population. 
The barracks and hospitals will be thoroughly fumigated, the 
walls whitewashed, and the doors and window-frames painted, 
before they are re-occupied. 

' ' The men will be supplied with hot tea and coffee before 
going out in the morning ; they will invariably wear flannel 
belts, and all precautions must be taken to prevent their re- 
maining in wet or damp clothes. 

" The Commander-in-Chief feels persuaded that all officers 
share his feeling that, when cholera breaks out in a station, 
they should be with their regiments, and at their posts." 

The sanitary measures promulgated in this order are those 
already recommended in this work, and some of which I have 
elsewhere urged at a former period. 1 It is, however, evident 
from preceding remarks that different soils have a greater 
liability to peculiar diseases than others of an opposite nature. 
Hence, in fixing the sites for the temporary encamping 
grounds, those localities should be chosen, if possible, which 

1 The Author's ' Manual of the Diseases of India.' 



CHOLERA. 193 

may happen to afford a surface of that soil which research 
and experience has shown to be least liable to endemic dis- 
ease ; and such a clause,, I venture to think, might well form 
an addition to the important order just quoted. Thus rocky 
formations generally have already been mentioned as in- 
stances of localities where cholera seldom prevails epidemi- 
cally, and the probable explanation of the fact also adverted 
to. Other soils, however, appear to have the property; of 
oxidising noxious germs in a quicker and more efficient 
manner than neighbouring surfaces. The rarity of cholera 
on laterite formations has latterly been prominently referred 
to, and cannot admit of doubt. 1 

Again, on the other hand, we know that clayey soils and 
most alluvial tracts retain for a long period the exciting 
causes of cholera and other diseases, of which the following 
are forcible instances : 

Some few years ago a party of prisoners were employed 
making a road in the Guntoor district, and in cutting away 
the soil came upon a number of remains of persons who had 
died of cholera in the famine year of 1838. The disease 
broke out with great violence amongst these workmen. 2 

A number of coolies, employed on railway works in the 
neighbourhood of Salem, in cutting through an old burial 
ground, came upon a spring of apparently pure water. Many 
who drank of this water were seized a few hours afterwards 
with cholera of a very severe type. 3 

It is, however, unnecessary to quote continued examples 
of this nature. Sufficient has been stated to render it im- 
perative that what we do know on this subject should be 

1 Balfour, ' On the Localities in India Exempt from Cholera.' Chevers, 
" On the Means of Preserving the Health of Europeans in India;" ' Ind. An. 
Med. Sci.,' vol. xi. Day, "On the Medical Topography of Cochin ;* < Madras 
Journ. Med. Sci.,' Oct., 1861, Jan., 1862. 

2 Madras Journal Med. Science,' Jan., 1862 ; Review on Dr. Carter's " Fun- 
gus Disease of India." 

3 Op. cit, 

13 



194 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

practically acted upon ; also to demonstrate the urgent ne- 
cessity of a strict investigation into the geological charac- 
teristics of the surfaces on which cholera occurs, or on which 
it is more or less unknown in India. An enlarged and com- 
prehensive inquiry of this nature cannot be thoroughly per- 
formed as a self-imposed and voluntary task ; but it appears a 
subject well demanding the exclusive attention of one or 
more medical officers in each presidency, who should be em- 
ployed in the investigation as an especial and only duty. 

An inquiry of the kind was instituted some years since by 
Dr. Balfour, of Madras, and the result published in his 
brochure, entitled ' Localities in India Exempt from Cholera/ 
The exigencies of the service, however, caused this gentleman 
to relinquish the pursuit of this subject for a considerable 
period, but he has again latterly turned his attention to the 
matter, and, aided by the kind offices of the editors of the 
( Madras Quarterly Journal of Medical Science/ will pro- 
bably again advance our knowledge in the required direction. 
Unless, however, the conductor of such an investigation is 
empowered to call for information, and allowed time, oppor- 
tunity, and means for visiting and examination of different 
localities, but little progress can be expected to be made; 
and, moreover, it would appear physically impossible that 
the exertions of one individual would suffice for the efficient 
examination of all the localities and of their histories which 
would be necessitated in a country so vast as British India. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ON THE SOLDIER'S DIET. 

Value of different Articles of Food Composition of Diets: Sufficiency or 
otherwise ; Suspected Effects Real Causes of Fatty Degeneration Indian 
Meat: Prejudices of the Hindoos against killing Beef ; Horse-flesh; Pork 
Tape-worm Characteristics of good Meat The Mea'sle Vegetables : 
Importance of Potatoes Bread ; Faults of Bread ; Reform in the manu- 
facture of Bread required ; Indian method of Fermentation ; Fermenta- 
tion not necessary ; Sponginess of Bread a sine qua non ; Aerated Bread 
recommended ; Indian Bakeries ; Gritty Bread ; Evil Results from Gritty 
Bread Decayed Teeth; Appointment of a Dentist recommended 
Drinks: Indian Brewed Beer recommended ; French Wines; Composition 
of Ale and Spirits contrasted; Fergusson's Opinion Indian Cooking 
Inspection of Cooks Flies Ophthalmia Typhus Crockery, &c. Cur- 
ries and Stews Tobacco : Opposition to use of Tobacco of no effect ; Rea- 
sons against use of Tobacco ; Mental Disease ; Impairment of Generative 
Organs ; Arguments in favour of Tobacco ; Conclusions. 

THE first use of food in the animal economy is the nutri- 
tion of the body, and the second is to maintain the animal 
heat at a certain standard. The nutritious or flesh-forming 
food consists of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 
and nitrogen; and no food which does not contain the latter 
can assist in the formation of any tissue excepting fat. The 
non-nitrogenous, carbonaceous, or non-flesh-forming food, 
consists only of the three elements first named, and can only 
be of use in adding to the animal heat or in the growth of 
adipose tissue. 

Food, however, is generally divided into three classes, 
aqueous, nitrogenous, and carbonaceous. 

The first comprises water and watery fluids, and is neces- 



196 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

sary to dissolve the solid food, as referred to in the chapter 
on "Water." 

The second comprises meat, flesh, and fibrine, the white of 
egg or albumen, the nutritive principle of the cerealia, as 
wheat or gluten, and the substance called caseine, which 
exists in milk and some vegetable seeds, as peas and beans. 
Also the principle called gelatine, forming a portion of bones, 
skin, and cartilage. 

Of the third class, or carbonaceous food, starch and fat are 
the simple forms, but sugar and oil belong to the same category. 
Without a due admixture of these different forms of food man 
will not thrive ; one kind being taken away altogether, he can- 
not live. 

Most of the solid matters eaten as food are, however, 
compound in their nature that is, they contain both the 
aqueous, nitrogenous, and carbonaceous elements; as in- 
stances may be mentioned, meat, bread, potatoes, milk, and 
eggs. 

Meat is one of the most nutritive compound foods, Beef 
and mutton contain about half their weight of water, the 
remainder consisting of nitrogenous compounds and a vari- 
able proportion of fat. Roughly speaking, in 100 parts of 
meat, 40 will represent the nitrogenous element, 10 the car- 
bonaceous, and 50 the aqueous. 

The average composition of bread made from wheat flour 
is, 70 of starch and sugar, 15 of gluten or albumen, and 15 
of water ; the gluten being the nutritive, the former the heat- 
producing food ; so that in bread the properties of meat are 
nearly reversed. This, however, is nearer the proportion in 
which the different elements are required to support life. 

Potatoes are less nutritious than bread, and contain more 
heat-forming food than meat. This vegetable contains 75 
per cent, water, 23 starchy material, and about 2 albumen. 
Potatoes, however, are very necessary in tropical climates, for 
their anti- scorbutic properties, and, where green vegetables 



THE SOLDIER'S DIET. 197 

of the natural order, Crucifera, are not obtainable, should 
always form a portion of the diet. 

It has been proved by experiment that an adult man re- 
quires daily about five ounces of flesh-forming food, and about 
thirty-five ounces of heat-giving food, to retain his health and 
strength in temperate climates. In the arctic regions, how- 
ever, more of the latter is required, and in the tropics a 
greater proportion of the former. Hence may be calculated 
the quantity of meat, bread, and potatoes necessary to support 
life in different climates. For the five ounces of nitrogenous 
matter will be wanted about twelve ounces of meat. To 
maintain the animal heat at its constant standard, a larger 
amount of carbonaceous material is required. By the oxygen 
which enters the blood from the air breathed by the lungs, 
this carbon is slowly consumed or burned, forming the car- 
bonic acid expired, and producing the internal heat. To 
maintain this animal heat, from eight to ten ounces of carbon 
must be taken in the food daily. Thus the dietary found 
necessary for persons fed at the public expense will be some 
ten or twelve ounces of meat, and about twenty-five ounces 
of flour daily. 

Of bread alone, fifty ounces, or about three pounds would 
be necessary to sustain life. Of potatoes, a man must consume 
twenty-one pounds daily for the same purpose ; of carrots, 
about thirty-one and a quarter pounds ; of turnips, eighteen 
pounds, and of cabbages somewhat less ; of milk, about six 
pounds will suffice. 

Peas and beans, however, contain almost twice as much 
nutritive matter as wheaten flour ; and an excess of the 
latter, but to a smaller extent, is also found in " dhal," and 
several other of the Indian corns. 

On these facts, combined with the results of experience, 
have been founded the dietary scales of gaols, hospitals, and 
workhouses. But for men in health is allowed something 
more than is absolutely necessary, exercise and the conse- 



198 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

quent wear and tear of the system rendering this alteration 
imperative. 

The rations of European troops in India are daily per man 

Meat beef or mutton . . .1 pound. 

Vegetables . . . 1 

Bread . . . 1 

Kice . . . . 4 oz. 

Sugar . . . 2i 

Tea or coffee . . . f 

Salt . . 1 

At many stations, particularly where fresh beef cannot be 
obtained, salt beef or pork is issued once during the week. 

Several medical men of great experience have entertained 
the opinion that the amount of food consumed by the European 
soldier in India is excessive, and that thereby a considerable 
amount of disease, or tendency to disease, is generated. 

Dr. Chevers observes, that " there is reason for believing 
that European soldiers, when not on service, are rather over 
than under fed/' 

The reports of numerous medical officers tend to show a 
very prevalent opinion, that the quantity of meat may be 
reduced during the hot weather at least. 

Mr. Macnamara states, that out of twenty-four cases twenty- 
three were found to have the liver, kidneys, or some other 
organ in a more or less marked state of fatty degeneration, 
and this fact he seizes upon as accounting for the high rate 
of mortality amoung European troops in Bengal. In the 
earlier stages these organs were infiltrated with fatty matter ; 
in the latter stages this infiltration had encroached upon the 
normal tissues, so as to constitute degeneration. 

This state of things is referred by Mr. Macnamara to the 
mode of living, and not to the climate. " The company's 
allowance is to each man per diem one pound of bread, one 
of beef, a quarter of a pound of rice, and half a pound of 
vegetables ; and to this over-liberal allowance the men add 
themselves one pound of meat (often the common bazaar 



THE SOLDIER'S DIET. 199 

pork ; and the meat they buy is always of an inferior quality, 
as they pay no more than at the rate of two rupees for a 
sheep), and one pound of vegetables, and often rice also. So 
that each man consumes, on an average, seventy-six ounces 
of food per diem ; whereas a man in the Royal Navy, during 
the same period of time, eats but thirty- five ounces, and yet 
he is in a service that compels him to take a large amount 
of muscular exercise in the open air, while the man in the 
1st European Bengal Fusiliers is in a situation which, unless 
he be on active service, requires him to make but little 
muscular exertion ; and he is, moreover, exposed to the in- 
fluences of a climate which, from its very nature, would compel 
him, if he wishes to preserve his health, to live in the most 
.moderate way possible." 

Then the habits are most unsuited to persons who have too 
much to eat. " After sleeping through the night in the very 
hot, close air of the barracks, he rises at gun- fire, and goes to 
parade, after which he commonly employs himself in clean- 
ing his accoutrements till breakfast time, eight o'clock ; this 
meal over, he lies down on his couch, and sleeps till dinner 
time, and after dinner he generally retires to his bed again,, 
and sleeps, more or less, till five o'clock, the temperature of 
the barracks being frequently as high as 104 at this period 
of the day. I mention this particularly, because it is a 
taking food that the lungs are most active ; if therefore heat 
and sleep diminish their activity, we see at once how small 
an amount of carbon will be exhaled by them at the very 
time when their functions should be less impeded than at 
any other time. About five o'clock the private has to prepare 
himself for parade ; this over, he saunters about till half-past 
nine, and then turns in for the night. Of course there are a 
few exceptions to this some half dozen or dozen men taking 
active exercise every day and these few are invariably found 
to be the most healthy men in the regiment." 

Again, the fact that a great part of the day is spent in 



200 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

darkened barracks, and that spirits are drunk with consider- 
able freedom, must also favour greatly this disposition to fatty 
degeneration. 

Dr. Chevers points out the similarity of the morbid ap- 
pearances described by Mr. Macnamara, with those which 
the investigations of Mr. Gant, 1 demonstrate as existing in 
the diseased muscular substance of Baker Street Exhibition 
animals. 

In my opinion it is not the government allowance of one 
pound of bread, one of meat, and one of vegetables, with 
which the men are supplied, that influences the deposition of 
fatty material in their internal organs. It is the addition 
which the men themselves make to this allowance, the com- 
mon bazaar pork, the eggs, the ducks, and the hot stews and 
curries, with the injurious spirituous liquors they obtain which 
induces fatty degeneration. 

Lobstein, Dr. Garrod, Carpenter, Mr. Canton, and Dr. 
Gibb, have so decidedly traced the connection between the 
abuse of ardent spirits, and the occurrence of calcareous, 
atheromatous, and fatty deposits, that little doubt now remains 
on this subject. 

At the same time, it is evident from the researches of 
Gant that over-feeding will induce the true steatosis ; but I 
think, in the case of soldiers, the most probable cause of the 
degeneration is to be found in the abuse of alcoholic liquors, 
and intemperance. 

Dr. A. Thompson states that private soldiers of the British 
army increase in bodily weight from seventeen up to thirty 
years of age, and that all soldiers suffering from disease be- 
tween these periods of life decrease in weight. After the age 
of thirty, the weight of healthy men begins to decrease, con- 
trary to what occurs in civil life, where men increase in 
weight up to the age of forty. Dr. Thompson accounts for 
the early decay of the soldier by loss of sleep consequent on 
1 < Evil Results of Over-feeding Cattle.' 






201 

night duty, impure air of barrack-rooms, want of healthy 
mental excitement, and insufficiency in the quantity, quality, 
or variety of the food. This, however, refers to a colder 
climate, where a larger amount of carbonaceous food may be 
disposed of than under the heat of a tropical sun. With the 
soldier's own additions to the Government rations, there can 
be no doubt that he takes too much food in India; but it 
may be questioned if, considering quality, the latter are 
sufficient. 

The meat supplied to the soldier in India, whether beef or 
mutton, is not generally of the best, or what in Indian bazaar 
terms is called "first sort." In the monsoon season, when 
all is green and the pasture rich and succulent, meat acquires 
something of the flavour of a poorly-fed beast at home ; but 
when, with the return of the vertical sun and fiery blasts, 
the whole country becomes dry, parched, and barren, cattle 
searching for pasture in the jungle become tough, lean, and 
flavorless, and when killed and dressed, the intercostal muscles 
are actually transparent. It is, of course, possible to obtain 
fat cattle, even in the hot weather in India; but inasmuch 
as retaining them even in tolerable condition involves a con- 
siderable outlay in grain, or ' ' gram" for their food, corn-fed 
mutton or beef is never supplied for the use of the European 
soldier. Indeed, as a sheep may be bought for one, rupee in 
most parts of India, and to feed one upon " gram" increases 
his worth to six or seven rupees, it cannot be expected that 
regiments could be so supplied. 

When meat is of an inferior description, it may be con- 
demned by a committee, and the contractor is th$n forced to 
kill again. 

In some districts, the religious prejudices of the Hindoo 
population against killing the sacred cow, render it impossible 
to supply the European troops with beef, who consequently 
are condemned to a diet of mutton during the whole year. 
This is not the case in very many cantonments but, strange 



202 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

to say, one of the places where the prejudices of the natives 
have hitherto forbidden the slaughtering of beef, has been 
chosen as a hill sanitarium for Europeans, viz., Mount Aboo, 
where I now write. The absence of varied diet constitutes a 
great defect in a hill sanitarium; but the mountain being 
"holy," the existing prejudices are bigoted indeed. To 
supply our invalids with variety of meat diet, and yet to spare 
the feelings of the natives, I recommended that meat be 
killed, or even cooked, at the foot of the mountain, and after- 
wards brought up for the use of the soldiers. 

It is a question well worthy of consideration, if horse-flesh 
might not serve as provision for soldiers who are placed in 
such locality where beef is not procurable. The idea at pre- 
sent is certainly not very palatable to the English mind, 
although in Germany, as is well known, horse-flesh is publicly 
sold in the butchers' shops. It seems absurd that the horse 
should be held in such ill-favour for food, as, like the ox, it 
is herbivorous. Indeed, as M. Baudens states, " horse-flesh 
is extremely well adapted for food, for the animal is washed 
and curried every day, and its flesh, if tougher than that of 
the ox, is certainly not less nutritious. In fact, it makes 
first-rate soup." Two batteries of artillery, of the division 
Autemarre, when encamped at Baidar, fed upon horses, 
and had np reason to regret it, as they escaped much of the 
disease which devastated the allied armies in the Crimea. 
On service with spare commissariat, it would be the height 
of folly to reject horse-flesh as an article of sustenance; and 
I for one do not see why it should not be used at other times, 
when only mutton can be obtained, provided, indeed, horses 
could be supplied without ruinous expenditure. 

Again, I do not know of any sufficient reason why pigs 
should not be fed for the use of the soldier, by which two 
beneficial results would be achieved. First, there would be 
greater variety of diet, and, secondly, the men would not 
care to buy inferior or diseased bazaar pork meat obtained 



203 

from animals which, in the absence of better sanitary arrange- 
ments, act the part of scavengers, and feed chiefly on human 
ordure. 

There cannot be a doubt that bad and unwholesome meat, 
especially pork, produces disease. 

Drs. Heming and Nelson, of Birmingham, have incoritro- 
vertibly shown that measled pork is infected with the Cysti- 
cerci celluloses, now recognised as the imperfect condition of 
the Tasnia solium, and, moreover, that the vitality of this 
parasite may not be destroyed by the process of cooking, and 
Dr. Hoile, of the 60th Rifles, has since traced the prevalence 
of tape-worm in that regiment to the practice of eating un- 
wholesome animal food. The researches of Kiichenmeister 
and Von Siebold are also conclusive, that different entozoa 
are developed in various animals, as the one already named in 
the pig ; the Cysticercus tenuicollis in the goat and sheep, 
and the C. pisiformis in the rabbit. The same authors have 
also traced two of the species of Echinococcus that infest the 
human subject into a tsenia that inhabits the intestines of 
animals. 

The characteristics of good meat are as follows : Muscles 
firm, fresh, and red-looking; fat white and hard; interstices 
between muscles and fat filled with white areolar tissue. 
Yellowishness, serosity, air-bubbles, flabbiness, discolored 
spots, granular specks, denote inferior meat. 

The measle is to be detected by drawing out the animal's 
tongue, and pressing it firmly between the fingers and thumb. 
If the measle be present, it will be felt as a slight lump, and 
may be taken away. The same may be sought' fgr in other 
muscular structures when the animal is dead. 

Vegetables. No one imagines that the vegetable ration is 
too great in quantity, and it frequently happens that the 
quality is but inferior. In many Indian stations, on account 
of the nature of the soil, or the saline impregnation of the 
water, the rearing of vegetables is a difficult matter, and 



204 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

soldiers are sometimes unavoidably mulcted in this respect. 
The potato, however, may always be procured from some 
other, although, perhaps, distant locality. Such is the im- 
portance I attach to this article of diet as a means of retard- 
ing or preventing the induction of the scorbutic diathesis, 
that I am strongly of opinion that potatoes should always 
form a portion of the vegetable diet of the men. 

Bread. Indian-made bread is sometimes very good, and 
at others quite the reverse, and the two faults generally found 
with this necessary are, sourness from the formation of lactic 
or acetic acids, during or immediately after baking, and grit- 
tiness from the admixture of sand and dirt with the flour. 

I believe that there is scarcely anything connected with 
the diet of our soldiers in India which might be more 
advantageously reformed, than the whole of our bakery 
management as it is carried on in many Indian stations. 

Milk and bread are the two perfect articles of human food, 
that is to say, the articles which contain in themselves all 
the elements required for the support of the body. Bread 
for the adult is the better of the two, because it employs the 
teeth, and all parts of the body to which they are a portal in 
the work for which they were created. Spongy bread, since 
it contains about forty per cent, of water, unites meat and 
drink, therein having the advantage over biscuit. It has 
advantage also in bulk, for the stomach was made to act 
upon food in bulk, and only works thoroughly when thus 
distended. It has also the advantage, from its spongy struc- 
ture, of presenting a large surface for the necessary action of 
the saliva. 

The sponginess of this important article of diet is produced, 
as every one knows, by fermentation. The starch in the flour 
is made to give off a small proportion of carbonic acid gas, 
and this being retained by the tenacity of the surrounding 
gluten, causes the mass of dough to swell up and become 
spongy. 



205 

To effect this purpose, yeast is used at home ; in India, 
toddy, or a mixture of various spices, composed of saffron, 
"jaeful," "ellarche," "loung," and others, to the number of 
twelve or more. A small portion of this mixture is placed 
with flour for seven or eight days, and the fermenting mass 
caused is used to leaven the bread. 

Even in the baking process in Europe the necessary de- 
composition of some of the essential nutritive constituents of 
the flour frequently results in the formation of other sub- 
stances, besides carbonic acid and alcohol, as lactic, acetic, 
and other acids, which affect injuriously delicate digestions, 
frequently disagree with children, and undergo further de- 
composition in the stomach. In India this is the case to 
a much greater extent, and the bread at times is scarcely 
eatable. 

I have frequently thought some other method of manu- 
facturing bread might be introduced into India. That fer- 
mentation is not necessary to prepare starch and gluten for 
human food is evidenced from the many classes of men who 
prepare their "roti," entirely rejecting the process. In 
ancient times fermented bread was unknown. " Rome was 
more than five centuries old before its people learnt of the 
Greeks how loaves were made, and escaped from the reproach 
of being a pulse-eating nation." 

As, however, sponginess of bread has now from habit be- 
come almost a necessity, and as undoubtedly it presents the 
constituents of the flour in the condition most adapted for 
digestion, and for obtaining the greatest amount of nutriment 
from the smallest quantity of material, lightness and porosity 
cannot be lost sight of in any attempt at improving Indian 
baking. 

Within the last year or two, Dr. Danglish has patented a 
process for making " aerated bread," by which the dough 
becomes distended by mechanical pressure on air, and is un- 
touched by any chemical process, and unpolluted even by 



206 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the touch of a hand, the machine turning into the oven a 
quick succession of ready-made loaves. 

It is stated of this bread that it is quite as light and 
spongy as fermented loaves ; that it keeps better ; that la- 
bouring men eat more of it, and less meat than when they 
use fermented bread; and that at Guy's hospital, where it 
was tried by way of experiment, none was left by the patients, 
who were in the habit of rejecting much of the bread formerly 
supplied. 

Baking in any country is, at the least, a most unhealthy 
occupation, and the practice of kneading the dough with 
hands and feet sufficiently revolting. Bakeries at home, in 
the majority of instances, are underground, hot, unventilated, 
and undrained, lighted with gas, and fouled by the exhala- 
tions from the weary men who work in them. Bakeries in 
India are even still more dirty and revolting, being, gene- 
rally, confined rooms, with the thermometer above 100, dark 
and unventilated to a degree, and in which a gang of filthy 
natives knead the dough Avith hands and feet, and, no doubt, 
take little trouble to secure their cleanliness when preparing 
the " staff of life" for the too-often hated European. 

Could Dr. Danglish's method be tried in India, I entertain 
sanguine expectations that it would eventually supersede the 
old system. 

The other fault frequently met with in Indian bread, 
namely, the large amount of grit it contains, arises chiefly 
from the immense quantities of sand which float in the 
atmosphere during the hot winds of the Indian plains. This 
dust penetrates everywhere, and corn ground at such times 
cannot be free from sand. I am, however, disposed to think 
that this evil is very generally aggravated by the corn mer- 
chants or f< burriyans" adulterating the stock. Be this, 
however, as it may, I have reason to believe that this gritty 
bread injures the men's teeth; that to avoid the disagreeable 
jarring sensation of masticating gritty matter, they fre- 



207 

quently " bolt " their food, and thus, in a twofold manner, 
indigestion, diarrhrea, or even dysentery, are excited. The 
evil results of broken, and therefore decaying teeth, and the 
consequent insufficient mastication of food, are self-evident ; 
and I think I shall not be far wrong in stating that a por- 
tion of the ill-health and deterioration of soldiers in India 
may be traced to injuries of the teeth, and to want of atten- 
tion to those important organs. Further, I believe that the 
appointment of a dentist, to attend especially to the teeth of 
European soldiers, would be calculated to preserve the health 
of the men, and hence prove economical to the State. In 
India it is difficult even for the higher classes to procure the 
services of a dentist; they cannot do so without going to the 
presidency towns. Most medical men know little or nothing 
of dentistry, and hence it is impossible for the European 
soldier in India to obtain proper attention to his teeth. It 
was this feeling which induced Sir Charles Trevelyan, when 
Governor of Madras, to institute a dental dispensary in that 
city, and to require some knowledge of dentistry from medi- 
cal officers. Dentistry, however, is not a subject to be 
acquired at once ; it requires years of study and training, as 
the works of Mr. Tomes and others show, before an indi- 
vidual can be acquainted with all its branches ; and it cannot 
be expected that medical men, amongst their multitudinous 
studies, can acquire the art of mechanical dentistry. Were 
an extra allowance provided for the dental charge of a 
regiment, it would be an inducement for medical officers to 
qualify themselves in this art. 

The issue of drinks to the soldier will be treated of in 
Chapter XIX, on " Intemperance," and malt liquor recom- 
mended as the drink par excellence. At present all such mate- 
rial is supplied from Europe, although it has been demonstrated 
that beer of good quality may be brewed on hill ranges, as at 
Missouri, &c. Such beer not being so potent as the ale and 
porter supplied from England, would be still more suitable 



208 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

for the soldier's beverage. Indeed, the introduction of the 
light French wines would probably prove advantageous, as it 
is stated that among the French inhabitants of Pondicherry 
hepatic complaints are almost unknown, which is partly 
attributed to the more general use of light wines instead of 
beer. I do not, however, consider that malt liquor in mode- 
ration has any appreciable effect in inducing hepatic disease, 
and am disposed to consider the exemption of the French 
from such affections more due to their adopting a diet con- 
taining less animal and more vegetable material. 

The evil effects of alcohol, both immediately on the struc- 
ture of the liver, and eventually on the latter organ and on 
the general system, will be commented on in the chapter on 
" Intemperance." Spirits, as brandy, rum, arrack, &c., con- 
tain from 51 to 54 per cent, of alcohol, and little solid 
matter. Malt liquors contain only from 4 to 8 per cent, of 
alcohol, and a large amount of solid material, and hence, 
unless taken in enormous quantities, will not induce the 
peculiar physiological effects of alcohol. 

As William Fergusson remarked, " When the exhausted 
soldier is to be exposed during the night to a chilling, mala- 
rious atmosphere, or when he is benumbed with cold, spirits 
prove a sovereign cordial and support; but to administer 
them under a burning sun, as an article of food, or to allow 
him access to them as preparatory to duties of exertion or 
fatigue, is about as judicious as it would be to give him a 
blow on the head the one would not more certainly dis- 
qualify him for every purpose of service than the other." 

The cooking arrangements in India are susceptible of very 
great improvements. At the present time it is carried on by 
native cooks, who, to say the least, pay but little attention to 
cleanliness. The raw meat is daily inspected by officers, who 
also frequently see it as it is cooked and served on the men's 
table ; but little is known of the treatment provisions receive 
during the interval. An " almirah" should be provided for 






THE SOLDIER'S DIET. 209 

the food of each mess, and not only the rations, but the cook- 
rooms and "bowarchies" should be inspected each day, so 
that some check would be placed on the manipulations of the 
latter, who, like the witches in Macbeth, may be frequently 
seen, in barrack and hospital kitchens, concocting nasty 
messes, of which the authorities know literally nothing. 

A recent writer 1 observes : "We were accidentally in the 
neighbourhood of a regimental kitchen one day, and there 
we saw, outside in the open air, a large quantity of rice, 
which the cooks had put into baskets, in order that the 
water might drain off. This rice was covered all over with 
a black substance, which we ascertained, on the basket being 
lifted, to consist of myriads of flies. We then entered the 
cook-room swarming with flies and witnessed the filthy 
manner in which the meat was taken out of the pots and 
pitched about, as if it were food for dogs." 

Something of this must always be the case in the Indian 
plains, where flies abound in millions, and even in the palace 
attack the food as it is conveyed from the plate to the 
mouth ! and where the heat of the climate renders it neces- 
sary to employ natives as cooks ; but, by a strict system of 
inspection, much of these evils may be remedied. 

That flies frequently convey the germs of disease is evident 
to every one who has witnessed the poorer natives affected 
with ophthalmia in many parts of the East, their eyes dis- 
charging matter, on which clusters of flies feast, departing 
therefrom to attack the healthy eye of the unfortunate per- 
son who happens to pass. Nay, even in cold climates the 
etiology of disease is thus traced. The ' Journal du Loiret' 
states : " A dead dog was lately thrown into a ditch, in the 
parish of Cortal, and there left. The carcass was soon 
covered with flies, which then spread over the whole place. 
An epidemic of anthrax was the consequence." 

Remembering what has been stated with regard to the 

1 'Lahore Chronicle/ Sept. 14th, 1861. 

14 



210 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



faeces of cholera patients exciting that disease when taken 
into the healthy stomach ; knowing that the evacuations of 
dysentery are equally dangerous; that ophthalmia may be 
excited by ophthalmic discharge ; and that, as Dr. Budd l re- 
marks, the contagious element of typhus is principally con- 
tained in the discharges from the diseased intestines, it is not 
too much to recommend that it should be the especial and 
total duty of some one to keep the provisions of Europeans 
free from contamination by flies, which contamination may 
have been directly brought from the rice-water stools of 
cholera, the slimy discharges of dysentery, the putrid evacua- 
tions of fever, the pus of ophthalmia, or from any other de- 
composing abomination. 

It has happened before this that the men's food has been 
brought to table, not in crockery, but on common earthen 
platters, of the material of which water " goglets" are made, 
and which, on account of their porosity, it is impossible to 
keep clean. They become saturated with each day's use, 
and, in time, are disagreeable both to nose and palate. 
Crockery, glass, and even table-cloths, should be insisted 
upon in every European mess, and the canteen fund should 
be made available for this purpose. 

Sameness of diet, and the want of appetite induced by the 
heated and enervating climate, frequently induce the men 
to prepare, or cause to be prepared, hot curries and stews, so 
greasy with " ghee" and rancid butter, and so hot with 
Cayenne pepper, that it is really a matter of wonder how 
such mixtures are retained on the stomach. Not only do 
these induce dyspepsia and indigestion, engender thirst, and 
so lead the way to intemperance, but the hot spices appear to 
have a direct influence in aiding alcohol and intemperance in 
the induction of those chronic changes in the parenchymatous 
structure of the liver, from the ulterior effects of which so 
many suffer. 

1 ' Lancet,' Dec. 6th, 1856. 



THE SOLDIER'S DIET. 211 

It would be hard to deny the soldier made dishes alto- 
gether, but the compounds he devours under this name re- 
quire supervision, so that the hot spices and peppers may be 
kept within due bounds. 

Tobacco. Notwithstanding the opposition which the use 
of tobacco has experienced, not only in our own country, but 
also in others, as in Spain, where, in the year 1640, Francisco 
de Sevia, of Cordova, assailed it with as vigorous a counter- 
blast as was directed against it by our own British Solomon 
notwithstanding that this opposition has extended over cen- 
turies, as evidenced by the late controversy in the ' Lancet' 
notwithstanding the vehemence of inconsiderate declaimers, 
and the moderation of a Brodie, still the smoking of tobacco 
has extended, and is extending, amongst all classes of society, 
as is evidenced by the smoking-rooms attached to the Houses 
of Parliament, the clubs, the tavern, and the coffee-house ! 
and by the enormous revenue of five and a half millions 
sterling, which, independent of its original cost, the British 
nation now expends on this, perhaps the least defensible, but 
not the most pernicious, of its costly follies. 

The reasons against the use of tobacco are, that it induces, 
especially when used by the young and studious, impaired 
appetite, relaxed muscular fibre, pallid complexion, and 
diminished energy; that it conduces to mental disease or 
insanity ; that it exerts an impairing influence over the gene- 
rative organs. 

That the symptoms first noted do arise from excessive 
smoking is not to be doubted, but we cannot with any con- 
fidence say what amount of the narcotic will induce such a 
condition. It varies in different individuals, according to 
idiosyncracy and modes of living, exercise in the open air, 
and frugality in other respects. 

That tobacco conduces to mental disease there is no satis- 
factory proof indeed rather the reverse, as it is stated that 
amongst the Turks, who, by their religion, are bound to 



212 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



abstain from intoxicating drinks, but not from tobacco, there 
is a remarkable exemption from insanity, and I am inclined 
to think that if our soldiers and sailors were deprived of its 
use, of its quieting influence altogether, we should have 
more instances of suicide, and, therefore, as the two generally 
occur in the same proportion, more insanity in the army and 
navy. 

With regard to the third objection, were such the fact, it 
ought to be capable of demonstration, with some degree of cer- 
tainty, in a diminishing population in those countries where 
the weed is most used. But in the American States and 
Canada, and the North of Europe generally, the ratio of the 
increase of people is remarkably high. 

If tobacco cannot be proved to be so deleterious as some 
of its opponents would have us believe, there is, on the other 
hand, little to be said in its favour. 

In persons habituated to its use, I have sometimes thought 
it acted as a prophylactic measure, when obliged to pass 
through or remain in malarious or other disease-generating 
localities. When soldiers and sailors are fatigued, and can- 
not immediately procure food and drink, a moderate use of 
tobacco will enable them to sustain these wants for a length- 
ened period, without the exhaustion which would otherwise 
ensue. Of this I have had practical demonstration, and have 
heard men on service, particularly sailors, declare they would 
prefer going without a meal, rather than deprivation of their 
periodical pipe. 

Again, there are periods of irritation, grief, vexation, or 
irritability, which occur to all the sons of Adam, and it 
is at such periods that the soothing influence of the pipe or 
cheroot "the contemplative man's recreation'-' exercises 
a tranquillising influence on those accustomed to it. 

An attentive perusal of nearly all that has been written on 
the subject, and a lengthened and close observation of many 
confirmed smokers, has led me to form the opinion that the 



213 

evil or good effects resulting from the moderate use of 
tobacco are almost nil ; but that the good effects predominate 
in those who have contracted the habit ; that such good effects 
are not sufficient to justify advocating smoking ; that when 
tobacco is used in excessive quantities,, it induces various 
nervous symptoms, some of which have been named, but 
does not produce positive disease, although preparing the 
system for its accession; and that the same quantity of 
tobacco exercises very different effects on various individuals ; 
so that what moderation consists of cannot be specified. 
Hence, without exclaiming with Charles Lamb, 

" The old world was sure forlorn 
When wanting thee," 

I should, on the whole, be sorry to find the use of tobacco 
interdicted, although ready to discourage the habit at the 
onset. 





CHAPTER XIX. 

ON INTEMPERANCE. 

Alcohol renders the System prone to Disease, especially in the Tropics Shock 
from Alcohol Chronic Effects : on the Body ; on the Mind Origin of 
Crime Origin of Syphilis Prevalence of Intemperance : Native Opinions 
Teetotalism condemned Good Effects of Alcohol Army System with 
regard to Drinks Advantages of Malt Liquors Adulterations Allow- 
ance of Drink to Recruits Conformation of Soldiers to Moderation 
Temperance Societies. 

PHYSIOLOGICAL science and experience alike instruct us, 
that the state of system most favorable to the invasion and 
development of a zymotic poison is set up by the presence in 
the blood of organic matter in a state of change, decomposi- 
tion, or fermentation. Hence the blood of the intemperate, 
charged with alcohol, is the condition almost par excellence 
favorable to the attacks of the causes of zymotic disease. 
Pure aerated blood affords the best safeguard against the 
violence of an epidemic ; and the most perfect system of venti- 
lation, cleanliness, and sanitation, will fail to maintain this if, 
by the continous imbibition of alcohol, or by excess, the func- 
tions of the skin and lungs are interfered with, their healthy 
relations destroyed, and their waste products retained within 
the body. That this is the case, is demonstrated by the 
researches and experiments of Fyfe, Prout, Brocker, and 
others, who found that the undue use of alcoholic beverages 
diminish by at least one fifth the amount of carbonic acid 
exhaled ; a presence of alcohol in the circulating fluid being 
always associated with a diminished per-centage of carbon 



INTEMPERANCE. 215 

in the expired air and in the exhalation from the cutaneous 
surface, and with diminished muscular force. 

Such being the case in cold climates, the same must occur 
in greater intensity under a tropical sun, where a given 
volume of air, on account of its more rarified state, contains 
less oxygen to consume the carbonaceous material taken into 
the system. 

It is well known that a large or concentrated quantity of 
alcohol being taken, such an immediate effect may be made 
on the nerves of the stomach as to give rise to shock of the 
nervous centres, and even cause the heart to cease beating, 
and death to ensue in a very short time. This, however, is 
not the deleterious effect of alcohol which occasions so much 
disease and suffering among Europeans in India ; it is the 
more gradual effect of the poison, the chronic alcoholism, 
which demands attention here. According to the researches 
of Liebig, Klenke, and others, on alcohol entering the 
system, part is oxidized, its hydrogen entering into combina- 
tion with oxygen, to make water and acetic acid, which is 
followed by the formation of carbonic acid. During this 
process animal heat is engendered, and hence alcohol is 
regarded as a calorifiant article of food, excess of which is 
certainly not generally required in a tropical climate. Such 
alcohol as may remain undecomposed attacks the nervous 
system, and, until eliminated by the secreting organs, induces 
its accustomed effects of exhilaration or drunkenness. If the 
use of alcohol is continued, these effects on the nerves 
constitute chronic alcoholism ; excess or deprivation of the 
usual stimulant giving rise to attacks of delirium tremens. 

With these results from alcohol viz., a superabundance of 
carbonic acid in the blood, and the certain toxine nervous 
symptoms constituting chronic alcoholism derangement of 
the nutritive process, and its consequent degenerations and 
dyscrasia, with diminution of muscular strength, are always 




216 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

combined. The deposition of fatty matter in the tissues, or 
steatoss, is also a frequent resulting effect. 

It is not, however, these ulterior influences alone which 
are excited in the human frame by the continued indulgence 
in alcoholic beverages. Alcohol being taken into the stomach, 
and particularly at a period when the organ is empty, is 
absorbed directly into the portal circulation and liver, leading 
to irritation of that organ, and chronic thickening of its 
parenchymatous structure, the consequent pressure on nerves 
and vessels, and the resulting neuralgic pain or hyptalgia, and 
dropsical effusions and swellings. 

Another form of diseased liver, and perhaps more frequently 
met with as the appearance of that organ in those who have 
led intemperate lives in tropical climates, is that of general 
enlargement, with fatty degeneration and destruction of 
hepatic cells, which, however, would appear to be the first 
step of the changes leading to the formation of abscess, or, 
escaping that, to cirrhosis. 

Thus, the chronic effects of alcohol are shown to be de- 
structive to the body of the consumer ; and the evil operation 
of the same agent on the mind might, if necessary, be pour- 
trayed with even more force. The loss of memory, the 
impaired intellect, the miserable thoughts, the imbecility, 
the insanity which frequently result from chronic alcoholism, 
need not be dwelt on here. 

In addition to this ultimate destruction of body or mind, 
Colonel Sykes shows that the " chief cause of crime," and 
therefore of punishment, is drunkenness; and it might be 
with safety stated that this is the evil to which most of the 
offences recorded in the defaulters' or the court-martial book 
may be traced. 

Intemperance also leads to excess of other kinds, and most 
of the numerous cases of syphilis and its consequences which 
the military surgeon has to treat, are primarily contracted 
under the stimulation of intoxicating liquors. 



INTEMPERANCE. 217 

Well may we re-echo, " Woe unto them that are mighty 
to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink ! 
Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they 
may follow strong drink ; that continue until night, till wine 
inflame them \" 

Although it is an undoubted fact, that during the last few 
years the intemperate use of strong drinks has ceased to 
prevail among the higher classes of society, and that " two- 
bottle" men are now scarcely to be found; although, since 
the time of Dr. Wade, in 1793 who, considering the excess 
then prevalent amongst soldiers and sailors in Calcutta, 
thought it a matter of great astonishment, not that so many 
should be affected by fevers, but that any should escape 
intemperance has declined, still the following quotations 
incontestably show how deep and widely spread this national 
vice remains amongst the lower classes. 

Thus, the military blue-book, giving the sanitary condition 
of the British army during 1859, shows that of every 
1000 admissions into hospital, 422 diseases were the conse- 
quences of the soldiers' own irregularities intemperance or 
syphilis . 

A late report by Inspector- General Dr. Stovell, 1 which 
gives the records of the European General Hospital at Bom- 
bay for ten years, presents too clear a proof of the great and 
still increasing prevalence of intemperance. It was seen that 
out of 12,325 admissions, no less than 1146 were from de- 
lirium tremens and ebrietas, being a per-centage of 9*297, or 
nearly one tenth of all the admissions. With the sole excep- 
tion of fever, the number is larger than that of any disease 
named in the paper. " And on reference to the several tables 
of diseases given, it will be seen that alcohol has destroyed 
more people in this institution than either fever, hepatitis, 
or diarrhoea, and nearly as many as cholera/' 

The influence of intemperance on sickness and mortality 

1 Bombay Med. and Phys. Soc. Trans.' 




218 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

is shown by Waring 1 in one of his statistical tables in a 
forcible manner. From the calculation referred to, it appears 
that the per-centage of admissions into hospitals amongst 
the intemperate is nearly double that of the temperate, that 
the per-centage of deaths to strength is just about double, 
and that the per-centage of deaths to admissions holds much 
the same ratio. 

A native newspaper speaks thus of the increasing preva- 
lence of the practice of drinking in India : 

" We have said that England is the occasion of the preva- 
lence of wine-drinking in this country. We do not mean 
to say that the mere fact of studying the English language, 
or the entertaining of English ideas, creates a thirst after 
wine. We do not know of any English book in which it is 
stated that it is obligatory on us to drink wine, or that the 
glory of man consists in his getting drunk ; on the contrary* 
many English books speak of the evil effects of drunkenness. 
The true reason of the prevalence of this vice is to be found 
in the residence of Englishmen in the country. The multipli- 
cation of gin-shops in the land is owing only to the English 
people. We have read somewhere we forget in what book - 
in former days some Europeans visited a king of Bengal. 
They having expressed a wish for some liquor, the king 
ordered some of his menial servants to take them out of the 
city, the object of which was to prevent them bringing 
liquor into the city. Those days are gone by. Now you 
see liquor-shops everywhere, in every village, in every street. 
This year you see a liquor-shop in a place where last year 
there was none. Alas ! what evils is wine producing in 
Bengal ! Whatever may be the cause, there is no doubt of 
the fact that drunkenness is on the increase in the land. To 
suppress this growing evil is our bounden duty. Ye young 
men of Bengal ! make every exertion to exterminate this 

1 " Notes on some of the Diseases of India ;" ' Ind. An. Med. Sci./ April, 
1860. 



INTEMPERANCE. 219 

pernicious habit. On you depends the future improvement 
of our country. Little hope will there be of our advance- 
ment, if you be not zealous in the extirpation of this detest- 
able vice." 

Although so strongly condemning the practice of constantly 
using alcoholic beverages, I must still oppose the opposite 
extreme of teetotalism. Although there are many exceptions, 
I believe, as a rule, Europeans in tropical climates require 
some amount of fermented drink as part of their daily 
sustenance ; this is particularly the case with the old resident, 
and during the hot season, when the heat takes away the 
appetite, and exerts its depressing and deteriorating influence 
on the system. Where the quantity of solid food is not 
sufficient in quantity to supply the waste of tissue and repair 
the wear and tear of body which it certainly is not during 
the exhaustion and loss of appetite occasioned by intense 
heat certain effects arise from the imbibition of alcoholic 
drinks which are not marked by the nervine results witnessed 
when the agent is employed in long-continued excess ; these 
effects, are an additional tone and impetus imparted to the 
physical powers, by which the latter becomes better able to 
withstand; or to reinvigorate themselves after subjection to 
the several depressing and exhausting influences, as heat and 
malaria, to which they may be exposed. Secondly, alcohol 
has a marked effect in limiting the waste of the body, or in 
retarding " eremacausis," and it is by these two effects 
improved physical tension, and retardation of metamorphosis 
of tissue that it proves beneficial. 

In proof of the foregoing, the statistics of Dr. Waring, pre- 
viously referred to, tend to show that the teetotaller suffers 
far less than the drunkard, from hepatitis and cholera, but 
that he is more liable to fever in its worst forms ; that he 
is nearly as liable to dysentery as the drunkard, and very 
much more so than the temperate, but that in him this dis- 
ease is less fatal than in either of the others. 



220 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Hence it appears,, both from theory and experience, that 
the abuse, and not the proper and moderate use of fermented 
liquors, gives rise to their deleterious effects. 

Therefore, the question arises how far this moderate use 
may extend? how soldiers are to be obliged to conform to 
such moderation ? and whether the system of the army has 
been such as to create in the soldier a propensity for drink ? 

With regard to the latter question, it cannot be denied 
that such was formerly one of the effects of the internal 
economy of the army. In most cases, the boys who entered 
the ranks were previously of sober habits probably drunk for 
the first time at the period of their enlistment, and becom- 
ing, after a few years' service, " as ardent seekers after the 
excitement of drink as any of their older comrades." 

Some years back every European soldier in India received 
a daily allowance of half a pint of spirits ; and Sir James 
Annesley animadverted strongly on the extreme impropriety 
of teaching the young soldier to drink a certain quantity of 
ardent spirits every morning on an empty stomach, the same 
quantity being served out to the youngest drummer as to the 
oldest soldier. 

The issue of the morning dram was put a stop to in 1849, 
and of late years malt liquor has been regarded as one of 
the usual portions of the diet in cantonment. 

The authorised issue to the men at the present period is, 
one quart of malt liquor, and one dram of spirits for each 
man per diem. When, as sometimes happens, the supply of 
malt liquor in the country is small, two drams of spirits 
and one pint of malt liquor are allowed. 

Hence, until latterly, it would appear that the system 
pursued with regard to supplying the troops with liquor has 
been such as to establish and cherish a desire for strong 
drinks ; but this was not the only cause which fostered the 
disease. " Let my men be but sober and ready for parade 
and other duty when required, and they may spend their 



INTEMPERANCE. 221 

spare hours in the canteen and enjoy themselves," has been 
the creed of too many regimental commandants ; and thus 
idleness, or rather lack of employment, and drinking with 
their sergeants, barrack ennui and impaired health, home- 
sickness and distaste for military life, induce the recklessness 
which engenders misconduct and crime. 

" They drink, repine ; repine, and drink again." 

That this is fast ceasing to be the case, is sufficiently evident 
from the late General Order of Sir Hugh Rose, calling on 
officers commanding divisions, to transmit reports on the 
means of recreation, instruction, and improvements in the 
useful trades of the soldiers of the army, with a view to 
increased improvement and systematising of such means. 

The question as to what may be considered the moderate use 
of fermented liquors is a somewhat difficult one to answer. 

Dr. Chevers remarks, " The majority of experienced 
medical men in India, certainly hold the opinion that it is 
advisable to discontinue the authorised sale of spirituous 
liquors to our troops." I do not, however, fully subscribe to 
this opinion, but would limit the sale to one dram per man, 
a quantity which could not induce any deleterious results, 
but which might frequently be the means of preventing 
exhaustion, of retarding metamorphosis of tissue, or of 
counteracting the effects of a malarious atmosphere. 

Of good malt liquor, one quart, with one dram of spirits, 
or two quarts without spirits, might be safely allowed. 
Unlike spirit, malt liquor is generally taken with the meals, 
and therefore not applied to an empty stomach. Also, unlike 
spirit, it contains a large amount of solid matter on which 
the stomach exerts its digestive powers. Moreover, it does 
not appear to be absorbed directly into the portal circulation 
and liver, as is the case with spirit, and it also exerts a 
certain tonic effect. 

As has already been shown, the water-drinker, in avoiding 



222 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the diseases of the intemperate, is liable to those of an 
opposite character. Some stimulant is actually necessary to 
most Europeans in hot weather, when the heart labours and 
the vital energy is exhausted ; and also in the autumnal 
season, when the physical powers are at a minimum, and 
malaria most prevalent. Of all stimulants none are so in- 
nocuous as malt liquors, which Europeans in the tropics 
should be encouraged to drink in preference to all other 
beverages. 

In fact so much value do I place on a due allowance of 
malt liquor as a means for the preservation of the health of 
Europeans in India as almost a necessity of the economical 
existence of European life in this country that I would not 
hesitate to recommend the withdrawal of all duty on this 
necessary. By cheapening malt liquor in India I believe 
that the man who drinks largely would use this liquor in 
preference to all others, and thus the consumption of wine 
and spirits would be lessened ; while the " prudent man " 
the individual who denies himself " beer " on account of the 
expense would not hesitate to use the beverage, both to his 
own health and advantage, and therefore to the interest of 
the State. Of what profit can it be, that a European of any 
class in India, should, by denying himself malt liquor, fall 
into an ansemic and debilitated condition, and entail upon the 
State the expense of his furlough to Europe ? That such 
occurs in India on account of the expense of malt liquor can 
scarcely be denied. Many individuals either cannot, or will 
not afford to purchase malt liquor, and their vital energy 
suffers in consequence, and particularly so since an increase 
of duty has been imposed upon malt liquor. The reproach 
which has been applied to Europeans in India viz., that if 
they vacated the country one of the chief mementoes of their 
former presence would be the heap of " beer bottles " they 
would leave behind is not merited. Malt liquor, I assert to 
be one of the necessaries of life for most Europeans in this 



INTEMPERANCE. 223 

debilitating climate, and the sooner it is less expensive, the 
more quickly will the chances of European life in this country 
be raised. In the earlier periods of European occupancy of 
India, bottled beer was not so common a drink as it has since 
become, and yet statistics prove that the average of the white 
man's life in the Eastern tropics, is much greater than was 
formerly the case, to the extent of at least one half. 1 All this 
improvement is not, of course, due to malt liquor ; but much 
of it may be fairly attributed to the greater consumption of 
the latter, and the less amount of alcoholic material now 
made use of. 

The question, however, of the reduction of duty on beer in 
India is for wiser intellects than mine to decide upon. I 
can only advance what I believe necessary for the great 
majority of Europeans in India for the preservation of their 
health, and hence for the pecuniary benefit of the State. 
I may, however, be permitted to give additional publicity to 
the remarks of Mr. Low, 2 on the subject of the measure of 
imperial pints and quarts ; many bottles of beer one purchases 
in India, more nearly approaching to the former quantity 
than to the latter, for which they are charged. 

The issue of porter to the troops has been objected to on 
an idea that it tends to induce liver disease. This, however, 
I believe to be quite unfounded and also that porter, if sound, 
may be drank in India with almost as much benefit as any 
other malt liquor. It is, however, from its colour disguising 
foreign material, more likely to be adulterated than its sister 
liquid, and therefore all porter, and in fact beer also, shipped 
to India for the use of the European troops should be 
thoroughly and severely tested previous to leaving England. 

The most common adulterations of malt liquor, especially 
of porter, are sugar, treacle and honey, wormwood, quassia, 
buckbean or Menyanthes trifoliata, aloes, cocculus indicus, 

1 European officers are here alluded to. 

2 Low, ' Central India during the Rebellion of 1857-8.' 



224 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

St. Ignatius' bean,, mix vomica, opium, tobacco, coriander, 
carraway, and orange peel. The detection of some of these 
agents is easily effected by the taste alone ; the presence of 
others can only be demonstrated by a complete chemical 
process, a detail of which space will not admit of. 

It is, however, a question, if the allowance named should 
be granted to recruits or individuals newly arrived in the 
country. As I remarked in my ' Manual of the Diseases of 
India/ during the first months of residence, a young 
healthy individual, particularly if inclined to plethoric habits, 
will do well by abstaining from all stimulants, and adopting 
a diet principally composed of vegetable material ; for if the 
effects of alcohol or spirit drinking, or if the habitual 
indulgence in hot-spiced dishes be added to the excitement 
of the portal system induced by the change of climate, I feel 
justified in asserting that such changes will be induced in the 
minute structure of the liver, which, as a rule, will eventually 
destroy the health, happiness, and even life of the patient. 
I would therefore limit the allowance of drink to the young 
and robust soldier, for the first year, to half the amount 
admitted to the seasoned campaigner, and interdict spirits 
altogether. 

How soldiers should be obliged to conform to such 
moderation is, however, a more difficult question; and 
until higher influences can be brought into operation, there 
is but one course to pursue, viz., to make the already 
stringent rules regarding the sale of liquor to European 
soldiers, still more authoritative, and to treat with the utmost 
rigour any native so offending. If such were known to be 
the orders of the " Sirkar/' and such were carried out in 
several instances, it would soon become almost an impossi- 
bility for a European soldier to obtain liquor, otherwise 
than the established quantity available from the canteen. 
Thus, not only would the supply of liquor to the soldier be 
stopped, but he would be prevented injuring his health by 



INTEMPERANCE. 225 

drinking the cheap deleterious trash sold in the bazaars, 
which is always more or less drugged with datura, cocculus 
indicus, gungali, cayenne pepper, or some other narcotic or 
pungent agent. 

It may probably be objected that other means for the 
prevention of intemperance than orders should be had 
recourse to ; this I readily admit, but until time elapses to 
allow such means to bear fruit the European soldier who 
will not or cannot take care of himself should have such 
care exerted for him, and there is no other way of doing so 
in India excepting by orders and severe punishment of those 
disobeying such orders. 

The higher means for the prevention of intemperance are 
reduced by Dr. Macpherson to the following heads: 1. 
The higher influence of improved religion and morals. 2. For 
lower natures, the vow and oath of temperance associations. 
3. The substitution of less stimulating drinks for strong 
alcoholic ones. 4. The punishment of the drunkard, and 
reward of the sober. 5. Occupying and amusing the leisure 
hours of the soldier. 

To these may be added increased salubrity of the air of 
the soldier's dwelling, and the consequent absence of that 
depression which invariably results from residence in a 
vitiated atmosphere. 

The first means can only be brought into operation in the 
course of time, and perhaps may only now be said to be 
commencing. The third has already been adopted in the 
substitution of malt liquor for spirit. The punishment of the 
drunkard and reward of the sober is carried out, and the 
occupation and amusement of the leisure hours of the soldier, 
as almost daily orders demonstrate, receive the constant 
attention of our military chiefs. 

I have already stated that I cannot advise, either from 
theory or experience, total abstinence for Europeans in 
India; hence I am unable to advocate the formation of 

15 



226 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

temperance societies in regiments. Indeed, the plan has 
already had a trial, and although in some corps it appeared 
to work well for a time, and intemperance and crime 
decreased, still it was found that the men frequently broke 
their oath, or, as was the case with the men of the 18th, 
who, when ordered to Burmah, applied to the clergyman for 
exemption, on the ground that they could not stand the 
climate without spirits. 

It may have been an impression that ultimately but little 
benefit would be derived from temperance societies which 
caused the Duke of Wellington to write J that, " while con- 
vinced that if a system of temperance could be generally 
established in the army, it would be greatly to the advantage 
of the troops, his grace is not prepared to sacrifice the 
great military principle which prohibits the formation of 
clubs or societies of any description in the army; and 
therefore, although the soldiers are at liberty to enrol 
themselves as temperance men, all meetings or associations 
formed with a view to induce them to do so, or to adhere 
to these engagements afterwards, are to be peremptorily 
prohibited." 

1 ' Circular to H.M. Forces in India/ 1st October, 1845. 



CHAPTER XX. 

ON SCURVY. 

Former Ravages of Scurvy Now Endemic in India "Latent Scurvy "- 
Causes of Latent Scurvy ; Diet ; Light Prophylaxis Reaction of Scurvy 
on other Diseases Native Remedy. 

ALTHOUGH we do not now hear of those sufferings from 
scurvy which in former times (indeed, so late as seventy-six 
years since) caused a mortality of 125 per 1000 in the 
whole naval force of Great Britain, although the causes of 
scurvy are so well understood, and its prevention a certain 
result of proper prophylactic measures, still the scorbutic 
diathesis may be said to be a very prevalent condition in 
India, and one which the tropical surgeon is at all times 
called upon to guard against, and very frequently to cure. 

There are extensive tracts in India where scurvy may be 
considered as endemic. Wherever there is a soil highly 
impregnated with saline matter, especially on the borders 
of the desert regions, and on much of the arid and sandy sea- 
coasts j wherever, from such causes, there is an insufficiency 
of nourishing and vegetable food, especially if such localities 
are also low -lying, damp, and malarious, there scurvy is 
endemic, and shows itself in one or other of the manifes- 
tations forming the scorbutic diathesis. Thus the disease 
known as Beri Beri, so frequently existing on the sea-coasts, 
the Delhi boil, the Scinde boil, the Gwalior ulcer, the Aden 
boil, the Sunah boil, the Burmah boil, the Kutch boil, may 



228 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

all be most frequently easily traced to the influence of the 
above-mentioned condition. 

The probability of the existence of this scorbutic taint 
must, therefore, never be lost sight of, forming, as it does, one 
of the most dangerous constitutional defects, and aiding the 
heat and malaria of the climate in rendering the system an 
easy prey to acute or chronic endemic disease. Just as from 
the influence of a malarious atmosphere the conditions 
known as cachexia loci and masked malarious fever may 
arise, in like manner, from want of essential articles of diet, 
that state of system which I venture to designate "latent 
scurvy " originates. This latent scorbutic condition once 
present, influences all diseases which may affect the in- 
dividual, aggravates with deadly complications all surgical 
cases, and obscures and masks those ailments which belong 
to the province of physic. Thus, ulcers take on a pha- 
gedenic character, syphilis becomes increased in virulence, 
and injuries, as fractured bones, will not heal, while dysentery 
terminates with sloughing and haemorrhage, hepatic abscess 
or engorgement of the spleen is more liable to make its 
appearance, and the system, deprived of that vital force so 
necessary for the battle with disease, has little stamina to 
resist the latter. 

As one evidence among many showing the importance of 
the Indian military surgeon always holding the probability 
in mind of the existence of the scorbutic diathesis, not only 
amongst Europeans, but with natives also, I will quote Dr. 
Steward's, 1 ' Annual Report of the 25th Regiment, N. I., for 
1 858-59.' 

After the storming of Jhansi and the hard work con- 
sequent thereupon all the sepoys became scorbutic, and 
the character of the wounds was so changed that " medical 
officers, on visiting the hospital, remarked that, had they been 
ignorant of the patients having been wounded, they would 

1 ' Bombay Med. and Phy. Soc. Transactions,' 1859, p. 12. 



SCURVY. 229 

have deemed the cases malignant fungus. The diet of the 
sepoy is of a nature to aggravate the above state, and we 
have thus presented the disease of deprivation, of low diet, 
and of impure oxygenation of blood, the latter aggravated by 
the crowded state of the hospital." 

It is not, however, the ulterior consequences of scurvy to 
which I would direct attention in this place. Such con- 
ditions require the curative powers of medical knowledge. 
It is the prevention of scurvy which more particularly falls 
within the province of sanitation, the rendering impossible 
that peculiar condition of the system formerly described as 
the scorbutic diathesis, a slighter and less apparent degree of 
which constitutes <( latent scurvy." 

I believe latent scurvy to be a more prevalent condition 
in India than is generally supposed. As a rule, even indi- 
viduals of the better classes insensibly acquire a habit of 
eating less vegetable material as part of their daily diet than 
they consume in Europe ; this partly arises from the fact of 
a scarcity of vegetables frequently occurring (particularly in 
former years) at mofussil stations, and partly because, from 
loss of appetite during the hot weather, so large a mass of 
food is not taken as in a colder climate, and the greater 
part of such material consists in soups, curries, beer, and 
other matters tempting to the appetite, and which can 
be consumed without any expenditure of physical force. 
Every one who has been long in India must admit the 
truth of the foregoing, and well remember that during 
the hot season broths and liquid food could be taken when 
the same in a solid mass would be loathed ; and the latter 
being generally composed of animal substance, a diminution 
of vegetable constituents in the diet results. 

.But although the want of vegetable matter or the 
elements of its composition in the diet will induce scurvy, 
still this is not the sole cause of the affection. Recent 
experience leads to the belief that all insufficient, exclusive, 



230 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

or artificial diet, if long persevered in, will induce symptoms 
of the disease, but more particularly and in a shorter space 
of time if the defects of food involve a loss of the just 
proportion of succulent vegetables with their salts of 
potash and azotized material. Scurvy was formerly supposed 
to depend entirely on the use of salted provisions, but this 
idea is no longer tenable. It is the absence of certain articles 
of food, and not the presence of others, which excites the 
diathesis, and it has occurred that the addition of a small 
portion of salted meat to a diet composed of insufficiently 
varied materials has been followed by beneficial results. 
This, I believe, occurred during the Caffre war among the 
troops, then under the charge of Dr. Hadaway, the present 
Deputy Inspector- General of British troops at Bombay. 

Another predisposing cause of scurvy which is in existence 
in India consists in the darkened dwellings in which many 
persons exist during the hot weather. The hot wind, and 
the light also, are shut out for the sake of coolness and to 
avoid the fiery blasts by the European ; and the native, as a 
rule, lives in a hut with only one small door, and no other 
external opening. That absence of sunlight is a strong 
predisposing cause of scurvy we have abundant evidence 
in the writings of Kane, M'Clintock, and other Arctic 
travellers, and there is every reason to suppose that the 
same result occurs in tropical regions. 

The prophylaxis, therefore, of scurvy consists in the due 
admixture of vegetable and animal food in the diet, and in 
cases where the former cannot be obtained, the use of lemon 
juice, tamarinds, citric acid, or potash, must be substituted. 
Dr. Garrod has latterly shown that the vegetables, as the 
Cruciferse, potatoes, &c., which possess a reputation as anti- 
scorbutics, owe their good effects to the potash they contain, 
which, indeed, was suspected long ago by Dr. Henderson, who 
cured his patients on board ship by giving them potash 
obtained from the gunpowder. 



SCURVY. 231 

As the scorbutic diathesis will allow the system to become 
an easy prey to almost any other disease, and as it aggravates 
all such subsequently contracted maladies, so every other 
disease, as malarious fever, dysentery, syphilis, in fact, every 
ill to which human flesh is heir, will be rendered more 
mortal, intractable, and virulent, by the effects of deficient or 
improper diet. 

In conclusion, it may be remarked that Dr. M'Nab 1 has 
recommended the shrub called annotta, and which is in- 
digenous in some parts of India, as an anti-scorbutic of 
considerable power, and one in which the natives place great 
confidence. 

1 Calcutta Med.-Phy. Society's Journ./ No. 3. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

ON PROPHYLACTIC MEDICINE. 

Results from Prophylactic Medicine in the Navy Same Plan recommended 
for Soldiers, in Malarious Seasons, during Cholera Respirators. 

IT has long been a standing rule in the navy, enjoined by 
Art. 9 of the ' Surgeons' Instructions/ that when men are sent 
on shore in tropical climates the surgeon is to recommend 
for each man, previous to leaving the ship, quinine and wine, 
and the same on return, if necessary. Dr. Bryson ('Med. Times 
and Gazette/ January, 1854) gives the reports of twelve 
medical officers, showing the good effects of the prophylactic 
on the South African station, the ratio of deaths falling 
during the year from an enormous figure to 6*9 per 1000. 

I can also bear witness to the power of quinine as a 
preservative against the fevers of the Persian Gulf, as ex- 
emplified by the exemption of seamen taking the alkaloid 
from malarious disease. 

Hence I would recommend that, on all occasions when 
soldiers are exposed to malarious influence or obliged to be 
located in known miasmatous localities, and during the 
malarious months, that the preservative effects of quinine 
wine should be taken advantage of, by administering it to 
the men. 

If it be argued that the British soldier cannot be forced 
to take medicine before he is sick, I would reply that any 
body of men, by a judicious mixture of advice, explanation, 
and jocularity, may be induced to pursue a method entailing 



PROPHYLACTIC MEDICINE. 233 

so little inconvenience. Call the quinine wine " a drain o' 
bitters," tell the men it will give them an appetite for their 
breakfast, or something of that kind, and there will be few 
unwilling drinkers. Even the latter would be overcome by 
the force of example, and in order to effect this the officers, 
medical and military, might take the same quantity. 
Quinine in moderation never injured any person yet, and a 
daily dose during the malarious season of the year, when in 
miasmatous localities, will often prevent that attack of fever, 
or delay that cachexia loci, under which so many, both 
officers and men, succumb. 

Prophylactic medicine is not, however, only necessary 
during malarious seasons. The system may, and should be, 
pursued during epidemics of other diseases cholera, for 
instance. Deputy Inspector-General Murray, in his ' Report 
on Epidemic Cholera in Central India in 1860/ ascribes the 
greatest importance to the exhibition of appropiate remedies 
at an early period in this disease, and states that a cholera 
" pill was ordered to be given in barracks to every man 
whose bowels were open during the night." 

Such measures as these, as circumstances may require, 
should never be neglected when there is reason to suppose 
the epidemic constitution of the air, or the causes of disease, 
are more powerful than usual. 

Dr. Stenhouse observes, ' ' If our soldiers and sailors were 
furnished with charcoal respirators, and if the floors and 
tents and the lower decks of ships were covered with a thin 
layer of charcoal, I think there would be little to apprehend 
from cholera, yellow fever, and similar diseases, by which 
our forces have been decimated," and suggests, to avoid 
inconvenience, the charcoal might be covered with canvas. 
( f On the Disinfecting Properties of Charcoal/) 

The properties of charcoal as a disinfectant have already 
been referred to (Chap. XV, " On Conservancy "), and there 
does not appear any reason why, when epidemics are dreaded 



234 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

or present, that this inodorous substance should not be used 
as recommended ; in other seasons it would be sufficient to 
place it on open trays or shallow boxes ; but when epidemic 
disease is present all consideration of appearance should 
be foregone, and the immense absorbent and decomposing 
powers of charcoal made available to their fullest extent. 

In like manner charcoal respirators should form a part 

k of the stores of every body of men, to be used when 

m^ obliged to pass through known unhealthy localities. The 

best kind of respirator can be easily manufactured by 

^L enclosing a layer of charcoal in cotton, the power of the 

^Matter of which in preventing the passage of impurities in the 

. air through its texture is referred to in Chapter II, " On 

Zymotic Disease." 

Natives are well aware of the preservative effects of 
respiring through an artificial texture, and hence, as a rule, 
wrap their heads up in their clothes, particularly when 
exposed to or sleeping in the night air. There can be 
no doubt they frequently escape malarious disease by this 
precaution. 

During epidemics of cholera, and, in fact, on all occasions 
when zymotic diseases, as cholera, contagious or typhoid 
fevers, yellow fever, &c., occur, the recommendation of Dr. 
Budd l should be attended to, and the vitality of the faeces of 
these ground-infecting diseases be destroyed, " by placing two 
ounces of caustic solution of chloride of zinc in the night- 
stool on each occasion before it is used by the patient," 
which will entirely destroy the contagious properties. Also, 
during the epidemics of cholera, these neutralized faeces 
should be immediately taken away and buried in a deep 
trench, as suggested by Dr. Bidie. 2 

1 ' The Lancet,' March, 1860 ; Budd, " On Typhoid Fever." 

2 ' Mad. Quart. Journ. Med. Sci.,' No. 1 ; Bidie, " On Etiology of Cholera. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ON SYPHILIS. 

Times when Syphilis is most prevalent in Armies : Causes Prevalence at 
other periods Career of the Syphilitic Soldier Difficulty of Curing 
Syphilis False Modesty to be avoided Prevention of Syphilis in the 
Army : Old Regulations ; Lock Hospitals Means most adapted for the 
Prevention of Syphilis : Syphilization. 

IT has long since been remarked that syphilis has increased 
in severity on armies being subjected to certain conditions, 
as on the march into foreign countries, during the oc- 
cupation of conquered districts, and after the return of the 
forces to their own country or into cantonments. Thus, 
Fergusson informs us that more men were mutilated by 
venereal during the first four years the English army 
occupied Portugal than the register of all the hospitals of 
England could produce in the last century. Baron Larry 
remarked that after the battle of Jena the most serious 
malady was syphilis, and Chevers states that this was 
exemplified on the return of the troops into cantonments on 
the termination of the late Indian mutinies ; at the present 
time the amount of venereal disease existing among the 
invading American armies is stated to be enormous. 1 

The causes of this virulence and prevalence of syphilis at 
such periods are to be found in exposure to the inclemency 
of the weather, want, intemperance, filth, the establishment 

1 ' Medical Times,' Jan. 1st, 1862. 



236 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

of the scorbutic diathesis and malarious degeneration, all of 
which are more prominent during a campaign, and in the 
fact of the men being supplied with more money and from 
their allowing evil passions to become more ascendant after 
the trials and hardships of active service, and thus not 
restraining from the intoxicating cup, and its frequent sequel 
among soldiers gregarious cohabitation. 

It is not, however, previous to, during, or immediately 
after, periods of war, that syphilis alone induces serious loss 
of life, and perhaps more invaliding amongst our European 
troops; at all times this fell disease, either in its primary 
'form furnishes the hospital with patients, or in its secondary 
or tertiary developments, per se, or combined with other 
tropical and malarious maladies, aids vigorously in destroy- 
ing the wretched victim so impregnated. 

Thus, from the most authentic data, it is stated that in the 
three presidencies the invaliding for syphilis alone amounts 
to 112 per 1000 of those invalided. 

But the number invalided for debility and rheumatism 
amounts to 120' 6 per 1000, and, as Dr. Lownds so justly and 
forcibly points out, " many of these cases of so-called debility 
and rheumatism have their origin in syphilis ;" they are, in 
fact, cases of syphilitic cachexia and syphilitic rheumatism, 
aggravated by malarial degeneration. 

In a table furnished by Sir A. Tulloch, given in the report 
of the late Lord Herbert's commission for the period 
subsequent to 1837, the rate of admission into hospital per 
1000 of strength were, in Madras 315, in Bombay 262, for 
syphilis, annually. 

Hence, from deaths, invaliding, and loss of service while 
men are in hospital, venereal disease plays no inconsiderable 
part among the maladies which swell the expenses attendant 
on the British occupation of India. 

A recent writer has thus sketched the career of the young 
soldier affected with syphilis: " He has not worn the Queen's 



SYPHILIS. 237 

livery for many days when he falls before allurements which 
encounter him just outside all barracks; he comes out of 
hospital with the chancre cured, but not by any means so 
much colour in his cheeks as when the disease was first 
incurred. Before very long he presents himself again, with 
pain in his bones, the syphilitic papulae, and the syphilitic 
physiognomy, more or less strongly marked ; after a certain 
quantity of hydriodate of potash has been swallowed, and 
after a few hot baths, &c., he is a second time discharged, 
cured. ' Syphilis ' may, however, be still read in his face, 
and his knapsack is too heavy for him ; he thinks that once 
relieved of that he would be all right and well again. He goes 
to hospital; the next discharge is a final one. The poor 
unit has gone to swell the terrible statistics about which we 
have all read, and over which it would be well for us to 
ponder more and more." 

It is a very general idea amongst soldiers, and, indeed, 
amongst those who occupy a higher position in the social 
scale, that venereal disease, especially in its primary form, is 
easily and quickly cured. The sooner all people are un- 
deceived on this point the better it will be for the public 
health and morals, and the less likely will individuals be to 
incur the danger. There is no disease from which empirics 
and nostrum-mongers reap a more abundant harvest, and this 
arises in a great measure because they promise, without 
hesitation, to do what they well know they cannot do, namely, 
to perform a cure, which the conscientious practitioner 
shrinks from asserting to be in his power. 

I will grant that in some constitutions secondary or 
tertiary symptoms may not occur, but their non-occurrence is 
the exception, and not the rule, after a well-marked 
primary Hunterian or hard chancre; if the individual on 
whom the latter occurs has any taint of scrofula in his 
constitution, I believe secondary affections will always 
result, whatever may be the treatment adopted. Certainly 
sequelae may be delayed and modified by remedies, but the 



238 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

poison remains dormant in the system, and after the lapse of 
months or years shows itself on some exciting agency being 
applied, or probably without any evident cause. 

Every medical man who has seen much syphilitic practice 
must admit the truth of these remarks. From the days of 
early pupilage under Langston Parker to the present period 
numberless instances have presented themselves which au- 
thorise my assertions. 

The rise,, fall, and commencing re-origin of the mercurial 
system ; the minor degree of power exerted over syphilis by 
preparations of potassium ; in short,, the absence of any known 
specific remedy for the disease, alike demonstrate that the 
fact of the incurability of the malady ought to be brought 
prominently forward in attempts at removing our great 
Social Emir 

The period has arrived when a false modesty should be 
avoided, and the subject ventilated. Mr. Solly, " so far from 
regarding syphilis as an evil, deems it a blessing," acting, 
as it does, as a restraint on the indulgence " of evil passions;" 1 
and without endorsing this remark in toto, I would add to 
the fear of contracting the disease by making public the 
ravages it creates ; the inability of medicine to cure : the 
peculiar constitutions it affects with most virulence ; the 
manner in which it recurs in after life ; the propagation of 
the affection in offsprings; and all such matters connected 
with the subject. 

Surely those who realise the picture presented by the 
following doggerel will be supplied with one other powerful 
motive for avoiding this disease : 

" A haggard spectre from the crew 
Crawls forth, and thus asserts his due : 
"Tis I who haunt the sweetest joy, 
And in the shape of love destroy ; 
My shanks, shrunk eyes, and bony face, 
Prove my pretensions to the place." 

1 Debate on Mr. Acton's paper at the Royal Med. and Chir. Society. 



SYPHILIS. 239 

While thus advocating the publicity of the dangers arising 
from venereal, both amongst the general public and the 
military, the officers and the soldiers, it is positively neces- 
sary that other methods for the prevention of syphilis should 
be introduced among the latter. 

In former times great severity was resorted to by military 
authorities in order to keep their camps free from prostitutes. 
Thus even in 1643 runaway wives apprehended in camps 
were to be put to death, unmarried women branded and 
scourged ; at other periods they have been ordered to be 
whipped, made to ride the cheval-de-bois, or had their left 
arms broken ! 

Years back, also, a fine used to be inflicted on soldiers or 
sailors, which became a perquisite of the medical officer.! 
This plan, however, did not work satisfactorily, as the men, 
in order to avoid the payment of such imposition, used every 
means in their power to avoid confessing the ailment, and 
hence rendered it almost impossible to cure, check, or 
modify the disease. 

At a later period this fine was commuted for an increased 
rate of hospital stoppage ; this plan, however, does not 
appear to have answered, and was discontinued in 1820. 

The system of weekly inspections, designated before the 
Army Sanitary Commission by Mr. Dartnell as ' ' an odious 
and disgusting operation, and also ineffective," is stated not 
to have answered " the expectations which were formed of it." 

Lock hospitals for diseased women were long since adopted 
in India, but, as Dr. Arnott tells us, " an outcry was raised 
against them, on account of their supposed demoralising 
tendency, and some even argued that, instead of removing, 
they increased the evil ;" accordingly the Lock hospitals were 
abolished in 1830. 

It would appear, however, that these institutions were not 
well conducted ; that they were made unimportant duties, 
and given into the charge of the junior medical officer; that 



240 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



they were even frequently left to the care of native sub- 
ordinates, who certainly " took advantage of their position, 
and were often guilty of gross. interference and imposition." 

Medical officers, however, were not wanting who protested 
against the discontinuance of these institutions, which, as 
Dr. Arnott remarks, " could scarcely increase the evil." We 
have, however, direct evidence of their efficacy in the 

I statistics of Waring, which incontrovertibly demonstrates 
that during the years immediately following the abolishment 
of Lock hospitals the per-centage of the admissions into 
hospital for venereal disease to strength was more than 
doubled. 

The means which appear most likely to prevent syphilis 
among soldiers consist of a combination of several of the 
methods above enumerated, in the encouragement of mar- 
riage among the men, and in giving a higher status and 
position to the soldier's wife (see Chapter XXVIII, " On the 
Soldier's Wife," &c.) and in the elevation of the moral cha- 
racter of the soldier himself. 

The subject of syphilis should be frequently explained to 
the men by the medical officer, and as at the present period 
and under present circumstances the probability of non- 
contact is nil, prophylactic measures, as cleanliness, should 
be enjoined. Periodical inspections may take place, but, as 
Mr. Dartnell recommends, at such times it is best to treat 
the soldier as a rational being, and look to his honour to 
come forward if any man has the venereal complaint. If after 
this the surgeon has reason to suppose the disease has been 
concealed, let the man be fined. 

Also let the name of the woman be demanded, and, if 
diseased, let her be sent to a Lock hospital, which, of course, 
would entail the establishment of such institutions, their 
management under adequate authority, and the registration 
of all bazaar women, to defray the expenses of which, either in 



SYPHILIS. 241 

whole or part,, the canteen funds, frequently ample, might be 
made available. 

The question of marriage amongst soldiers is considered in 
Chap. XXVIII, " On the Soldier's Wife, &c., his Employment, 
and the Elevation of his Moral Character -" in Chap. XIX, 
" On Intemperance," and in Chap. XXIV, " On the Em- 
ployment of the Spare Hours of the European Soldier in 
India." 

Until, however, a different class of men than is at present 
the case form the bulk of our army, stringent regulations 
must be enforced against syphilis, as against intemperance 
and other causes of disease. On the ground of expense, 
prevention is better than cure, or, as most frequently occurs 
in this disease, modification. On the ground of morality, it 
certainly may be allowable to mitigate and check an evil we 
cannot at present avoid ; hence, I should have no hesitation 
in recommending any known prophylactic agent, or method 
of prevention. 

At present extensive experiments are being made on the 
subject of syphilization in Bergen, Scandinavia, Norway, and 
France, by Danielssen, Boeck, Vogt, Nelaton, and others, 
and a consideration of the arguments of both advocates and 
opponents of the system, tends to the conviction that in this, 
or some similar process, a powerful means of modifying or 
probably of arresting the progress of secondary syphilis may 
be found. 



16 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

ON DRESS. 

General Remarks on Dress Former Dress of the Army Immediate effects of 
Heat on a Man at Rest ; in Motion Improvements in Indian Dress 
Full Dress The best Tropical Head-dress Objections to ventilating Hats 
Leather the best Material Form Theory The " Puggree" The 
Stock The Tunic Trousers Importance of a well- fitting Shoe 
Flannel Cotton The Sock Importance of the " Kummerbund" Use 
of the Puggree as a Kummerbund Use of the Beard. 

MAN differs from all other animals in possessing no 
natural protection from the inclemencies of the weather; he 
has neither the warm furs of the lower inhabitants of the 
Arctic regions, nor the thick skins and sparse hair of animals 
inhabiting the tropics. Man alone comes " naked into the 
world/' and is necessitated to tax his intelligence to provide 
himself with suitable covering an intelligence which other 
animals so endowed by nature do not possess. 

Thus we find that the pressure of circumstances in which 
the different races of men have been placed,, has led each to 
adopt that covering most suitable to the situation and 
climate. The Esquimaux uses no flowing robes like the 
Hindoo, and the latter, from the force of circumstances, 
carefully avoids close-fitting heavy garments. 

It is therefore perceived that the requirements to be 
fulfilled by dress, vary according to locality and climate, and 
indeed from employment and peculiar labour. The varia- 
tions produced by climate have been already referred to. 



DRESS. 



243 



The different dresses of the seaman, with his loose costume ; 
the fisherman and pilot with their dreadnoughts, water-proof 
leggings, and peculiar shaped helmet ; the miner with his 
flannel frock, are apropos examples of the effects of em- 
ployment on clothing. 

Such variations arising from the accident of peculiar 
employment being excepted, the principal physiological 
requirements to be fulfilled by dress are the following. The 
feet should be kept warm, not hot ; the head cool, not cold ; 
the neck should be moderately but not tightly covered ; the 
chest should be left free for respiration; the abdomen 
supported ; the weakness of the parietes of the latter, and 
the tension under muscular exertion, rendering this pro- 
tection so necessary. 

The fabric most suited for clothing is that having the 
cardinal property of a low conducting power for heat. This 
quality best preserves animal heat in a cold climate, and best 
protects against external heat in a hot climate. If to this be 
added the hygrometrical power of absorbing moisture, 
together with powers of radiation, we have the material 
par excellence for clothing. All these properties are pos- 
sessed by flannel and woollen texture to a greater or less 
extent. A polished metallic vessel filled with hot water will 
be cooled more rapidly by giving it a covering of flannel or 
wool; and this power of radiation, together with inferior 
conducting qualities and absorbing properties, paradoxical as 
it may appear, render flannel textures at the same time 
warming and cooling, and, what is of still more advantage, 
induce a moderation and regulation of the temperature. 

The next property which it is imperative to consider as 
influencing the effects of dress, is colour. From experiments 
it would appear conclusive that dark-coloured bodies become 
soonest and most heated on exposure to the sun the 
maximum power of retaining heat belonging to black, the 
minimum to white. 



244 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



It is also stated that when the sun's rays are absorbed by a 
dark surface, the heat loses its peculiar powers, ceases to be 
radiant, and will not induce inflammation, or sun-burn. 
Such facts tend to the formation of the opinion, that in hot 
climates two colours should be used at the same time white 
in the outer garments exposed to the sun's rays, dark in the 
inner clothing, to prevent these rays acting injuriously on 
the skin. In the African and Hindoo, with a dark skin, 
there is a strong desire for white clothing. The pure Arab 
horses those descended from the twelve sires have white 
hair, and the skin dark. 

Thus it must be admitted that the clothing worn has 
much to do with health and disease, not only in the induc- 
tion or the reverse of coughs, colds, bronchial and inflam- 
matory affections, but also as regards other maladies which 
are not so well known by the public, or which are scarcely 
ever supposed to be due to ought else than specific causes. 
There are facts tending to prove that the body well wrapped 
in flannel or clad in warm clothing, so as to prevent a check 
to perspiration and chill from the night air, is more capable 
of resisting malaria, and hence of escaping ague and remit- 
tent fever than it would be without such aids. Again, thick 
clothing round the loins and bowels, especially in tropical 
climates, has many uses. It may afford security against 
lumbago, it may aid in preventing chills to the abdominal 
organs, congestion, inflammation of the bowels or of the 
liver and its appurtenances, or of the kidneys, and hence 
tends to check the formation of calculi either biliary or 
urinary. 

But it would extend the limits of this article beyond 
reason were all the advantages derived from suitable clothing 
commented upon. Enough has been said to demonstrate 
how irrational it must be for men both in England or in the 
East and West Indies to wear the same description of 
clothing. The dress contrived for the one country and 



; 



DRESS. 245 

climate, and suitable thereto, in the other becomes almost 
intolerable, and the consequences have been serious. From 
this cause the health of the soldier has been deteriorated and 
his efficiency therefore diminished. Within the tropics, in 
the old style of dress, when on duty he suffered unduly from 
heat. When released from duty he threw off his warm 
heavy clothing, and exposed his skin bathed in perspiration 
to the breeze, and thereby not unfrequently immediately 
contracted mortal disease. 

Since that period, during the reigns of the four Georges, 
when our soldiers wore pig-tails and powdered hair which 
they adjusted when preparing for parade by sitting in rows 
on benches, each man arranging his comrade's back hair, and 
then reversing position to perform the same office with the 
pasted locks in front since the period when gaiters were 
worn, to fasten the number of buttons up the side of which 
was a work of time and labour nay, even during the last 
quinquennial period, immense changes and improvements 
have been effected in military costumes. 

Army surgeons have not desisted from the days of Pringle 
to the present time in urgently recommending the adoption 
of suitable dress, as one of the most important means by 
which the health of European soldiers in the tropics is to be 
preserved. Notwithstanding the arguments furnished both 
by common sense, daily experience, and physiological science, 
it is only latterly that the dress of the British soldier iu 
India has been well adapted to the climate. 

" In this country," Mr. Jeffrys observes, " the British 
soldier on duty, surrounded by the hot atmosphere, with the 
sun over his head, and the heated ground under his feet, 
presents to our view the unfortunate subject of three hostile 
agencies which induce their evil effects through the medium 
of the skin or mucous membrane of the air passages, or 
both. 

" When the atmosphere is colder than the temperature of 



246 



HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 



the skin, the latter parts with internal heat both by perspi- 
ration, radiation, and convection. But when the heat of the 
air is above that of the skin the convection is reversed, 
bringing heat to the skin and putting its active powers to the 
double trial of having to throw off not only the animal heat, 
but invading atmospheric heat also." 1 Add to this direct 
solar rays and radiation, and reflection of the same from the 
arid ground, the rarified and therefore less oxygenated 
atmosphere ; all of which increase the work of the skin and 
the mucous membranes, soon to end in their intense debility, 
and hence poisoning of the circulating fluid, and the physio- 
logist has little difficulty in explaining the sequel for which 
the system has been prepared dysentery, heat-asphyxia, sun- 
stroke or fever, even when the individual affected is at rest. 

As Jeffrys observes, " The brain through the aid of the 
vis vita, makes shift to endure for a time, but for the most 
part by shifting the oppression from itself to some distant 
organ, or to the whole skin of the body. The man sooner or 
later shudders (a skin impression) vomits and is in for 
cholera ; or shudders and starts at more than a bayonet in his 
liver the commencement of acute inflammation in that 
organ; or he shudders and dejects blood; acute dysentery 
with its long train of suffering is his lot." Also, " The skin's 
debility is malaria's opportunity." The mephites of fever, 
dysentery, and cholera, stalking over the bodies of a sleeping 
army which has been exposed to the sun by day, quickly 
scent out the enfeebled skins and divide the prey. 

If such be the case with the European when at rest, how 
much more rapidly must similar disorders occur when the 
man, improperly dressed, is exposed to such deleterious 
agencies. Exertion being added to heat, immediately accele- 
rates the debilitated circulation ; the quickened coursing of 
the blood is attended by more frequent and deeper respira- 
tions a vain endeavour that the blood may be cleansed and 

1 Jeffrys The British Soldier in India.' 



DRESS. 247 

oxygenated as it passes through the lobules of the lungs. 
The man straining to expand his chest, and urgently re- 
quiring the utmost freedom of circulation, finds that a tight 
fitting vestment or belt interferes with this, and that a rigid 
stock prevents the due return of the blood through the 
swollen veins of the head and neck. As the editor of the 
( Lancet ' forcibly observes, ' ' The resulting distress and dan- 
ger are not matters of surprise ; his muscles wearied, the 
man drops his head, the pressure on the stiff stock increases 
the congestion, this and a sense of suffocation force the dizzy 
soldier to release himself from the throttling stock, to un- 
button his tunic, and to take whatever means he can to breathe 
more freely, to give freer play to the struggling heart. If these 
measures of relief fail, or if not being resorted to the man 
falls down dead or dying, he is said to have died of sun- stroke. 
No doubt the heat of the sun is a predisposing cause, but it 
is not the sole cause ; many cases of reported sun-stroke and 
apoplexy are the direct consequences of the mechanical 
interference with the circulation caused by the soldier's dress." 

Lastly, there can be no doubt that in some instances even 
when a man is at rest (and much more quickly during the 
predisposition caused by exertion), that the heat of the sun's 
rays acts directly on the inadequately protected brain, and 
destroys the vital powers by shock, commencing with well 
or faintly marked collapse, and terminating rapidly by apo- 
plectic congestion. 

Happily these appalling terminations of life from improper 
dress are not so likely to happen in India at the present 
time as they were in former years. Efficiency is not now as 
of yore sacrificed to appearance; and it is only when the 
Indian soldier is in full dress that he must still put on " the 
cloth coat of a northern clime, trousers fit for a Siberian 
campaign, and a hat that protects the head neither from 
heat or cold." 

A good soldier's head-dress is still a desiderative for India. 



248 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Such an article should be capable of being thrown about 
without injury; should be composed of material not too 
heavy, and yet is required to be of that texture which will 
least absorb and conduct heat, and best reflect and radiate. 
As expressed in my ' Manual of the Diseases of India/ I am 
strongly of opinion that the majority of the head-dresses 
manufactured on ventilating principles alone, are grave 
mistakes. A ventilating hat with a wide circle, or holes, 
all round the head, through which the hot wind is constantly 
rushing, must tend to induce rapid evaporation from the 
scalp, which in a lengthened exposure may result in heat 
and dryness; thus actually predisposing to the affections 
which the hat was intended to obviate. On the other hand, 
a head-dress having a canopy into which the head fits, of 
necessity retains the perspiration and moisture, and mate- 
rially lessens the chance of sun-stroke, or head affection. 

I am aware that it may be objected that if perspiration 
lies wet on the surface, the skin begins to throw out less 
than is natural or necessary, and that internal heat may be 
prevented evaporating by keeping the surface unventilated. 
To this I would reply, that soldiers in India seldom wear 
their solar head-dresses sufficiently long to induce the scalp 
to acquire a new habit, and that removal for a moment, or 
simply adjusting the hat (as all persons involuntarily do at 
intervals), is sufficient to allow a stream of air to rush under- 
neath which inversely with its high temperature cause the 
wet head as I have hundreds of times practically experi- 
enced to become most cool and comfortable for a consider- 
able period afterwards. 

I do not, however, disapprove of the ventilating system in 
toto, but I consider it should be combined with other prin- 
ciples and not alone depended upon. 

Of all known materials, I think leather is the one best 
fitted for the manufacture of Indian head-dresses. It may 
be thrown about without injury ; cannot readily be destroyed; 



DRESS. 249 

may be bent and restored to its former shape, and is not 
very heavy ; advantages, excepting the last, which are not 
possessed by felt or pith, and scarcely to so great an extent 
by wicker work. 

The form of all Indian head-dresses should be helmet- 
shaped, which alone affords proper protection to the back of 
the neck and temples. The present wicker hats now in use 
in many regiments having a broad, flat brim, allow the 
slanting beams of the morning and evening sun to pass 
below them, and strike the head of the wearer. Many indi- 
viduals feel the horizontal rays even more than the vertical 
meridian sun, and hence it appears a sine qua non, that all 
head-dresses should have the curved brim. 

The description of solar hat I prefer is one consisting of 
two layers of leather, the inner layer fitting round the head 
with a lining pad, &c., and leaving a short space between the 
vertex and the inner, central surface. The outer layer joins 
the inner one at that point corresponding with the com- 
mencement of the slope of the brim, and then ascends with 
the true helmet shape, the distance between the two layers 
gradually increasing from the junction to the summit where 
three inches or more would intervene. Of course props may 
be placed to" keep the two layers separate if desirable, and 
such props might consist of leather, cork, or vulcanized 
India rubber. Unless, however, the helmet be subjected to 
very rough usage, the inherent stiffness of the leather is 
sufficient for this purpose. A small ventilating apparatus 
should be placed at the summit, and small eyelets to corre- 
spond at the junction of the two layers below. 

By this helmet the head is kept moist ; a stratum of non- 
conducting air is placed between the outer and inner canopy. 
Sufficient ventilation is afforded by the eyelet holes in the 
inner leather, or skull cap, and the moisture passing through 
the latter tends to retain the stratum of air between the 
leathers in a damp condition; which moisture the small 




250 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

amount of hot air rushing round the head is unable to 
dissipate. 

A white cover may be worn over the helmet, or, on seasons 
of exposure, a good puggree or turban. Elwood's patent felt 
helmet is to be recommended, but is too expensive for soldiers' 
use. 

The stock so long denounced by all military, medical 
officers is now no longer worn in India ; a simple necktie 
being adopted in its stead. 

Nothing can be more satisfactory than the form of the 
tunic now in daily use. It fits lightly to the person, hangs 
loosely, does not incommode or prevent agile movement, and 
when in length suited to the height of the wearer, looks 
well. I think, however, pockets in front would be an 
immense advantage, especially to men on the march, or on 
active service. By general order, May 21st, 1858, the 
shakee (ash-coloured cloth) was ordered to be the material 
for the summer tunic. This, however, when washed, loses 
colour and ultimately becomes white, thus causing a regiment 
to present a motley appearance, and I think the adoption of 
white structure, as drill, for the tunic would be preferable. 

In the cold weather the tunic is worn of coarse red serge 
flannel, than which nothing can be more appropriate 
material. 

I am of opinion that trousers are the best nether garments 
for the soldier ; they are slipped on and off without trouble ; 
may be rolled and tied up from the dirt and water, neither 
of which advantages are possessed by the many-buttoned 
leggings and breeches, or even " knickerbockers." American 
drill or dungaree is the proper structure for trousers. 
Soldiers cannot march in India in cloth pantaloons with any 
degree of comfort or convenience. 

Marshall Saxe used to say that legs win battles; and 
another eminent general tells us, that the fortune of a 
campaign may be settled by the method of lacing soldiers' 



DRESS. 251 

boots. Moreover, at close quarters, a soldier who is lame or 
weak in the feet, from ill-fitting boots or otherwise, can never 
apply with advantage the strength of his arm when wielding 
the bayonet or in sustaining a charge, simply because, as Dr. 
Camper l observes, in both cases ' ' the foot is that part of the 
mechanical system of leverage that rests upon the fulcrum, 
the ground ; so that if leverage is weakened at that important 
point, the strength of the whole system is immediately re- 
duced a fact well known to engineers/' 

Hence the importance of each soldier having his boots 
made to measure, and rejecting all misfits, by which his 
strength and usefulness will be greatly increased in the day 
of trial, and extra carriage for the foot sore avoided on the 
line of march. 

Under the system of workshops now attached to all 
European regiments, it may be hoped that the men before 
long will be supplied with better fitting shoes, constructed or 
superintended by European workmen, few natives having any 
idea of fashioning a good fitting boot. Of all varieties of the 
latter, I believe the lace-up or ' ' blucher " best fitted for the 
soldier, having, however, only three pairs of eyelets. 

Some military surgeons, amongst whom is W. Fergusson, 
condemned the use of flannel next the skin, as " a nuisance 
in barrack life," chiefly in consequence of its being allowed 
to become saturated with dirt. Of the sanatory value, how- 
ever, of this texture next the skin of the European in India, 
there can be little doubt, preventing as it does, much of the 
danger arising from sudden alternations of temperature. 
When flannel irritates the skin, as is occasionally the case 
with some individuals, silk is a good substitute. Very dark 
flannel which harbours dirt should be avoided for the use of 
soldiers, and frequent examination of white instituted to 
ensure cleanliness. As Sir Ranald Martin 3 points out, the 

1 ' On the Best Form of Shoe.' 

2 Martin < On Tropical Climates,' p. 125. 



252 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

cotton shirt from its slowness of conducting heat, is ad- 
mirably adapted for the tropics. Cotton clothing is not only 
cooler than linen from the fact of its conducting to the body 
excess of external heat more slowly, but also is warmer from 
the same non-conducting characteristic, when the tempera- 
ture sinks below the heat of the body. 

Hence, when vicissitudes of temperature occur, the advan- 
tages of cotton are evident, and under the profuse perspira- 
tions of the tropics, when linen so wetted would feel cold and 
chill from accidental breezes, the cotton shirt, as stated, 
maintains a more equable warmth. 

The socks issued to soldiers should be either all wool or 
a mixture of wool and cotton. Nothing tends to blister the 
feet so much as marching in cotton socks under a coarse 
shoe in warm weather. No part of the perspiration is 
absorbed by them, but the moisture remains on the feet, 
which, immediately exercise ceases, become cold and clammy. 

Silk has been mentioned as a substitute for flannel under- 
clothing when the latter irritates a too sensitive skin. Silk 
in contact with other fabrics will probably conduce to health by 
exciting an electrical atmosphere adjoining the person, although 
its powers of regulating temperature are inferior to flannel. 

Mr. Stewart l says, " I believe the sun exercises as injurious 
an effect on the organic or sympathetic system through the 
medium of the spinal column and of the solar plexus, and on 
the action of the heart and circulation, and hence the 
oxygenating function of the lungs, as it does on the brain." 
The same has been observed by many other medical officers, 
and in fact I believe that many of the so-called cases of heat 
asphyxia have their origin in intense spinal congestion. Hence 
the importance of the turban, shading the upper part of the 
medulla spinalis, and of the " kummerbund" worn round the 
loins. All soldiers should be habitually required to wear the 
latter, in the shape of a double flannel belt eight inches 

1 Annual Report 25th Regiment N.I., Trans. Bomb. Med. Phy. Soc., 1861. 



DRESS. 253 

broad, round the waist and bowels, both day and night. 
When campaigning, in order to guard against the physio- 
logical well known evil effects of blasts of cold wind, or 
even heated air, they ought to be ordered to take their 
cotton turban from their helmet and wear it (as the native 
does his kummerbund) as an additional protection, during the 
hours of sleep and rest, to that most susceptible part the 
abdomen. The turban might be so worn during the early 
hours of the morning march, restoring it to the helmet when 
the sun's rays rendered it necessary to furnish additional 
protection to the head and upper portion of the medulla 
spinalis. By this means the former would be lightened of 
its burden during the absence of the sun, and the latter 
would be protected during the colds of night ; and vice versa, 
just those periods when protection is required, and may be 
dispensed with, by the parts in question. 

Of all the contrivances to fasten on the knapsack, that 
known as Berrington's appears the best qualified to remove 
undue pressure from and admit perfect expansion of the 
chest, and also freedom for the play of the arms. Although 
soldiers, as a rule, do not carry their knapsacks on the India 
march, still as they are occasionally required to do so, they 
should be supplied with that formation which can be borne 
with most ease. 

Bichat long since asserted that although numerous causes 
might exist to produce debility of system in coincidence with 
the presence of the beard, yet the general impression must be 
that there exists " un certain rapport entre elle (la barbe) et 
les forces :" that the muscular energy is to a certain extent 
dependent on the presence of the beard, and that the habitual 
deprivation of this appendage causes a diminution of the 
vital and therefore physical force. The same idea is held by 
other authorities, among whom Dr. Holland l states, " Cutting 

1 'The Constitution of the Animal Creation, as Expressed in Structural 
Appendages.' 



254 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

the beard as it grows is not only absurd, but frequently 
prejudicial to the healthy condition of organs more or less 
interested in its development. The beard is the distinguish- 
ing appendage of man, and has generally been uncurbed in 
its growth in those nations which have in succession been 
pre-eminent for valour and influence of character. The 
beard uninterrupted in its growth is more intimately asso- 
ciated with the mental powers, affecting their manifestation, 
than may be supposed possible at first." 

In addition to these cogent reasons for the preservation 
of the beard, there is no doubt that the moustache acts as a 
species of filter to the air, and thus tends to prevent the 
inspiration of organic material floating in the atmosphere. 

Hence it is to be hoped that the soldier will never again 
be obliged to destroy his martial appearance, and deteriorate 
his health by the process of shaving, and that the beard will 
ere long become a distinctive feature of a "man-of-war's" 
man as it is now of a British merchant sailor. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE SPARE HOURS OF THE 
EUROPEAN SOLDIER IN INDIA. 

Why should the Soldier deteriorate more than other Europeans in Tropical 
Climates Ennui Intemperance and Vice proceed from Ennui Cause of 
failure of attempts to occupy the Soldier Sir H. Rose's Orders Numbers 
of Mechanics in a Regiment Soldier to be Utilized Objections refuted 
Soldiers at Hill Stations Sir H. Laurence and the Lahore Garden 
Colonel Robertson's Opinions High prices of European Labour Remedy 
Sir Hugh Rose's Opinions. 

THERE exists no good reason why the soldier should dete- 
riorate more than Europeans who are resident in a tropical 
climate, or why, excepting from the chances of warfare and 
active service, he should not at the retiring age of forty, be a 
better man, and a more useful member of society than when 
he first enlisted ? Why should he, as one doomed, sink under 
climatic influences which the European officer or the Euro- 
pean, merchant brave with comparative impunity ? or why, 
within the period that has but just sufficed to qualify the 
civilian for the higher posts in the State, should the soldier 
become only fitted for the infirmary or asylum ? 

One amongst other causes, which add to this mental and 
physical degeneration, which induces intemperance, the con- 
traction of syphilis, and their results, has already been stated 
to be lack of employment the demon " ennui." 

Martinets have said, occupy the soldier with his drill and 
professional work; but that has now become an exploded 



256 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

policy. What a man does well, he does willingly ; if work is 
not performed with inclination thereto, such business, in the 
majority of instances, is not satisfactorily performed. Keep 
the soldier constantly at drill and he becomes disgusted with 
it, and dissatisfied with his occupation ; vary his professional 
work, with other suitable employment, and he recurs to both 
with zeal and zest. Moreover, it would be impossible, with- 
out overworking the officers of all classes, to keep the soldier 
at perpetual drill. Therefore there must be periods of enforced 
idleness, and there is not a question that out of such forced 
idleness and its consequences, arise the larger portion of vice 
and physical debility which a barrack life too often entails. 

Many experiments hitherto made for providing occupation 
for the European soldier in India have failed, simply from the 
fact that sufficient attention has not been paid, in the first 
instance, to the various habits, tastes, and pursuits of dif- 
ferent individuals, and recreation ceases to be such if forced; 
becoming, in the opinion of the soldier, only another kind of 
drill. A man cannot be made to dig in a garden, or find 
recreation therein, by putting a spade in his hand, and lec- 
turing him on the value of horticultural pursuits. Thus it is 
with all occupations the man who loves the one will often 
detest the other, and hence the soldiers should be left as much 
as possible to their own liberty of choice. 

The enlightened orders of Sir Hugh Rose sufficiently de- 
monstrate the importance which that gallant General attaches 
to the suitable occupation of the leisure hours of the Euro- 
pean soldier in India. His Excellency has desired that 
commanding officers will at once take measures to establish 
in the barracks occupied by their regiments or batteries a 
system of workshops, " on the principle herewith promul- 
gated, and that they will do their utmost to ensure success/' 1 

Such principles are, to enable the European soldiers to 
carry on in their leisure hours the trades and occupations by 

1 General Orders, 1861. 



EMPLOYMENT OP SPARE HOURS OF EUROPEAN SOLDIERS. 257 

which they earned their living before enlistment. To afford 
opportunities for their children to learn trade. To make the 
canteen fund available for prizes to good workmen. To place 
the earnings of the soldier in the Savings' Banks. Defaulters 
to be prohibited from working. Tradesmen of all kinds to 
be distributed in each company. Workmen who are well-up 
in their drill to be excused attending ordinary parades during 
the hot season. 

In a cavalry regiment only 654 strong there were 20 
carpenters; 10 masons; 23 shoemakers; 10 smiths; 41 clerks; 
3 carvers; 27 grooms; 12 bricklayers; 8 saddlers; 24 tailors; 
2 watchmakers; 1 wheelwright; and 126 labourers, &c. 

No wonder that with supplies of workmen like this, that 
an executive engineer could report to His Excellency, at a 
late inspection, that the men repaired the whole of the barrack 
furniture ; or that the Head Quarters' Wing of Her Ma- 
jesty's 6th Regiment at Sinchal "have effected extensive 
repairs in their barracks, which but for their assistance would 
scarcely have been habitable." 

It has been too much the custom to look upon the soldier 
as a mere machine for the performance of military duty, and 
to supply him, by native agency, with everything he requires. 
I would endeavour to utilize the soldier, and make him perform 
numerous matters for himself, which native servants are now 
entertained to do. I may be met by the objection, that such 
a line of procedure would expose the soldier to the sun and 
vicissitudes of the weather, and so render him still more liable 
to disease ; but under adequate regulations this need not be 
the case. Many trades may be carried on in-doors ; and in 
the cold weather, and often in the monsoon, there is nothing 
to prevent an European working in the open air for several 
hours both morning and evening. 

At a hill station there is no reason why the soldier 
should not at all times perform nearly every duty for himself : 
feed, tend, and slaughter his own meat ; build ; cut trenches ; 

17 



258 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

drain ; make roads in fact, be employed, under certain re- 
strictions as to exposure, in every possible manner. 

As an example of what may be done on the plains, under 
one head, may be instanced the garden constructed under the 
superintendence of Sir Henry Larwence at Lahore, where 
an extensive native garden, overgrown with weeds and brush- 
woods, was converted into a place of public resort for the 
amusement and instruction of the European soldiers : "where 
they could spend the day in the shade, or read, or play at 
all sorts of gymnastic games, according to their tastes." 

Colonel Robertson, in his report to the Commander-in- 
Chief, " points to the necessity for various departments to 
employ soldiers in such work about the barracks as they 
are competent to perform ; " and Government may readily 
demand from their servants that such work is carried on at 
a reasonable rate of remuneration. 

A bar to the employment of Europeans by those requiring 
their services has hitherto been, the enormous rates of pay 
the former require. By utilising the soldier more, by expect- 
ing each man to Avork at his trade, competition would be 
originated by which monopoly, the parent of extravagant 
prices, would be destroyed. 

This subject cannot be better concluded than by again 
quoting Sir Hugh Rose : "One of the chief objects of 
work-shops is to instruct the children of soldiers in trades. 
In this view commanding officers are requested to do their 
utmost to induce parents to allow their children to receive 
the necessary instruction. Remuneration will be given to 
the soldier who teaches the child a trade, the amount of which 
will depend on the degree of efficiency which he has enabled 
the child to attain." 



CHAPTER XXV. 

ON CAMPS AND MARCHING. 

In all possible cases Sanitation should regulate the choice of Camp Sites 
Grounds to be Chosen and Avoided Space between Tents insisted upon 
Conservancy arrangements Graveyards to be Avoided Cholera Un- 
healthy Camps Period to March Causes of Disease to be avoided en route, 

ON active service military necessities will often necessitate 
the formation of a camp in malarious or otherwise unhealthy 
localities ; but at all other periods the site,, aspect, and posi- 
tion of camps should be regulated by sanitary principles ; 
and this is most especially demanded when there is any 
probability that the camp will continue a standing one. 
The worst ground, as already referred to (Chap. XI, " On the 
Choice of Stations"), is a clay soil, or a clay subsoil, coming 
near the surface, both of which are retentive of moisture, 
and keep the locality constantly damp and in a malarial 
condition. A few holes dug over the proposed site will 
always show if the subsoil be dry or otherwise. Ground at 
the foot of a slope is apt to be damp and unhealthy, as it 
receives water from the higher levels. Localities of this 
nature, occupying the angle between hill ranges and the 
lower flat country, or situated in deep narrow valleys, often 
predisposes its occupants, even in temperate climates, to 
epidemic disease. High positions exposed to winds blowing 
over low marshy ground, even if at a great distance (see 



260 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Chap. Ill, "On Malaria"), are sometimes unsafe on account of 
fevers. In tropical climates, camping grounds at the mouth 
of narrow wooded valleys down which the wind blows, often 
predispose to the same disease, and should be avoided. 
Ground covered with rank vegetation is unhealthy, on account 
of the amount of decaying matter in the soil, and the presence 
of such vegetation is in itself indicative of a marshy subsoil. 
Sandy tracts of rivers are also malarious, and the same may 
be stated of their emboucheres. Ground abounding with 
frogs, and birds which inhabit marshy localities, is to be 
avoided. Generally a friable soil, not encumbered with 
vegetation, with a good fall for drainage, not receiving or 
retaining the water from higher ground, and open to winds 
blowing over no marshy or unwholesome land, will afford 
the greatest amount of protection from disease which the 
climate admits of. 

A recent writer observes, "Camps are not unfrequently 
arranged so that the tents touch each other, except where a 
narrow passage is left between the rows for access," Such 
a camp can neither be clean nor healthy, and thorough 
ventilation is impossible. Closely packed together barrack 
huts or tents are a direct cause of disease, and the segrega- 
tion over a large area is the best means of preventing or 
arresting the spread of epidemic disease. 

It was shown in the report of the royal commission on 
the sanitary state of the army, that the Quartermaster- 
General's instructions issued at the commencement of the 
Crimean war authorized densities of population on the camp 
surface equal to 347,000, 348,000, and 664,000 inhabitants 
per square mile. The lowest of these densities is double 
that of the most thickly populated district in England. 
Taking the ground actually covered by tents, the regulations 
gave a density of population equal to 1,044,820 per square 
mile. 

In comparison with these figures the report mentioned 



CAMPS AND MARCHING, 261 

gave the following examples of the most densely populated 
districts in the metropolis : 

St. James, Westminster 144,008 inhabitants per square mile. 
Holborn . . . 148,705 
Strand . . . 161,536 

An Indian camp, however, is spread over an immensely 
larger surface than is noted above. Every regiment has its 
large distinguishing flag, every tent its sign stuck into the 
place for its pole, all laid off by line and compass the evening 
before by the quartermaster of corps or other official, who 
goes forward for that purpose. 

The choice of the locality for forming the camp should not 
however be left to the quartermaster or commissariat officer, 
but the medical officer should always proceed in advance, and 
apply his special knowledge to the important matter under 
consideration. 

Great attention must be paid to the conservancy arrange- 
ments in a standing Indian camp, even although the canvass 
city may be only stationary for a few days. No dirt should 
be permitted to accumulate either from the shambles, bazaars, 
camp followers, or soldiers within the limits of the lines of 
tents. Trenches should be dug to leeward, and all ordered 
there to pay their devotion to Cloacina. Such trenches, 
Dr. Hamilton * states, " should be narrow and deep so as to 
leave as little surface for evaporation as possible, and every 
day a certain amount of earth excavated in their construction 
should be replaced until the whole is covered in, and then 
new sinks should be dug." Camp latrines should not be placed 
on running streams, as the communication of zymotic disease 
through the medium of water (see Chap. XVI, "On Water") 
has been so thoroughly proved, that no doubt now remains 
that such a course may be fraught with the greatest danger. 
Soldiers are ever ready to use running streams for disgusting 

1 A Practical Treatise on Military Surgery,' Boston, 1861. 



262 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

purposes, and it would even be advisable to post sentries over 
the water to prevent such pollution. If the contaminated 
stream flows toward the enemy, disease may be induced in 
those regions over which the conquering army has to pass. 
If the water runs in a contrary direction, the rear, the 
advancing reinforcements, or by a retrograde movement the 
army itself, may become epidemically diseased from the 
unclean water. Nay more, the fluid itself, ere it leaves the 
camp, may convey sickness. 

Care should be taken that camps are not pitched on old 
graveyards, or over ground charged with organic matter. 
The outbreak of smallpox at Quebec from the opening of an 
old smallpox cemetery has been already noticed in a previous 
chapter. When the first division of the army arrived at 
Varna, 13 June, 1854, they were healthy, till they encamped 
at Aladyn. There they unfortunately took the same site 
which the light division had formerly occupied, and then 
cholera, preceded by diarrhoea, broke out. 1 

On the 20th October, 1854, the battle of the Alma was 
fought, and afterwards the 4th Division encamped on ground 
recently occupied by the Russians ; cholera also raged in 
this camp. 

In India numberless instances of the kind have happened, 
as the fact noted in the chapter on cholera, that the disease 
frequently follows the lines of the great roads or streams of 
communication, sufficiently shows. Hence the desirability 
of not occupying ground which has been recently encamped on. 
Such ground becomes fouled and dirty, and contains the 
elements which may be lighted into epidemic disease. The 
practice of having appointed spots of ground along the great 
routes as camping sites, is not to be recommended. 

In the camp, or on the march, the same or even greater 
attention should be paid to the purity of water than has been 
asserted to be so necessary in cantonments. 

1 ' Parl. Papers of Sebas. Com.,' p. 74. 



CAMPS AND MARCHING. 263 

If obliged to camp in manifestly unhealthy localities, as at 
the foot of ghants or on marshy ground, a prophylactic dose 
of quinine should be administered, and the floors of the tents, 
particularly of the hospital, raised with larger masses of straw 
or hay. Fires about the encampment will also tend to destroy 
malaria. 

Much difference of opinion has arisen respecting the period 
of the twenty-four hours which should be fixed on as the 
most appropriate season for marching. Eminent authorities 
have not been wanting who have condemned the general 
custom of marching in the early hours of the morning. 
Thus Ballingall recommended " an hour's more sleep and an 
hour's more sun " and it has also been brought forward as 
an argument against early marching, that the greater number 
of cases of insolation take place during the early hours of the 
morning. Other objections are, that the men are called out 
into the damp cold air of night, perhaps remain standing 
about for some time, and thus are liable to chills, and the 
consequent colicky pain in the bowels, or diarrhoea, or recur- 
rence of ague. Annesley also advised that night marches 
should if possible be avoided, on account of their depriving 
the soldier of his rest, which cannot always be procured in 
the heat of the day ; and this author moreover states, that 
in the Carnatic, where damp is not so prevalent, early hours 
would be advisable ; while in Mysore, Hyderabad, and the 
ceded districts, where there are heavy fogs and dews, troops 
should not be taken out before such are dissipated, 

As a general rule, it appears to me that the afternoon is 
the proper period for marching ; but in the very cold weather 
of Northern India, there is no reason why the troops should 
not move at daylight, commencing; the march with the first 
glimpse of dawn. When marching at other seasons, four or 
five o'clock in the evening appears a more suitable season than 
the early hours of morning, the system, fortified by the 
previous dinner, being less liable to the poisonous effects of 



264 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

malaria, than it is when sleep has been disturbed, and the 
digestive organs long unemployed. The objections frequently 
made to marching in the after part of the day are, that the 
men arrive on the camping ground in the dark, that they 
cannot see sufficiently well to pitch the tents in good order, 
and that considerable confusion, and oftentimes accidents, 
result. During that period of the month when the splendid 
moon of the tropics affords light, all these objections fall to 
the ground. At other times it must be admitted that they 
have considerable force, especially when applied to large 
bodies of men camping on an unknown or imperfectly known 
site. AVhen, however, the party is small, as a wing of a 
regiment or battery of artillery, and when the camping 
ground is an established one, and therefore well known, little 
more difficulty or confusion would be experienced in forming 
a camp, than is the case when the men, in the dark, or by 
the light of fires, strike their tents and pack up their traps to 
move off in the early hours of the morning. 

Of course the cold season, or the period from November 1st 
to the end of February, is the time when all troops should, 
if possible, be moved. Instances are numerous where the 
most disastrous results occurred to regiments, both European 
and native, marching during the hot or rainy months. 

It may be taken as the rule that troops, especially Euro- 
peans, cannot move in the hot weather or rains, without ex- 
periencing a large amount of present sickness. Or supposing, 
as, however, rarely happens, that cholera or sun-stroke do 
not devastate the ranks while on route, still the after effects 
are observable in the large per-centage of sickness always 
occurring on the return of the troops into quarters. Ex- 
treme political necessity alone justifies the movements of 
European troops during the hot and rainy seasons of India. 
Humanity to the men, and economical considerations to the 
state, together with the teachings of physiological science, 
alike forbid the exposure of the European to the summer 



CAMPS AND MARCHING. 265 

heat of the tropical sun, or to the damp and dysentery of the 
monsoon deluge. 

The chief causes of disease to be avoided on the line of 
march are, damp, fatigue, the sun, and malaria. 

Damp will be least felt by the use of a tarpaulin sheet laid 
over the straw or kerby forming the bed. Where, however, 
lines of route and specified camping grounds are used, it 
would be well to supply the latter with wooden frames and 
tapes, or charpais for the soldier's bed. 

Fatigue is a frequent source of disease, and hence, unless 
military necessities are paramount, the distance of each day's 
march should not be far, or the pace fast. A fourteen-mile 
march (farther than which should not be attempted in India) 
cannot be made, including halts, in less than four hours and 
a half. The pace should be regulated at a different speed 
during each half hour, and not left to the pace of the horse 
of the leading officer. 

Nothing predisposes to fatigue more than thirst, and hence 
it is important that a sufficient number of " bheesties" accom- 
pany the column, to supply the men with good water. Each 
soldier, moreover, should be furnished with a string for his 
tin can, in order that, on the arrival at a well, he may draw 
water for himself; but such water should be previously ex- 
amined by the medical officer. 

Before leaving the camping ground, and during the march, 
each soldier should be supplied with a drink of tea, coffee, or 
conjee. 

Too much care cannot be taken to avoid exposure to the 
sun ; therefore the tents require careful examination as to 
their capacity and thickness of texture. The men should 
march in helmets, with the puggree round the bowels, remov- 
ing it from the latter to the head when the sun mounts above 
the horizon. (See Chapter XXIII, " On Dress.") On arrival 
at camping ground, it will be better that the tents should be 
pitched away, and the tent pegs not dressed, than that the 



266 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

men should be kept in the sun striking and pitching their 
canvass houses several times, or until all is taut and 
straight. Such procedure keeps the men without their break- 
fast, as well as exposing them to the sun at a period when, 
with an empty stomach, they are less able to resist its effects. 
It would be much better to practise the men at tent-pitching 
during the early period of the halting mornings ; and the rule 
might be that those not pitching their tents properly en route, 
should be so employed when the other men are allowed their 
liberty. 

Malaria must be guarded against by the scientific choice 
of the camping ground, by prophylactic medicine, and gene- 
rally by those sanitary measures which are reiterated in this 
book with reference to this particular danger. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

ON DESPATCH OF TROOPS BY SEA. 

Dr. Kirwan's Notes A Government Fleet of Transports Mortality of Troops 
on board Ship Favourable Contrast Vessels best adapted for Troops 
Requirements of a Troop Ship Live Stock Medical must be Sanitary 
Officer Duties Night Watches Awnings to be spread at Night Wash- 
ing Decks. 

DR. KIRWAN, in his admirable ( Notes on the Despatch of 
Troops by Sea/ founded on an experience of numerous 
voyages in medical charge of soldiers,, states that the means 
of conveyance now in use afford no appliances for the care 
of the sick ; for the prevention of the spread of infectious or 
contagious disease ; for the drying of wet clothing in heavy 
weather ; for the preservation of the cleanliness of the soldier 
and his clothes; for the segregation of married men and 
their families ; or for the maintenance of that continual drill 
which is so essential for the efficiency and soldier-like bearing 
of the men. 

Dr. Kirwan, and other medical officers, have entertained 
the opinion that England should possess a fleet of Govern- 
ment troop ships, available for the despatch of soldiers at any 
moment, with sufficient space and proper appliances. 

The approximative rate of mortality of adults on the 
voyage out to India, given by Dr. Wilson, 1 is 4'05 per 1000. 

Dr. Chevers 2 states, among 23,801 officers and men who 

1 Guide to Health in Troop Ships and Emigrant Vessels/ 

2 ' Indian Annals Med. Sci./ No. X. 



268 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

have arrived from England, the Cape, &c., on sixty-six vessels, 
the average duration of the voyages being three months and 
twelve days, the deaths were only thirty, or at the rate of 
4-450 per 1000 per annum. 

From Dr. Cole's statistical table (in his ( Medical History 
of the Troops on board ship from England to Bombay and 
Kurracchee, which arrived during November and December, 
1857, and January and February, 1858, Trans. Bomb. Med. 
Soc./ No. 5), it appears that out of 9,348 troops embarked 
women and children included there were 2,190 cases of 
sickness, 704, or about one-third of the whole, being of venereal 
origin } and hence it is reasonable to suppose, for the most 
part, contracted prior to embarkation. 

The ratio, therefore, of sickness on board troop ships to 
India contrasts favourably with that of men in barracks in 
any climate, even if we include the venereal admissions. 

Thus the ratio of sickness per 1000 of mean strength is 
given in the Guards as 862. In the line, in Great Britain, 
as 1'044; in the Madras army as 1'634 ; and amongst the 
troops at sea as 680. 

In the second number of the ' Madras Medical Journal/ a 
tabular statement is given, showing the number of troops 
arrived from England at Madras for a period of ten years, 
with the casualties at sea ; from which it appears that, among 
1 1,468 men, only thirty-three deaths occurred, six of whom 
were accidentally drowned ; nine of whom died consumptive ; 
two from haemoptysis ; two from aneurism ; and in fact none 
from disease originating on board ship. 

With such facts before us, it is well to pause before recom- 
mending so great an additional public expense as the enter- 
tainment of a fleet of transports, for as one of the authors 
just quoted (Dr. Chevers) truly observes, " these facts tend 
to show, not only that the arrangements of Government for 
sending out our troops have long been as nearly perfect as it 
is possible to render them, but also that the English soldier is 



DESPATCH OF TROOPS BY SEA. 269 

healthier when on his way to India on a well-formed ship, 
than in any other known position in which he can be placed." 

However ships are procured, it is admitted that on long 
sea voyages, vessels ranging from two thousand tons register 
and upwards, furnished hoth with sails and steam-power, are 
best adapted for the transport of troops. The decks should 
be kept free from impediment, and the vessel furnished with 
ports for ventilation. Store-rooms, hospital, dispensary and 
surgery, school-room and library, galleys and cook-house, 
laundry and wash-house, mess-rooms and dormitories, should 
be fitted up in the interior. Care should be taken that the 
decks are properly caulked and not admitting leakage ; life- 
boats, with patent lowering apparatus, should be attached ; 
force-pumps, for clearing side-houses and urinals, supplied; 
risk of fire efficiently guarded against; the sufficiency of 
night lights ascertained ; shoots for discharging refuse inserted 
.at a proper angle in the ship's bulwarks, and a due supply of 
canvass awning be taken on board, made from new cloth, and 
not from old and partially worn sails. 

As Dr. Kirwan observes, no vessel which has been built for 
the purpose of trading in northern climes is adapted for con- 
veying troops through the heat of the tropics, and from their 
original construction it is almost impossible to alter them 
so as to render them suitable for sea-barracks for soldiers 
during a long voyage. 

It is generally admitted that as few articles as possible of 
live stock should be taken on board. The author just quoted 
remarks, " such an animal as a pig should not be allowed on 
board a troop ship. The amount of dirt which they create, 
and the intolerable stench which is ever about them, forbid 
their presence." 

It would, however, take up many pages of this book to 
enter into a full description of all that is required for a troop 
ship. It is sufficient to say that every ship should be of the 
first class, and should have stood the test of former voyages ; 



270 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

for, as Blane long since observed, ' ' infectious ship fever is the 
disease of vessels newly fitted out and built of unseasoned 
timber ;" and " that every appliance for the health and com- 
fort of the men with which modern science has made us 
acquainted, so long as these do not degenerate from comfort 
into luxury/' should be provided. 

During a voyage with troops the medical officer should be 
the sanitary officer, and on him will devolve the duty of 
seeing that the bedding is frequently aired ; of recommending 
the removal of nuisances and matters deleterious to health ; 
of regulating the spreading of awnings, and the number of 
men to keep below or on deck ; the superintendence of ven- 
tilation ; the inspection of the men for symptoms of scurvy, 
and the insisting upon its appropriate remedies being issued ; 
the examination for skin diseases and other contagious affec- 
tions ; the segregation of the sick ; the insurance of cleanli- 
ness and exercise ; the supervision of the diet ; and also the 
administration of the appropriate remedies for individual cases 
of disease. 

Mr. Kirwan is of opinion that night watches on deck are a 
fertile source of sickness in troop ships ; but I cannot say I 
have ever found this to be case when the men sleep or watch 
on deck with awnings above; in fact, I believe with Major 
Haley, 1 after some experience of this matter, that much 
disease is engendered by sleeping below in warm weather in 
a crowded and over-heated atmosphere, and that sleeping on 
deck (under an awning) should not only be encouraged but 
enforced during the warm weather and calms, to the extent of 
at least two-thirds of the number. 

Any medical officer who has served in the Persian Gulf, or 
lied Sea, as I have done, will admit the impossibility of a 
ship's crew sleeping below, although, indeed, they might be 
there by command during the night, and suffer from disease, 

1 ' Suggestions for the Dress, Camp Management, &c., of the Army.' 



DESPATCH OF TROOPS BY SEA. 271 

as was the case in one of Her Majesty's ships of war, which 
some years since cruised in the waters of Iran. 

During my period of service in the Indian navy, whether 
in charge of troops, or simply with the ship's crew, I invari- 
ably recommended that the awnings be spread at night during 
the hot months for the men to sleep under. Nautical men, 
however, appear to have an insufferable objection to spreading 
awnings at night the reasons advanced for non-compliance 
with such a recommendation from the medical officer being, 
that a sudden squall might gather under them ; that a spark 
might set fire to them ; that it is not man-of-war like ; and 
that exposure to the dews of night rotted the canvass. 

During some portions of the year in the tropical seas, the 
frightful heat of day is succeeded by copious deposit of dew 
during the night. Any one sleeping under the star-lit canopy 
of heaven only becomes deluged with wet; if he "wrings" 
his garments water falls from them as though just removed 
from a well ; and handfuls of fluid may be scooped from the 
ship's scuppers. What wonder then that the man rises (as I 
have frequently done) cramped, cold, with aching pains in 
his limbs, and disgust in his heart ! What wonder that the 
seeds of rheumatism, of albuminuria, and other chronic 
diseases, enter into the system, destroying health almost 
before jnanhood is arrived at ! 

The objections to spreading awnings mentioned above are 
not worthy of one moment's consideration, being simply 
absurd and obstructive. Another objection which may be 
advanced with more force is, that awnings prevent the 
thorough perflation and ventilation of the ship. Therefore 
one hour before sunset in the tropics, the awnings covering 
the deck by day should be furled and remain so furled, until 
one hour or one hour and a half after sunset. This would 
afford ample time for the breeze which generally springs up 
in the evening to ventilate and cool the ship. The same 



272 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

process should be repeated before and after sunrise in the 
morning. 

Although this furling and spreading awnings should always 
form a portion of the daily duty of the ship, still it is not 
actually and positively necessary for the sake of ventilation, 
which may be thoroughly effected by a sufficient number of 
adequate and properly shaped windsails. These canvass 
chimneys should penetrate through the hatchways, or through 
openings in the deck made on purpose for them, to the 
extremest depths of the ship, and they should pass through 
the awnings above in order that their mouth may be fully 
exposed to the prevailing breeze. The plan of allowing the 
mouths of the windsails to open underneath the awnings 
renders them of little use, but I have frequently seen this 
done in that now moribund service the Indian navy, on the 
ground that it was not man-of-war like for the windsails to 
be above the awnings. Such frivolous objections, such sacri- 
fice of health and comfort to nautical " smartness," cannot 
be permitted on board a troop ship, neither should the caprice 
of an " executive officer " be allowed to render the life of a 
whole ship's crew miserable, and their bodies predisposed to 
disease. 

When on board steamers a head wind drives smuts and 
blacks from the funnel into the wind sails, the mouths of the 
latter must be carried away from the centre line of the 
vessel, sufficiently on one " quarter" to avoid this unpleasant 
result. Hence an extension of the windsail will be required, 
which should be constructed to fix on to the other part. 

Another fertile source of disease is the washing and sousing 
with water which most naval men appear to think essential 
to cleanliness. In the cold weather of the Persian Gulf, the 
Red Sea, and other tropical climates, ships are kept constantly 
damp from this cause. No sooner has the meridian sun 
dried the decks from the morning deluge, than the evening 



DESPATCH OF TROOPS BY SEA. 273 

dew again saturates them, the completion of the process 
being effected at the dawn by bucketsful of water handed 
over the ship's side. So long as dry scrubbing will suffice, 
the main and lower deck of a troop ship ought not to be 
deluged with water, and it would conduce to the health of 
ship's companies generally if a little less attention were paid 
to the sweeping and whitening of the upper decks, and the 
surplus labour expended on the hold and other dark, dirty, 
and interior spots. 

From recent occurrences, as that of the Tasmania, that of 
the Clyde, with the 64th Regiment on board, who on account 
of the bad sailing qualities of the ship, were so long in 
reaching England from Kurracchee, and other instances of a 
similar nature, it would appear that troops arriving in 
England generally do so after a more tedious passage in 
many respects than is the case on the outward voyage. The 
cause of this is sufficiently evident. The colonies do not 
possess the same resources either in ships or supplies, and 
hence without Government transports it is no wonder that 
from the large number of vessels chartered for the convoy of 
troops, we occasionally hear of slow sailers, impure provisions, 
and their consequences. Here is a more cogent reason for 
the establishment of a fleet of Government transports than is 
to be found in the mortality of soldiers on board ship during 
their outward voyage. 

Although it has been demonstrated that sickness and 
mortality amongst troops at sea is less than in most other 
positions in which soldiers are placed, still the same favour- 
able results are not found to occur when children are the 
subjects. The mortality of the latter on board ship, probably 
from the inconveniences they there undergo, and from the 
food not being adapted to the earlier years of life, is frequently 
excessive. (See Chapter XXVIII, " On the Soldier's Wife, 
Widow, and Children/') 

18 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

ON EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN INDIA. 

Opinions on the subject Policy and Practicability of Colonisation Impracti- 
cability of Military Colonisation The British Soldier after discharge Ob- 
jections to Military Colonies Colonisation of the Indian Plains Planters 
Dangers of Tropical Climates Acclimatisation Colonisation of Hill 
Ranges Hill Ranges not sufficiently explored Sanitation on Hill Ranges 
Employment for the European Colonists Cinchona. 

THE subject of colonization, and especially military colo- 
nisation in India, has been frequently discussed. It was the 
opinion of some of the ablest writers on India, including the 
late Sir H. Lawrence, that it would be both politic and 
practicable to establish colonies on the slopes of the Hima- 
layas,, where soldiers on retiring might be induced to settle 
down in peaceful pursuits. The policy of this arrangement 
is unquestionable. It would cause a large class of Europeans 
to take root in the country, and encourage the growth of 
useful institutions. It would prove a source of strength in a 
possible hour of need; and who, after the experience of 1857, 
shall say when that hour may not be at hand ? 

The practicability of the scheme, however, is not so 
certain, and as regards carrying it out by means of military 
colonisation, must appear to all who understand the Euro- 
pean soldiers of the present day most impracticable. 

A British soldier who has been accustomed to be looked 
after all his life is a helpless being when he has to look after 
himself. He is as much out of his element as a sailor fifty 
years since used to be on shore. He is, to use the words of 



EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN INDIA. 275 

a late writer, like " an old charger, who wants the trumpet 
and the word of command, and does not understand kicking 
up his heels by himself; with the rest of the troop he will 
go through his work with credit, but once alone he falls into 
bad paces, and discovers weaknesses of which he never 
dreamed/' 

Moreover, take the European soldier who has served his 
period of service, obtained his pension, and therefore is 
eligible for a military colonist ; let his physical condition as 
regards health and disease be reported on, in short, let 
medicine give her opinion as to the qualifications of the man, 
for the rough work of a colonist. 

The answer would probably be, he is old ; he is debilitated 
from tropical residence, heat, and malaria ; he is unfitted for 
hard labour by these causes, and because he has not through- 
out his military service been habituated to dig and plough ; 
he is subject to intermittent fever; he has an enlarged 
spleen ; he has suffered from liver (quite a sufficient reason 
for his avoidance of a hill climate) ; he has had dysentery, 
from which he occasionally now suffers in fact, he is totally 
unfitted for the life of a settler or pioneer of civilization. 

It is not intended to assert that every soldier who becomes 
eligible as a military colonist would be unable to adapt him- 
self to a new mode of life, or to bear the fatigue of a labourer, 
or that even all would be diseased. Now and then excep- 
tions might occur, but such would scarcely exceed five per 
cent. By far the greater number would find a labouring 
life irksome ; would perhaps fall victims to their own evil 
passions, of which intemperance is the most prominent ; and 
a still greater proportion would be bodily unfitted for the 
new mode of life, by physical degeneration from climate. 

The first objections might be certainly overcome by placing 
the colony under military regulations, sowing and reaping by 
word of command; but such an institution would not be 
popular with the soldier, who looks forward to perfect liberty 



276 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

as the termination in his pensioned career. The second 
objection the physical degeneration or disease cannot be 
overcome even by military discipline. 

Hence it may be asserted that practically all our soldiers, 
who, by length of service, are qualified for pension, are by 
the same period of servitude, by disease, or by degeneration 
from residence in the tropics, unfitted for the life of a colo- 
nist, either on mountain ranges or elsewhere. 

In addition to the advocacy of colonisation on mountain 
slopes, it was formerly thought that the same might be 
attempted on the plains, and the healthy appearance of 
planters, &c., has been brought forward in proof. It must, 
however, be recollected that such gentlemen are not daily 
labourers, that they live in magnificent houses, with every 
comfort surrounding them, and that although considerably 
exposed to the sun, their duty is that of inspection, and not 
the rough manual labour of the colonist. 

In the absence of any statistical or authentic data, showing 
the state of health of indigo and other planters; knowing 
that the chubby or ruddy appearance frequently seen in 
India, caused by the expansive powers of heat and flow of 
blood to the cutaneous vessels, instead of being indicative of 
health, is commonly the reverse ; knowing that heat and 
malaria will induce their results in the human constitution, 
cceteris paribus, whether the individual be soldier, sailor, or 
civilian ; being aware also that it was " at home " after 
months or perhaps years of absence from the tropics, that 
the healthy appearance of planters was remarked upon : 
bearing all these facts in mind, I must decline to believe that 
one class of Europeans in India is less mortal than another, 
or less liable to the endemic diseases of the climate. 

It is the fashion now in some quarters to declare that the 
dangers of Indian residence and service have been greatly 
overrated, and that there is little or nothing of an exceptional 
character in the climate of India to render it necessary that 



EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN JNDIA. 277 

special inducements should be held out to persuade Europeans 
to reside therein, and this too in the face of so many stern 
facts which have confronted us within the last few years. 
How many more victims must be added to the list of those 
killed by climate before the dangers of tropical residence 
become appreciated? 

If colonisation, as America and Australia have been colo- 
nised, were possible in this country, some instances of the 
kind would already have occurred. But the melancholy 
truth is, that the European race dies .out. Of the numerous 
pensioners who have settled at our principal military stations, 
how many have been colonists ? There is not one single 
instance ! There is not a great-grandchild or grandchild of 
these pensioners retaining their European characteristics ! 
An infusion of native blood is essential to the continuance of 
the species, and the barrier once broken down, the remoter 
descendants of an European ancestor become rapidly feeble, 
astute, passionate, and indolent, as any of the darker races 
around them. 

The fact is, for the white man or his offspring there is no 
such thing as acclimatization in India. As a rule, Europeans 
enjoy the best health, and suffer less from heat during their 
first years of residence in this country. Acclimatization as 
regards an Indian sun is simply impossible. Exposure, 
instead of " hardening" the system, actually has the contrary 
effect, and the longer Europeans remain in this country the 
more they feel the effects of the vertical sun. Men with a 
larger amount of strength and vital force than others can 
bear exposure and the effects of heat longer than those not 
so gifted; but the deteriorating process, though slow, is 
nevertheless certain, and if acute dysentery, epidemic cholera, 
ardent fever, or sunstroke do not some day suddenly destroy, 
insidious malarious disease, cachexia loci, or splenic leucocy- 
thsemia sooner or later results. 

When Europeans urge that they have exposed themselves 



278 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

to the sun for years, and have never felt any evil effects, it is 
only saying that the losing battle between the sun and their 
constitution is not yet over, but every day's exposure brings 
them nearer to the final triumph of their solar adversary. 
The lamented fate of that gallant sun-defier Colonel Jacob, 
who advised young officers not to mind the sun, as it " would 
only tan their cheeks," is an apropos example of the foregoing. 

A tropical climate, in addition to the depressing and de- 
teriorating effects of heat and malaria on the system of 
settlers or dwellers in such localities, presents another in- 
direct action in aiding the same result. In hot countries 
the animal heat is more easily kept up ; and as on the whole 
the bodily exertions of the inhabitants are less frequent, and 
the decay of tissues therefore less rapid from the latter cause, 
a smaller amount of carbonized food is required to keep up 
their heat, and less also of azotized food, because there is less 
habit of bodily exertion to cause waste. In cold countries, 
on the other hand, men are compelled to eat more than in 
hot ones ; while their food from its necessary quality is more 
expensive and less easy to obtain, and requires a greater 
expenditure of labour. This degree of exertion in a rigorous 
climate imposes the necessity of a diet of a more abundantly 
carbonized and nutritious quality in order to sustain heat, 
and compensate waste and attrition. In warm climates, as 
Mr. Buckle l observes, sufficient food is supplied to the in- 
habitants " by the bounty of nature gratuitously and without 
a struggle," less labour is necessitated to procure the neces- 
saries of life, the vital forces are depressed by heat, and hence 
the apathetic condition of the natives of tropical climates. 

Mr. Buckle selects Hindostan as an example of the fore- 
going, and adverts to the great heat of the climate as bringing 
into action that law by virtue of which the ordinary food is 
of an oxygenous rather, than of a carbonaceous character; 
thus compelling the adoption of a diet rather from the vege- 

1 Buckle's ' History of Civilisation.' 



EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN INDIA. 279 

table than from the animal world. The chief food of millions 
in India is rice a grain which, if not one of the most nu- 
tritious, is certainly perhaps the most easily produced of all 
the cerealia. Hence a rapid growth of population, a redun- 
dance of labour, and that consequent inequality in the dis- 
tribution of wealth which tends to render the upper classes 
enormously rich and the lower classes miserably poor, fitting 
the latter to be little better than slaves. This condition in 
India Mr. Buckle designates as an abject, eternal slavery a 
state to which the inhabitants are doomed by physical laws 
utterly impossible for them to resist. 

There is not an instance on record, Mr. Buckle continues, 
of any tropical country, in which wealth having been ex- 
tensively accumulated, the people have escaped this fate ; no 
instance in which the heat of the climate has not caused an 
abundance of food, and the abundance of food an unequal 
distribution, first of wealth and then of political and social 
power, terminating in degeneration of all classes. 

As it has been with inhabitants of tropical nations, so will 
it again be. In addition to the effects of malaria and heat 
on the constitution, this indirect result of climate forbids the 
hope of colonisation of the Indian plains by Europeans. 

The effects of heat have been several times referred to in 
this work, and a few remarks on the subject may with pro- 
priety be introduced in this place. Heat causes a relaxation 
of the tissues, and produces at first excitement of the nerves 
and circulation, then languor and weakness of the whole 
system. The mechanical or direct effect of heat, as previously 
referred to, is to expand and thus diminish the healthy 
tension of the tissues, while, at the same time, it induces a 
flow of blood from the interior towards the surface. This 
excitement, however, is soon succeeded by general weakness 
and lassitude, and increase of perspiration. The natural 
heat of the body is 98, so that when the air outside the 
body is warmest, the latter exerts its means of producing 



280 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

cold, and this is afforded by the evaporation of the perspira- 
tion exuded. Excessive perspiration, however, always tends 
to exhaustion, so, therefore, in this is an additional cause of 
languor from external heat. 

Another result of heat is an increase of the waste of the 
body. Heat promotes the transmutation of tissue in the 
living animal as in the dead, and augments the proportion of 
those excreted and effete matters, either in the urine, the 
perspiration, or the alvine dejections, which are constantly 
passing from the muscles, nerves, and other portions of the 
frame. 

Exercise, as noticed in Chapter XXIII, " On Dress," in- 
creases the effects of heat in a tenfold manner. Colonists 
cannot live without exercise, without, indeed, hard labour. 
The constitution, the sensibility of the skin, and the former 
habits of the European, forbid such labour, even if the 
additional cause of malaria did ,not destroy his existence at 
an early period. 

Not a single reliable fact has been produced to show that 
our race can be continued even through a few generations 
without Asiatic mixture. The children of Europeans born 
in the plains of India grow up weakly, the progeny seldom 
attain maturity, the third generation never have children. 

All authorities agree in stating that not one descendant of 
the Portuguese can be found without admixture of native 
blood. 

Henry Marshall shows even the domestic animals of colder 
climates, dogs, cows, sheep, horses, all die or deteriorate 
after removal to a tropical region. Hence, colonisation of 
the plains either by military pensioners or otherwise is im- 
possible. 

The question, however, is not yet decided if a healthy and 
vigorous European stock can be propagated and maintained 
in the mountain climates of India. Sir R. Martin, in his 
answer to one of the questions of the select committee on 



EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN INDIA. 281 

Indian colonisation, states that this might be the case " to a 
certain degree not yet determined." Bakie, before the same 
committee, had ' ' no doubt a race of persons well off in life 
would be continued on the hills," but whether they would 
deteriorate was a question he was not prepared to answer 
" nothing but time can solve that question." 

Dr. Mackay, 1 in his paper on the climate of the Neilgherry 
hills, reports, " children brought up here apparently strong 
and healthy in their youth, in after years show constitutional 
weaknesses ; and this I have observed to be the case particu- 
larly with females." 

The same is the fact to a certain extent with the children 
in the Aboo Laurence school, and I believe in all mountain 
asylums, 

It must, however, be recollected that these children are 
born on the plains, and remaining there some years before 
they are admitted into the hill schools (limit five years of 
age), generally arrive at those establishments more or less 
deteriorated by former residence in malarious localities. 

Were they the progeny of healthy parents, born on the 
mountain range, into a locality from which sanitation had 
swept away the present sources of disease, there is every 
reason to believe that the vigour of the race occasionally 
renewed, as is the case in America by new blood, would not 
degenerate, were the studies of such colonists confined to 
superintendence. Whether, however, European progeny 
would retain their characteristics if obliged to undergo the 
exposure and labour consequent on tilling the ground of even 
hill ranges, can only be determined by time and experiment. 
With constant infusion of new blood, and due attention to 
sanitary principles, there is ground for the belief that such 
might be the result. 

However this may be, one thing is quite certain, that the 
hill climates of India have never been yet sufficiently tested, 

1 ' Mud. Med. Journal/ vol. v. 



282 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

have never had their capabilities thoroughly developed by all 
that sanitary science is able to accomplish. This is suffi- 
ciently demonstrated in the chapter "On Hill Sanitaria/' 
Formerly it was a favourite allegation that, however exces- 
sive might be the mortality of any district, no evidence was 
forthcoming to prove it due to local preventible causes, and 
that it was in every case not the accident of the employment 
of the population, the peculiar position of the town, and 
other matters, which were beyond control and irremediable. 
In no one thing have sanitary reformers accomplished greater 
results than in proving that mortality ever and everywhere 
bears an inverse ratio to the amount of sanitary supervision 
and care in any given district ; those accustomed to the 
statistics of disease, its causes and prevention, need but an 
inspection of a locality to form a very close approximation to 
its absolute and relative immunity from disease and death. 

I repeat the assertion made in the chapter " On Hill Sani- 
taria," that sanitation in its broadest sense is more required in 
the climate of tropical mountain ranges than in any other 
known locality. With due attention to such matters there is 
reason to believe that colonisation may be effected on Indian 
elevations ; any colony or community existing without such 
care, would most assuredly eventually become the victims of 
the most deadly diseases of both temperate and tropical climes. 

It is, however, questionable if suitable or remunerative 
employment could be found for a large number of settlers 
on the mountain ranges. For many, certainly, such employ- 
ment might be found in the cultivation of tea, coffee, and 
ciDchona; but much of the hill side is rock, or too steep to be 
susceptible of culture, and many of the valleys from causes 
previously referred to are so deadly malarious, that the 
pioneers of cultivation and civilization would be destroyed 
before their efforts succeeded in transforming the valley, by 
drainage and clearing, into a healthy locality. 

There is more difficulty in bringing a hill side under tillage 



EUROPEAN COLONISATION IN INDIA. 283 

than a piece of level land; such cultivation can only be 
effected by means of terrace work, and the latter requires 
much care in its construction, and is liable to be washed 
away during the violent periodical rains. Thus the settler 
in a mountain range would require capital, and such capital 
will afford greater profits employed in procuring the labour of 
the natives than that of Europeans, the former, although, not 
capable of performing so much actual work individually, 
from their number and fewer wants, defying European com- 
petition. 

It is therefore evident that the fostering care of Govern- 
ment must be extended in the initiative to hill colonies in 
the broadest sense of the term, by which some of the follow- 
ing results may be achieved : 

The breeding of sheep in the Himalayas, where the pasture 
grasses are unsurpassed, and the sheep or purple fescue 
indigenous, and the climate presents that dry cold so neces- 
sary for the perfection of wool. 

The breeding of the shawl goat of Cashmere in the same 
localities. 

' The cultivation of tea, coffee, cinchona, oranges, vines, and 
olives, in the Himalayas, the Neilgherry, the Shevaroys, the 
Avarallee, and other ranges. 

Some of these localities present apparently identical cli- 
mates with those of the Cordilleras of the Andes, the locality 
in which Peruvian bark is indigenous. 

The great importance of introducing the cinchona plant 
into India, has become more and more apparent of late years 
owing to the increased demand for its invaluable alkaloid 
quinine. Dr. Ewart l shows that the expense of this agent 
alone during 1857-8, for the Calcutta Presidency, amounts to 
1 2,408, besides the cost of thousands of pounds of cinchona 
bark, and upwards of one hundred pints of liquor amorphus 

1 " A Review of the Treatment of Tropical Diseases ;" ' Ind. An. Med. Sci.,' 
vol. xiv. 



284 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

quinse. In Madras, during the same period, 267 Ibs. of 
quinine was used, costing 1,284. 

The Dutch have already succeeded in growing the cinchona 
plant in their eastern possessions, and the introduction into 
India was commenced under the fostering care of Lord 
Stanley, when Secretary of State. Ilecent accounts show 
that there is every probability of the cinchona plant being 
naturalized on our Indian ranges an event which will be 
trebly beneficial, relieving the state of considerable expense, 
aifording a wide field of occupation for European colonists, 
and rendering the antiperiodic cheaper and more available to 
all classes resident in India. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

ON THE CONDITION OF THE ANGLO-INDIAN SOLDIER* S 
WIFE, WIDOW, AND CHILDREN. 

Mortality and Suffering from Climate The Unmarried Soldiers Means Can 

the European Woman increase her Income ? Proposed Allowance 

' Indian Mutiny Fund The Anglo-Indian Army Wife and Widow Fund 

The Soldier's Wife's Habitation Married Quarters at Dugshai The 

Soldier's Widow The Soldier's Child His conveyance to Europe. 

IT has already been shown (Chap. V) that the mortality 
of European women in India is in Bengal 44*4 per I'OOO, 
and that of children in the same Presidency 84*2 ; the mean 
of the three Presidencies being for women 35*477, and for 
children, 64' 322 per TOGO. 

With such a death rate the suffering from climate and 
sickness must be beyond imagination ! 

There is no one single matter connected with our Anglo- 
Indian army more demanding attention than the condition 
of our soldiers' wives and children, and this notwithstanding 
the ameliorations which have been latterly effected in their 
state both by private benevolence, as that of Sir Henry 
Laurence, and by the humanity of Government, as instanced 
in the grants to Laurence Asylums, and by the different 
orders relating to the subject. 1 

The condition of the European woman must be considered 
under two different phases of her existence namely, that of 
the wife and that of the widow. 

An unmarried soldier can just exist on his pay. If he 

1 Vide ' Bengal Mil. Reg.,' sec. xi, p. 64. 



286 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

has a wife the State allows her rupees five per mensem if she 
be an European, and two and a half rupees a month if she be 
of country birth. This is of course conditional on the assent 
of the commanding officer having been obtained prior to the 
marriage. Each child is allowed half the subsistence money 
of its mother. On this, with the soldier's pay (18 rupees 
per month, without rations), the family manage to exist 
how is another question. That life is not long is sufficiently 
evident from the death rate referred to. 

But it may be expected the woman earns something by 
her own exertions, and this she can perhaps do, if she has 
no children, to the extent of the wages of a London shirt- 
maker ! 

Opportunities of increasing their income do not present 
here as they do at home to women, and if such were available, 
the climate forbids their practical application. As instances 
in the most common feminine occupations, the European 
woman cannot compete with the Indian " dhobee," or washer- 
man ; with the " durgee/' or tailor ; with the " bowarchee," 
or cook. She cannot become a charwoman, butterwoman, 
hukster, or labourer in fact, there is no occupation for her 
in India. 

There is no European regiment in India where money is 
not paid to the native "durgee" for needlework for the 
officers' family, to the washerman, to the native ayah or 
nurse. Could these wages be diverted to the European 
women, how much improvement would it not effect in their 
condition? There are, however, several cogent reasons 
which oppose the general practicability of this. A woman 
with a family has no time for needle or other work the 
woman without a family can live better than the former, and 
in the majority of instances, from the effects of climate, 
becomes apathetic, or if induced to work, asks, as her husband 
has been stated to do (Chapter XXIV, " On the Employ- 
ment of the Soldier"), enormous wages for her labour. 



287 

Unless soldiers' wives are first allowed the means to obtain 
that position to which self-respect sufficient attaches to incite 
them to efforts to retain it, the great majority will never be 
otherwise than they now are. It cannot be questioned that 
the allowance to soldiers' wives and children is meagre in the 
extreme in fact, is not enough for their wants in a tropical 
climate, and under the circumstances related, how is she to 
be expected to better her condition by individual exertion ? 

Fifteen rupees a month at least ought to be allowed to the 
European woman in India, and opportunities found for her to 
earn as much more. Thirty rupees is none too much for an 
European female to live upon and clothe herself with in this 
expensive country. 

Why should not the remainder of the Indian Mutiny fund 
be set apart for the purpose of adding to the Government 
allowance ? nay, why should not a special fund be raised for 
this purpose ? The " Anglo-Indian Army Wife and Widow 
Fund" would be as deserving of support as any missionary 
society or benevolent institution in the " wide wide world." 

Next to the provision of daily sustenance the question of 
habitation for the European woman arises. It is to be 
hoped that in no station is it as Lord Carlisle wrote but a 
few years since, " At present they for the most part sleep in 
barrack rooms with the rest of the men ;" or that, as Mr. 
Godwin observed in 1859, " two or more families are lodged 
in one room, with no other separation than the curtains 
drawn round the bed." l 

Dr. Chevers 2 informs us that for some years past accom- 
modation for married families, entirely apart from the un- 
married soldiers, has been provided in nearly the whole of the 
Bengal military stations. 

In many stations, however, the European women inhabit 
the buildings known as " Patcherries," which Dr. Arnott 

1 Evidence before the late Lord Herbert's Commission. 

2 ' Ind. An. Med. Sci.,' vol. xii, p. 714. 



288 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

describes as "too often most mean, uncomfortable, and 
unseemly appendages." 

Patcherries are constructions of different forms, sizes, and 
dimensions, and appear to have derived this name from the 
situation which they occupy with regard to the barracks. 
" Peecharee" in the Hindoostanee language signifies the rear 
or behind, and " Patcherry" seems to be a corruption of the 
former. The habitations of soldiers' families being generally 
erected in the rear have hence come to be designated by the 
latter term, even when their relative position may be in any 
other direction, and whether such dwellings may be under 
one roof or detached. 

Mr. Bradshaw, writing to me from Dughshai, thus describes 
the married soldiers' quarters at that place : 

" There are two barracks for married men, each intended 
for thirty families. Their positions are very good, but the 
plan on which they are built is remarkable for its want or 
deficiency of common sense. Each barrack is the ordinary 
ugly barn, surrounded with a verandah, and divided length- 
wise by a long tunnel-like passage, which communicates with 
the verandah at each end, and on each side by two narrow 
passages. In the tunnel are six fireplaces, and into it open 
the doors of all the rooms. These rooms are small, incom- 
pletely divided by makeshift partitions, and insufficiently 
lighted. The women use the fireplaces for cooking and other 
purposes, and ordinarily the passage is quite dark from smoke 
and unpleasant from culinary odours, although each of the 
barracks has a roomy cooking house belonging to it, and also 
a detached rear, &c. 

" None of the rooms communicate directly with the 
verandah, and this is closed at each end by rails. Imagine 
thirty families in a house with only four narrow passages as 
outlets. . . . The houses can hardly be otherwise than 
unhealthy, or deserving of any other name than kennels, or 
other fate than being pulled down/' 



ANGLO-INDIAN SOLDIER'S FAMILY. 289 

Without multiplying descriptions of this nature it will be 
readily observed, that the difficult problem of lodging the 
married people of a regiment serving in a tropical climate in 
such a manner as to secure at once the maximum of health, 
space, privacy, supervision, cleanliness, conservancy, ventila- 
tion, and coolness, has not yet been satisfactorily solved. 

As with barracks there is only one plan which presents the 
maximum of these desideratives, and that construction con- 
sists in the extension of one line of married quarters to the 
prevailing breeze, and by avoiding all double ranges and cross 
partitions, or otherwise, by providing upper sleeping apart- 
ments. 

The standing ground plan of a barrack for thirty married 
men as prepared in the office of the Public Works Depart- 
ment in 1857, giving a length of 433 feet, including verandah, 
may be taken as the nucleus. This should be raised on 
arches, contain one room, and a small enclosure, to be used 
as a pantry, &c., in the rear corner, with doors and windows 
opposite each other. Above this should be sleeping apart- 
ments, the size of the lower rooms, but not including the 
verandahs. A tatty for one door or window of each apart- 
ment, all of which might be worked by steam or other 
mechanical power, would be sufficient to cool the lower story 
during the hot weather. The partitions between each apart- 
ment should consist of two single brick walls, with an interval 
equal to the breadth of one brick between each wall, which 
space should communicate by several apertures with the 
external atmosphere. 

At the distance of ten or twelve yards to the rear of each 
house a necessary and washhouse should be built; and a 
covered passage, made simply of uprights and matting for 
the roof, without sides, should form a protection from the 
sun when proceeding to and from the dwellings. These out- 
houses should be cleansed daily by the public conservancy 
establishment^ and the whole kept sweet and pure by a 

19 



290 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

thorough system of cleanliness and the use of disinfecting 
agents. To the nature of the ground allowed, drains for the 
exit of water should be excavated, otherwise manual labour 
must be had recourse to for the purpose of preventing sodden 
ground, and its sequel, malaria. 

Of course such a range of buildings, with applicances and 
establishments, would be somewhat expensive, but, as is the 
case with the unmarried soldiers' barracks, the choice only 
lies between the Scylla of expense, or the less desirable Charyb- 
dis of disease and mortality. 

The condition of the soldier's widow may now be considered. 
If the husband die or be slain, his widow is allowed her 
stipend for six months. " Out of this thirty rupees she may 
if she has any feeling erect a tombstone, and must pay off her 
little debts, find and furnish herself a home, and console 
herself as best she may." When she has received from Lord 
dive's Fund that sum of money, she has by law no further 
claim in respect of what was her all. The dead man's dog is 
turned out of barracks if no one else will accept its ownership, 
and so is his wife ! If she has no friends she must starve, 
sin, or marry, and rid the community of an incumbrance at 
once. Means of earning an honest and comfortable single 
living there are in India none for her; when she had the poor 
merit of owning a living husband, she could scarcely find the 
means of earning, what can she expect as a widow ? Two 
means of life only are left her to do violence to a woman's 
feeling in one way or other, or to starve ! 

Supposing she has children her case is fourfold worse; 
their pittance would scarcely support a village "ryot." A 
widow with a daughter fifteen years of age has seven and a 
half rupees to live on. Both have the alternative of marriage 
or starvation at six months' distance before them. They 
must either marry or do worse ! 

Here is call for a soldier's widow and orphan fund. Too 
much time has been already lost. Let those with power and 



291 

means delay no longer ! Let those who are foremost tb pride 
themselves on English civilization, honour, and gallantry 
reflect how strongly those qualities are exemplified in the 
treatment of the British soldier's family. Let all who strive 
" to do unto one another as you would they should do unto 
you," think and act. Let pity and piety be more practical 
hitherward than heretofore. Let the British nation, the 
merchant princes of England, those whose wealth is secured 
by the British army, establish " The Anglo-Indian Soldiers' 
Wife and Widow Fund." Never was a time when the wants 
and comforts of man are more largely administered to than 
during the present age. Look at the efforts for the relief of 
human suffering when were they ever so great as now? 
Let our hospitals, asylums, infirmaries, and charities, our 
missionary societies nay, our very prisons let them all bear 
witness to the interest now taken by man in the welfare of 
his fellow-men, and to the practically humane tendencies of 
the age. The wealthy British public may well be called upon 
to add one more institution to the number an institution which 
is as much required as many now upheld by humanity and 
charity. 

In a strictly military sense women and children attached 
to a regiment cannot be regarded as anything but incum- 
brances ; but we must accept the difficulties of our position 
and endeavour to meet them as best we may. A regiment is 
allowed so many buglers, so many officers, so much baggage, 
so many beasts of burden, and so many wives the latter 
amounting to 12 per company. The " holy estate which He 
himself adorned and beautified by His presence is proscribed," 
except under circumstances of much difficulty to the man 
who humbly serves his country. As, however, I stated in my 
' Manual of the Diseases of India/ page 33, instead of limit 
ing the number of married men to so few per company, I 
would allow without restriction all men of good character to 
contract matrimony when opportunity offered. This would 



292 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

be one of the most certain methods of preventing ennui, and 
its sequels, intemperance and syphilis. 

I am aware of the objections which may be brought 
forward against increasing the number of European women 
beyond the regulated proportion, the principal being the 
increased expense they would necessitate, the want of ac- 
commodation for them, the inconvenience they are subjected 
to when the regiment is frequently moved, the mortality 
among them induced by climate, and the prevalent idea that 
a married soldier is less efficient than one without incum- 
brance. 

Regarding the first objection, viz., increase of expense, I 
can only observe that supposing one man only in any mode- 
rate given number was reclaimed by marriage from drunken- 
ness, syphilis, and death, the expenditure thus saved to the 
state would suffice to cover the additional expense of many 
married women. 

The w r ant of accommodation is certainly a graver objection, 
but not irremoveable, as the barracks which are being erected 
every day might be shorn of their proportions, and the 
materials employed for the construction of married quarters. 

Of course when a regiment moves the women and children 
must be subjected to inconvenience, but in no station of life 
would their path be without thorns. Moreover, with return- 
ing peace, military necessities will not be so urgent as here- 
tofore, and if in the course of years state affairs allow of 
most regiments having their home or depot in one or other 
of the hill stations, the families would remain there if the 
regiment was called upon to march at unhealthy periods. 

The last objection is entitled to little weight. As a rule 
the well conducted men are the married soldiers, and these 
knowing their wives and families were in safety, would not 
shrink from their duty in the day of trial. By these means, 
by increased domestic comforts, and by residence in hill 
stations, the mortality now so great among European women 



293 

and children would be reduced to such an extent that their 
condition would be infinitely preferable to that of their friends 
at home in the large manufacturing and seaport towns of 
Great Britain. 

With regard to children it has been proposed that they 
should not be brought from England when a regiment leaves 
for this country ; and as in the majority of instances they 
only arrive in a tropical climate to die, humanity forbids 
that these little ones should be any longer disposed of in 
such a manner. Statistics and the general experience of 
medical officers combine to show that children born in 
England die when placed in barracks in India, and that 
whatever be the mortality of infants born in this country, it 
is considerably less than that of those brought here. 

Dr. Chevers, after detailing statistics bearing on this 
subject, remarks : " These facts alone certainly justify the 
question whether the humane intention of reuniting the 
soldier in India with the little children for whose presence 
his heart has so often yearned, is not at the very onset more 
than forbidden and nullified by the fact that one quarter ot 
these tender bodies may probably be committed to the great 
deep during the four months' voyage." 

Mr. Walker of Bombay having become aware of the great 
mortality of European children in India, has latterly brought 
forward a plan x for sending children of European parents to 
England to grow up and be educated there, and states that 
if the revenue of the Byculla, Poonah, and other schools were 
diverted to this use, 22 Us. Id. per head per annum would 
be available. 

Mr. Walker observes : " Who will deny that with such a 
revenue as this the children would not be well fed, clothed, 
and educated in a fine healthy part of Yorkshire, where food, 
fuel, and clothing are cheaper than in any other part of the 
world ? 

1 The Times of India/ Nov. 25, 1861. 



294 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

' ' I have no doubt the average cost of all children in India 
is more than 20 a year (Byculla school children cost last 
year 22 per head) ; the infants at Poonah cost 20 6s. 
each per head, which is a high rate. I would engage to 
place them out in country places with good motherly dames, 
having children of their own, for less money, where they 
would be as rosy as pippins and merry as crickets ; we never 
see a child making a mud pie in India. 

" It will, with these facts before us, be an easy question to 
solve, by reference home to some of our chief orphan schools, 
to ascertain whether that sum is not ample for the purpose 
when conducted on such a large scale. 

" The gain to the commonwealth in having strong and 
healthy, instead of puny, debilitated children growing up to 
serve the State, would be worth ten times the petty extra 
cost, and we shall have the satisfaction of knowing that we 
have done our duty to the helpless orphans." 

As the editor of the ' Times' * of India observes : " The 
proposal which Mr. Walker has started with regard to the 
children of the lower class of Europeans born in this country 
is one of really national importance. It is all very well for 
people to look at the children in the Byculla schools or any 
similar institution, and to say they are very happy and do 
very well where they are. Take those children in ten years 
time, and then decide whether they are equal, either physically 
or mentally, to what they might have been, had they been 
sent home for their adolescent years. Take their offspring 
again, if they have any, and judge whether a natural tendency, 
in fact a natural law of degeneration, has not plainly mani- 
fested itself? 

No one disputes the desirability, the necessity, in fact, of 
sending children of British blood to England. Every one 
who can by any means compass that object does so for his 
own progeny. As Mr. Walker observes : " To a rich nation 

1 ' Times of India,' Dec. 23, 18G1. 



295 

like ours it is certainly a disgrace to let the bone of our bone 
dwindle away till they become, like the descendants of the 
Portuguese at present in India/' a bye word and reproach of 
the heathen around. 

There are only three courses open to us as regards the 
disposal of European children in India: either they must be 
allowed to die at an early age as heretofore, or to live and 
become the degenerate race every one laments in the present 
Portuguese of India ; secondly, they must be located on hill 
stations at an early stage or from their birth; or thirdly, 
they must be sent home before they are deteriorated by 
climate. 

The first proposition is against all dictates of humanity 
and charity, and will render humane and wealthy England 
centuries to come the compeer of impoverished and bigoted 
Portugal. 

The second and third propositions should both be adopted; 
those children who cannot be, or who, from medical reasons, 
are unfit to be, located on hill ranges, should be sent to 
Europe. England is sufficiently rich to carry out both these 
essentials, and their advocacy is only required by some one 
great and powerful, and to such I would write 

" Mark, when the life of man is in debate, 
No time can be too long, no care too great !" 

A superficial observer may, however, exclaim, the mortality 
on board ship consequent on bringing children to India has 
been advanced as a reason against such transport, and yet at 
the same time their conveyance to England by the same 
means is advocated. Such objection is, however, disposed 
of, panels verbis. The mortality of children coming from a 
temperate climate to the tropics would be in an inverse ratio 
to those proceeding from the latter latitudes to the former. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 

History of Quarantine Objections to Quarantine Disseminations of Yellow 
Fever ; of other Diseases Quarantine not so necessary in Northern Lati- 
tudes Means of ai-resting Yellow Fever Typhus Complaints against 
Quarantine Quarantine requires Modification Will Goods convey Dis- 
ease ? Fomites Caution. 

THE history of quarantine does not date from any remote 
period. It was about the year 1448 that the first code of 
quarantine regulations was promulgated, and that in the same 
city in which, a few years before, the first lazaretto was 
established. This city was Venice, then the great emporium of 
eastern trade, and hence most in danger of suffering from 
contagious diseases. Since that period quarantine regula- 
tions, more or less strict, have prevailed in all countries 
situated within a certain latitude, and having any claims to 
civilization. Of late years, however, the subject has been 
much agitated, and many able men, both of the medical pro- 
fession and otherwise, have advocated the total abolition of 
quarantine, on the grounds that such regulations have not 
worked beneficially, have not prevented the spread of epidemic 
disease, have proved most injurious to commerce, and been 
the source of vexation, annoyance, and even disease, to enor- 
mous numbers of travellers. 

Regarding the first objection, it is very certain that cholera, 
plague, and other kindred diseases, spread otherwise than by 



REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 297 

contagion; but on the other hand, it is again equally well 
authenticated, that individual cases of such maladies may 
become the fons et origo from which the disease spreads 
by direct or indirect contact in every direction; and this 
especially when the locality in which a disease is introduced 
is wanting in all sanitary characteristics, as is so frequently 
the case in eastern cities. 

Dr. Bryson, in a valuable paper read at the Epidemiological 
Society Meeting, March, 1861, supplies a valuable chain of 
facts relating to the successive outbursts of yellow fever in a 
consecutive series of Her Majesty's ships. The Icarus 
had touched at Belize in August, where the yellow fever 
raged. Soon after leaving, the crew were attacked with the 
disease, and out of 102 persons thirty-seven died. When 
the vessel reached Port Royal, a boat was sent from the 
Imaun, to assist in landing the crew. Eleven out of 
fourteen of this boat's crew were seized with the disease, and 
most of them died. Then one of the Imaun's crew, who 
had only come in contact with the Icarus, was taken with 
the disease, which spread through the latter ship, attacking 
thirty-eight persons, of whom seventeen died. Again, the 
ship Hydra's boats were for two nights employed in rowing 
guard round the Icarus, and within two days yellow fever 
attacked the crew of the Hydra, and was only extinguished 
by taking the vessel to the northern latitude of Halifax, Nova 
Scotia. Finally, when the Imaun became the seat of 
yellow fever, as above stated, a number of supernumeraries 
were removed from her to the Barracouta, but as much as 
possible segregated from the crew. Nevertheless, cases of 
yellow fever soon appeared in this ship, which, like the 
Hydra, had to run into a more northern latitude. From 
one centre the disease radiated in three directions^ and at each 
spot a fresh centre of infection and death was established. 
Infection by yellow fever being thus undoubted, it follows 
that the landing of sick, and their dispersion on shore or in 



298 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

other words, the abolishment of quarantine can only tend to 
multiply circles of epidemic disease. 

There are, however, facts which prove that the spread of 
epidemic disease is not a sine qua non on the landing of 
sick from yellow fever and similar maladies. It is on such 
facts that the opponents of quarantine base their arguments 
against the continuance of the system ; but if it be proved, as 
it certainly is, by Dr. Bryson's report above sketched, that 
yellow fever has in any one instance radiated from a centre, it 
forms a sufficient reason against the total abolishment of 
quarantine regulations. 

Some of the facts against the system of quarantine on 
which its opponents base their arguments, are as under, from 
the ' Report of the Committee of the National Association on 
Quarantine to the Board of Trade, I860.' 

Showing the evil of the keeping of crews on board ship 
after disease has broken out, and the benefit of landing them, 
the Vice-Consul of Galatz states, during the whole time 
quarantine existed there, about twenty-four or twenty-five 
years, no case of plague occurred in the lazaretto. But 
it is on record that the plague was on board a vessel some- 
where about 1834, and that all the crew died excepting one 
man. 

Some individuals " see but what they list." In the above 
extract, I confess I can only discern a reason for the con- 
tinuance of quarantine. Had that ship's crew been landed, 
it is more than possible that Galatz would not have remained 
free from plague for a quarter of a century. 

The following extracts are more to the purpose : " In 
1852, Her Majesty's ship Dauntless, with thirty-three cases 
of yellow fever on board, was admitted at once at Tardeo to 
Prategne, and removed to St. Anne's Hospital. They all 
recovered, and no one took it," 

Vice-Consul Herbright states (Feb., 1853) : " The cases 
of yellow fever at this port (Carthagena) have been exclusively 



REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 299 

confined to persons landed from the royal mail steamers, and 
have in no way affected the health of the town." 

In 1855 yellow fever raged at Norfolk, and Portsmouth 
and the country people forbid fugitives. The railways were 
also stopped ; steamers, however, plied from Norfolk to 
Baltimore, 180 miles distant, and on the opposite side of the 
James River. Several hundreds took quarters in Baltimore 
hotels, but there was no contagion. 

It is not, however, stated if any really sick with yellow 
fever were allowed to make the passage to Baltimore. 

Another important fact, apparently afforded by the same 
report of the National Association, is that quarantine, even 
when rigidly enforced, has not proved preventive of other 
diseases of the contagious nature, such as smallpox and the 
exanthemata, as was demonstrated during the epidemic of the 
former in Malta in 1829 and 1835. 

It is, however, an admitted fact, that the exanthemata are 
less under sanitary control than any other class of zymotic 
diseases. 

The well-remembered case of the Eclair is also quoted 
as an example of the same kind. Dr. Milroy states, on the 
arrival of this ship off the English coast, one half of the crew 
had perished. The surviving medical officer urged the imme- 
diate landing of the crew, and Sir J. Richardson, the physi- 
cian of Haslar Hospital, expressed his readiness to receive 
them. The ship was, however, ordered to perform a length- 
ened quarantine, with some fresh volunteers on board, one of 
whom died, as well as many of the remaining crew. 

It is also stated that a noticeable peculiarity is evident, 
viz., "that the more liberal a government and the freer its 
institutions, the fewer and less stringent are its quarantine 
restrictions. In the Baltic states, Sweden, Denmark, Prussia, 
and Holland, quarantine regulations may be considered a dead 
letter. 

It must, however, be recollected that Sweden, Denmark, 



300 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

Holland, &c., are situated in a latitude considerably to the 
north of the locality where the chief diseases against which 
quarantine regulations are directed have their origin. In- 
deed, in the instance of yellow fever, nothing extinguishes the 
malady so quickly as running into a cold climate. This has 
been demonstrated so many times to be a speedy and safe 
remedy, that I fully concur in the forcible remarks of Dr. 
McWilliam : " The duty of commanding officers should be 
denned, and they should be bound to adopt this procedure as 
the best, and indeed the only means of arresting yellow 
fever." 

Thus it is evident that quarantine regulations are of less 
importance in northern countries than in those situated nearer 
the equator ; while the absence of plague, yellow fever, and 
cholera is the exception, where sanitary matters are so fre- 
quently neglected, and where therefore the required concomi- 
tants exist, for the dissemination and origin of such diseases. 

Hence the sick from the Eclair might have been landed 
with safety. In the climate of England, and in the midst of 
the sanitary regulations of Haslar, there would have been less 
danger of the infection spreading than was the case, when last 
year the typhus fever patients were received into the crowded 
city of Liverpool from the Egyptian frigate which came there. 
Owing undoubtedly to strict sanitary regulations, this typhus 
fever did not become epidemic in the full sense of the term, 
although it is sufficiently evident that Liverpool is not one of 
those cities where typhus fever cannot exist. 

Had these sick been landed in a tropical port, allowed to 
pass into all parts of the narrow and crowded thoroughfares 
of an eastern city, or even located in the apology for hos- 
pitals generally found in foreign tropical lands, most medi- 
cal men acquainted with eastern habits would have little 
difficulty in foretelling the result. 

Thus, although quarantine may be without risk abolished 
in northern climates, it must ever remain as the best, 



REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 301 

although confessedly a poor safeguard, of tropical nations. 
There is, however, no reason why it should not be freed as 
much as possible from all that is vexatious, costly, or in- 
human ; and no candid person who has considered the subject 
but must feel convinced of the innumerable just causes of 
complaint which the present system entails. 

Sir J. Bowring, so long since as 1841, stated in the House 
of Commons, that the loss from quarantine in the Mediter- 
ranean alone, was not less than two or three million sterling 
per annum. 

The following are two out of many absurd regulations : ' ' All 
vessels leaving Havannah for Spain between May and 
October, must proceed to Vigo and there perform a quaran- 
tine of fourteen days, although no ye How fever was at Havannah 
at the time of departure." 

At New Orleans all arrivals from Rio Janeiro, the West 
Indies, and Gulf of Mexico, are liable to quarantine of not 
less than twelve days, whether the bills of health from those 
places are clean or foul. 

Again, the treatment of passengers is not only vexatious, 
but positively indecent, and tending to induce disease. 

In the ' Times ' January 10th, 1854, Mr. Ewart states, that 
at Naples all the passengers, ladies and gentlemen, were placed 
in one room, only separated from convicts by a low wall. 

Dr. Robertson describes the Beyrout lazaretto as a filthy 
and damp room, wretched and unhealthy, situated on a low 
swampy ground. 

Dr. Davy relates something worse. At Costanga on the 
Black Sea, travellers are located in a low hut, not unlike an 
Irish cabin, without any means of lighting, except the door. 
This, Dr. Davy remarks, is ' ' in a climate as severe in winter 
as that described by Ovid in his ' Tristia/ and where strict 
and vexatious quarantine regulations cannot possibly be 
necessitated." 

Although quarantine can never be safely abolished in 



302 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

tropical countries, it may be so modified as to change its 
character altogether, rendering it as little annoying and 
hurtful as possible, and yet as defensive as circumstances will 
permit in the way of protection against the spread of infec- 
tious disease. 

Lastly, if from paramount considerations it ever happens 
that sick are landed in warm climates where yellow fever for 
instance can continue to exist, strict segregation becomes a 
matter of the first importance. The same segregation is of 
equal moment when sick from other diseases, as typhus, are 
landed in more northerly climates, where also such maladies 
can be disseminated. 

Another important question is, Will goods convey con- 
tagion ? The general opinion is that they will not ; that 
articles of merchandize are incapable of becoming media of 
the kind ; and founded on the fact, that those whose duty it is 
to air the goods needing depuration, have never contracted 
disease. 

It is also asked, if yellow fever could be introduced as 
supposed by fomites, how is it that Liverpool has escaped 
the disease, where at all seasons cargoes of cotton are 
arriving from the southern ports of the States, one or other 
of which is so often the seat of fever ? 

With respect to the latter question it has already been 
shown, that yellow fever ceases to exist in a cold latitude ; 
and therefore it is but rational to suppose that fomites can- 
not induce their characteristic effects in such localities ; 
which is a quite sufficient explanation of the exemption of 
Liverpool from this pest. 

Whether, however, the contagious principles, the fomites 
of disease, are not susceptible of being conveyed from one 
place to another in favourable climates is by no means so 
certain. 

As regards the exemption from yellow fever of those who 
air the goods, allowance must be made for the effect of habit 



REMARKS ON QUARANTINE. 303 

in fortifying the system against contagion. Dr. Watson 
observes, persons who are much and often exposed to these 
effluvia, are thereby seasoned in some degree to the noxious 
atmosphere; "just as drunkards and opium eaters become 
at length impassive under such a dose of their customary 
stimulus, as would intoxicate or stupify a novice/' and as the 
inhabitants of malarious countries become proof against 
malaria. 

Moreover, cargo is taken from the shore, and placed in the 
hold of the ship a locality quite distinct from that part of the 
vessel in which the crew live, and hence the " bales " not 
coming in contact with diseased individuals, or even with 
diseased atmosphere, may not attract " fomites/' Again, as 
the merchandize is swung out of the ship, and conveyed on 
shore, it becomes exposed on all sides to the vigorous land or 
sea breeze, which would tend to dissipate any materies 
morbi clinging to the surface. 

No one will deny the truth of Dr. Watson's remarks 
regarding the exciting cause of typhus fever : " There are a 
thousand ways in which contagion may be disseminated. It 
may lurk in a hackney-coach ; you may catch the complaint 
from your neighbour in an omnibus, or at the theatre, or at 
church; your linen may be impregnated with the subtle poison 
in the house of your laundress, or your coat may convey it 
from the workshop of your tailor. Even if we doubt about 
the contagiousness of the disease, we are bound to act as if 
we had no doubt on the subject." 

It is true that Sir Gilbert Blane did not believe in the con- 
tagious nature of fever, if proper arrangements were made 
for ventilation and cleanliness ; and this view of the doctrine 
of contagion has been also successfully maintained by Dr. 
Alison, of Edinburgh, and is the one Miss Nightingale adopts 
at page 93 of her work ' On Hospitals.' 

However correct this may be when sanitary matters are 
attended to, it is not true when such are neglected ; and hence 



304 HEALTH IN THE TROPICS. 

merchandise arriving, as it must often do, from localities in 
which, every defect of sanitation exists, exposed as it fre- 
quently is to direct contact with the epidemically diseased, 
cannot be free from the suspicion of carrying with it the 
materies morbi of such maladies, and of thus becoming a 
new centre of infection when the climate, or predisposed con- 
stitution of those among whom it may be placed, favours the 
development of the poison. 



THE END. 



INDEX. 






A. 

PA OR 

ABANDONED stations in India 63 

Aboo, Mount, hepatitis on 96 

sanitary condition of 71 

no conservancy on ib. 

malarious fever at 73 

barracks at 75 

Acclimatization on Indian plains impossible 277 

hill ranges probable 281 

must be aided by sanitation 282 

also by Government care 283 

Advice to those who neglect sanitary matters' 71 

Air, fresh and impure, Pringle's opinion of 10 

may be soiled 17 

soiled slightly, effects of ib. 

experimented on during epidemics 20 

dirtied by ophthalmic pus cells 25 

value of fresh... 142 

Alcohol, evil effects of 208 

in blood favourable to disease 215 

immediate effects of 214 

effects of on liver 216 

in producing fatty degeneration ib. 

on the mind ib. 

allowance of alcoholic drinks to recruits 220 

Army, past causes of disease in 4 

Medical School " 66 

Artillery cannot be located on hill ranges 92 

Atmosphere, composition of 17 

relation of man to 94 

lower or hot stratum ib. 

upper stratum ib. 

20 



306 INDEX % 

B. 

PAGE 

BAKING in India 204 

Battle, dangers of 12 

Barracks, former objections to 48 

condition of 49 

orders relating to erection of 65 

on hill ranges. 101 

importance of clearing near 120 

position of 123 

faults of old ib. 

drainage near 124 

grave yards to be avoided near 125 

to front prevailing breeze ib. 

to be supplied with Venetians ib. 

shape of ib. 

upper rooms recommended in 126 

storehouses objectionable beneath ib. 

wall of 127 

masonry ib. 

roofs, floors, verandahs of 128 

light necessary in 129 

effects of overcrowding in 131 

cubic and superficial space in ib. 

corner rooms in 132 

cooling of 133 

situation of outhouses of 135 

latrines 136 

bath rooms and urinals 137 

,, discharge of water from ib. 

Beard, the value of , 23 

Bermuda, Board of Sanitation at 9 

Beef not supplied in some stations.. 198 

Bhooj, barracks at 8 

Birmingham, cholera in 41 

Boards of sanitation 10 

Bombay, mortality in 64, 73 

sanitation in 79 

recommended as the seat of Government 105 

Bread, Indian faults of 204 

Dr. Dauglish's recommended 205 

Breeze blows in one direction 11 

British soldier after discharge 275 

C. 
CALMS, influence of 2 



INDEX. 307 

PAGE 

Camps, localities to be avoided and chosen for 259 

,, space between tents in 260 

conservancy in 261 

grave yards to be avoided by 262 

cholera in ib. 

Camping in unhealthy localities 263 

Calomel, use of on hill ranges 96 

Canning, Lady, death of -. 106 

Canal irrigation .. 11 

Cavalry cannot be located on hill stations 92 

Cholera, relation of with ozone . , 2 

calms ib. 

on hill sanitaria 86 

fatigue predisposes to 89 

conveyed by water 16 

sporadic and malignant 175 

prevention of, understood better than cure 176 

may arise de riovo ib. 

circumstances under which occurring ib. 

meteorological and local causes ib. 

does not prevail on rock 178 

infests the ground ib. 

decomposing excrete will cause 179 

may be conveyed by water ib. 

on board Black Sea fleet 180 

victims of, from want of sanitation ib. 

affects particular houses 181 

prevention of 182 

arrest of 183 

follows the lines of human intercourse 184 

railways enable us to avoid ib. 

disseminate ib. 

officers less liable to 189 

Charcoal, valuable properties of , 15 

dangers of gas from burning 17 

Chloroform, vapour of 16 

Chartreuse, Marsh of 40 

Children, mortality of 55 

sending home of 28 

Climate, warm, effect of excessive exertion in 88 

of hill sanitaria 94 

marine sanitaria 10 

Clearing 120 

Cooking arrangements in India 18 

Contagion 16 

Conservancy on hill sanitaria ..., 98 



308 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Conservancy, danger of neglecting 148 

,, Indian system of ib. 

in presidency cities 149 

,, Seperateur system of 150 

establishment at military stations 153 

of jails 154 

,, of bazaars ib. 

,, in towns near stations compulsory 155 

Colonization, military, in India 274 

practicability of ib. 

of the Indian plains 280 

by planters 276 

Colonists, military, condition of 275 

on hill ranges must be guarded by sanitation 282 

Croup on hill ranges 98 

Crimean war... 5 



D. 

DAMP on hill climates 95 

Darjeeling, sanitary condition of 8 

Dentist recommended for soldiers 207 

Deodorizing agents 156 

Degeneration of Europeans in Tropical climates 42 

Detachments, small, more healthy than large 125 

Disease, prevalence of, affects every one 25 

origin of 17 

progress of ib. 

,, may be communicated by contagion and infection ib. 

benefited by hill sanitaria 84 

,, not benefited by hill sanitaria 85 

prevailing on hill sanitaria ib. 

expense of, in India 53 

Dismal swamp 34 

Diphtheria on hill ranges 97 

Diarrhoea, hill 98 

Diet, nitrogenous 195 

,, non-nitrogenous ib. 

value of different articles of 196 

,, meat, value of ib. 

potatoe, value of ib. 

,, of European troops 198 

,, effect of, on European troops ib. 

horse-flesh recommended for 202 

pork recommended for ib. 

vegetable 203 



INDEX. 309 



PAGE 

Drainage, inefficient, danger of 40 

effects of want of 6 

on hill sanitaria 100 

in cantonments 153 

Drinks, issue of, to soldiers 207 

Dress, former, of the army 243 

late improvements of 247 

full ib. 

head il>. 

articles of the stock; the tunic; trousers; shoe; sock; flannel; 

cotton; the turban : Kummerbund knapsack 249 

Dysentery on hill sanitaria 87 

Dum Dura, sanitary state of 80 

E. 

ELECTRICITY, relation of, with epidemics 23 

Epidemics, cause of 44 

ancient 43 

of middle ages ib. 

Expense of disease in India 53 

F. 

FATIGUE predisposes to cholera 91 

to be guarded against on marching ib . 

Fatty degeneration from food 198 

spiriis 200 

Fever, yellow, exemption of certain persons from 303 

,, not prevented by quarantine ib. 

will goods communicate it ib. 

Fevers, intermittent, cause of 38 

of Hong Kong 33 

,, gaol, in England 45 

seasoni n g 90 

typhus, on hill ranges 97 

in Ireland 101 

in Liverpool 302 

disseminated by fomites 303 

Fires check malaria 41 

Flies communicate cholera 209 

Fort William, barracks at 80 



G. 

GAOL fever in E ngland 45 

Gardens near stations .. 116 



310 INDEX. 



" Garrow's, the/' proof against malaria ;. 142 

Government orders on sanitary matters 64 

Graveyards to be avoided 117 



H. 

HEAT, effects of, on the soldier 245 

retards putrefaction 152 

Herbert, Lord, labours of 7 

opinion of, on medical officers ib. 

Hill sanitaria 83 

importance of ib. 

diseases of 97 

cholera on 86 

diseases benefited and not benefited by 85 

,, peculiarities of climate of 93 

escape from heat by 95 

hepatitis on 97 

height of 100 

Hill diarrhoea and dysentery : 98 

Hindoo ceremonials are sanitary 44 

Hong Kong, fevers of 30 

Hospitals in former days 44 

orders relating to erection of 65 

,, importance of good 139 

expense of bad ib. 

of ancient periods ib. 

,, nothing written concerning, of late years 140 

mortality of, at Scutari 141 

a warning derived from mortality of ib. 

large towns not favourable to 142 

atmosphere 143 

,, separate regimental ib. 

construction of ib. 

site of ib. 

on the pavilion system ib. 

to front the prevailing breeze ib. 

wards of 144 

tbe surgical ward of ib. 

,, ,, contagious ward of ib. 

,, convalescent ward of ib. 

upper rooms of 145 

,, walls and floors of ib. 

servants' houses ib. 

,, ,, offices; latrines; urinals , ib. 

,, ventilation . 146 



INDEX. 311 

PAGE 

Hospitals for officers 146 

nurses for ib. 

Lock 240 

Horse-flesh for diet 202 

Homoeopathy 59 

I. 

INDIA, our hold upon 13 

health, how to be preserved in 43 

Sepoy army, health of the 14 

disease of, tendency to 61 

Indian plague on hill sanitaria 98 

Infection 25 

how far can it spread 26 

Intemperance, causes of 214 

causes syphilis 216 

among Europeans in India 217 

,, prevalence of, in the army 220 

native opinions of 218 

means of prevention 220 

Invaliding in India, causes of 52 

Irrigation, Italian 41 

Indian ib. 

K. 
KIRWAN'S notes on transports 267 



L. 

L ANDOUR barracks, sanitary condition of 74 

Latrines, public, on hill stations 99 

barrack. 13 

public 154 

Leviticus, sanitary regulations in 43 

Liquor, allowance of 222 

former allowance of 220 

moderate use of 224 

Lyttleton, the Hon., on sanitary education 9 

M. 

MAHABLESWAR, rain-fall on 9 

sanitary condition of 75 

Malaria produced by profuse irrigation 31 

checked by fires , 41 



312 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Malaria, not so powerful on elevated sites 41 

Indian hill stations not free from 42 

,, may be local ib. 

practical effects of, our knowledge of ib. 

,, recent opinions about 34 

fever caused by 30 

,, precise nature of,not known 31 

opinions of its nature 30 

produced from drying surfaces ... 32 

,, most prevalent in certain localities 33 

,, arises from sandy soil ib. 

ferruginous soil ib. 

all soils ib. 

miners not subject to disease from ib. 

,, swamps not emitting 34 

not emitted by peat bogs ib. 

,, action of trees on 35 

most active during the night ib. 

in Autumn ib. 

elevated temperature and moisture necessary to 36 

prevented forming by tropical sun ib. 

cold ib. 

,, effects of, on the system 37 

influence of, on disease ib. 

periods of incubation of 38 

specific gravity of ib. 

,, prevalence of, on ground floors 39 

may be entangled by fog and mist ib- 

moveable by wind ib. 

,, arrested by obstacles ib. 

,, retained by trees ib. 

checks to 40 

Marsh of Chartreuse ib. 

Pontine 41 

M arshy ground ib. 

Malarious fever, sickness from 53 

Manchester, cholera in 29 

Mahomedan regulation of religion 44 

Mahammurree , 46, 62, 98 

Marching, periods for 263 

season for 264 

dangers to be avoided during 17, 265 

of, in hot and rain season 264 

Medical profession and sanitation 9 

regulation of the army 7 

officers, position of 9 



INDEX. 313 

PAGE 

Medical officers, greatest duty of 9 

duty of, on board transports ib. 

School 66 

Medicine, advances of 58 

powers of 60 

art, nature of 59 

results of different practice of 141 

Mental disease caused by overcrowding 131 

Measles, how detected 203 

Meat, characteristics of good ib. 

value of, as an article of diet 196 

Meteorology, science of 20 

Moses a sanitary reformer 43 

Mortality, former, of Europeans in tropical climates 51 

,, present ib. 

of E uropeans in India compared with other countries 52 

ofwomen; of officers; of civilians 53 

of children 55 

in India accounted for .... 56 

Bombay, and in Poona 7 

of regiments moving from hills to plains 88 

Morehead's, Dr., opinion of hill sanitaria 85 

Mind invigorated by a hill climate 94 

Musquitoes a cause of loss of sleep ib, 

N. 

NAVY, past cause of mortality in 47 

Nightingale's, Miss, opinion of the British soldier 14 

Nynee Tall, and fall of rain, on , 95 

sanitary state of 469 

0. 

OFFICERS, mortality of, in India 55 

Ootocamund, sanitary condition of 67 

Orders of Government on sanitary matters , 64 

Ordine, disposal of 155 

Overcrowding, effects of, in barracks 131 

gaols 11 

Ophthalmia 25 

Ozone destroyed by urban contamination 21 

relation of, to malaria 20 

substances it has an affinity for 21 

oxidizing properties , ib. 

consequences of the want of ib. 



314 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Ozone, consequences of the excess of 21 

composition of , ib. 

relation of, to cholera 22 

most abounds above water 21 

formation of 22 

P. 

PEEL, General, on the effects of climate 57 

opinion of medical officers 12 

of the China war 6 

Plague, Indian or Mahammurree 46,98 

destroyed by fire 41 

Prisons, health of 11 

Prevention better than cure 53 

Poona, mortality in 64 

Population checks malaria 40 

Pontine Marshes 41 

Pork unwholesome 202 

Punkahs 133 

Putrefactive process in cold and hot climates 152 

Q. 

QUARANTINE, history of , . . . 296 

objection to 298 

will not stay disease 299 

absurd regulations of 301 

may be removed in cold climates 300 

not to be removed in hot climates 301 



R. 

RAILROADS, uses of and dangers of 184 

Ravines, danger of ., 41 

Respiration, physiology of 21 

Respirators, value of 28 

Rivers, change of course of 112 

Rice cultivations near stations 15 



SANITARIA, hill, importance of expectations of 83 

preventive of disease 90 

diseases not benefited and benefited by 85 

malarious disease on 97 

cholera on ib. 



INDEX. 315 

PAGE 

Sanitaria, hill, Morehead's, Dr. , opinion of 85 

Chevers, Dr., on 88 

should be more used 84 

peculiarities of climate of 93 

effects on the mind 94 

,, climate of, how it differs from the plains 95 

sun of ib. 

use of calomel on 96 

importance of sanitary matters on 98 

scrofula on ib. 

smallpox on 97 

intermittent fever on ib. 

,, conservancy on 98 

proper height of 100 

Sanitation, difficulties to progress of 1 

and the medical profession 2 

whatitis 3 

future name of 43 

,, value of ib. 

,, military regulations concerning 7 

advice how to be given 9 

known in remote ages 10 

is our hold on India 13 

dangers of neglect of 45 

want of, at all times produces disease ib. 

,, in Scinde 62 

Sanitary art, what it comprises 2 

Saxe's, Marshal, opinion of the danger of battle 12 

Science, difficulties to progress of 1 

Scinde, sanitation in 62 

Seasoning fevers , 97 

Sewage masses, composition of 151 

Seperateur system recommended 149 

Sepoy army, health of 14 

Slaves of Federal States of America proof against malaria 42 

Scoutellen and Schoiibein's experiments on ozone 21 

Simla, sanitary condition of 68 

Solferino, battle of 13 

Soldiers, employment of 255 

ordered by Sir H. Rose 256 

knowing a trade in the regiment 257 

trade monopoly ib. 

children to be taught trades 258 

sanitation for 293 

wife 287 

widow . 290 



316 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Scurvy, former sufferings from 227 

,, now endemic in India ib. 

latent 228 

ulcers from, boils from ib. 

causes of, in India ib. 

light, absence of, a cause of 230 

,, prophylaxis for ib. 

Scorbutic diathesis 31 

Sulphurous acid in the atmosphere 17 

Subathoo, barracks at 74 

Stations abandoned in India 63 

Swamp, dismal 34 

Smith's, Dr., experiments on air 18 

Syphilis, prevalence of, at particular periods 235 

causes of ib. 

sickness from 236 

rheumatism caused by ib. 

cure of 237 

prevention of ib. 

question of, to be explained to soldiers 238 

soldiers, career 239 

or Lock hospitals ib. 

Stations, in plains, must always be Ill 

choice of ib. 

spleen, test for 112 

,, inhabitants of locality, aspect of, to be considered ib. 

,, for mouths and beds of rivers to be avoided 113 

Stations in the plains, soils fitted for 114 

must have water in the locality ib. 

cultivation near 115 

,, drainage of 116 

mountains to be avoided in the choice of ib. 

cities to be avoided 117 

graveyards to be avoided ib. 

should front the breeze -. ib. 

situation of outhouses in 118 

site of, to be chosen in the wet season 119 

T. 

TATTIES 133 

Test of health by infantile mortality 55 

Temperate climates, sanitation in 83 

Terae (misprinted Ferae at p. 117, &c.) 104, 117 

Teeth injured by gritty bread . 207 

Teetotalism not recommended... .. 225 



INDEX. 317 

PAGE 

Teetotal statistics 225 

societies 226 

Trees, cutting down, effects of 40 

are beneficial, and the reverse 121, 140 

use of 119 

dangers of ib- 

preservation of ib. 

Tobacco, effects of opinions on prevalence of use of Sir B. Brodie on... 211 

Thermanlidoles 133 

Transports, Kirwan's Notes on 267 

,, mortality of troops on board 268 

size of 269 

,, fittings requisite for ib. 

,, vessels built for northern seas not fitted for the tropics ib. 

live stock on board ib. 

new ships not fitted for 270 

medical officer should be sanitary officer in ib. 

sanitary officer's duties in , ib. 

night watches in ib. 

awnings on board 271 

washing decks of 272 

Typhoid fever 12 

U. 

UPPER sleeping-rooms most healthy 39 

recommended for barracks 129 

V. 
VARNA, cholera at, destroyed by fire 41 

W. 

WAR, dangers of 131 

in China 5 

in the Crimea ib. 

Water a necessity on sites of cantonments 114 

composition of 161 

importance of, in animal economy ib. 

pure, in tropical climates , 162 

rain river well tank marsh ib. 

action of, on soap 163 

well, not fitted for certain diseases 164 

diseases conveyed through the medium of ib. 

impure, induces malarious fever 165 

goitre 166 

paralysis and colic 167 



318 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Water, action of, on lead 168 

impure, induces diarrhoea and dysentery ib. 

cholera 169 

conveys germs of entozoa , 170 

impure, induces yellow fever , 171 

gout, dyspepsia 172 

stone in the bladder ib. 

tests for ib. 

purification of 173 

Windsor epidemic of typhoid fever 26 

Castle, drainage of ib. 

Wives and widows in India 287, 290 

Women, mortality of 55 

in India 285 

quarters in India 287 

Z. 

ZYMOTIC diseases, Report of Reg. Gen. R 46 

causes of 24 



ERRATA. 

Page 164, line 12, for inorganic, read organic. 
203, 6, for Dr. Heming, read Dr. Fleming. 



J. B. ADLAHD, PRINTER, BARTHOLOMEW CLOB. 



EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS ON 
DR. MOORE'S 

MANUAL OP THE DISEASES OF INDIA. 



" We have read every page of Dr. Moore's work, and can safely say that the 
only fault to be found is that the book is too short. We think so highly of 
the capabilities of its author for his work, that we would suggest that he 
should enlarge the book, and that the publisher should give it the privilege of 
entre amongst his series as ' The Manual of the Diseases of India.' " Lancet, 
November 16th, 1861. 

" The author has furnished a handy book on an important class of diseases. 
Every man intending to practice in India should have this little book, as he 
will gather much useful information from it." Medical Circular, 

" The account of the several affections is brief, but clear, and the line of 
treatment judiciously laid down. We can strongly recommend this little 
work to the notice of our readers." Dublin Medical Press. 

" To its preparation he has brought the results of reading, observation, and 
philosophical reflection. To those who are about to proceed to India, we may 
specially commend his instructive chapter on the means of preserving the 
health of Europeans in that country." Midland Counties Herald. 



London, New Burlington Street, 
October, 1862. 




IN 



MEDICINE AND OTHER BRANCHES 



OF 



NATUKAL SCIENCE. 




" It would be unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of 
Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most 
beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published." Lancet. 

"All the publications of Mr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, 
that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." Edinburgh 
Medical and Surgical Journal. 

" No one is more distinguished for the elegance and recherche" style of his publica- 
tions than Mr. Churchill." Provincial Medical Journal. 

" Mr. Churchill's publications are very handsomely got up : the engravings are 
remarkably well executed." Dublin Medical Press. 

"The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Mr. Churchill's publi- 
cations, most beautiful." Monthly Journal oj Medical Science. 

" Mr. Churchill's illustrated works are among the best that emanate from the 
Medical Press." Medical Times. 

" We have before called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great 
advantage which Mr. Churchill has conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a 
moderate cost, of works so highly creditable in point of artistic execution and scientific 
merit." Dublin Quarterly Journal. 




MR. CHURCHILL is the Publisher of the following Periodicals, offering to Authors a 
wide extent of Literary Announcement, and a Medium of Advertisement, addressed to 
all Classes of the Profession. COMMUNICATIONS, BOOKS for REVIEW, addressed to the 
respective Editors, are received and duly forwarded by Mr. Churchill. 



THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDIGO-GHiRURGIGAL REVIEW, 

AND 

QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

Price Six Shillings. Nos. I. to LX. 

THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MICROSCOPICAL 
SCIENCE. 

Edited by EDWIN LANEESTER, M.D., F.R.S., F.L.S., and GEORGE BUSK, F.R.C.S.E., 

F.R.S., F.L.S. Price 4s. Nos. I. to VIII. New Series. 
%* A few Nos. of the Old Series are out of print; the others may be obtained. 

THE JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE. 

Published by authority of the Association of Medical Officers of Asylums and Hospitals 
for the Insane. 

Edited by C. L. ROBERTSON, M.B. Published Quarterly, price Half-a-Crown. 
New Series. Nos. I. to VII. 

ARCHIVES OF MEDICINE: 

A Record of Practical Observations and Anatomical and Chemical Researches, connected with 

the Investigation and Treatment of Disease. Edited by LIONEL S. BEALE, M.B., F.R.S. 

Published Quarterly, price 2s. 6d. from No. IX.; Nos. I. to VIII., 3s. 6d. 

THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL REPORTS, AND JOURNAL OF 
OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

Price 2s. Nos. I. to XVII. 



THE MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE. 

Published Weekly, price Sixpence, or Stamped, Sevenpence. 
Annual Subscription, 1. 6s., or Stamped, 1. 10s. 4d., and regularly forwarded to all parts 

of the Kingdom. 

The MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE is favoured with an amount of Literary and Scientific 
support which enables it to reflect fully the progress of Medical Science, and insure for it 
a character, an influence, and a circulation possessed at the present time by no Medical 
Periodical. ~ 

THE HALF-YEARLY ABSTRACT OF THE 
MEDICAL SCIENCES. 

Being a Digest of the Contents of the principal British and Continental Medical Works; 
together with a Critical Report of the Progress of Medicine and the Collateral Sciences. 
Edited by W. H. RANKING, M.D., Cantab., and C. B. RADOLIFFE, M.D., Lond. Post 8vo. 
cloth, 6s. 6d. Vols. I. to XXXV. 

THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL. 

New Series. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. 
%* Vols. I. to XXL, bound in cloth, price 12s. 6d. each. 



THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DENTAL SCIENCE. 

Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Nos. I. to LXXV. 

THE MEDICAL DIRECTORY FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

Published Annually. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



A CLASSIFIED INDEX 



TO 



ANATOMY. 


DISEASES OF WOMEN 


MATERIA MEDICA and 


PAGE 

Anatomical Remembrancer . . 3 


AND CHILDREN. 


PHARMACY continued. 


Beale on Liver 5 
Flower on Nerves 11 


Ballard on Infants and Mothers 4 
Barker on Children 4 


PAGE 

Pereira's Selecta e Praescriptis 21 


Hassall's Micros. Anatomy ..14 
Heale's Anatomy of the Lungs 15 
Holden's Human Osteology .. 15 
Do. on Dissections . . . . 15 


Bennet on Uterus 6 
Do. on Uterine Pathology.. 6 
Bird on Children 7 
Blake on the Skin in Children 7 


Pharmacopoeia Londinensis . . 22 
Prescriber's Pharmacopoeia .. 22 
Royle's Materia Medica .. ..24 
Steggall's First Lines for Che- 


Jones' and Sieveking's Patho- 




mists 26 


logical Anatomy 17 
Maclise's Surgical Anatomy . . 19 
St. Bartholomew's Hospital 


Eyre's Practical Remarks . . 11 
Hood on Scarlet Fever, &c. . . 16 
Kiwisch (ed. by Clay) on Ovaries 9 
Lee's Ovarian & Uterine Diseases 18 


Stowe's Toxicological Chart . . 26 
Taylor on Poisons 27 
Wittstein's Pharmacy .. ..31 


Catalogue 24 


Lee on Diseases of Uterus . . 18 




Sibson's Medical Anatomy .. 25 


Do. on Speculum 18 


MWVMMt 


Waters' Anatomy of Lung . . 29 
Wheeler's Anatomy for Artists 30 


Seymour on Ovaria 25 
Smith on Leucorrhcea . . .26 


MEDICINE. 


Wilson's Anatomy 30 
CHEMISTRY. 


Tilt on Uterine Inflammation. 28 
Do. on Change of Life . . .28 
Underwood on Children . . . 29 
West on Women . . . . 30 


Adams on Rheumatic Gout . . 3 
Addison on Cell Therapeutics . . 3 
Do. on Healthy and Dis- 


Abel & Bloxam's Handbook . . 3 
Bowman's Practical Chemistry 7 
Do. Medical do. . . 7 


Do. (Uvedale) on Puerperal 
Diseases 30 


eased Structure ... . . . . 3 
Anderson on Fever . . . . . . 3 
Austin on Paralysis 4 


Fownes' Manual of Chemistry . . 1 2 
Do. Actonian Prize .. .. 12 


GENERATIVE ORGANS, 


Barclay on Medical Diagnosis . . 4 
Barlow's Practice of Medicine 4 


Do. Qualitative Analysis ..12 
Fresenius' Chemical Analysis . . 12 
Galloway's First Step .. ..12 
Do. Analysis 12 


Diseases of, and SYPHILIS. 

Acton on Reproductive Organs 3 
Coote on Syphilis 10 
Gant on Bladder 12 


Basham on Dropsy 4 
Brinton on Stomach 7 
Do. on Ulcer of do 7 
Budd on the Liver 8 
Do. on Stomach 8 


Do. T&blcs . , .. i. 12 
Griffiths' Four Seasons .. ..13 
Horsley's Chem. Philosophy .. 16 
Jones. Mulder on Wine .. .. 17 


Judd on Syphilis 17 
Parker on Syphilis 21 
Wilson oo Syphilis 31 


Camplin on Diabetes 8 
Chambers on Digestion . . . . 8 
Davey's Ganglionic Nervous 


Plattner on Blowpipe . . . . 22 
Speer's PathoL Chemistry . . 26 


HYGIENE. 


System 10 
Eyre on Stomach 11 
French on Cholera 12 


CLIMATE 


Armstrong on Naval Hygiene 4 
Beale's Laws of Health . . . . 5 


Fuller on Rheumatism . . . . 12 
Gairdner on Gout 12 


Barker on Worthing 4 
Bennet on Mentone 6 
Dalrymple on the Climate of 
Egypt 10 


Do. Health and Disease . . 5 
Bennet on Nutrition 6 
Carter on Training 8 
Chavasse's Advice to a Mother . . 9 


Gibbon Throat 13 
Granville on Sudden Death .. 13 
Gully's Simple Treatment . . 13 
Habershon on the Abdomen ..13 


Francis on Change of Climate . . 12 
Hall on Torquay 14 


Do. Advice to a Wife . . 9 
Dobell's Germs and Vestiges of 


Do. on Mercury ... . . 13 
HallonApnoea 13 


Haviland on Climate 14 
Lee on Climate 18 
Lee'sWatering Places of England 1 8 
McClelland on Bengal .. ..19 


Disease 11 

Granville on Vichy 13 
Hart wig on Sea Bathing .. ..14 
Do. Physical Education 14 
Hufeland's Art 16 


Headland on Medicines . . . . 14 
Hooper's Physician's Vade- 
Mecum J3 
Inman's New Theory . . . . 16 


McNicoll on Southport . . . . 19 
Martin on Tropical Climates . . 20 
Moore's Diseases of India . . 20 
Price on Menton 22 
Scoresby- Jackson's Climatology 24 
Shapter on South Devon . . . . 25 
Taylor on Pau 27 


Lee's Rhenish Baths 18 
Parkin on Disease 21 
Pickford on Hygiene .. ..22 
Robertson on Diet 24 
Routh on Infant Feeding . . . . 24 
Rumsey's State Medicine . . . . 24 
Wells' Seamen's Medicine Chest 29 


Inman on Myalgia 16 
James on Laryngoscope .. .. 17 
Jones' Animal Chemistry .. 17 
Marcet on Chronic Alcoholism . 19 
Pa vy on Diabetes 21 
Peacock on Influenza . . . . 21 
Richardson's Asclepiad .. ..23 


r~++t~~** 


Wife's Domain 30 


Roberts on Palsy 23 


DEFORMITIES, &c. 


Wilson on Healthy Skin . . . . 31 
Do. on Mineral Waters .. 31 


Robertson on Gout 24 
Savory's Compendium . . . . 24 


Bigg on Deformities 6 


Do. on Turkish Bath . . . . 31 


Semple on Cough 25 


Do. on Artificial Limbs . . . . 6 




Seymour on Dropsy 25 


Bishop on Deformities . . .6 


MAMOTiM 


Shaw's Remembrancer . . . . 25 


Do. Articulate Sounds . 6 


MATERIA MEDICA and 


Smee on Debility 25 


Brodhurst on Spine 7 
Do. onClubfoot .. .7 


PHARMACY. 


Thomas' Practice of Physic .. 27 
Todd's Clinical Lectures . . . . 28 


Godfrey on Spine' 13 


Bateman's Magnacopia . . . . 5 


Wells on Gout 29 


Hare on Spine 14 


Beasley's Formulary 5 


What to Observe 19 


Hugman on Hip Joint . . . . 16 


Do. Receipt Book . . . . 5 


Williams' Principles 30 


Tamplin on Spine 27 


Beasley's Book of Prescriptions 5 


Wright on Headaches .. ..31 




, 

$ 4 MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 

S> 

DR. ARLIDGE. 

ON THE STATE OF LUNACY AND THE LEGAL PROVISION 

FOR THE INSANE; with Observations on the Construction and Organisation of 

Asylums. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. 

OBSERVATIONS ON NAVAL HYGIENE AND SCURVY. 

More particularly as the latter appeared during a Polar Voyage. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. T. J. ASHTON. 

ON THE DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALFORMATIONS 

OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

PROLAPSUS, FISTULA IN ANO, AND KSMORRHOIDAL 

AFFECTIONS ; their Pathology and Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 
MR. THOS. J. AUSTIN, M.R.C.S. ENG. 

A PRACTICAL ACCOUNT OF GENERAL PARALYSIS: 

Its Mental and Physical Symptoms, Statistics, Causes, Seat, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 
MR. THOMAS BALLARD, M.R.C.S. 

A NEW AND RATIONAL EXPLANATION OF THE DIS- 

EASES PECULIAR TO INFANTS AND MOTHERS; with obvious Suggestions 
for their Prevention and Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. 



DR. BARCLAY. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS, Second Edition. 

Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

DR. T. HERBERT BARKER. 

ON THE HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS AND 

CHILDREN. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. W. G. BARKER. 

ON THE CLIMATE OF WORTHING: its Remedial Influence in 
Disease, especially of the Lungs. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

DR. BARLOW. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, Second 

Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d. 

DR. BARNES. 

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PLACENTA 

PR^EVIA; being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 
MR. BARVVELL, F.R.C.S. 

A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. With Engrav- 

ings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. . 

DR. BASCOME. 

A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC PESTILENCES, FROM THE 

EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, &?. 

DR. BASHAM. 

ON DROPSY, CONNECTED WITH DISEASE OF THE 

KIDNEYS (MORBUS BRIGHTII), and on some other Diseases of those Organs, 
associated with Albuminous and Purulent Urine. Illustrated by numerous Drawings 
from the Microscope. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 




MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. H. F. BAXTER, M.R.C.S.L. 

ON ORGANIC POLARITY; showing a Connexion to exist between. * 
Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. BATEMAN. 

MAGNACOPIA : A Practical Library of Profitable Knowledge, commu- 
nicating the general Minutiae of Chemical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the 
generality of Secret Forms of Preparations. Third Edition. 18mo. 6s. 



MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. 

THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND 

AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient. Post 8vo. 
cloth, 7s. 6d. 

HEALTH AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



DR. BEALE, F.R.S. 

ON URINE, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND CALCULI: their 

Microscopical and Chemical Examination ; the Anatomy of the Kidney, and General 
Remarks on the Treatment of certain Urinary Diseases. Numerous Engravings. Post 
8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. u 

HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE, illustrated Edition. 

Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. m 

THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL 

MEDICINE. With a Coloured Plate, and 270 Woodcuts. Second Edition. 8vo- 
cloth, 14s. IV 

ON THE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER, illustrated with 66 Pho- 

tographs of the Author's Drawings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, URINARY 

DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied 
from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 6d. 

ON THE SIMPLE TISSUES OF THE HUMAN BODY, with 

Plates, 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

MR. BEASLEY. 

THE BOOK OF 'PRESCRIPTIONS; containing 3000 Prescriptions. 
Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English 
and Foreign. Second Edition. 1 8mo. cloth, 6s. 

THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL ' RECEIPT-BOOK : comprising a 

copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent and 
Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics, Hair 
Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics ; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments ; Trade 
Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c. ; with 
useful Memoranda and Tables. Fifth Edition. 18mo. cloth, 6s. 

in. 

THE POCKET FORMULARY AND SYNOPSIS OF THE 

BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPEIAS; comprising standard and 
approved Formulae for the Preparations and Compounds -employed in Medical Practice. 
Seventh Edition, corrected and enlarged. 18mo. cloth, 6s. 



I 



ME. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. HENRY BENNET. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE 1 ' ON INFLAMMATION AND 

OTHER DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Fourth Edition, revised, with Additions. 
8vo. cloth, 16s. n. 

A REVIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE OF UTERINE 

PATHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

in. 

NUTRITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5*. 
MENTONE AND THE RIVIERA AS A WINTER CLIMATE. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

PROFESSOR BENTLEY, F.L.S. 

A MANUAL OF BOTANY. With nearly 1,200 Engravings on Wood. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. HENRY HEATHER BIGG. 

THE MECHANICAL APPLIANCES NECESSARY FOR THE 

TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES. 

PART I. The Lower Limbs. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

PART II. The Spine and Upper Extremities. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

ARTIFICIAL LIMBS; THEIR^CONSTRUCTION AND APPLI- 

CATION. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 
DR. BILLING, F.R.S. 

ON DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND HEART. 8vo. doth, e.. 

DR. S. B. BIRCH, M.D. 

CONSTIPATED BOWELS : the Various Causes and the Rational Means 

of Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 



DR. GOLDINQ BIRD, F.R.S. 

URINARY DEPOSITS; THEIR DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, 

AND THERAPEUTICAL INDICATIONS. With Engravings on Wood. Fifth 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

ii. 

ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY; being an Experimental 

Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences. Illustrated with numerous Engrav- 
ings on Wood. Fifth Edition. By GOLDINQ BIRD, M.D., F.R.S., and CHARLES 
BROOKE, M.B. Cantab., F.R.S. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. BISHOP, F.R.S. 

ON DEFORMITIES OE THE HUMAN BODY, their Pathology 

and Treatment. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

ON ARTICULATE SOUNDS, AND ON THE CAUSES AND 

CURE OF IMPEDIMENTS OF SPEECH. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



-* 



MR. P. HINCKES BIRD, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 

AND INFANTS AT THE BREAST. Translated from the French of M. BOUCHUT, 
with Notes and Additions. 8vo. cloth. 20s. 



MR. ROBERT HOWARTH BLAKE, M.R.C.S.L. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN IN 

CHILDREN. From the French of CAILLAULT. With Notes. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. Qd. 



DR. BLAKISTON, F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERTATIONS ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF 

THE CHEST; and on the Principles of Auscultation. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



DR. JAMES BRIGHT. 

ON DISEASES OF THE HEART, LUNGS, & AIR PASSAGES; 

with a Review of the several Climates recommended in these Affections. Third Edi- 
tion. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

DR. BRINTON. 

THE DISEASES OF THE STOMACH, with an Introduction on its 
Anatomy and Physiology; being Lectures delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Post 8vo. 
cloth, 10s. 6d. 

THE SYMPTOMS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF 

ULCER OF THE STOMACH. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. BERNARD E. BRODHURST, F.R.C.S. 

ON LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE: its Pathology and 

Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, with Plates, 3s. 

ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CLUBFOOT AND 

ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS involving the TIBIO-TARSAL ARTICULATION. 
With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

m. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF THE 

JOINTS INVOLVING ANCHYLOSIS, and on the TREATMENT for the 
RESTORATION of MOTION. Third Edition, much enlarged, 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

MR. THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 

CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



MR. JOHN E. BOWMAN. 

PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, including Analysis. With numerous Illus- 
trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

II. 

MEDICAL CHEMISTRY; with Illustrations on Wood. Fourth Edition, - 

carefully revised. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 




MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. BRYCE. 

ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at 

from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. BUDD, F.R.S. 

ON DISEASES OF THE LITER, 

Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

ON THE ORGANIC DISEASES AND FUNCTIONAL DIS- 
ORDERS OF THE STOMACH. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 



DR. JOHN CHARLES BUCKNILL, &, DR. DANIEL H. TUKE. 

A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: containing 

the History, Nosology, Description, Statistics, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of 
Insanity. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. 

. ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. 

Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6J. 



MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. 

g ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA, Post 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. v^.wvvx-wwwv^, 

DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. 

PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous nius- 

trations on Steel and Wood. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 26s. 

PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY, illustrated 

with 300 Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. 

in. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY, With numerous Illustrations on 
Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS, with nume- 

rous Engravings on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
DR. CHAMBERS. 

DIGESTION AND ITS DERANGEMENTS, Post 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6rf. 



DR. CHANCE, M.B. 

YIRCHOW'S CELLULAR PATHOLOGY, AS BASED UPON 

PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With 144 Engrav- ^ 
ings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 




MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. 

THE TREATMENT OF OBSTINATE ULCERS AND CUTA- 

NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Third 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

n. 

YARICOSE YEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- 
tive and Curative. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6</. 

MR. PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, F.R.C.S. 

ADVICE TO A MOTHER ON THE MANAGEMENT OF 

HER OFFSPRING. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

ADVICE TO A, WIFE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HEE 

OWN HEALTH. With an Introductory Chapter, especially addressed to a Young 
Wife. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



MR. JOHN CLAY, M.R.C.S. 

KIWISCH ON DISEASES OF THE OVARIES: Translated, by o 

permission, from the last German Edition of his Clinical Lectures on the Special Patho- 
logy and Treatment of the Diseases of Women. With Notes, and an Appendix on the 
Operation of Ovariotomy. Royal 12mo. cloth, 16s. 



DR. CONOLLY. 

THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOVERNMENT OF LUNATIC 

ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. PostSvo. 
cloth, 6s. 

MR. COOLEY. 

COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPOEIAS. 

THE CYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, AND COL- 
LATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, PROFESSIONS, MANU- 
FACTURES, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, PHARMACY, AND 
DOMESTIC ECONOMY ; designed as a Compendious Book of Reference for the 
Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Third and greatly 
enlarged Edition, 8vo. cloth, 26s. 



SIR ASTLEY COOPER, BART., F.R.S. 

ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 

With 24 Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to., 20s. 



MR. W. WHITE COOPER. 

ON WOUNDS AND INJURIES OF THE EYE. illustrated by 

17 Coloured Figures and 41 Woodcuts. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED "SIGHT, IMPAIRED VISION, 

AND THE MEANS OF ASSISTING SIGHT. With 31 Illustrations on Wood. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 




$^.. e>t ' .. .- ' - - ...... ------- " - - - _ 

10 MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. COOPER. 

A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY AND ENCYCLO- 

PyEDIA OF SURGICAL SCIENCE. New Edition, brought down to the present 
time. By SAMUEL A. LANE, F.R.C.S., assisted by various eminent Surgeons. Vol. I., 
8vo. cloth, 1. 5s. _ 

MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. 

A EEPOET ON SOME IMPOETANT POINTS IN THE 

TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. COTTON. 

I. 
ON CONSUMPTION: Its Nature, Symptoms, and Treatment. To 

which Essay was awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal of the Medical Society of 
London. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, '6s. 

PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE; OR, THE PHYSICAL 

SIGNS OF CONSUMPTION. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. COULSON. 

ON DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE GLAND. 

The Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

ON LITHOTEITY AND LITHOTOMY; with Engravings on Wood. 
8vo. cloth, 8s. 

MR. WILLIAM CRAIG, L.F.P.S., GLASGOW. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OE VARIATIONS OF ELECTEE 

TENSION AS THE REMOTE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC AND OTHER 
DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

MR. CURLING, F.R.S. 

OBSEEYATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE EECTUM, Second 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. n 

A PEACTICAL TEEATISE ON 'DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, 

SPERMATIC CORD, AND SCROTUM. Second Edition, with Additions. 8vo. 
cloth, 14s. 

DR. DALRYMPLE, M.D. LOND., F.R.C.S. 

METEOEOLOGICAL AND MEDICAL OBSEEYATIONS ON THE 

CLIMATE OF EGYPT, with Practical Hints for Invalid Travellers. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 



MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 

PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE, Complete in Nine Fasciculi: 

imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bound morocco, gilt tops, 91. 15s. 

DR. D A V E Y. 

THE GANGLIONIC NEEYOUS''SYSTEM : its Structure, Functions, o 
and Diseases. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n 

ON THE NATUEE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OF IN- 

SANITY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. n 



DR. HERBERT DAVIES. 

ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE 

LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 



DR. HALL DAVIS. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF DIFFICULT PARTURITION. Post 8vo. 

cloth, 6s. 6d. 

MR. D 1X0 N. 

A GUIDE TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF DISEASES OF 

THE EYE. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. 



DR. DOBELL. 

DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND 

THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

LECTURES ON THE GERMS AND VESTIGES OF DISEASE, 

and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease by Periodical Examinations. 
8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. 

NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. THE 
JACKSONIAN PRIZE ESSAY FOR 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. DRUITT, F.R.C.S. 

THE SURGEON'S VADE-MECUM; with numerous Engravings on 
Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8 vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. DUNN, F.R.C.S. 

AN ESSAY ON PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4,. 



SIR JAMES EYRE, M.D. 

THE STOMACH AND ITS DIFFICULTIES, Fifth Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. u 

PRACTICAL REMARKS ON ' SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- 
EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



DR. FENWICK. 

ON SCROFULA AND CONSUMPTION. Clergyman's Sore Throat, 
Catarrh, Croup, Bronchitis, Asthma. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

MR. FERGUSSON, F.R.S. 

A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; with numerous illus- 
trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. FLOWER, F.R.C.S. 

DIAGRAMS OF THE NERYES OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various 
Regions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. Folio, containing Six 
Plates, 14s. 



12 MR. CHURCHILLS PUBLICATIONS. 



f| 



SIR JOHN FORBES, M.D., D.C.L. (OXON.), F.R.S. 

NATURE AND AET IN THE CUKE OF DISEASE, Second 

Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. 

I. 

A MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY; with numerous Illustrations on Wood. 
Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. HOFMANN, PH.D., F.R.S. 

CHEMISTRY, AS EXEMPLIFYING THE WISDOM AND 

BENEFICENCE OF GOD. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. 

in. 

INTRODUCTION TO QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Post 8 vo. doth, 2*. 

DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. 

CHANGE OF CLIMATE ; considered as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- 
monary, and other Chronic Affections; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of 
Residence for Invalids in Spain, Portugal, Algeria, &c., at different Seasons of the Year; 
and an Appendix on the Mineral Springs of the Pyrenees, Vichy, and Aix les Bains. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. Go?. 

MR. J. G. FRENCH, F.R.C.S. 

, THE NATURE OF CHOLERA INVESTIGATED, Second 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

C. REMIGIUS FRESENIUS. 

ELEMENTARY INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, 

AS PRACTISED IN THE LABORATORY OF GIESSEN. Edited by LLOYD 
BULLOCK, F.C.S. 

QUALITATIVE. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 
QUANTITATIVE. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

DR. FULLER. 

ON RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATIC GOUT, AND SCIATICA: 

their Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatment. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Qd. 



DR. GAIRDNER. 

ON GOUT I its History, its Causes, and its Cure. Fourth Edition. Post 
8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

MR. GALLOWAY. 

THE FIRST STEP IN CHEMISTRY. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 

cloth, 5s. 

A MANUAL OF QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS, Third Edition. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

in. 

CHEMICAL TABLES, On Five Large Sheets, for School and Lecture 
Rooms. Second Edition. 4s. 6d. 



MR. F. J. GANT. 

THE IKRITABLE BLADDER : its Causes and Curative Treatment. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 4s 6d. 






MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 13 

H 

-MHt f@ 

DR. GIBB, M.R.C.P. 

ON DISEASES OF THE THROAT, EPIGLOTTIS, AND 

WINDPIPE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MRS. GODFREY. 

ON THE NATURE, PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND CURE 

OF SPINAL CURVATURES and DEFORMITIES of the CHEST and LIMBS, 
without ARTIFICIAL SUPPORTS or any MECHANICAL APPLIANCES. 
Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. 

THE MINERAL SPRINGS OF VICHY : their Efficacy in the 

Treatment of Gout, Indigestion, Gravel, &c. 8vo. cloth, 5s, 

ON SUDDEN DEATH, Post 8vo., 2,. M. 



MR. GRAY, M.R.C.S. 

PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH indispensable to Comfort and 
Appearance, Health, and Longevity. 18mo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. GRIFFITHS. 

CHEMISTRY OF THE FOUR SEASONS -Spring, Snmmer, 

Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap 
8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. GULLY. 

THE SIMPLE TREATMENT OF DISEASE; deduced from the 

Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 

DR. GUY. 

HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S VADE-MECUM; OR, MANUAL OF 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. New Edition, considerably 
enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. 

GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. Third Series. Vols.I.toVIII.,8vo, 
7s. 6rf. each. , 

DR. HABERSHON, F.R.C.P. 

PATHOLOGICAL AND PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON 

DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, comprising those of the Stomach and other Parts 
of the Alimentary Canal, (Esophagus, Stomach, Caecum, Intestines, and Peritoneum. 
Second Edition, with Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 

ON THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY IN THE 

TREATMENT OF DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. 

PRONE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING 

AND OTHER FORMS OF APNCEA OR SUSPENDED RESPIRATION. 
Post 8vo. cloth. 5s. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MEDI- 

CINE. Second &erf*0. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 




MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. 

TOEQIIAT IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A RESORT FOR 

PULMONARY INVALIDS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. HARDWICH. 

A MANUAL OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMISTRY, Sixth 

Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



MR. HARE, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE PREVENTION, 

CAUSES, AND TREATMENT OF CURVATURES OF THE SPINE ; with 
Engravings. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. JAMES B. HARRISON. 

ON THE CONTAMINATION OF WATER BY THE POISON 

OF LEAD, and its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



DR. HARTWIG. 

ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR, Second Edition. F cap . 

8vo., 2s. 6rf. 

t ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN. 

8vo., 2s. 6d. 



DR. A. H. HASSALL. 

THE MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Illustrated with Several Hundred Drawings in 
Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, 1. 10s. 

THE URINE, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE ; or, a Simple EX- 

planation of the Physical Properties, Composition, and Uses of the Urine, of the Functions 
of the Kidneys, and of the Treatment of Urinary Disorders. With Twenty- four En- 
gravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R.C.S. 

CLIMATE, WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Sketch of the 

Opinions of the most celebrated Ancient and Modern Writers with regard to the Influence 
of Climate and Weather in producing Disease. With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo. 
cloth, 7s. 



DR. HEADLAND. & 

ON THE ACTION OF MEDICINES IN THE SYSTEM. 1 

Being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fother- ^ 

gillian Gold Medal for 1852. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. $j 




MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 15 



DR. HEALE. 

A TREATISE ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF 

THE LUNGS. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

A TREATISE ON VITAL CAUSES, 8vo. cloth, 9.. 



MR. CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.CS. 

A MANUAL OF MINOR SURGERY AND BANDAGING, FOR 

THE USE OF HOUSE-SURGEONS, DRESSERS, AND JUNIOR PRAC- 
TITIONERS. With Illustrations. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. HIQGINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.E. 

AN ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF SILYER 

IN THE CURE OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND ULCERS. Second 
Edition. Price 5s. 

ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS' ON THE NITRATE OF SIL- 

VER; with full Directions for its Use as a 'Therapeutic Agent. 8vo., 2s. 60?. 
DR. HINDS. 

THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN RELATION 

TO THE HIGHER SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Studies, and on 
the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life. Post 8vo., cloth, 4s. 



DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. 

THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN 

OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo., cloth, 6s. 



MR. JABEZ HOGG. 

THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE : an Essay on its value in the Exploration 
of Internal Eye Diseases. Second Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. 



MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, FR.O.S. 

I. 

HUMAN OSTEOLOGY : with Plates, showing the Attachments of the 
Muscles. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY. 

With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 



MR. BARNARD HOLT, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF 

THE URETHRA. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. C. HOLTHOUSE. 

| ON SQUINTING, PARALYTIC AFFECTIONS OF THE EYE, . 

and CERTAIN FORMS OF IMPAIRED VISION. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

LECTURES ON STRABISMUS, n aelivered at the Westminster Hospital. 
8vo. cloth, 4s. 






is MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE PROTISION OF CRIMI- 

NAL LUNATICS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 



MR. P. HOOD. 

THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEVER; 

also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF 
CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. JOHN HORSLEY. 

A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar 

Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. 
Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 



DR. HUFELAND. 

THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE, Second Edition. Edited 

by ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



MR. W. CURTIS HUGMAN, F.R.C.S. 

ON HIP- JOINT DISEASE; with reference especially to Treatment 
by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb. 
8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. HULKE, F.R.C.S. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE USE OF THE 

OPHTHALMOSCOPE. Being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1859. Royal 8vo. 
cloth, 8s. 

DR. HENRY HUNT. 

ON HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION, 8vo. cloth, 5*. 



DR. INMAN, M.R.C.P. 

ON MYALGIA: ITS NATURE!' CAUSES, AND TREATMENT; 

being a Treatise on Painful and other Affections of the Muscular System. Second 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n 

FOUNDATION FOR A NEW* THEORY AND PRACTICE 

OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. 



DR. ARTHUR JACOB, F.R.C.S. 

A TREATISE ON THE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE EYE-BALL. 

Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. J. H. JAMES, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPERATIONS FOR 

STRANGULATED HERNIA. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 17 



DR. PROSSER JAMES, M.D. 

SORE-THROAT: ITS NATURE, VARIETIES, AND TREAT- 
MENT ; including the Use of the LARYNGOSCOPE as an Aid to Diagnosis. Post 
8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. BENCE JONES, F.R.S. 

MULDER ON WINE, Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6*. 

II. 

ON ANIMAL CHEMISTRY, in its relation to STOMACH and RENAL 
DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., &, DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. 

A MANUAL OE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

DR. JAMES JONES, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

ON THE USE OE PERCHLORIDE OE IRON AND OTHER 

CHALYBEATE SALTS IN THE TREATMENT OF CONSUMPTION. Crown 
8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 

OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; illustrated with Engravings, plain 
and coloured. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

n. 

* THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OE THE ALMIGHTY, < 

AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION; being the Actonian Prize Essay 
for 1851. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

III. 

DEFECTS OE SIGHT : their Nature, Causes, Prevention, and General 

Management. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A CATECHISM OF THE MEDICINE AND SURGERY OF 

THE EYE AND EAR. For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6rf. 

A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY 

OF BODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap. 8vo., 
2s. 6d. 



MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN M.R.C.S. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SURGERY; WITH A 

Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. JUDD. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHI- 

LIS : including Observations on the Power of the Menstruous Fluid, and of the Dis- 
charge from Leucorrhoea and Sores to produce Urethritis: with a variety of Examples, 
Experiments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, \. 5s. 




fro 

MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 




DR. LAENNEC. 

A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION, Trans- 

lated and Edited by J. B. SHARPE, M.R.C.S. 3s. 



DR. LANE, M.A. 

HYDROPATHY; OR, HYGIENIC MEDICINE, An Explanatory 

Essay. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. LAWRENCE, F.R.S. 

j A TREATISE ON RUPTURES, The Fifth Edition, considerably 

enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 



DR. LEARED, M.R.C.P. 

IMPERFECT DIGESTION: ITS CAUSES AND TREATMENT, 

Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6J. 



DR. EDWIN LEE. 

THE EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON TUBERCULOUS DISEASE, 

with Notices of the chief Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

THE WATERING PLACES OF ENGLAND, CONSIDERED 

with Reference to their Medical Topography. Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 
7s. 6rf. 

in. 

THE BATHS OF RHENISH GERMANY. Post 8vo. cloth, a,. 

IV. 

HOMOEOPATHY AND HYDROPATHY IMPARTIALLY AP- 

PRECIATED. With Notes illustrative of the Influence of the Mind over the Body. 
Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. 
I. 

A TREATISE ON THE SPECULUM; with Three Hundred Cases. 
8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

CLINICAL REPORTS OF OVARIAN AND UTERINE DIS- 

EASES, with Commentaries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

III. 

CLINICAL MIDWIFERY : comprising the Histories of 545 Cases of 

Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, with Commentaries. Second Edition. 
Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE 

UTERUS. With coloured Plates. Two Parts. Imperial 4to., 7s. 6rf. each Part. 



fe- 



ll MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 19 

-* *e- 

MR. LISTON, F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL SURGERY. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 

MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. 

ON SOME OF THE MORE OBSCURE FORMS OF NERYOUS 

AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. With an 
Introduction on the Physiology of Digestion and Assimilation, and the Generation and 
Distribution of Nerve Force. Based upon Original Microscopical Observations. With 
Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION. 

WHAT TO OBSERVE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AFTER 

DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
DR. MACKENZIE, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PHLEGMASIA 

DOLENS, as deduced from Clinical and Physiological Researches. Being the Lettsomian 
Lectures on Midwifery, delivered before the Medical Society of London during the 
Session 1861-62. 8m cloth, 6s. 

fMR. M'CLELLAND, F.L.S., F\GU6. 
SKETCH OF THE MEDICAL TOPOGRAPHY, OR CLIMATE 

A AND SOILS, OF BENGAL AND THE N. W. PROVINCES. Post 8vo. 

m cloth, 4s. 6d. 

^ 

m DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S. (EDIN.) 

f NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with 

REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 
<j? 

MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. 
I. 

SURGICAL ANATOMY. A Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- 
cipal Regions of the Human Body. 
The Second Edition, imperial folio, cloth, 3. 12s.; half-morocco, 4. 4s. 

ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. This Work ; 3 Uniform 

with the Author's " Surgical Anatomy;" each Fasciculus contains Four beautifully 
executed Lithographic Drawings. Imperial folio, cloth, 2. 10s.; half-morocco, 2. 17s. 



DR. MO NICOLL, M.R.C.P. 

A HAND-BOOK FOR SOUTHPORT, MEDICAL & GENERAL ; 

with Copious Notices of the Natural History of the District. Second Edition. Post 8vo- 
cloth, 3s. 6rf. 



DR. MARCET, F.R.S. 

ON THE COMPOSITION OF* FOOD, AND HOW IT IS 

ADULTERATED; with Practical Directions for its Analysis. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

ON CHRONIC ALCOHOLIC "'INTOXICATION, OR ALCO- 
HOLIC STIMULANTS IN CONNEXION WITH THE NERVOUS <* 
SYSTEM. Second Edition, much enlarged. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. | ', 




DR. NOB LE. 

THE HUMAN MIND IN ITS RELATIONS WITH THE 

BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. Post Svo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



; 20 MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 

i 

DR. MARKHAM. 

DISEASES OF THE HEART :' THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- 

NOS1S, AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

SKODA ON AUSCULTATION n 'AND PERCUSSION, Post 8. 

cloth, 6s. 

SIR J. RANALD MARTIN, K.C.B., F.R.S. 

INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES IN PRODUCING 

THE ACUTE ENDEMIC DISEASES OF EUROPEANS; including Practica 1 
Observations on their Chronic Sequelas under the Influences of the Climate of Europe. 
Second Edition, much enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 20s. 



DR. MASSY. 

ON THE EXAMINATION OE RECRUITS; intended for the Use of 

Young Medical Officers on Entering the Army. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. C. F. MAUNDER, F.R.C.S. 

OPEEATIVE SURGERY. With 158 Emn-avinffs. PostSvo. 6*. 



DR. M A YN E. 

I. 

AN EXPOSITORY LEXICON OE THE TERMS, ANCIENT 

AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE, including a com- 
plete MEDICAL AND MEDICO-LEGAL VOCABULARY, and presenting the 
correct Pronunciation, Derivation, Definition, and Explanation of the Names, Analogues, 
Synonymes, and Phrases (in English, Latin, Greek, French, and German,) employed in 
Science and connected with Medicine. Complete in 10 Parts, price 5s. each. The entire 
work, cloth, 2. 10s. 

II. 

A MEDICAL VOCABULARY ; or, an Explanation of all Names, 

Synonymes, Terms, and Phrases used in Medicine and the relative branches of Medical 
Science, intended specially as a Book of Reference for the Young Student. Second 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

DR. MILLINGEN. 

ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OE THE IN- 

SANE; with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 
4s. (id. 

DR. W. J. IV;OORE, M.D. 

A MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF INDIA. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 5.. 




MR. CHURCHILLS PUBLICATIONS. 21 



MR. NUNNELEY, F.R.C.S.E. 

ON THE ORGANS OF VISION: THEIR ANATOMY AND PHY- 

SIOLOGY. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 15s. 

A TREATISE ON THE NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT 

OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. O'REILLY. 

THE PLACENTA, THE ORGANIC NERYOUS SYSTEM, 

THE BLOOD, THE OXYGEN, AND THE ANIMAL NERVOUS SYSTEM* 
PHYSIOLOGICALLY EXAMINED. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. LANGSTON PARKER. 

THE MODERN TREATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES, 

both Primary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed 
Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Fourth Edition, 8vo. cloth, 10s. 



MR. PARKES, F.R.C.P. 

T THE URINE: ITS COMPOSITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, 

AND UNDER THE ACTION OF REMEDIES. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 
DR. PARKIN. 

THE CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. JAMES PART, F.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, 

for the Registration of important Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of 
Hospital Practice. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 



DR. PAVY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

RESEARCHES ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF 

DIABETES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 



DR. THOMAS B. PEACOCK, M.D. 

ON THE INFLUENZA, OR EPIDEMIC CATARRHAL FEVER 

OF 1847-8. 8vo. cloth, 5s. Gd. 



MR. OLIVER PEMBERTON, M.R.C.S. 

OBSERVATIONS ON THE HISTORY, PATHOLOGY, AND 

TREATMENT OF CANCEROUS DISEASES. Part I. MELANOSIS. With 
coloured Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 




DR. PEREIRA, F.R.S. 

SELECTA E PR.ESCRIPTIS : with a Key, containing the Prescriptions 

in an Unabbreviated Form, and a Literal Translation. Thirteenth Edition. *24mo. 
cloth, 5s. 



22 Mil. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 




DR. PICKFORD. 

HYGIENE; or, Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- 
sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Secretions, 
Excretions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &c. Vol. I. 8vo. 
cloth, 9s. ___ _ 

MR. PIRRIE, F.R.S.E. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OE SURGERY, With 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. 

PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGE REGALIS MEDICOEUM LON- 

DINENSIS. 8vo. cloth, 9s.; or 24rno. 5s. 
IMPRIMATUR. 

Hie liber, cni titulus, PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGII REGALIS MEDICORUSI LONDINENSIS. 
Datum ex ./Edibus Collegii in comitiis censoriis, Novembris Mensis 14 to 1850. 

JOHANNES AYRTON PARIS. Prases. 



PROFESSORS PLATTNER & MUSPRATT- 

THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF 

MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated 
by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. 

I DR. HENRY PRATT, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

THE GENEALOGY OF CREATION, newly Translated from the 

Unpointed Hebrew Text of the Book of Genesis, showing the General Scientific Accuracy 
of the Cosm gony of Moses and the Philosophy of Creation. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 

ON ECCENTRIC AND CENTRIC FORCE: A New Theory of 

Projection. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

THE PRESCRIBED PHARMACOPffilA ; containing all the Medi- 
cines in the London Pharmacopoeia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with 
their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fourth Edition. 32mo. 
cloth, 2s. 60?.; roan tuck (for the pocket), 3s. 6d. 

DR. JOHN ROWLISON PRETTY. 

AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, 

the Management of Placenta and Post-partum Haemorrhage. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

MR. LAKE PRICE. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: Treating of the Practice of 

the Art, and its various appliances to Nature. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Post 

8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. , 

MR. P. C. PRICE, F.R.C.S.E. 

SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF THE EXTERNAL LYMPHATIC 

G A AN ? S: their Nature ' V ari ety, and Treatment; with Remarks on the Management 
of Scrofulous Ulcerations, Scars, and Cicatrices. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

THE WINTER CLIMATE OF MENTON, WITH HINTS TO 

INVALIDS INTENDING TO ^SIDEJHERE. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 
DR. PRIESTLEY. 

LECTURES ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GRAVID 

UTERUS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 



T-B 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 23 1$ 

-H=* *&~ 

DR. RADCLIFFE,::F.R.C.P. LOND. 

ON EPILEPTIC AND OTHER CONVULSIVE AFFECTIONS 

OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



MR. RA I N E Y. 

ON THE MODE OF FORMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS, 

OF BONE, AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES, by a Process of 
Molecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcap. 8vo. 
cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. F. H. RAMSBOTHAM. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDI- 

CINE AND SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel 
and Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fourth Edition. 8vo^ cloth, 22s. 

DR. RAMSBOTHAM. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MIDWIFERY, with a Selection 

of Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



PROFESSOR REDWOOD, PH.D. 

A SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPEIA; A concise but 

comprehensive Dispensatory, and Manual of Facts and Formulae, for the use of Practi- 
tioners in Medicine and Pharmacy. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 

DR. DU BOIS REYMOND. 

ANIMAL ELECTRICITY ; Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S. 

With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. * 



DR. REYNOLDS, M.D., LOND. 
I. 



EPILEPSY: ITS SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND RELATION 

TO OTHER CHRONIC CONVULSIVE DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL 

CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. vo. cloth, 8s. 



DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. 

ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. 

Being the ASTLEY COOPER PRIZE ESSAY for 1856. With a Practical Appendix. 
8vo. cloth, 16s. 

THE HYGIENIC TREATMENT' OF PULMONARY CONSUMP- 
TION. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6rf. 

in. 

THE ASCLEPIAD. Vol. L, Clinical Essays. 8vo. cloth, 6*. 6d. 



MR. WILLIAM ROBERTS. 

AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on 
the Disease hitherto described as ATROPHIE MUSCULAIRE PROGRESSIVE. 
With Four Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6<l. 




24 MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 

8vo. cloth, 1 Os. 6d. 

A TREATISE ON DIET AND REGIMEN, 

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 
DR. ROUTH. 

INFANT FEEDING, AND ITS INFLUENCES ON LIFE; 

Or, the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. ROWE. 

NERVOUS DISEASES, LIVER AND STOMACH COM- 

PLAINTS, LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- 
ORDERS PRODUCED BY TROPICAL CLIMATES. With Cases. Sixteenth 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

DR. ROYLE, F.R.S., AND DR. HEADLAND, IVi.D. 

A MANUAL OF MATEBIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. 

With numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

MR. RUMSEY, F.R.C.S. A 

i ESSAYS ON STATE MEDICINE, 8vo. cloth, 10*. M. I 

^r ^^ t s^ 

DR. RYAN, M.O, ^ 

INFANTICIDE: ITS LAW, PREVALENCE, PREVENTION, AND f 

HISTORY. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL: f 

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM. 

Vol. I. (1846), 8vo. cloth, .7s. ; 
Vol. II. (1851), 8vo. cloth, 5s.; 
Vol. III. (1862), 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. SALTER, F.R.S. 

ON ASTHMA : its Pathology, Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. 

MR. SAVORY. 

A COMPENDIUM OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, AND COMPA- 

NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST; intended as a Source of Easy Reference for 
Clergymen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Professional Assistance. 
Sixth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. SCHACHT. 

THE MICROSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO VEGETABLE 

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by FREDERICK CURREY, M.A. Fcap. 
8vo. cloth, Gs. 

DR. SCORESBY-JACKSON, M.D., F.R.S.E. 

MEDICAL CLIMATOLOGY ; or, a Topographical and Meteorological 

Description of the Localities resorted to in Winter and Summer by Invalids of various 
classes both at Home and Abroad. With an Isothermal Chart. Post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



JO- 



. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 25 



DR. SEMPLE. 

ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. With some practical 
Remarks on the Use of the Stethoscope as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. SEYMOUR. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF SOME ''OF THE PRINCIPAL DIS- 

EASES OF THE OVARIA: their Symptoms and Treatment; to which are prefixed 
Observations on the Structure and Functions of those parts in the Human Being and in 
Animals. With 14 folio plates, 12s. 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DROPSY; considered 

especially in reference to the Diseases of the Internal Organs of the Body, which most 
commonly produce it. 8vo. 5s. 

DR. SMARTER, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE CLIMATE OF THE SOUTH OF DEVON, AND ITS 

INFLUENCE UPON HEALTH. Second Edition, with Maps. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 
MR. SKAW, M.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, BOOK OF EMER- 

GENCIES : in which are concisely pointed out the Immediate Remedies to be adopted 
in the 'First Moments of Danger from Poisoning, Apoplexy, Burns, and other 
Accidents; with the Tests for the Principal Poisons, and other useful Information. 
Fourth Edition. Edited, with Additions, by JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, M.R.C.S. 32mo. 
cloth, 2s. 6d. 

DR. SJBSON, F.R.S. 

MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial folio. Fasci- 
culi I. to VI. 5s. each. 



DR. E. H. SIEVEKING. 

ON EPILEPSY AND EPILEPTIFORM SEIZURES: their 

Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



MR. SINCLAIR AND DR. JOHNSTON. 

PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY : Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- 

veries, which occurred in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during a period of Seven Years. 
8vo. cloth, 15s. 

MR. ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S. 

GENERAL DEBILITY AND DEFECTIVE NUTRITION; their 

Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 
DR. SMELLIE. 

OBSTETRIC PLATES : being a Selection from the more Important and 
Practical Illustrations contained in the Original Work. With Anatomical and Practical 
Directions. 8vo. clothj 5s. 

MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.C.S. 

ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, 8vo. cloth, 7.. 6* 
HAEMORRHOIDS AND PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM: 

Their Pathology and Treatment, with especial reference to the use of Nitric Acid. Third 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



26 MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. W. TYLER SMITH. 

A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS, THEORETICAL AND PRAC- 

TICAL. Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Qd. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF LEUCOREHGEA. 

With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 



DR. SNOW. 

ON CHLOROFORM AND OTHER ANAESTHETICS: THEIR 

ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by 
Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Qd. 

DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER. 

PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO 

THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. BECQUEREL 
and RODIEK. 8vo. cloth, reduced to 8s. 



DR. STEGGALL. 

STUDENTS' BOOKS FOR EXAMINATION. 

i. 
A M1JDICAL MANUAL FOR APOTHECARIES' HALL AND OTHER MEDICAL 

BOARDS. Twelfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

n. 

A MANUAL FOR THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS; intended for the Use 

of Candidates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

in. 

GREGORY'S CONSPECTUS MEDICINE THEORETICS. The First Part, con- 

taining the Original Text, with an Ordo Verborum, and Literal Translation. 12mo 
cloth, 10s. 

IV. 

THE FIRST FOUR BOOKS OF CELSUS; containing the Text, Ordo Verb- 

orum, and Translation. Second Edition. l'2mo. cloth, 8s. 

v. 

FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR EX- 
AMINATION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL SOCIETY. Second Edition 
18mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



MR. STOWE, M.R.C.S. 

A TOXICOLOGTCAL CHAET, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms 
Treatment, and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal. 

1 Wh ? p jf- n ^ C1Se Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. 
Eleventh Edition. On Sheet, 2s.; mounted on Roller, 5s. 



J-^ 



e* *s 

MB. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 27 

V -^f *3H- 

i DR. SWAYNE. <j> 

OBSTETRIC APHOKISMS FOE THE USE OF STUDENTS 

COMMENCING MIDWIFERY PRACTICE. With Engravings on Wood. Second 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.C.S.E. 

LATEEAL CUEYATUEE OF THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, and 
Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

DR. ALEXANDER TAYLOR, F.R.S.E. 

THE CLIMATE OF PAU; with a Description of the Watering Places 
of the Pyrenees, and of the Virtues of their respective Mineral Sources in Disease. Third 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. ALFRED S. TAYLOR, F.R.S. 
I. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JUEISPEUDENCE, Seventh Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

ii. 

ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND 
MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR, TEALE. 

ON AMPUTATION BY A LONG AND A SHORT EECTAN- 

GULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.S. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION. 

With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

LETTSOMIAN LECTURES ON "PULMONARY CONSUMPTION ; 

with Remarks on Microscopical Indications, and on Cocoa-nut Oil. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



DR. THOMAS. 

THE MODEEN PEACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the Symp- 

toms, Causes, Morbid Appearances, and Treatment of the Diseases of all Climates. 
Eleventh Edition. Revised by ALGERNON FRAMPTON, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28s. 

MR. HENRY THOMPSON, F.R.C.S. 
I. 

STEICTUEE OF THE UEETHEA; its Pathology and Treatment. 
The Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1852. With Plates. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

II. 

THE DISEASES OF THE PEOSTATE; their Pathology and Treat- 
ment. Comprising a Dissertation " On the Healthy and Morbid Anatomy of the Prostate 
Gland;" being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1860. With Plates. Second Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. 




28 MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. TILT. 

ON UTERINE AND OVARIAN INFLAMMATION, AND ON 

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF MENSTRUATION. Third Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 12s. 

THE CHANGE OF LIFE I/* HEALTH AND DISEASE: a 

Practical Treatise on the Nervous and other Affections incidental to Women at the Decline 
of Life. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. THUDICHUM. 

A TREATISE ON THE PATHOLOGY OF THE URINE, 

Including a complete Guide to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 14s. 
DR. GODWIN TIMMS. 

CONSUMPTION: its True Nature and Successful Treatment. Crown 

8vo. cloth, 10s. 



DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, 

New Edition, in one Volume, Edited by DR. BEALE, Svo. cloth, 18s. 

CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS, AND 

ON DROPSIES. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

MR. TOMES, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF DENTAL SURGERY, With 208 Engravings on 
Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. JOSEPH TOYNBEE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 

THE DISEASES OF THE EAR: THEIR NATURE, DIAG- 

NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. 
j - Svo. cloth, 15s. 

DR. TURNBULL. 

AN INQUIRY INTO THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION, 

ITS PREVENTION, AND THE PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE 
TREATMENT. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH 

with FERMENTATION; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. 
cloth, 6s. 



VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION. 

Eleventh Edition. Illustrated with 1 06 Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

EXPLANATIONS: A SEQUEL TO "VESTIGES." 

Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 29 



DR. UNDERWOOD. 

TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN, Tenth Edition, 

with Additions and Corrections by HENRY DA VIES, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 

DR. UNGER. 

BOTANICAL LETTERS. Translated by Dr. B. PAUL. Numerous 
Woodcuts. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. 

STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, ITS COMPLICATIONS 

AND EFFECTS; a Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those 
Affections. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. WALLER. 

ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or, Companion to 

the Lying-in Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. 

SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE EYE, With Engravings on 

Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 



DR. WATERS, M.R.C.P. 

THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN LUNG, The Prize Essay 

to which the Fothergillian Gold Medal was awarded by the Medical Society of London. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 6's. 6d. 

DR. EBEN. WATSON, A.M. 

ON THE TOPICAL MEDICATION OF THE LARYNX IN 

CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY AND VOCAL ORGANS. 
8vo.. cloth, 5s. 



DR. ALLAN WEBB, F.R.C.S.L. 

THE SURGEON'S READY RULES FOR OPERATIONS IN 

SURGERY. Royal 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. WEBER. 

A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND PER- 

CUSSION. Translated by JOHN COCKLE, M.D. 5s. 



MR. SOELBERG WELLS, M.D., M.R.C.S. 

ON LONG, SHORT, AND WEAK SIGHT, and their Treatment by 

the Scientific Use of Spectacles. With Engravings on Wood and Stone. 8vo. cloth, 5s 

MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON GOUT AND ITS COMPLI- 

CATIONS, and on the Treatment of Joints Stiffened by Gouty Deposits. Foolscap 8vo. 
cloth, 5s. 

SCALE OF MEDICINES WITH WHICH MERCHANT VES- 

SELS ARE TO BE FURNISHED, by command of the Privy Council for Trade; 
With Observations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Seamen, &c. &c. 
Seventh Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



fg so MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 

* 




I 

DR. WEST. 

LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN, Second Edition. 

8vo. cloth, 1 6s. 



DR. UVEDALE WEST. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OE PUERPERAL DISEASES, Second Edi- 

tion, enlarged. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. WHEELER. 

HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOR STUDENTS OF THE 

FINE ARTS. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. Gd. 



DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING 

OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND 
TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ] Os. 6d. 



DR. WILDE, M.D., F.R.C.S. 

,. ON THE MALFORMATIONS AND CONGENITAL DISEASES 

OF THE ORGANS OF SIGHT. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
| DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. 

PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE: An Elementary View of the Causes, 

p Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on 

T Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 

*~~*,r~~~~~~~ 

THE WIFE'S DOMAIN : the YOUNG COUPLE the MOTHER the NURSE $ 
the NURSLING. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. JOSEPH WILLIAMS. 

INSANITY ,' its Causes, Prevention, and Cure ; including Apoplexy, 

Epilepsy, and Congestion of the Brain. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. J. HUME WILLIAMS. 

UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND, IN ITS MEDICAL AND LEGAL 

CONSIDERATIONS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



DR. WILLIA MSON, LATE STAFF-SURGEON 

NOTES ON THE WOUNDED FROM THE MUTINY IN 

INDIA: with a Description of the Preparations of Gunshot Injuries contained in the 
Museum at Fort Pitt. With Lithographic Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. 



THE ANATOMIST'S TADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM 01' HUMAN 

ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 
|| cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 31 



MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. (continued). 
u. 

DISEASES OF THE SKIN: A Practical and Theoretical Treatise on 
the DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS DIS- 
EASES. Fourth Edition. 8 vo. cloth,. 16s. 

THE SAME WORK; illustrated with finely executed Engravings on Steel, accurately 
- coloured. 8vo. cloth, 34s. 

. in. 

HEALTHY SKIN : A Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair 
in relation to Health. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

PORTRAITS OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Folio. Fasciculi I. 

to XII., completing the Work. 20s. each. 

v. 

ON SYPHILIS, CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY; 

AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Four Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 
16s. 

VI. 

A THREE WEEKS' SCAMPER THROUGH THE SPAS OF 

GERMANY AND BELGIUM,, with an Appendix on the Nature and Uses of 
Mineral Waters. Post 8vo. cloth,' 6s. 6d. 

VII. 

THE EASTERN OR TURKISH BATH: its History, Revival in 

Britain, and Application to the Purposes of Health. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 



DR. Q. C. WITTSTEIN. 

PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY: An Explanation 

of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processes, with the Methods of Testing the Purity of 
the Preparations, deduced from Original Experiments. Translated from the Second 
German Edition, by STEPHEN DARBY. 18mo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. HENRY Q. WRIGHT. 

HEADACHES ; their Causes and their Cure. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 
2s. 6d. 



MR. YEARSLEY. 

DEAFNESS PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED; being an Exposition 

of Original Views as to the Causes and Treatment of Diseases of the Ear. Fifth 
Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

ii. 

ON THE ENLARGED TONSIL AND ELONGATED UYULA, 

and other Morbid Conditions of the Throat. Seventh Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



p 

I 



CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. '( 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12*. 6r/. each. | 

" We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the 
Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint." 
British and Foreign Medical Review. 



AGGREGATE SALE, 121,OOO COPIES. 



The ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM. A System of Human Anatomy. 
With numerous Engravings. Eighth Edition. By ERASMUS WILSON, 
F.R.C.S., F.R.S. 

BOTANY. With numerous Engravings. By ROBERT BENTLEY, F.L.S., 
Professor of Botany, King's College, and to the Pharmaceutical Society. 

CHEMISTRY. With numerous Engravings. By GEORGE FOWNES, F.R.S. 
Eighth Edition. Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. 
HOFMANN, F.R.S. 

DENTAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By JOHN TOMES, 
F.R.S. 

MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Engravings. Third Edition. 
By J. FORBES ROYLE, M.D., F.R.S., and FREDERICK W. HEADLAND, 
M.D., F.L.S. 

MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Seventh Edition. By ALFRED SWAINE 
TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S. 

PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. By G. HILARO BARLOW, 
M.D., M.A. 

The MICROSCOPE and its REVELATIONS. With numerous Plates and 
Engravings. Third Edition. By W. B. CARPENTER, M.D., F.H.S. 

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Engravings. Fifth Edition. 
By GOLDING BIRD, M.D., M.A., F.R.S., and CHARLES BROOKE, M.B., 
M.A., F.R.S. 

OBSTETRICS. With numerous Engravings. By W. TYLER SMITH, 
M.D., F.R.C.P. 

OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE and SURGERY. With coloured Engravings 
on Steel, and Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. By T. WHARTON 
JONES, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. 

PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By C. 
HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.C.P., and E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Engravings. Third Edition. By WILLIAM 
B. CARPENTER, M.D., F.R.S. 

POISONS. Second Edition. By ALFRED SWAINE TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. 
By WILLIAM FEUGUSSON, F.R.C.S. 



* 



Printed by W. BLANCHARD & Sox s, 62, Millbank Street, Westminster. 



University of Toronto 
Library 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat "Ref . Index File" 

Made bj LIBRARY BUREAU 



if. 



BOUND BY 



