MAN 



AND HIS MANY CHANGES 



OR, SEVEN TIMES SEVEN. 



BY 

GEORGE CORFE, M.D. 

M.R.C.P. (LOND.) ; 

PHYSICIAN TO THE WESTERN GENERAL DISPENSARY, AND LATE SENIOB 
RESIDENT MEDICAL OFFICER AT THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL. 



SE'COND EDITION. 



LONDON: 
HOULSTON AND WRIGHT 

65, PATEENOSTEE EOW. 

MDCCCLXII. 




ft 



PREFACE. 



IN sitting down to write a book, however small, the author ought 
to have one object in view, viz., the benefit of his fellow-man. In 
the course of the writer's professional experience of thirty years, 
he has found the greatest ignorance existing in the minds of in- 
telligent parents on the dietetic method of managing their children ; 
in other words, people know not on what to feed, how much to feed, 
or when to feed, their little ones, if in delicate health, or before 
disease compels them to seek medical help and instruction. This 
ignorance is not only exhibited in parents towards their offspring ; 
but also in well-informed persons towards themselves, many of 
whom will indulge in food or in drink, which is so far prejudicial, 
that the ill-effect is not betrayed until the doctor is called to the 
sick bed, to witness the result of imprudence, in the struggles of 
some painful malady. The education of youth has made great 
advances within this quarter of a century witness our " Ragged 
Schools," " Infant Nurseries," " Homes," &c.; but how very little has 
been done for the instruction of parents in the mode of feeding and 
nurturing their children. The reasoning of all classes is pretty 
much the same on this subject. If a glass of spirits comforts the 
stomach of the mother, surely it will do the same for the puny 
child. If beef and dumplings satisfy a father's appetite, the same 
must satisfy that of the baby ; though it lias not a tooth to gnaw, much 



IV PREFACE. 

less to grind, either ; and then the mother wonders that it cries at 
night, and will not suck by day. Overdosing with sweets will 
effectually bring on nursery sorrows, such as mal-assimilation of 
food, sickliness of stomach, and weakness of body. 

The facts here recorded have been noted down durino 1 the 

O 

author's "odd moments," snatched from an active professional life, 
during which period he has had upwards of 375,000 fellow- 
creatures, the subjects of disease and suffering, pass under his notice. 
From this vast field, the difficulty has consisted in selecting 
materials for so small a brochure, rather than in being at a loss, 
from a scarcity of matter, for illustration. The writer has endea- 
voured, like an artist, to sketch a few portraits of disease; and 
though he is aware that they are imperfect, yet he craves the for- 
bearance of the professional reader, and begs him to examine the 
subjects treated of, before he condemns the premises. 

To the general reader, he would remark that a sincere desire to 
throw some light and afford information on the domestic manage- 
ment of several diseases under our control, has actuated him in 
writing these pages ; and if he succeeds in this feeble attempt, he 
will be amply repaid, and would gratefully acknowledge the debt 
as due to Him " from whom cometh every good and every perfect 
gift," and in Whom we both " live, and move, and have our being." 



9, NOTTINGHAM TERRACE, 

REGENT'S PARK, N.W. 






CONTENTS. 



FIRST STAGE INFANCY TO CHILDHOOD. 

ONE TO SEVEN YEARS. 

Page 

CHAP. I. Cycles of Life in the Vegetable and Animal Kingdom 
Lactation : its blessings and evils Errors in Infant Feeding 
Croup 1 

CHAP. II. Milk Flour : their composition, use, and importance in 
Infancy Bone Formation Weaning : its troubles and disorders 
Flesh Formation Moulting in Man 10 

CHAP. III. Dentition : its Pains and Diseases Convulsions Per- 
fection of Infantile Hearing Infant Schools and Amusements 
Cleanliness of Skin and Purity of Air essential to Health . 15 

CHAP. IV. Infantile Mrotality : its Three Main Causes Domestic 
Duties in its prevention Maternal Ignorance in its increase 
"Dandriff," "Suck Thumb," "Cold in the Head," &c., in 
Dentition . 19 



SECOND STAGE CHILDHOOD TO YOUTH. 

SEVEN TO FOURTEEN YEARS. 



CHAP. V. Human Parasites : their Symptoms and their Domicile 

Ringworm " Scald Head," Squinting Headache Giddiness . 23 

CHAP. VI. Rickety Limbs Consumption and Scrofula : their Causes 
arid desolating Effects Harrowing Scenes amongst the Poor 
Benevolence in Food, &c '26 

CHAI 



THIRD STAGE YOUTH TO YOUNG MEN. 

TOURTEEN TO TWENTY-ONE YEARS. 



HAP. VII. Malting Brewing Spirits and Fats Cod Liver Oil 
Is Consumption curable? Early Care and Management of 
delicate Children who are prone to it The Deceitfulness of the 
Disease Treachery of a Stomach Cough 32 

CHAP. VIII. Second Dentition : its Irregularities and Disorders 
Headache and Epilepsy St. Vitus's Dance Hysteria 
Nervous Children and their Bad Habits 38 

CHA 



CHAP. IX. Boils and Blains Poverty of Blood Feeble Constitu- 
tions "Green" Sickness Hysteria Noises in the Head 
Victims of Homoeopathy '.. 



FOURTH STAGE-YOUNG MEN TO MEN. 

TWENTY-ONE TO TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS. 

Page 

CHAP. X. Railway Travelling and its Evils The Stomach : its 
mazes and its mysteries Digestion and Indigestion Meal-time, 
and its abuses .47 

CHAP. XI The Stomach in Fish, Flesh, and Fowl Vegetable 
Feeders and Flesh Eaters Poison in a Teapot Adulterated 
Food and its pernicious fruits 52 

CHAP. XII. Bread Beer Spirits Intoxicating Drinks The 
" Horrors," and fruits of Intemperance Gout and Gravel 
Pimples and Blotches Nettle Hash Worms and Giddiness . 57 



FIFTH STAGE MEN. 

TWENTY-EIGHT TO FOKTY-NINE YEARS. 

CHAP. XIII. Healthful Harmony of Stomach, Heart, and Lungs 
Asthma, or Stomach Cough, and its freaks The Liver a help- 
mate to the Stomach : its duties and disorders Jaundice Bilious 
Headaches ; their treachery and obscurity Hypochondriacs, and 
their eccentricities 63 

CHAP. XIV. Life's great Climacteric: singular and curious Epoch 
Metamorphoses Brittleness of Bones in the Aged, and their 
tendency to Fracture . . . . . . ' . . .70 



SIXTH STAGE ELDERLY MEN. 

FOBTY-NINE TO SEVENTY YEABS. 

CHAP. XV. The Heart : its troubles and difficulties ; Fat, Lean, and 
degenerate Hearts '' Breast Pang : " its character and treat- 
ment Irritable Hearts and fretful Tempers . . . .75 

CHAP. XVI. Recreations and Exercises for preserving Health 
Mental Toil and its Evils Sir H. Davy Bodily Exercise and its 
Abuses Dr. Samuel Johnson Flutterings Smoking Use and 
Abuse of the " Deadly Nightshade " family 80 



SEVENTH STAGE OLD MEN. 

SEVENTY TO NINETY-EIGHT YEAES. 

CHAP. XVII. Rapid Fortunes with broken-down Constitutions- 
Endemics and Epidemics Death in Air, Water, and Walls 
Influenza, Cholera, &c 85 



CONCLUDING ADVICE AND REMARKS. 



INTRODUCTION. 



IN passing through one of the streets near Covent Garden, this 
summer, the writer's eye was arrested by a singularly old-fashioned 
picture, in the window of a respectable bookseller. It proved to be 
a fac-simile of a curious print, found by Mr. Winter Jones on the 
manuscript of N. de Lyra's "Moralia super Bibliam," in the 
British Museum. 

This singular print, supposed by Mr. Jones to belong to the 15th 
century, has in its left corner a cradle, with an infant, and a label, 
"Generacio," upon it. At the foot of the cradle stands a boy, 
naked, who appears to be holding out his hands, and amusing the 
infant by clapping them. The next figure, ascending the left side 
of the print, is a naked child, with a toy known as a windmill, and 
underneath, on a scroll, are the words, " An infant to 7 years." 
Above this is an inscription, " Childhood to 15 years," represented 
by a youth, holding a falcon in his right hand, and a bag of money 
in his left : emblems of the love of pleasure and enjoyment natural 
to this stage of man's life. Above the head of the youth there is 
another label, "Adolescence- to 25 years." This brings us to the 
top of the left-hand side. In the centre, at the upper part of the 
print, and sitting astride upon a wheel, is a figure with a feather in 
his cap, armed with spear and shield. A label above says " Youth 
to 35 years." At the top of the right side is another label, "Man- 
hood to 50 years." Beneath is a figure at a table, counting money, 
evidently the worldly man, who, having passed through the stages 




2 INTRODUCTION. 

of pleasure and war, is now occupied with the acquisition of wealth. 
Under him are the words, " Old age to 70 years." The next 
figure is an old man leaning on a staff, with the inscription, " De- 
crepit until death." The dead body is next represented, lying in a 
coffin, under which is a label, with the word " Corrupcio." 

A figure with expanded wings and flowing drapery occupies tho 
foot of the print, the hands resting on the two labels, " Generacio," 
and " Corrupcio." 

Eight lines are added in monkish Latin, which the editor has 
thus rendered: 

41 The state of man is exemplified in a flower : 
The flower falls and perishes so shall man, also, become ashes. 
If thou could'st know who thou art, and whence thou comest, 
Thou wouldst never smile, but ever weep. 
There are three things which often make me lament : 
First, it is a hard thing to know that I must die; 
Secondly, I fear, because I do not know when I shall die; 
Thirdly, I weep, because I do not know what will become of me 
hereafter." 

The writer of the following pages had long been desirous of 
recording some general facts connected with the disorders of man's 
sevenfold state, and, on seeing this curious print, he resolved that a 
notice of it should form the subject of some introductory remarks. 

Both Heathens, Jews, and Christians, from the earliest periods, 
have divided man's life into ten or seven stages. The latter 
division has always found most favour with modern anatomists and 
physiologists. A Jewish writer of the ninth century remarks, 
"that the preacher's seven vanities are seven worlds, through 
which man has to pass." But the great founder of medicine, 
Hippocrates, makes the observation, that "in the nature of man, he 
has to pass through seven periods, called ages 1, the infant ; 2, the 
boy ; 3, the youth ; 4, the young man ; 5, the man ; 6, the elder 
man ; 7, the aged man. For the infant is within seven years, until 
he puts forth his teeth; the boy until puberty, at twice seven 
years ; the youth until the growth of his beard, at thrice seven 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

years ; the young man up to four times seven, until the whole body 
is grown ; the man up to forty-nine ; the elderly man to fifty-six, 
or eight times seven : whatever is beyond this belongs to old age." 

These ages, stages, or periods, or by whatever title we call them, 
are really so many different epochs in our life, during which the 
pleasures, toils, diseases, pursuits, &c., are as different and as 
peculiar as are the habits of one animal from another. The busy 
bee is not more opposite in character to the tardy, ursine sloth, than 
are the energetic habits of the young enterprising man to those of 
the decrepit octogenarian. 

But we need not search ancient writings to substantiate a fact 
well known amongst us all. The physiologist will tell you, that 
though our bodies appear to us unchanged since yesterday, yet 
they have, within these few hours, cast off countless decomposed 
particles, and these have been replaced by others. We fancy our- 
selves at rest, and yet a torrent of blood is propelled, moment by 
moment, by an indefatigable heart, and flows constantly through all 
our arteries and veins a restless, and yet ever-renewed current 
down to the grave. The very insignificant fall of one hair is pre- 
ceded by decomposition of its bulb ; and the autumnal sere leaf does 
not drop until its hold on the stein has previously become a mass of 
decomposed tissue. 

But now let us view man from his conception to his birth, and 
we find that he passes through nine months, or seven times forty 
days ; from birth to his seven months farther he is a sucking babe, 
and now shows his first teeth ; whilst four times seven (or 2J years) 
brings him to the full cutting or development of his whole twenty 
teeth, and thus ends man's first stage of seven years. 

At the entrance into his second stage of another seven years, ha 
begins to cut his permanent teeth : first his molars, or double teeth ; 
then his front ; then the bicuspides, or half-double ; then the canine ; 
and all these several teeth come forth from their primitive bed in 
pairs, with as much periodical regularity, in a healthy child, as the 
seasons succeed each other. Irregularity here, as in Nature's 
operations elsewhere, is disorder or disease. 

B2 



4 INTRODUCTION. 

From the second to the third stage, other processes of develop- 
ment are going on towards maturing the man, until he arrives at 
his prime four times seven years; and thus he continues until seven 
times seven, when he may be said to have ceased to huild up the 
fabric, and age now gradually takes down what adolescence had 
previously raised; and thus we have a distinct series of stages 
marked out in man's eventful life, so that, without any strain of the 
imagination, we may fairly represent this life thus : 




LIFE, 



How appropriate is the remark that we begin to die as soon as 
we are born I But, to the Christian, the transition is one of joy 
and endless peace, when he can say 

"life is the road to death, 

Yet death life's gate must be ; 
Since heaven 's the throne of Christ, 
And Christ is life to me." 



FIRST STAGE. 
INFANCY TO CHILDHOOD. 

ONE TO SEVEN YEARS. 

CHAPTER I. 

Cycles of Life in the Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms Lactation ; its 
blessings and evils Errors in Infant Feeding Croup. 

"PERPETUAL motion and change," writes Dr. Hartwig, "is the 
grand law, to which the whole of the created universe is subject, 
and immutable stability is nowhere to be found but in the Eternal 
Mind that rules and governs all things : ' He is in one mind, who 
can turn Him?'" 

One of the most beautiful evidences of the all- creating power and 
wisdom of God is to be met with in the well-known fact that our 
growth perfectly harmonizes with our wants. If the sucking child 
required beef and mutton to support it at birth, this Power would 
have supplied it with front teeth to gnaw, and double teeth to grind 
such food; instead of which, the babe requires the rudiments or 
elements of bone rather than muscle, and these elements abound in 
the maternal milk, but gradually disappear after the seventh to the 
fourteenth month of suckling, when they are scarcely to be met 
with. Now higher and stronger powers are required ; the teeth 
and muscle must be fully developed, and the elements for their 
formation are to be met with in the " staff of life," pure corn flour, 



CYCLES OP LIFE. 

and vegeto-animal juices as food ; and thus we might go on to trace 
the perfect adaptation of internal structures to the requirements of 
our species in the several stages of life. This beautiful harmony is 
noticed in the vegetable, as well as in this, the animal kingdom. As 
there are epochs, or periods, in vegetation, so there are hours for 
flowering ; for, though plants, like man, accommodate themselves to 
the climate in which they grow and flower at certain seasons, yet, 
when transferred to other climates, where the seasons are reversed, 
they still have a tendency to flower at their accustomed period of 
the year. The great botanist, Linnaeus, noticed the periodicity of 
many flowers to expand at certain hours of the day ; and, from this 
fact, he constructed a floral clock, which marked, at different 
hours, the expansion of certain flowers. There is some mysterious 
yet wise law in this arrangement throughout Nature's operations. 
It is well-known that the ages of trees may be ascertained by the 
number of the concentric circles in their trunks, each circle, in 
particular trees (exogenous) denoting a year in age. At the period 
when a tree is in its prime, it then forms the largest circle or zone. 
In the oak, this is said to be when between thirty and forty years of 
age. If we glance at the formation of the inhabitants of the waters, 
we may determine the age of a fish by a microscopical examination 
of its scales ; the concentric rings are supposed to afford the same 
information which appears in the transverse section of a tree ; and 
in fishes void of scales (as the skate), rings, on the connecting 
surfaces of the back bone, are believed to give similar evidence as to 
the age of the fish. These facts, with very many others, are 
brought forward merely to show that the law of periodicity the 
law of cycle is the basis of Nature's grand operations in vegetable 
and in animal life. As these periods pass on from one to another, 
that is, from life to death, Lighly important changes take place in 
the animal frame, in order that each successive change Ljould 
harmonize with those wants which arise from increasing years. 

Each stage, also, of man's eventful life, brings with it so many 
especial diseases, though each disease is peculiar to the period of his 
life, and may therefore be termed periodical diseases, thus measles, 



LACTATION AND ITS BLESSINGS. 7 

whooping-cough, and scarlet-fever, are looked upoii as infantile 
disorders ; whilst gout is the trouble of man in the prime of life ; and 
palsy the breaking up of the aged man's constitution. 

It is proposed, therefore, to treat of the diseases which occur in 
periodical spaces of time, from the cradle to the grave, and to give 
some practical hints, by which parents may, with God's blessing, 
alleviate these evils when medical advice is not readily to be 
obtained. 

Let us, in the first place, make a few remarks on the management 
of a baby. No woman, much less one who professes to be a Christian 
mother, has the smallest ground for refusing to suckle her offspring, 
and to give it that inestimable boon which God has furnished her 
with, for the sustenance, comfort, and growth of her helpless babe, 
namely, the maternal milk. Necessity alone can plead as an 
excuse, such as inflamed breasts, or a deficiency of milk from 
debility or constitutional causes, so that nursing would endanger the 
life of the parent. A mother is no more justified in entrusting the 
care of her babe to a wet-nurse, than she is in denying herself her 
own daily sustenance. It is in the highest degree a moral obligation, 
on her part, to give her offspring the parental milk, for 9 months 
at least, and, at the expiration of that time, to commence weaning it 
by degrees. The best time to give the infant suck is about the 
4th hour after meals, when the milk contains more nourishing 
materials, as the digestion is then nearly completed. If the mother 
go 8 or 10 hours without food, the milk becomes yellowish, and 
even nauseous, and is often spit out by the infant. It is calculated 
that 2 Ibs. of milk are obtained from 6 Ibs. of meat consumed by 
the mother. From the period of birth till about the 14th week 
there is really nothing to remark ; but about this time the rash of 
" red gum " usually appears, caused by " breeding the teeth." 
The structure of these rudimentary masticators, buried in the 
infantile jaws, their evolution at distinct and marked periods, their 
symmetrical arrangement in pairs, the growth of the teeth them- 
selves, their changes to maturity and then decay in the first set and 
their replacement by another, present a train of mysterious, yet 



8 EHROftS IN INFANT FEEDING. 

wonderful operations, in which the mind is lost in contemplation. 
This " breeding " time may be known by the looseness with which 
the infant grasps the nipple, and the frequency with which it lets go 
its hold, accompanied with fretfulness, and succeeded by copious 
discharge of clear water (saliva) from its mouth. The excited 
irritability of the gums is deadened by biting any hard substance. 
It is important at this period that the maternal milk should be free 
from acidity ; for an excess of vegetable food, or an indulgence in 
potatoes, bottled ales, wine, or spirits, will tend to irritate the 
infant's stomach, by an increase of acid in the milk, and thus the 
nervous excitement may run on to the production of startings in 
sleep, dry cough, relaxed bowels, and even convulsions and death. 
The weaning time at length arrives, and with it, perhaps, three or 
more pair of teeth. This is a period of the greatest importance to 
the health of the infant It is no exaggeration to state, that from 
the writer's long experience amongst the children of the humbler 
classes in this great metropolis, he finds that three-fifths, at least, die 
under two years of age, from ill feeding or over feeding, rather than 
from want of food. 

It is a common error to suppose that a farinaceous diet should be 
Substituted for the maternal milk. Light animal broths thickened 
with flour, pearl barley, rice or vermicelli, custard, batter, and 
other puddings, with the moderate use of bread, or, what is far 
better, unfermented or milk biscuits and honey, treacle or butter 
in succession, compose the healthiest form of diet for weaned infants 
until the dentition is completed. A few hours ago I was summoned 
to see a nurse child 15 months old : it was plump, rosy, and, 
apparently, to an unprofessional eye, in rude health ; but a rough 
state of the skin of the face and forehead told its own tale : the 
child had for months been fed on bread, potatoes, arrowroot, and 
such like starchy food, with the addition of that extraordinary com- 
pound known as London skim-milk. An east wind set in a few 
days ago, and the child became husky, and wheezed. That formid- 
able disease croup had now developed itself, and, in spite of the 
most active measures, the little sufferer died from suffocation in the 



CROUP. 9 

course of the night. This is one of a thousand of such cases the 
result of ill-feeding. It may be here remarked, that those children 
who are over-fed with starchy and farinaceous substances, though 
they plump up, yet they are oftener the victims of croup than the 
more delicate, puny ones, who refuse much of the food which the 
others eat with avidity. 



10 



FIRST STAGE. 
INFANCY TO CHILDHOOD. 

ONE TO SEVEN YEABS. 

CHAPTER II. 

"Milk and Flour ; their composition, use and importance in Infancy Bone 
Formation Weaning; its troubles and disorders Flesh Formation 
Moulting in Man. 

IT has been truly stated by that eminent investigator of the food we 
eat and of the fluids we drink, Dr. Prout, in his celebrated work on 
" the Stomach," that milk may be taken as the type of human food. 
He divided food into four groups : The aqueous, the saccharine, 
the albuminous, and the oleaginous. In the first, we have water, 
tea, coffee, &c., &c. In the second, such articles as sugar, sweet 
fruits, arrowroot, sago.* In the third, are comprehended " fish, 
flesh and fowl," and also cheese ; and, lastly, the oil group, con- 
taining 70 to 80 per cent, of carbon, represented by butter, animal 
fats, &c., &c. Now, as milk really shadows forth the character of 
all the food of which we partake, and as it should enter very largely 
into the nourishing material for children, it cannot be out of place 
to introduce some observations at the commencement of the first 

* It should be borne in mind that the two last are starchy subtances, 
.and by digestion are converted into saccharine matter. 



MILK; ITS COMPOSITION. 



11 



stage of Infantile Life, on the composition, action and uses of milk 
in the animal economy. We will not attempt a scientific analysis of 
the subject, a well-known fact, is the following : The young of all 
mammalia, or sucking animals, feed on this important compound for 
several months (many of them above a year), and get no other diet ; 
yet they grow rapidly, and increase in size and are in health, conse- 
quently they have derived all the constituents of their muscle, 
nerve, bone, skin, hair, nay every tissue, from the milk they have 
taken as food. A pound weight of cow's milk contains a large 
proportion of group the first; namely, 1, water (f) ; 2, some sugar 
(| oz.) ; 3, the flesh-forming or cheesy principle, caseine (| oz.); 
and, lastly, the fat or oily matter is represented by the butter of 
which there is ( J oz.). In some countries, the milk of the goat is 
the popular diet, just as cow's milk is employed in our islands. 
There are many instances, also, in which recourse is had to asses' 
milk, and it is of some importance, therefore, that we should have 
a general and correct idea of the composition of this invaluable 
article of children's food ; thus : 





Human Milk, 
1 Ib. ; contains. 


Cow's Milk, 
lib. ; contains. 


Asses' Milk, 
1 Ib. ; contains, 


1. Water . . . 
2. Sugar . . . 
3. Caseine . . 
4. Butter. . . 


ozs. grs. 
14 41 
(3 280 
210 
210 


ozs. errs. 
13 __ 333 

315 

300 
245 


ozs. ,irs. 
14 76 
420 
140 
105 



Besides these principles, each contains a small proportion of 
mineral matters : such as phosphates of lime, potash, and a trace of 
iron ; these ingredients being required especially for the building up 
of the bony fabric. Let me here revert to the wondrous fact, that 
the nearer the female approaches to the period of parturition, the 
more is the milk charged with phosphates of lime, and it is not till 
the digestive organs of the infant are sufficiently strengthened to be 
enabled to appropriate this salt from other food, that it ceases to 
appear in the maternal milk. The same ingredient is always found 



IE WHEA.TEN FLOUR; ITS USES. 

in the urine of adults, but not in the urine of infants. The rapid 
formation of the bones, in the early stages of life, requires that there 
should be no waste of any of these foundation elements of the 
skeleton the phosphoric salts ; and nature has provided accordingly.* 
Blush ye infidels at these overpowering facts, if ye fail to acknow- 
ledge the Almighty finger of Design and Harmony, of Wisdom 
and Goodness in such an inscrutable chain of demand and supply 
in the rise, progress, and completion of this frail body, our mortal 
tenement ! What an inexhaustible store-house is the Boundless 
Treasury of Nature ! 

This valued animal salt exists also in the farina of wheat. It 
has been estimated by eminent chemists that a person who eats a 
pound of farina a day, will swallow 3 Ibs., 6 ozs., 4 drs., and 44 grs. 
of phosphate of lime in the year. It is a curious fact, by-the-by, 
that wheat straw, which was not intended for the food of man, 
contains carbonate of lime and not phosphate. Shells of birds' eggs 
also contain phosphate of lime ; and the young, before hatching, con- 
sume this salt for the purpose of forming its bones, hence the shell 
becomes thinner and thinner as the hatching period arrives, so that 
the unfledged inhabitant has no difficulty in bursting through its 
tiny house of half consumed lime, to " pick up " its own independent 
sustenance. 

Towards the 7th month, and earlier in some mothers, the milk 
begins to fail, or at least to be insufficient for the sustenance of 
the infant, and it is of the utmost importance to know what substi- 
stute should be adopted in lieu of the maternal milk. Asses' milk 
is most allied to human milk in its sugar, caseine, and butter prin- 
ciples ; though cow's milk contains more of the flesh-giving material, 
and therefore more cream and cheese and less water; namely, 
caseine. A very good practice is the following : to every pint of 
cow's milk, add half-a-pint of water, and a small quantity of sugar , 



* " The fat of the kidneys of wheat," though a highly figurative expres- 
sion, contains a depth of meaning. In the wheat exists all the nourishment 
essential to man. 



WEANING; ITS TROUBLES, ETC. 13 

and thus reduced, it approaches sufficiently near to human milk for 
all healthy purposes. The great cause of infant mortality in London 
arises from the inability to obtain cow's milk sweet, fresh and 
genuine. The smell of fresh-drawn milk is peculiar: it sinks in 
water, but floats in blood. If it be good, a drop put on the finger 
nail flows slowly down, not unlike a globule of thin oil. But soon 
after milk is drawn from the cow it undergoes decomposition, and 
it has been observed that the infant mortality in the metropolis is 
usually greatest during the intense hot months, for, as this increase 
of temperature gives rise to sour cow's milk, bowel disorders and 
death are the usual consequences of its administration. If lime- 
crater, in the proportion of a table -spoonful to every quarter of 
a pint be added, this acidity may be arrested in a great measure. 
But the evil lies deeper still, the cows are kept in close sheds in 
the heart of this great city ; they are fed on grains, soured by heat 
and exposure after the alcohol or beer is extracted, or they are 
indulged with an occasional feed of swedes, mangold-wurzel, carrots, 
turnips, &c., and the result is an abundance of thin milk, which has 
a tendency to pass rapidly into an acid state, and this milk has to 
be farther diluted by the addition of water, or some adulteration 
worse than all. 

As I have already hinted, it is not natural that an infant, under 
7 or 9 months old, should be fed on anything but its mother's 
milk, though, after that period, we may add a small quantity of 
farinaceous food, of which the most important, because the most 
nutritious, is pure wheat flour. Every pound of this " staff of life " 
contains 2 ozs. 21 grs. of a substance which resembles muscle or 
flesh, and hence it is a powerful " flesh former ;" in addition to 
which, an ingredient is found in it that does not exist either in 
barley or oats, viz., albumen, of which the white of an egg is a per- 
fect specimen. This important agent serves to build up the infantile 
brain and nerves, or to repair the constant loss of this matter during 
our manhood growth ; and thus, in milk and in wheat we have all 
the elements for animal sustenance and increase, for we are in 
a state of perennial moult. Crabs and lobsters throw off their shell 



14 MOULTING IN MAN. 

altogether ; birds, their feathers ; and horses, their hair ; but, in the 
human being, we find this process of moulting going on constantly 
our skin rubs off, our mucous membrane wears away, and our 
internal organs all of them disappear by a similar process ; so that 
an eminent lecturer once calculated that " a human being loses 
about the 40th part of his weight every day, and that the vital 
organs of the human body are renewed every 40 days." 



15 



FIRST STAGE. 
INFANCY TO CHILDHOOD. 

ONE TO SEVEN YEAES. 

CHAPTER HI. 

Dentition.; its pains and diseases Convulsions Perfection of 

Hearing Infant Schools and Amusements Cleanliness of Skin and 
Purity of Air essential to Health. 

As the whole process of dentition is so intimately connected with 
the healthy growth of the child, it would be well if mothers made 
themselves thoroughly conversant with the operations of Nature, and 
narrowly watched this process from month to month. Convulsions, 
tardiness of speech, stuttering, which may merge into confirmed 
stammering, periodical headaches, imperfect digestion, wasting, and 
capricious bowels, are a few of the disorders arising from imperfect 
dentition. 

What is the period of life at which the teeth should be cut ? my 
readers may inquire. 

To establish this period correctly would be a most difficult 
matter. As society is now constituted, circumstances tend to sur- 
round the subject with insuperable obstacles so as to adjust the correct 
time, though it may be generally said to vary from the 6th to the 
8th month, for the first eruption. The teeth usually appear in 
pairs. The two lower front ones should be first ; then, after a short 



16 



DENTITION : ITS PAINS AND DISEASES. 



period, say 20 days, the two upper ones ; these are succeeded 
by the lateral couple of front teeth (incisors) in the lower jaw ; then 
follow also a similar two in the upper jaw. The lower jaw next 
throws up its two molar teeth that lie nearest to the lateral incisors 
last seen ; then follows the same eruption in the upper jaw. After 
which the lower canines (dog teeth) appear ; then the upper canines ; 
lastly, the two second sets of molars of the lower jaw, followed by 
the corresponding sets of molars of the upper jaw. 

UPPEB JAW. 




LOWEK JAW. 



Or, thus : 



Periods. 


Teeth. 






7 months 


Two central incisors, 


lower 


jaw 


8 


Two 


upper 


n 


9 


Two lateral 


lower 




10 


Two 


upper 


9, 


12 or 14 months 


Two molars 


lower 




15 17 


Two 


upper 




18 to 20 


Two canine 


lower 


w 


20 22 


Two 


upper 





22 30 


Two molar 


lower 




J> M 


Two 


upper 


" 






PERFECTION OP INFANTILE HEARING. 17 

There is no circumstance relating to youth more striking than the 
division of life into epochs. The climacteric years of the ancients 
were multiples of seven, and they were pretty accurate observers of 
the changes which took place in the body at differents periods. 
That there must be a rule, regulating the grand epochs of develop- 
ment in a perfectly healthy individual, there can be no doubt. In 
the course of life, man appears, in the changes to which his frame is 
subjected, to go through several types of configuration. The same 
individual that had once, in the womb of his parent, a shape- 
less form, and became an infant, breathing air, is by no means 
to be recognized as identical with the vigorous man of 35. His 
physiognomy alone points out the changes effected upon him, and 
we cannot doubt that there must be some ground for the vulgar 
observation that has come down to us, of the body undergoing 
remarkable changes during the course of successive climacterics. 
The circumstances relating to dentition are but an isolated set ol 
phenomena. All the organs of the body should have their 
chronicles, but it will be found that they are the wheels and springs 
of the time-piece. The chief index is remarked in the organs of 
mastication, and they respond to epochs. * 

The young of all animals, whose early life depends upon maternal 
milk, must be endowed with a perfect and an acute sense of hearing, 
in order that the maternal call may be recognized, whether it be 
expressed by the coaxing, soothing tones of a fond woman over her 
helpless one, or the bleating, whining, moaning, or crying, of the 
lower animals. Hence, we find an amazing contrast here to the 
tardy development of teeth. The only portion of the skeleton, or 
bony fabric of mammals, which is found to be perfectly formed at 
birth, is the small bones of the ear, doubtless a wise provision for 
the conveyance of sound to the infant mind. The nursling is well 
acquainted with maternal language long before it can lisp its first 
tiny word, "Ma;" just as every suckling in a flock recognizes its 
kindred "Baa," when it has strayed away, and gone beyond 
parental care and protection. 

"On Dentition." J. AsLburner, M.D. 

C 



18 INFANT SCHOOLS; CLEANLINESS, &C. 

A child becomes a fit subject for education from 2 to 3 years 
of age. An infant-school, when rightly constituted, is only a 
nursery on a large scale, where children can be reared in purer air, 
and better regulated circumstances, than when exposed to the 
sickening atmosphere of a small room, where the whole family both 
eat, drink, and sleep, or to the contaminating influences of street 
society. A piece of play-ground, flower borders and beds, circular 
swings, wooden prisms, of the form of bricks, for the purpose of 1 
building houses, towers, and other fanciful structures, map and 
picture puzzles, and such like amusements, should constitute the 
essential features of an infant-school. But, in this remark, too great 
Stress cannot be laid on the character of the atmosphere of a public 
school. Amongst these establishments it is a common practice to 
keep the dormitories shut up. If you gaze on the faces of a group 
of children outside a schoolroom, you may readily discover, by 
the wan and sickly hue, those who have just left an apartment 
in which they have been respiring a deteriorated atmosphere, and 
those who have been playing in the open ground during the 
previous horn*. Cleanliness of skin, also, among children, is almost 
as essential to health, as is the purity of the air they respire. 
The filthily dirty are proverbially the viciously immoral poor, and 
it has been well observed, that " if there be a lovely object to the 
human eye, it is a clean, clear-faced, healthy, innocent, neatly-clad, 
happy child." Parents who are utterly negligent of this paramount 
duty to their offspring, not only inflict an evil on the child, but 
diminish the esteem of those around them. A mother should 
accustom her child to the use of cold water as soon as the early 
stages of dentition are gone by. In order to do this effectually, ' 
presuming the child is born of healthy parents, and exhibits no ; 
signs of sickliness, the hot summer mornings should be taken 
advantage of, and cold washing adopted through the autumn, and, 
in some instances, children enjoy cold sponging through the greater 
part of winter. 



10 



FIRST STAGE. 
INFANCY TO CHILDHOOD. 

ONE TO SEVEN YEARS. 

CHAPTER IV. 

Infantile Mortality : its Three Main Causes, Domestic Duties in its Preven- 
tion, Maternal Ignorance in its Increase "Dandriff," "Suck Thumb," 
" Cold ill Head," &c., in Dentition. 

WE need only take a cursory glance at those valuable records of 
the Registrar- General, in order to satisfy our minds that infancy, to 
twice seven years, embraces the most perilous epoch in the life of 
man. Thus, out of 1,508 deaths in one week in this metropolis, 
682 occurred to children under 15 ; whilst only 501 belonged to 
persons from 15 to 60 years ; and 293 from 60 upwards, and this 
is rather below the ordinary death- rate in the young. The pre- 
ponderance of sickness is from infancy to 3 and 4 years of age ; 
in other words, the whole period of dentition exposes the life of the 
child to numerous mortal derangements. I have now before me a 
record of 249 cases of sickness which have come under my care at 
the Western General Dispensary within the last six months ; and, 
out of this number, 69 were under 5 years of age, 35 of this 
number were at or under 2 years, or rather more than l-7th of 
the whole. My colleague, Dr. Merriman, has kindly furnished me 
with his own experience. In three years, at the same institution, 

c 2 



20 INFANTILE MORTALITY AND ITS CAUSES. 

amongst 877 women and children, 526 were under 5 years of 
age, 65 above that age, and the remainder (286) were women ; 
thus, we observe, that the great death-rate ranges from the period 
of birth to 5 years of age, and then gradually declines. 

What is the cause of this great amount of sickness amongst 
children in London, as we know that it bears no resemblance to 
the sick list of the country ? The reply is very simple. Freshness 
of air, wholesomeness of food, and cleanliness of body, are wholly 
denied the bulk of the infantile poor of our wealthiest parishes 
in the metropolis ; and these form three mighty antidotes to many 
diseases of childhood. 

A deprivation of the first antidote, swells the death-list under 
the heading of " Diseases of the Lungs," &c. Absence of the 
second, gives us a large number of deaths under " Convulsions ; " 
whilst a want of cleanliness in person, in clothing, and in the home, 
helps forward other calamities in a woeful degree, of which bowel 
disorders, especially infantile cholera, are the most formidable. 

The first death-cause may be obviated by very simple means. 
As soon as the bed-room is vacated, the air should be changed in 
summer by a free current from windows to door, and in winter by 
a fire, with the door open. No offensive smells should pollute the 
house under any circumstances, otherwise it must be no matter of 
surprise if sore throat, loss of energy, and of appetite ensue. 
Scarlet fever, diphtheria, or croup, may show itself. Yet, though 
bad air kills its thousands of children indirectly, unwholesome food 
kills its tens of thousands in an unmistakeable manner. Rickets, 
Scrofula, Consumption, worms, and emaciation, are a few of the 
maladies induced by this evil. Some time since, a medical friend 
requested me to see an infant, fifteen months old, who was reduced 
to a mere skeleton. Consumption existed on the maternal side, 
but the children were pretty healthy. The patient had been weaned, 
and the never-failing remedy of '* tops and bottoms," " arrowroot," 
and bread-and-milk were resorted to ; all but the last were abso- 
lutely pernicious, and even London milk cannot be called generous 
and wholesome at all times. Fresh whey, pure corn flour, good 



INFANTILE MORTALITY AND MATERNAL IGNORANCE. 21 

beef tei, genuine milk biscuits, cod liver oil (medicated), were 
amongst the chief articles prescribed, and in three months the child 
became plump and vigorous. It often happens, that where the 
family have a slight taint of Scrofula or of Consumption, the 
digestion is weak ; and the greatest care is required in the manage- 
ment of the diet, lest bowel disorders should come on. A sister of 
the above infant, of three years of age, has recently suffered from 
periodical attacks of extreme pain in the stomach. The time at 
which the attacks came on pointed to the fact that they were con- 
nected with the passage of some crude, undigested matters, attempt- 
ing to go through that wonderful piece of mechanism, the valve of 
the larger intestine ; this faithful sentinel forbids the egress of any 
irritating substances, and spasmodically closes its portal against 
them pain and distress follow. Drastic purgatives in the above case 
were injudiciously given, and relief obtained ; but, alas ! it was at 
the expense of weakening the membrane of the canal still farther, 
and thus the attacks became more frequent and more severe. It 
was ascertained that the child had been occasionally indulged with 
red or black currant jam, on bread, in order to keep up a lax habit 
of body, so as to avoid the farther use of aperients ; but this plan 
brought on the attacks, in consequence of the crude seeds coming in 
contact with the irritable membrane of the valve, and thereby 
inducing pain. Meat, chopped, with or without potatoes, produced 
the same effect; and therefore the mother was strictly enjoined not 
to attempt to feed the child on any solid food for one moruh. Beet- 
tea, soups, light and thin puddings, thick milk, and honey on un- 
fermented bread, were to form the usual diet, with some tonic medi- 
cines. The child is now rapidly gaining flesh, and has had no 
return of the seizures. In such cases of feeble digestion, with a pale 
skin and imperfectly nourished limbs, it is very desirable to accustom 
the child to cold sea-bathing, or some artificial substitute of that 
kind. 

Dandriff, in children, is the plague of the nursery, the opprobrium 
of mothers, and the enemy of soap and water. Frequent and 
regular ablution of the forehead, where it first appears, rubbing the 



22 "DANDRIFF," "SUCK THUMB," &c. 

head dry, and applying some specific lotion, is desirable. The use 
of oil, grease, &c., is often more prejudicial than useful ; for, in many 
cases of dentition, the secretion of greasy matter about the head and 
face is abundant. The increase of saliva, also, at this period, is very 
marked; so that not only do infants slobber very much before 
dentition, but the "suck thumb" habit appears to owe its origin to 
the relief which a constant flow of saliva affords to the turgid gums. 
Many observing mothers must have noticed that the cutting of 
every tooth is preceded by a regular sneezing and cold in the head, 
and during this period the bowels are torpid, and 'the infant feverish 
and out of sorts. "Whenever this state of things comes on, th& 
child should be put on spoon food exclusively. 



23 



SECOND STAGE. 
CHILDHOOD TO YOUTH. 

SEVEN TO FOURTEEN YEAKS. 

CHAPTER V. 

Human Parasites ; their symptoms and their domicile Ringworm 
" Scald" Head Squinting Headache Giddiness. 

WATER, that essential element in animal and vegetable life, consists 
of hydrogen and oxygen, chemically combined in a definite pro- 
portion. Of these two agents consist all kinds of water, and what- 
ever matters are contained in them beside, they have nothing to do 
with their composition, and are really extraneous. Therefore, when 
vegetable productions abound in water, they indicate a positive 
degree of impurity; but when animalcule abound, a still higher 
degree of impurity exists. Well-water may be charged with 
mineral salts, and thus prove an irritant to the delicate stomach of 
a child ; whilst river, or surface water, may hold organic matters in 
solution. Cold boiled water is the safest form to use under such 
circumstances. There is a vulgar error abroad, that everything we 
eat or drink teems with life, and that even our bodies abound with 
minute living parasites. The notion is as disgusting as it is 
erroneous. 

Unwholesome water will produce weakness of digestion in the 
young, and imprudent mothers are induced to allow them any food 
they ask for, under the fallacious argument that " the poor little 



2 HUMAN PARASITES. 

thing has such a wretched appetite, that one is glad to give it any- 
thing it will eat." 

The most singular nervous symptoms are often produced in 
children by the presence of worms. I have elsewhere related* a 
curious instance of this kind of cause and effect. A young girl was 
sent up from the country, with a long-standing cough of a most 
obstinate nature. It was deemed proper to keep her in the hospital 
for a week or so, in order to watch her case. She soon became 
feverish and generally disordered, owing to the change of residence. 
A brisk emetic was given her, followed by an aperient, under the 
expectation of cutting short this slight attack. They relieved her 
of an Entozoa, so common in this country the " Taenia solium " 
when fever and cough entirely subsided. 

Cold salt sponging is of inestimable service in preventing such 
annoyances, for in health, with cleanliness, not a single organic pro- 
duction or animalcule of any description is present, either outwardly 
on the surface, or inwardly in the cavities of our bodies. It is only 
when the system becomes disordered, and cleanliness is not ob- 
served, that parasitical productions may be expected to spring up. 

The singular co-existence of ring-worm with squinting, from the 
use of impure water, has been already pointed out in a record of one 
hundred and twenty cases of disorder in women -j- and children. A 
nervous squint and blindness are somewhat remarkable, and I cannot 
refrain from quoting one of the many singular cases recorded in that 
pamphlet. 

" A woman was seized with giddiness, headache, loss of appetite, 
palpitation, alternate flushings, and clammy perspirations; and her son, 
eleven years old, was attacked with weight over the forehead, squint- 
ing, and, at length, blindness. They both partook of the well-water 
and canal- water of the Wolverton station, mixed; the former contained 
a large quantity of alkaline earths, and the last an unusual amount 
of organic substance, no doubt derived from the surface drainage of 

* * Physiognomy of Diseases." By George Corfe, M.D. 
+ " Observations on the Effects of the Wolverton Waters, &c., as supplied 
to the Inhabitants." Pharmaceutical Journal, 1848. 



-"SORE EYES. 2o 

lands more or less covered with animal manure. As both mother 
and son had been under medical treatment at Wulverton without 
avail, and observing the equivocal nature of nervous symptoms 
in many of these people, I was led to conclude that the squint and 
headache arose from mere distress of, and nut disease in, the brain. 
The son was ordered anthelmintic medicines, and his sight returned, 
the squinting diminished, his health improved, but it was co-existent 
with the riddance of a Tania (tape-worm)." 

Another troublesome parasite is to be met with on the surface of 
the body. That pest of schools, " scald-head," is a vegetable fungus, 
and bears a resemblance to the minute confervoid growths of the 
yeast plant, or mouldy substances in decayed animal matter. The 
" Blue Coat " School children were formerly notorious for its pos- 
session, and more than one-third of the boys were, usually at a 
distance from London, affected with the complaint. The medical 
officers revised the dietary role, and introduced a larger proportion 
of vegetables and of meat, whilst they diminished the amount of 
puddings and farinaceous food; since which time the disease is 
scarcely known amongst them. 

One of the earliest symptoms which a child tainted with Scrofula 
may exhibit, either at the weaning period, or soon afterwards, is a 
weakness in the vessels of the eye. They weep, and the tears 
falling over the cheeks so influence the latter, that sores appear in 
various parts ; by-and-by, intolerance of light supervenes, or rather 
the eyelids are spasmodically closed, and no effort on our part can 
open them, neither will the child suffer you to touch them. Not 
long since, the child of a medical friend was brought from the 
country to see me. As soon as he entered the room, with a bright 
sunlight shining on him, he skulked away into the darkest corner, 
putting on that singular grin which is so characteristic of the disease, 
and which is partly a frown, with the mouth half open, as if yawn- 
ing. A worse case of scrofulous ophthalmia was never seen ; and 
yet, in six weeks, the child became quite well, through a rigid 
attention to diet, change of air, and remedial measures of the most 
simple nature. 



SECOND STAGE. 
CHILDHOOD TO YOUTH. 

SEVEN TO FOURTEEN YEAES. 

CHAPTER VI. 

Rickety Limbs Consumption and Scrofula, their Causes and desolating 
Effects Hanwwing Scenes amongst the Poor Benevolence in Food, &c. 

PERSONS who visit this vast metropolis, and saunter through our 
parks, the " Lungs of London," at an hour when the middle classes 
send forth their little ones to get some fresh air, must have observed 
the numerous bandy-legged, bow-limbed, sallow-faced children in 
every direction, some cramped by iron boots, others with wooden 
splints bandaged around their legs. It is a piteous sight, and makes 
one's heart ache, because the most skilful man is utterly baffled in 
affording any relief to such cases. Yet preventive means may ward 
off evils which medical agents cannot cure. Rickets is a twin sister 
to scrofula. If you could obtain an hour's conversation with that 
very important and intelligent officer " The Physician in Ordinary 
to the inhabitants of the Zoological Gardens in Regent's Park" he 
would inform you that the monkeys are especially the subjects of 
scrofula, and that the beasts, as well as birds, brought over from 
warm climates, perish in great numbers from the same disease. 
The cause of this mortality does not arise from the impurity of the 




RICKETS SCROFULA. 27 

air, so much as from the excess of moisture succeeded by cold ; for, 
in proportion as the mean temperature of the day and night falls 
below 50|, human mortality (in the London districts at least) 
increases, and the same law presides over the brute creation. The 
practical lesson given to us by Dr. Farr * is the following : Cold 
destroys a certain number of persons rapidly, and, in others, occasions 
diseases which prove fatal in four or five weeks. A great number 
of the aged, and of those afflicted with difficulty of breathing, cannot 
resist cold sunk so low as 32. The temperature of the atmosphere 
in which they sleep can never safely descend lower than 40, for if 
the cold that freezes water in their chamber does not freeze their 
blood, it impedes respiration ; and life ceases when the blood heat 
has sunk a few degrees below the standard of 98. The prejudicial 
effect of impurity of air is more manifest on the constitution and 
future growth of the young during the first stage of life's seven 
years than upon any successive period. We find it stated -|- that 
in cities, as contrasted with rural districts, the deaths from con- 
sumption are increased 24 per cent. ; those from typhus, 55 per 
cent. ; and those from child-birth, 59 per cent. The diseases chiefly 
incidental to childhood are twice as fatal in the town districts as 
they are in the country. One striking fact is obtained from this 
Report, namely, that children under two years of age, although 
they get as much exercise as their tender age would allow of any- 
where, die in much larger numbers in town than in the country. 
Yet we do not wish to be misunderstood in this important matter. 
When scientific men speak of impure air, it is not implied that the 
atmosphere contains any specific poison of fever, ague, or small-pox, 
&c., &c., but, that impurity of the atmosphere excites the human 
frame to a predisposition to take up such poisons much sooner. 
There is no question but that scrofula is the direct result of impure 
air, and, when once established in the constitution, it passes down 
for several generations, an hereditary taint in the system. An 

* The Registrar-General. 

f Registrar-General's Annual Report 



28 CONSUMPTION ; ATROPHY. 

exposure to cold and damp, with dormitories on the basement, 
adjoining a back yard, ten or twelve feet square, with open lattrines, 
are fruitful sources of it, and of diphtheria, fever, diarrhoea, and 
lung-diseases, with which this and other large cities abound. 

Rickets, scrofula, and atrophy, usually manifest themselves at a 
period between nine months and two or three years old that is, 
during the time of teething. The first evidences are a loose, flabby 
state of the skin and muscles ; the limbs waste, whilst the joints 
become enlarged, and the vessels of the neck are distended, and the 
whole head increases in size. 

Although it is not intended to introduce any specific line of treat- 
ment for such formidable diseases of infancy as the above, or scarlet 
fever, measles, small-pox, croup, &c., but ouly to confine these 
remarks to disorders of a lesser kind, yet a few hints may be added 
on the means necessary to be adopted for the mitigation of con- 
sumption and scrofula, &c. 

Lord Ashburton once asked, " Why is it that one family can live 
in abundance where another starves ? Why, in similar dwellings, 
are the children of one parent healthy, of the other, puny and 
ailing?" "It is not," he answers, "luck or chance that decides 
these differences ; it is the patient observation of nature, which has 
suggested to some gifted minds rules for their guidance, which 
have escaped the heedlessness of others. 

" We see a worthy couple doing their best to rear a young family 
to maturity. They rejoice in the smiles of the children, and their 
house is full of young life and its hopes. But one after another of 
the young people, as they reach a certain age, manifest a tendency 
to decline. It is found that a physical disease, with which the 
mother is partially affected, and which is known to have made 
great ravages in her family, is now beginning to show itself in the 
constitutions of those once hopeful children. The eldest born sinks, 
and has his share of bewailment. Another, if possible, more loved 
and more grieved over, follows. In short, one after another, this 
family fades away, leaving the parents at the last utterly desolate. 
Nothing can be more affecting than this, nothing can make a greater 



HARROWING SCENES. 29 

demand upon the sympathy of friendly neighbours. We feel bound 
to offer every suggestion of religious consolation to the hapless 
pair. It seems cruel to hint, in the faintest manner, that they have 
been, in any degree, the cause of drawing such a heart-break upon 
themselves; and yet, when we take an extended view of the case, 
we can be at no loss to see, that, with judicious forethought, the 
calamity might have been prevented." Such is the truthful picture 
drawn by a modern writer of the devastating ravages of consump- 
tion. But no persons can judge of the harrowing sights that are 
daily met with by every medical practitioner in this huge metro- 
polis ; " thousands of the poor, not artizans, not labourers (for they 
are comparatively an aristocracy), but street touters. fruit-sellers, and 
others, who supply ai tides to those who need them, bivouac, 
rather than lodge, in wretched half-furnished or unfurnished rooms, 
half starving upon miserably small gains, and often without a means 
of livelihood. It is the extremest picture of poverty, far beyond 
anything that was ever presented in the northern land, once con- 
sidered so beggarly, throwing into the shade any kind of misery 
that ever occurs amongst the North American Indians." Let me 
quote two instances deduced from this day's labour in the Lisson 
Grove District, where my duties are assigned. In a low, dirty street, 
resides a hatter, who ushered me down into his back kitchen (pro- 
perly speaking, a back cellar), where I found a poor female lodger 
lying on the ground, with a few rags over her, without bedstead, 
giving forth that raven-like noise in respiration, so thoroughly 
characteristic of acute suffering in. the wind-pipe. In short, it was 
active inflammation of the organ of voice, and, as she vainly struggled 
to give me some idea of the suffocating attacks of breathlessness and 
of impending death, that she had endured for twenty-four hours, 
the poor creature became quite exhausted, and fell back on her 
pillow of old coats, gowns, and other rags. The only person in the 
room to wait on her was a girl, her daughter, about eight years old. 
The husband is a street knife-grinder, and was out for the day's 
work. The residence was just ten feet by eight, dark, and looking 
into a filthy back yard, and the patient's head was close to the door, 



30 IGNORANCE AND PREJUDICE. 

an. east wind had set in, and a hopelessness of doing any good 
paralyzed one's efforts. She was urged to go to an adjoining 
hospital, but declined the offer ; so that, in such a place, with such 
air and wretchedness, death may have released her ere this time. 

The second case was that of an Irish fruit-hawker, in the last stage 
of consumption. The room which he occupied was small, destitute of 
very kind of comfort, excepting the hed on which he lay, the clothes 
of which consisted of a tattered counterpane, covering old gowns, 
&c., &c.; the house was overrun with dirty children, and the fetid 
smells so overpowering, from filthy accumulations within and with- 
out, that, much as we are accustomed to have our olfactory nerves 
assailed, the exhalations surpassed anything that I had previously 
met with. At an old table sat two unfortunate girls, not related to 
the man, devouring a plate full of hot steaks and bread, the wages 
of sin, and who, for a small pittance, are allowed to bivouac in 
this room, to cook and eat their food, &c. The wife of the patient 
goes out " charring " by day, and leaves the nursing duties to the 
casual visits of a neighbour. It may seem incredible to many, but 
this poor ignorant man voluntarily quitted the workhouse hospital 
for such a home, " rather than be starved to death in the union," 
.as they asserted ; whereas, in this parish, I can testify that the 
medical attendance, comforts of bed and bedding, dietary scale, 
nursing, and general management of the sick poor, are not equalled 
by many unions, and certainly are surpassed by none. The wife 
held three letters of admission into different hospitals given to her 
by some benevolent persons, but they both declined to use them, 
choosing rather such a home than all the charitable luxuries of a 
well-regulated hospital or union. " II n'y a qu'un pas entre le 
sublime et le ridicule," was a remark of the First Napoleon. On 
getting into the street, other objects of miserable poverty were 
seen, a squalid woman with the loss of one eye, half-clad in tattered 
rags, holding a baby, with an urchin at her side, was screaming 
certain lines, that memorialized the solemn events connected with 
the present season, in short, a Christmas carol, to the hackneyed 
tun of " I'd choose to be a daisy." A kind helping hand to such 



BENEVOLENCE IN FOOD. 31 

cases has been stretched out by many persons in this neighbourhood ; 
the clergy are indefatigable in their praiseworthy endeavours to 
alleivate human want ; and amongst other excellent means of relief, 
ranks a " Soup kitchen," and an " Invalid's dinner-table." * 

It is of the deepest importance to every parent that the exciting 
cause of any of these desolating evils should be traced out. Next 
to hereditary tendency, which may be so weak, that care and a 
favourable combination of circumstances might prevent the offspring 
from a manifestation of the disease, we have to consider other 
agents that exercise a power of developing consumption. Improper 
diet, which always implies imperfect nourishment, is one exciting 
<3ause. Mild and dry weather seldom promote either of these 
diseases. On the Continent, consumption is known under the title 
of the " English Disease," and certainly there is no climate where it 
sweeps off its hundreds and thousands as it does in our own islands. 
Infants at the breast, with abundance of good milk, seldom show 
any evidences of consumption or of scrofula ; whereas, as soon as 
they are weaned, they betray unequivocal signs of derangement in 
their digestive organs, unless an entire change is made in the whole 
regime of the family, and, sooner or later, the sufferers fall early 
victims to undeveloped scrofula or tubercular disease, known as con- 
sumption. 

* This last was established, is managed, and admirably superintended, 
by the personal exertions of a benevolent lady, Miss Mayo, Hamilton Ter- 
race, St. John's Wood. 



THIRD STAGE. 



YOUTH TO YOUNG MEN. 

FOURTEEN TO TWENTY- ONE YEARS. 

CHAPTER VII. 

Malting Brewing Spirits and Fats Cod Liver Oil Is Consumption 
curable? Early Care and Management of delicate Children prone to it 
The deceitfulness of the Disease Treachery of a Stomach Cough. 

THE brewing of fermented liquors has become a trade of such con- 
siderable importance in this country, that it would require a princely 
fortune to purchase even the utensils of one colossal establishment, and 
it is, therefore, matter of the utmost importance that the conductors 
of such firms should be acquainted with the principles of the mate- 
rials which they employ, and with the nature of those changes 
which take place during the course of fermentation. 

The first great process is the conversion of starch in the barley 
into sugar, and this change is effected in malting, for, during the 
germination of plants (and malting is an imitation of this act), sugar 
is formed out of the starch that surrounds the embryo of the seed. 
Sugar is as necessary for young plants as it is for young children, 
and the stomach of the latter must convert starchy food into sugar, 
just as the vital power in the germinating embryo of the seed pro- 
duces sugar out of the surrounding starch. 

The aualogy between a barley-corn and a birds' egg is greater 



ANALOGY IN A SEED AND AN EGO. SS 

than their dissimilarity in appearance would lead one to expect. 
The former is covered with its testaceous outside or husk, beneath 
which is the delicate membrane (spermo-derm) enclosing the tiny 
storehouse of food (starch) for the future plant ; and inside the 
whole lies the " heart," or embryo, the undeveloped plant in 
miniature. 

In the egg, there is beneath its shell a transparent membrane, 
enclosing the food (the albumen, or white) for the unhatched bird, 
and the yolk, in which lies the " cicatricula," or future chick. How 
long vitality may remain in each of these curious bodies unimpaired, 
is a question not yet settled. The statements relative to the germi- 
nation of wheat found in mummies requires confirmation, though Pro- 
fessor Lindley mentions an instance of the growth of young plants 
from seeds found in an ancient barrow in Devonshire along with 
some coins of the Emperor Hadrian. But one mighty agent must 
appear on the role of life, ere re-production of species can take place 
in either case this agent is heat ; solar or artificial heat is as requi- 
site for germination as natural heat is for incubation ; though, in 
Egypt, artificial hatching is carried on to a great extent, in imitation 
of the natural instinct of the ostrich, " which leaveth her eggs in 
the earth, and warmeth them in the dust " (Job xxxix. 14). 

Solar heat starts the embryo of barley into dependent existence ; 
that is to say, the future blade struggles upwards to air, and the 
little root downwards to earth, both living on this starchy food, now 
converted by heat into sugar ; and just when its first blade appears 
above ground to breathe vital air, we find its magazine of food 
below is exhausted. 

In the egg, however, the little chick-life starts into being when 
" sitting" begins ; and the temperature of the hen's breast is always 
raised a few degrees during this period. 

The future bird finds its food ready to hand in the white of the 
egg, albumen being the most nutritive substance known by 
chemists ; and it is not until the chick has consumed all its stored-up 
food, that it breaks its house of lime, and comes forth to live on air 
and on earth ; in short, a breathing animal, whose wants are sup- 

D 



34 SPIRITS AND FATS. 

plied by the fruits, &c., of the ground. Wonderful contrivance I 
Inscrutable Wisdom and Design ! Thus 

" Leaves, lungs, and gills, the vital ether breathe, 
On earth's green surface, or the waves beneath." 

Now, the sugar alluded to in speaking of malt is wholly different 
from that we consume at our tea-table. We have the sugar of the 
cane plant, known as cane sugar, and that of sweet fruits and 
vegetables, usually called grape sugar. The first is crystallizable, 
but incapable of time fermentation, and, therefore, alcohol is not 
extracted from it ; the latter is the source of our various spirits from 
grain, as gin, brandy, whisky, &c. ; and thus we may paraphrase 
Darwin's lines on the " Will-o'-Wisp," and say of the spirit lamp 

" Thus heat imparted to some cereal grains, 
Expands the kindling atoms into flames." 

This sugar abounds in honey, also sugar is abundant in the milk 
of all mammalia, and may be given to children with impunity, nay, 
it is advantageous in proper quantities; but the obese, gouty, or 
dyspeptic parents must avoid it, although a teetotaller may use it ;. 
whilst a spirit- drinker swallows it under another form. 

The earliest indication of a weak or impaired digestion in a child 
is manifested in its inability to convert starchy matters into sugar. 
The stomach often turns against the latter article of food, from an 
intuitive disrelish of it under an artificial form, though sugar is 
more easily taken up and more available than starch ; starch and 
sugar contain nearly half their weight of carbon (charcoal principle), 
whilst fats, oil. and butter, contain 4-5ths of carbon. This car- 
bonaceous matter is the fuel for the maintenance of animal heat, or 
combustion ; and the greater the amount of carbon in the food, the 
better is maintained the temperature of the body, independent of its 
promoting the nourishment of the various parts. This is the simple 
explanation of the beneficial effects of cod liver oil in consumption, 
and of its injury in corpulent, bilious constitutions. As animal fat 
or starchy food (farina), enter so largely into the nutrient materials 
for the young, it may be interesting to observe the relative com- 
position of these four agents. 



IS CONSUMPTION CURABLE? 35 

Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. 

Starch consists of .... 24 . . 20 . . 20 

Sugar .... 24 .. 28 .. 28 

Alcohol .... 16 .. 24 .. 8 

Fat .... 66 .. 10 .. 8 

The celebrated chemist, Leibig, describes the change which each 
undergoes in the animal body, thus : The hydrogen is oxidized, and 
water is formed, whilst the remaining oxygen with carbon forms 
carbonic acid, which is expired from the lungs and skin ; so that " no 
true combustion of carbon occurs in the living body, but the carbonic 
acid is formed by a process of substitution in this case, and exhaled." 
It has been already hinted that some stomachs cannot digest fatty 
matters. The organ rebels at it, struggles to get rid of it, and that 
nauseous taste in the throat, known as " heartburn," or biliousness, 
supervenes, with disagreeable feelings in the head, dreams, and 
lethargy of mind and body. This is one of the ordinary results of 
an indulgence in fat, greasy foods. The cure is very simple, when 
the cause is known ; but as long as people think it is bile, they will 
have recourse to all kinds of " autibilious pills," and the results 
are, '* an injured stomach, impure blood, serious disease, and not 
unfrequently an untimely grave." The epitaph on the unfortunate 
gentleman's tomb at Rome, who, it is said, took medicine when well, 
and soon became ill, may be inscribed over such a grave : 

" I once was well, 
I would be better : 
I took physic, 
And here I am." 

Let us now inquire is consumption curable when manifested, or 
capable of being prevented in manifesting itself ivhen dormanf? The 
very term consumption implies that the disease is wasting, and, 
therefore, it is only applicable to the development of the complaint 
in all its peculiar symptoms. Employing the word, therefore, in 
this sense, we may readily give an answer to the first part of the 
inquiry, and observe that well-authenticated cases are on record, 
and some have come under the author's notice, in which unequivocal 



36 MANAGEMENT OF DELICATE CHILDREN 

consumption was cured, and the subjects of it are now alive, and ii? 
excellent health. 

With respect to the latter part of the question, whether it may 
be prevented in its outbreak, there can be little doubt, with the 
vast information we have lately obtained from a knowledge of 
Hygeinic rules, sanitary laws, and the modus operandi of certain 
valuable agents in medicine, with outward appliances as respirators, 
counter-irritants, &c., &c. that this devastating malady of Great 
Britain may be arrested, if not finally cured, in those who are prone 
to it, by judicious and patient medical treatment in its early stages. 
Dr.Passavoine tells us, that amongst 920 children, 3-5ths of the whole, 
or 538, died from this disease, between two to fifteen years of age. 
One of the principal objects to be gained in the prevention of the 
development of the disease in a delicate child is, to insure whole- 
some air in the sleeping apartment, not to suffer the patient to share 
the bed with another child, to ascertain that its residence is on a 
dry soil, and well drained, in a mild and equable climate. Exercise 
should be moderate, the hours of rising and rest punctual and early, 
the clothing warm, but always suitable to the season ; the food must 
'be nourishing, without stimulants ; the skin kept clean, and those 
myriads of cutaneous lungs known as pores,* are to be maintained 
free and open by means of frequent tepid ablution in winter, and by 
cold bathing in summer. Moderate study should be insisted on, 
and exhausting indulgences of all kinds absolutely forbidden. Not 
less important is the time at which a child with a consumptive or 
scrofulous tendency should be within doors. From sunrise to sun- 
set during the six winter months, and from eight to eight in the 
height of summer, may be regarded as the safest rule for out- door 
recreation ; but in the depth of winter, the restriction must be even 
greater, and from ten or eleven to three only the child should be 
allowed to be in the air ; and when at home, the nursery, in which 
a fire must be kept, should be at the top, rather than at the bottom 
of the house. 

Consumption, at a very early period of life, differs in its symptoms 
* Embracing fifty-two miles of surface ! 



TREACHERY OF A COUGH. 37 

from the same disease in full-grown persons. The cough is more 
deceitful in its nature, and when it follows whooping-cough, it is 
too often supposed to be only the sequelae of the latter complaint, 
whereas the wasting malady is slowly and silently doing its work 
of destruction. The attacks of cough in this form of infantile 
consumption often seize the little patient in paroxysms, with no 
expectoration, and but little fever. The glands in the neck and 
throat may be observed to enlarge, the appetite becomes capricious, 
and, after an ordinary meal of solid food, this spasmodic kind of 
cough will set in, until the whole meal is brought up, and the child, 
exhausted, lies down, and falls off into a doze. 



33 



THIRD STAGE. 
YOUTH TO YOUNG MEN. 

FOURTEEN TO TWENTY-ONE YEARS. 

CHAPTER VIH. 

Second Dentition ; its Irregularities and Disorders Headache and Epi- 
lepsy (?) St. Vitus-dance Hysteria; Nervous Children and their Bad 
Habits. 

A POPULAR preacher once stated that he never knew what it was 
to dream ; most probably, therefore, he never suffered from head- 
ache, for those who are distressed with the one, usually know some- 
thing of the other. Yet the causes of headache are as obscure, in 
many instances, as the origin of dreams. 

A lady consulted me lately on a species of headache to which her 
eldest daughter, of fourteen, was continually subject ; it began over 
one brow, after much reading or study, moved down the face, and 
fixed itself in the jaws. There was a wan, saddened cast in the 
features ; and on inspection of the teeth/there appeared two or three 
unable to get through from simple crowding of the fangs, or conse- 
quent overlapping of the crowns together. The patient was listless, 
and would take no exercise, so that she was indulged with lying on 
the sofa the greater part of the day. Some teeth were extracted : 
the headaches subsided, and the general health shortly improved. 
It is in this second dentition as well as in the first teething that we 



HEADACHES AND FITS. 39 

find so many and such alarming nervous symptoms spring up during 
its progress ; and the fact that no pain exists in the teeth themselves, 
or in the jaw, naturally misleads many anxious parents from the 
true source of the malady, until the nervous irritation has gone on 
unmitigated, to the production of an epileptic seizure or a fit of 
convulsions. * The following case, under my own notice, is a fair 
specimen of numerous instances of the same kind. A lad, aged 
fifteen, from the plough-tail, was affected with epileptic fits ; he had 
suffered from them several years, and had derived no benefit from 
the medical treatment pursued in the country. He was six weeks 
under the use of remedies usually resorted to in such cases, but 
finding no good results follow, he was requested to lose several 
badly decayed double teeth, though he had not experienced the 
least inconvenience from them : however, on removal of these, the 
fangs were found much diseased and enlarged, and although he had 
suffered from two or three fits a day, yet, eighteen months subse- 
quent to their extraction, not one fit had recurred. There can be 
no doubt, therefore, of the intimate union between cause and effect 
in this instance. But a far more instructive case than the preceding 
has just been under my care. A youth about eighteen years of age, 
by trade a carpenter, was seized with epilepsy whilst at the bench 
at work, in Berkshire. His father brought him to me under very 
singular circumstances, to which allusion shall be made in a future 
chapter. The lad presented the appearance of rude health, but the 
description given of the nature of the seizure, his own account of 
himself, and his general demeanour, convinced me that the derange- 
ment was without the brain (eccentric), rather than from disease 

* " We are all so familiar with the occurrence of convulsions during 
the first dentition, that in infancy the risk is rather of the grave disease to 
which they are possibly due being overlooked, than of the influence of 
teething in their production being underrated. On the other hand, the 
occasional share of the second dentition in exciting epileptic or other con- 
vulsive seizures is too little borne in mind, and a graver prognosis than 
the event justifies is sometimes expressed in consequence." West'* 
Lectures. 



40 NERVOUS DISORDERS IN THE YOUNG. 

within the nervous matter (centric). Various remedies were tried, 
though without much hope of his becoming benefited thereby ; for on 
looking into his mouth, the molar teeth were so dangerously crowded, 
that on questioning him more closely, he acknowledged that his jaw 
ached dreadfully sometimes, especially after a meal, and this was 
frequently followed by headache. He was prevailed on to lose 
several double teeth, and more than a year has elapsed, and no fit 
has recurred. One of the most exciting causes of epilepsy in a child 
of a weak and nervous habit is fright, or strong mental emotion ; 
but pain or disturbance of any of the principal functions of the body 
may excite the disease, and, like St. Vitus- dance, lead on to im- 
becility of mind. 

This latter disease is usually the result of some irritation upon 
tlie nervous system along the course of the alimentary canal, or 
in the irregular development of the permanent teeth. The dis- 
position to nervous disorders is of course stronger in females than 
in males, and in those having dark eyes and hair than in the fairer 
ones. It is most common amongst girls and boys from the eighth 
to the eighteenth year, or that period included between the second 
dentition and puberty; and it is frequently brought on by an in- 
dulgence in raw, unripe fruit, sweets, heavy dumplings, and such 
like unwholesome food. The same causes may lead to hysteria, 
in a constitution prone to be " nervous." The most serious mistakes 
are sometimes made in the recognition of this last derangement 
of the system ; the damage that accrues to the sufferer, and the 
discredit to the practitioner, are oftentimes irreparable. In children, 
spasmodic complaints like the above are also easily excited by im- 
proper diet; whilst in adult women there is always some specific 
constitutional derangement, which re-acts upon the mind, and pro- 
duces the disorder. 

A plump, well-formed child, ten years of age, in the hospital, was 
kept on her back for reputed spinal disease ; the countenance was 
placid, the voice unusually deep- toned, but the lower limbs were to 
all appearance utterly powerless. A physician and surgeon agreed 
that the complaint was purely nervous, and unconnected with any 



BAD HABITS IN CHILDREN. 41 

disease. Cold affusion to the body, a determination to coax or scold 
her into an attempt to try and move ahout, succeeded in a week or 
more in making her walk alone ; hut having a great aversion to be 
made 'a spectacle of in a public ward, she was allowed to join arm 
in arm with a child suffering from St. Vitus- dance of the left side. 
The girl always took the right or steady arm of the latter patient, 
but when she was desired to take the other, she looked archly up in 
my face, and observed, " Oh, sir, that's the dance arm, and I can't 
hold by that." She was, however, ordered to make friends with 
the dance arm, and as the girl was half a foot taller than this 
child, her wriggling motions, as they walked side by side, soon 
brought the other to feel that walking without such a restless com- 
panion was far the more pleasant mode of progression. The most 
valuable agents in warding off this insidious complaint are the con- 
stant use of the shower, or Douche bath, exercise in the open air, 
light nourishing food, regular hours, and absence of all stimulants, 
whether mental or dietary. 

Some children, especially boys, grow into a habit of frowning, 
sniffing, or even snorting in a kind of spasmodic fit, or they may 
contract an occasional nod of the head, twitch of the mouth, wink- 
ing of the eyes, &c. ; and these habits may become so confirmed, 
that it is an impossible task to break them off. The only effectual 
mode of curing such disagreeable and unsightly tricks (if severe and 
repeated scolding fails), is to resort to the daily use of a shower- 
bath, from the back of the head to the whole course of the spine. 

Alterations of structure and development of organs exercise a 
reciprocal action on one another. Until an individual has completed 
the fourteenth year, the nervous system is specially engaged in 
developing the teeth, jaws, and other organs of alimentation. After 
this epoch, the reproductive organs are called into vigour and activity; 
and it has been well observed, that " fewer inconveniences attend on 
dentition, when the process goes on slowly, than when it is more 
rapid," whilst, if the teeth be not fully developed, there may be a 
retardation of growth in the organs of reproduction.* 
* Dr. John Clarke's " Commentaries." 



THIRD STAGE. 
YOUTH TO YOUNG MEN. 

FOURTEEN TO TWENTY-ONE YEAES. 

CHAPTER IX. 

Boils and Blains Poverty of Blood Feeble Constitutions " Green " 
Sickness Hysteria Noises in the Head Victims of Homoeopathy. 

THE first appearance in Europe of that formidable scourge, Asiatic 
cholera, was about 1832-33 ; and since that period, boils or pus- 
tules, known as blains, have been more prevalent than in the earlier 
part of this century. We do not attribute any connexion to the 
two diseases, beyond the fact that the former scourge left traces of 
its having depreciated the bodily tone and vital energy of all classes 
of society, so that acute diseases cannot be met by such active 
remedies as we know they were accustomed to receive in the periods 
antecedent to the visitation of cholera in these islands. 

These boils, &c., will run their troublesome course, and scarcely 
yield to any change of food. It is essential, however, that a 
patient should rigidly abstain from all sweets, and adopt a generous 
diet. There is no doubt that the same deranged condition of the 
system may lead to a scurvy state of the blood ; in other words, 
this life-maintaining fluid becomes thinner and more watery than in 
robust health ; its red or scarlet colour partakes more of a darkish 



POVERTY OP BLOOD. 43 

blue, the mind grows indolent, and the functions of the body are 
disordered in consequence. Closely allied to this state of the blood 
is that condition we all know by the term " poverty of blood." In 
young women especially, the disorder first begins by an imperfect 
assimilation of food. Animal diet or flesh-forming material is dis- 
relished ; pastry, hard dumplings, sweets, and preserves are greedily 
devoured ; and that faithful index of the state of the animal frame, the 
physiognomy, soon betrays the sickliness of the individual. The lips, 
and even tongue, at length become white ; a waxy face, puffy eyelids 
and ankles, palpitation and breathlessness on the slightest exertion, 
gradually supervene ; and if a finger is cut, or the nose bleeds, the 
blood is so pale and thin, that it is commonly observed to be " turned 
into water." Now the blood is fed by the chyle, a fluid extracted 
from generous food ; and if this feeding of the life-giving circulation 
is arrested, checked, or altered, the constituents of the blood are 
reduced considerably below the standard of health. Depression of 
spirits, languor, and mental incapacity for ordinary study or work, 
succeed these changes ; and if there should unfortunately be a pre- 
disposition, by hereditary taint or otherwise, to consumption, scrofula, 
or such like diseases, the system will show a tendency to fall under 
the power of them. Hence cough, emaciation, and loss of strength 
come and go, hand in hand ; the parent apprehends it is only a 
cold or trL'.ing disorder, administers some family medicine, with 
gruel, arrowroot, and such like spoon food, at bed-time, to encourage 
perspiration ; and thereby the blood is still further thinned, and the 
patient reduced to a weaker condition than before. 

The disease popularly known as "greei> sickness," principally 
affecting young females, is likely to show itself under such circum- 
stances as those now detailed. The face becomes yellowish-green, 
hence the origin of the name of the disease, which is further 
characterized by languor, palpitations, listlessness, pains in the back 
and loins, acidity on the stomach, and flatulence. The most de- 
praved appetite often conies on, such as a craving for lime or chalk, and 
similar antacids ; all these symptoms indicate an utter loss of tone in 
the digestive powers, and if not early attended to, will pass on to a 



44 FASHIONABLE ACCOMPLISHMENTS ITS EVILS. 

severer class of ailments, and the sufferer is apt to be affected with 
many of those insidious ailments known under the term hysterical. 
The judicious management of such cases in an early stage by a 
medical practitioner is of incalculable importance, and mothers should 
seek the benefit of it, rather than increase the malady by domestic 
nostrums, empirical medicines, improper diet, &c. 

The habit of a female is much connected with the production of 
hysteria. Inactivity, grief, or anxiety of mind, with a sedentary life, 
and a constant use of a low diet, or of unwholesome, non-nutritious 
food, predisposes to this attack. Its disposition to pass into an 
epileptiform disease, renders its distinction from all other nervous 
affections of paramount importance. This disposition may be more 
easily prevented than cured ; " but upon this point medical men 
are not consulted. Parents do not foresee the misery they are 
often laying up for their daughters, by the unnatural mode of life 
to which they are subjected, for the sake of giving them fashion- 
able accomplishments." * 

It has been usual to ascribe to hysteria a variety of neuralgic 
affections to which young women are subject. Pain over one brow 
(brow ague) coming on at certain periods ; the stitch in the left 
side, occurring in girls whose habits are sedentary, or whose minds 
are easily disturbed by domestic anxieties ; flatulence, fulness in the 
throat, difficulty in swallowing ; such and other symptoms are usually 
placed to the account of hysterical affections. They occur most 
frequently in young women between sixteen and twenty-five, or 
later (according to Dr. Ashburner), if the wisdom teeth are not 
cut. The sufferers obtain but little sympathy from those around 
them, unless it spring from maternal or sisterly affection ; and then 
ofttimes, this sympathy is apt to lead the relatives into an undue 
regard of the ailments of the patient, and thus they foster rather 
than repress an unhealthy tone of mind. However, the malady is 
no less an evil and a distress ; and on that account it behoves us to 
watch carefully, and to attend sedulously to the early outbreak of 
such a disordered state of the nervous system, lest a more alarming 
* Dr. Watson. 



NOISES IN THE HEAD. 45 

train of symptoms dawn upon us. At this moment a lady is under 
my care, who suffers from the most distressing attacks in her head; 
they commence at all hours of the day, and under all circumstances, 
by a gentle whizzing in the ears, which increases to a hissing, and 
at length to a roar, like a steam-engine ; at other times she is 
seized with a sudden feeling that the room, the house, and even the 
ground she stands on, are precipitously rushing forward, and car- 
rying her, with indescribable velocity, in the moving mass. Her 
piteous cry, " Hold my head ! Hold my head ! " gives instant notice 
of the attack. The pulse rises to a feverish height, the face be- 
comes pale, the hands and feet are stone cold, the heart throbs 
at a tumultuous rate, and the whole frame is shaken to its very 
centre ; so that hours elapse before the system is calmed into a 
natural condition. On a careful examination, there is no evidence 
whatever of actual disease ; but the unhealty state of the teeth and 
jaws, and the imperfect development of them, warrants one in 
asserting that the attacks owe their origin, in some measure, to an 
eccentric * irritation on the nerves of the head and face. Tonics, 
light and nutritious diet, cheerful society, and exercise daily in an 
open carriage, have so far relieved her, that she is now lively and 
active, and considers herself quite well. Such attacks, oft repeated, 
will usually lead on to great depression of spirits, grave forebodings 
of some calamity about to overtake the patient, and even a con- 
firmed hypochondriacal state of mind. In these persons " there is a 
languor, listlessness, or want of resolution and activity with respect 
to all undertakings ; a disposition to seriousness, sadness, and 
timidity as to all future events ; an apprehension of the worst or 
most unhappy state of them ; and, therefore, often upon slight 
grounds, an apprehension of great evil."f This state of depression 
is often connected with disordered stomach, and that, too, of a most 
obstinate nature ; and nothing less than an entire revolution in the 
diet and general system of " tenir-me'nage" will effectually eradicate 
this bias to hypochondriasis. It is in vain to pooh-pooh such per- 

* Implying irritation without, and not ivithin, the brain. 
f Cullen's " Nosology." 



46 VICTIMS OF HOMOEOPATHY. 

sons with the usual charge of " You look very well," " You are 
only nervous ; do stir yourself, and shake it off." The advice is 
either sneered at, or treated as the fruit of an unfeeling, ignorant 
mind. It is no wonder, therefore, if such individuals, whose cases 
are either misunderstood, or treated with contempt, call in the 
aid of empirics, Homoeopaths, or resort to patent medicines and 
other nostrums. A clergyman's wife was under my care, some 
years ago, suffering with such attacks as those just described ; she 
obtained great relief from an alterative line of treatment, and was 
apparently quite well for months, when some imprudence in diet 
brought back the attacks with increased severity, and for the relief 
of which she had recourse to calomel and other purgatives ; this 
occurred at the period when Asiatic cholera was raging in England, 
and the relaxation suddenly took a form of choleraic diarrhoea, 
under which she gradually sank, with all the virulent symptoms of 
that frightful scourge. 



47 



FOURTH STAGE. 
YOUNG MEN TO MEN. 

, TWENTY-ONE TO TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS. 

CHAPTER X. 

Eailway Travelling and its Evils The Stomach, its Mazes and Mysteries 
Digestion and Indigestion Meal-time and its Abuses. 

IT is surprising how many aches and pains creep over us from 
causes wholly under our control. In these days of rapid move- 
ment, from Ben Nevis to Land's-End, within as many hours as 
would have occupied weeks in our childhood, there is not a more 
fruitful cause of disturbance to the brain, and consequent headache, 
than frequent or imprudent railway travelling. If my readers will 
watch a passenger in a carriage, seated with his face to the engine, 
eagerly looking out of the window of a " fast train" on approaching 
objects, they will observe that the eye -balls oscillate rapidly, as 
they momentarily glance at hills and dales, hedges and trees, gates 
and meadows, rivers and roads. Then let them notice the eyes of 
another individual seated with his back to the engine, and they will 
see that the vision is only calmly employed in watching some distant 
object as it gradually recedes in the distance. 

The effect on the former person often induces headache or 
sleepiness, if not a worse and more enduring evil. A city mer- 
chant, through domestic affliction, was induced to break up his 



48 RAILWAYS AND HEADACHES. 

London home and retire to Brighton, still visiting his counting- 
house daily by the " 9 a.m. express," and returning to dine at 
Brighton by the " 5 p.m. express." Matters went on satisfactorily 
for a few months, when he was conscious of some defect in his 
arithmetical powers ; he could not command his attention sufficiently 
to add up accounts, or transact other money matters ; in a few more 
weeks he found himself suffering daily from a sad frontal head- 
ache, which usually got worse before night ; and at length he 
sought medical advice for it. No relief was obtained by various 
kinds of treatment, and his physician urged him to remain one 
month at Brighton, without travelling, and omit all medicine. The 
effect was surprising; he thoroughly lost his headache, and the 
former elasticity of his mind returned, accompanied with great 
cheerfulness of spirits. Once more he ventured, morning and 
Evening, by "the express;" but former troubles returned with in- 
creased pain in the forehead, until he was so convinced that such 
imprudent travelling was detrimental to health, that he again broke 
up his home in Brighton, and returned to London. The above is 
but one of the many instances that might be adduced of the in- 
jurious effects of constant journeys by rail. 

It was a favourite axiom with the celebrated French physician 
Chomel, that half the diseases of an Englishman arose from his 
indulgence in tea and beer. That " John Bull" is proverbially a 
gourmand, there can be do doubt ; but how far his manifold diseases 
are brought on by indulgence in the beverages referred to, is another 
question. It would be nearer the truth if we were to assert that 
*.hree-fourths of the ailments of adults arise from abuse in eating 
and drinking, rather than from the improper quality of food. The 
stomach of a human being is that marvellous chemical laboratory 
in which every kind of material must be " got up " for the supply 
of the wants induced by the wear and tear of that mysterious struc- 
ture, with its millions of wheels within wheels, the living body. In 
one of the hidden, dark recesses of this vital alambic, matter must 
be extracted to build up or renew the brain and spinal cord, with 
their countless nerves ; in another corner, food must be concocted 



THE STOMACH AND ITS MYSTERIES. 49 

for the ceaseless pumping work of that wondrous hydraulic ma- 
chine, the heart, with its innumerable arteries, as well as for the 
voluntary muscles of the body 450 and upwards in number. The 
fingers that hold this pen, and the delicate eye that reads this line, 
must be as carefully attended to, and their wants supplied, hour 
by hour, as any other portion of the frame. But what can we 
say of that mighty fabric, the skeleton, with its 254 bones ? The 
same fluid that supplies the eye with a tear, the mouth with saliva, 
the liver with bile, or the skin with moisture, also " hedges up," 
moment by moment, the gradual decline of this osseous scaffolding, 
of which Job thus speaks : " Thine hands have made me, * and 
fashioned me together round about ; Thou hast clothed me with 
skin and flesh, and hast fenced f me with bones and sinews." An 
animal world also in miniature is contained in the blood ; and this 
life-giving, life-maintaining fluid, is wholly derived from the quiet, 
healthy, and regular elaborations of that chemical closet, the 
stomach. There we find a substance which turns starch of rice, 
potato, &c., into sugar; another to deprive meat of its fibrine ; a 
third to extract albumen from fish, or oil from fat ; nay, it would 
fill a volume to enlarge on the many operations of the stomach of 
a healthy man. One of the earliest blows that my youthful scepti- 
cism received came from a consideration of the impenetrable mys- 
tery hidden under the facts that the gland, secreting a tear, had 
no power to secrete saliva ; and that the liver could no more send 
out perspiration in lieu of bile, than it could create itself. No ! 
Each organ has life in itself; and each, " after its kind," performs 
that role in the human economy which the Divine hand of the Cre- 
ator " took pains " to establish, when He made man after His own 
image, and pronounced all His works " very good." Thus, 

" Organic forms with chemic changes strive, 
Live but to die, and die but to revive."J 

But the stomach may be styled the paragon of wonders within us ; 

* " Toot pains about me." t " Hedged." 

J Darwin. 

E 



50 DIGESTION AND INDIGESTION. 

no sooner does it receive its quantum of matter, than (like a busy, 
clever, and indefatigable artificer), it immediately sets to work to 
dispose of the materials to the very best advantage, and with 
the least demand upon other neighbouring parts, although they 
are shortly called upon to aid this important organ. The food 
is first churned by a sort of revolving power, which the muscular i 
bands of the stomach give to it ; and this process serves to mix it i 
thoroughly with that mighty solvent agent of the organ, gastric i 
juice. As soon as this step is gained, the substance gradually di- 
vides itself into two distinct portions the nutrient and the non- 
nutrient parts. The former is destined for the life-giving blood, 
the latter being the refuse. The whole operation varies from two 
to five hours, according to the quantity and quality of the food taken. 
It should be borne in mind, by every person who suffers from weak 
digestion, that this juice is constantly flowing into the stomach, 
though much less is present during the night than in the day ; and 
if due attention xs not given to this fact, so as to afford the juice 
employment, it will do mischief; in other words, if there is no food 
to dissolve, the coats of the stomach become still further enfeebled 
by the presence of this juice, which at length deteriorates from its 
original purity and activity. One of the main causes of disordered 
stomach, lowness of spirits, and enervation of mind, arises from a 
very prevalent fashion of huddling three meals into a few hours. 
Breakfast is taken at ten or eleven ; at two a hearty meal is made 
of meat, hashes, and vegetables and this is termed a luncheon ; at 
six, a dinner, with wine and coffee, completes the daily ration ; and 
thus the stomach is left fifteen or sixteen hours idle, whilst it has ; 
had to accomplish, in seven or eight, the work of eighteen hours. ' 
Three meals, at a distance of six hours from each, will always j 
prove the standard by which a valetudinarian, from indigestion, 
may be guided. A few weeks ago, a gentleman from the 
country applied to me for advice under the following circum- 
stances : He stated that, although he led an active life in the open 
air, either by riding or walking which, by-the-by, never exceeded 
two miles daily yet he was troubled with increasing obesity, flatu- 



MEANTIME AND ITS ABUSES. 51 

lence, palpitation, loss of sleep, great depression of spirits ; and this 
became so overpowering, that he was compelled to He down some- 
times two or four hours in the day. His age was thirty-six, and 
yet he looked forty -eight or fifty. Having listened to his tale of 
evils, and ascertained that he had no organic disease to account 
for such equivocal symptoms, I at once requested him to inform mo. 
how he lived. He stated that he usually breakfasted at seven or 
eight, and partook of a steak or mutton chop ; dined at one, on 
meat, vegetables, ale, pastry, &c. ; drank tea at six ; and supped at 
nine, on cold meat, with beer and grog; and yet, with all this amount 
of food, he was surprised to find himself growing weak, though 
fat. Here was an instance of a man giving the stomach as much 
animal food in one day as it should have had, under the circum- 
stances, in three. Eight ounces of uncooked meat is an ample sup- 
ply for one person daily ; whilst in this case at least three, and often 
four times that quantity was taken. He was desired to live on 
fish three days a week, meat once on the alternate days, and to 
take light claret and water in lieu of beer or grog. His exercise 
was to be on horseback only, and with some tonic alterative medi- 
cines, he was requested to give the plan one month's trial. It was 
upwards of three or more months ere he returned to inform me of 
his complete restoration, and he was especially pleased to find that 
lie now knew not only what to eat ; but when, and how much to 
*.at, a secret often learnt after the experience of long suffering. 



FOURTH STAGE. 

YOUNG MEN TO MEN. 

TWENTY-ONE TO TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS. 

CHAPTER XI. 

The Stomach in Fish, Flesh, and Fowl Vegetable Feeders and Flesh 
Eaters Poison in a Tea-poc Adulterated Food, and its pernicious 
Fruits. 

THE mechanism, use, and vital importance of the digestive organ in 
man, cannot be better illustrated than by glancing at the develop- 
ment of that apparatus, from the lowest grade of animal life to that 
in the " lord of the creation." A stomach of some kind or other 
is to be met with in all animals, whether land or aquatic, otherwise 
nutrition and growth could not be maintained. The lowest type of 
stomach is seen in the sea anemone ( Cras) : its several arms, mouths, 
or tentacula, not only seize the food, but convey it to a hollow pouch 
or stomach ; there its juices are abstracted, and the remainder is 
returned by the same route. The common leech is provided with a 
series of honeycomb-like cells throughout its whole body, and these 
may be styled its one stomach. Carnivorous beasts have only a 
bag as a stomach, and digestion with them is easy and rapid. Grass- 
feeders, on the other hand, have to digest a more tough and less 
organized substance than flesh-eaters : and therefore they are 
endowed with three or more stomachs, into which the food passes 



MAN AN OMNIVOROUS BEING. 53 

in succession, " the cud chewed " always taking priority of passage 
to the unchewed meal. Birds, on the other hand, have a species 
of mouth, with saliva, beyond the tongue and gullet, known as the 
crop or sap-bag, in which cavity the food undergoes a process of. 
softening, very analogous to the act of human mastication ; it is 
then introduced into the true stomach (the gizzard), where it is 
subjected to a most powerful trituration, by means of small pebbles, 
&c. Squeezed round and round by the action of its strong muscles, it 
is mixed with the gastric juice, and then emerges from the gizzard 
into the alimentary canal, to allow its nutrient portions to be sucked 
up by the innumerable ducts ready and waiting to convey them to 
the vital fluid the blood. The Crustaceans, as lobsters and crabs, 
have no need of pebble-stones, since their stomachs are provided 
with three or four teeth, which assist in grinding down the tough 
sea-weed on which they feed. Each of the foregoing types of 
digestion has its representative in man, a consideration of which 
fact must convince every sensible mind that man is created an 
omnivorous being ; that is to say, his digestive organs evidence that 
Joe is intended to be a flesh and a vegetable feeder, and when he is 
deprived for any period of the former, and has to endure bodily 
labour and mental anxiety, the intense craving fur meat of some 
form is so overpowering, that a civilized mind has not recoiled at 
th idea of cannibalism. Dr. Livingstone describes his own feeling 
aftr being without animal food for a long period, under the trying 
climate of Africa ; and he speaks of it as an insupportable craving, so 
that when a buffalo was captured, the flesh was put warm on the 
fire, and eaten with the greatest avidity, before it was half-cooked. 

This instinctive craving for animal sustenance by him who is to 
live by the sweat of his brow, evidences a law in our organization 
of great importance, namely, that the nutrition of our bodies is to 
be obtained from the animal as well as from the vegetable kingdom* 
We cannot thrive on purely vegetable, nor on pureiy animal food. 
There are principles in the latter which are essential to our very 
being, in health. The animal kingdom is wholly supplied ly the 
vegetable world ; and a purely carnivorous beast, as the Loa, is 



54 POISONS IN FOOD. 

indebted to this kingdom for support, as his prey is derived from 
vegetable feeders. Vegetation again is dependent on heat, rain, and 
soil, &c., &c. ; and these agents are received from the clouds and the 
earth, hence the beauty and order of creation. Light was called 
into existence the first day ; the Heavens, the second ; the Earth, 
and its fruitful herb-bearing surface, the third day; whilst fowl, 
beast, and lastly, man, did not appear until the fifth and sixth day, 
or when, in fact, there was abundance of food for their support. 

It has been already remarked, that more cases of indigestion arise 
from abuse in our daily food, than from the quality of the food 
eaten ; and, doubtless, as a nation, we are excessive flesh, and scanty 
vegetable eaters, while our neighbours across the channel are the 
reverse in this matter. A very large class of kind, hospitable 
country friends, can scarcely recognize you as a real guest, if. when 
you pay them a visit, you do not eat and drink almost every hour 
in the day ; and any excuse on your part to avoid running the 
gauntlet is construed into coldness, unfriendliness, and so forth ; but 
the only rescue from such a martyrdom is to beat a retreat ere 
you are laid up with gout, bilious fever, or apoplexy, and part on 
amicable terms before any damage is done by such well-meant 
hospitality. 

It is astonishing how long the human stomach will calmly submit 
to be bullied into a performance of work it was never destined to 
execute. Thus, if we give it a poison to dispose of, instead of 
resenting the injury, like a malicious person, it calmly strives to 
keep all quiet, and make the best of a bad business. Witness the- 
amount of poison we put into this vital laboratory, month after 
month, and year by year, in the form of adulterated food ; and do 
not let my country friends chuckle at the thought that all they eat 
and drink is wholesome and sound, because they " don't have it 
from London." Let us examine one article alone in the dietary 
scale that is purely English. Tea who does not enjoy a good cup 
of Souchong or Congou ? What a soothing, cheering beverage is 
an infusion of Bohea ? But mark the fact : we have all kinds of 
herbs passed upon us as tea, and if we examine one species of it 



ABUSES OP TEA. 55 

green tea, for example we shall find that fifteen cases in every 
twenty contain tea faced with prussian hlue, or one of the hases of 
prussic acid. We are indebted to Mr. Warrington for this analysis, 
who. states that the Chinese by such means can readily convert a 
green tea, withered and useless, into a black tea ; or a " used up " 
black tea may be easily passed off as a green tea ; but " such teas 
are never consumed in China, they are invariably exported, and, 
mainly, to these islands."* 

It is a well-known fact, that blue is a favourite colour with the 
Chinese ; and, fifty years ago, we exported to Canton annually 
253,200 pounds of prussian blue. The trade is now virtually at an 
end. A common Chinese sailor came over in an East Indiaman, 
frequented a manufactory where the drug was prepared, learnt the 
art, returned to China, and there established a similar manufactory 
with such success, that the whole empire is now supplied with native 
prussian blue (ferro sesquicyanide of iron). -j- 

As we have now arrived -at the period of life in which men and 
women are especially susceptible to disordered stomach and deranged 
nervous system from this kind of poison in tea, let me make a few 
remarks on a singular train of symptoms that come on in females 
chiefly (which, if not caused wholly by tea, are unquestionably 
aggravated by its use), but which are no where classified, as far as 
I can find, by medical authors, nor are they traced up to their true 
source, if noticed by any writer. The individuals who are most 
prone to the attacks now about to be described, are those who have 
endured great mental anxiety, and who inherit a gouty habit ; who 
live freely on animal food, are variable in their flow of spirits, and 
are disposed to brood over present calamities, and forebode greater 
ones. 

The symptoms are ofttimes ushered in with occasional flushings 
of the face, succeeded by more or less perspiration, a sense of faint- 
ness, and subsequent depression of spirits : sudden pain will ensue, 

* " Pharmaceutical Journal," and "Davis's Chinese," vol.ii., p. 468. 
f "Proceedings of the Chemical Society." M' Cu lloch's Dictionary. 



56 LANGUOR AND DEPRESSION. 

either over one temple, or at the top of the head, and sometimes at 
the back of it ; the act of combing and brushing the hair painfully 
increases the ailment. As the disorder advances, noises in the 
head come on, such as humming, buzzing, singing, rumbling. One 
lady under my care always described the noise as that of being 
close to an express engine just as it starts the booming was gradual 
and slow, went on increasing in intensity and rapidity, until it 
became so insupportable, that she was often compelled to go and lie 
down, to try and get respite in sleep. In other instances, deafness 
in one ear, palpitations, or at least irregular action of the heart, with 
a sense of weight over the forehead, have occurred ; and when warm 
in bed, the skin has itched, together with cramps and numbness in 
one or more limbs. The period at which the attacks appear, or are 
aggravated, is worthy of notice ; when the sufferer from them does 
not get up under then? influence, they will occur probably in the 
after part of the day, and become increased if a sense of hunger 
ensues, which is not speedily gratified. In nearly all such instances, 
there is flatulence, constipation, and a capricious appetite. The 
expulsion of sour or fetid wind from the stomach, followed by instant 
relief to the head, has given rise to the idea of its being " wind in 
the head." These distressing feelings are continually mistaken for 
apoplectic or epileptic seizures ; at any rate, they are too often 
treated as symptoms of excess of blood in the head, and recourse is 
had to a lowering regimen, purgative medicine, and even leeches, 
&c., to the temples ; but these measures invariably add to the dis- 
tress, and increase the sufferings of the patient. 

Many incredulous persons will stare with astonishment at the 
suggestion, that such severe symptoms as those now related may 
arise from the abuse of tea drinking, and will reply, that men should 
therefore be equally affected with women. The explanation of this 
difference is found in the fact, that neither men nor women would 
suffer, if the skin were forced to carry off a large quantity of moisture ; 
but as women are sedentary, and men active in their employments, 
so the latter escape, whilst- the former suffer. 



57 



FOURTH STAGE. 

YOUNG MEN TO MEN. 

TWENTY-ONE TO TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS. 

CHAPTER XII. 

Bread Beer Spirits Intoxicating Drinks The " horrors " and fruits 
of Intemperance ; Gout and Gravel, Pimples and Blotches, Nettle Eash, 
Worms, and Giddiness. 

EVERY lover of good " home-made bread " ought to know that 
alum is not. only unnecessary to our existence and is, therefore, 
not met with in our animal composition but that it produces 
injurious effects upon our system when introduced into it by means 
of bread. The fact is, that a gross error exists in the minds of the 
higher and middle classes, viz., that white bread is purer than a 
darker sort ; whereas, in almost every case, the former is aluminated, 
and the latter is non-aluminated bread. Wheat, before it gets into 
the hands of the baker, may have begun to sprout ; its starch is 
thereby in course of conversion into sugar. Such flour would form 
sticky, dirty-looking bread ; but the introduction of alum stops this 
process, renders the bread white, and deceives the consumer into a 
belief that it is made of pure wheaten flour. The result is more 
or less injurious to the stomach. The sweet principle in bread 
fattens, and hence great bread eaters have usually a tendency to cor- 



58 EVILS OF INTOXICATION. 

pulence ; but they are by no means so obese as great beer and spirit 
drinkers. In this kind of beverage, the saccharine principle is con- 
verted into alcohol ; and, whilst the former fattens, the enervating 
effect of the latter is, alas! too well known amongst us. But 
though a hard-working, free-perspiring beer-drinker may live to a 
good old age, the sedentary drain-tippler is soon overtaken with 
disordered stomach, weak digestion, restless nights until all the 
miseries of an attack of " the horrors " come on ; to relieve which, 
he will, if possible, keep himself in a constant state of semi- 
intoxication, until the real disease, " delirium tremens " renders 
him a temporary maniac, of the most wild and ungovernable 
character. It is a pitiable sight to witness a naturally kind and 
well-disposed man utterly wrecked in body and in mind by drink. 
The character of the patient usually comes out in broad features 
under his temporary delusions. I once attended a coachman from 
one of our great West-end livery stables. In his delirium his 
whole time was occupied in driving a four-in-hand break from the 
stables into the City. You might easily follow him through the 
streets, as he had a remark to make upon every house, building, 
shop, or turning. He held the reins (so to speak) in his hand, and 
with the whip in the other, he mounted the box, saying, " Good- 
bye," to Jim ; and " Hold the off leader," to another. On getting 
out of the stable-yard into the street, his whole attention was 
evidently taken up with this "pretty off leader," which he described 
to us as "a high spirited creature, full of play and of blood ;" but 
she made a shy at something, and nearly drove the break against the 
wall. At this (supposed) event, he became very excited and eager 
and calling the master, who, in his imagination, stood near, 
explained the matter to him. When fairly out into the streets, he 
continued to halloo at the horses : coaxing one, talking kindly to 
another, and growling at the " off leader." The actions in his 
supposed driving, the rapid and quaint observations as he passed 
down one street into another, his remarks upon the beautiful team, 
his jokes, and extreme mental anguish to get on and keep all safe, 
exceeded everything I had ever witnessed. He evidently dreaded 



A PLEA FOR TEMPERANCE. 59 

the City and St. Paul's Churchyard * Here the " off leader," in 
turning into the yard, " shied ;" in another moment, he was against 
the curbstone, and " the beautiful creature " was on the pavement. 
I can never forget the agony of the poor man. The perspiration, 
the vociferating language, the agitation, nay, horror, of his mind at 
such a (supposed) calamity the busy, eager, and fierce glare of his 
eye and face told too plainly the reality of his distress ; and in a 
few hours more he sank exhausted under this trial to his incoherent 
mind. Alas ! poor fellow, his case is as vivid to my mind at this 
moment as though I had just left him, though fifteen years have 
gone by. 

It is extremely rare to meet with this frightful result of dram- 
drinking in our female population, yet they are in many districts as 
much given up to the vice as men ; but there is a striking analogy 
between that female disease, hysteria, and the drunkard's " horrors,'* 
in this fact, that entire loss of consciousness never occurs in either 
of them. In an hysterical fit, the patient knows what is said r 
though she may not, or will not, reply to questions put to her. And 
so, also, in delirium tremens. The patient, far from being taciturn, 
will so smartly reply to every question you ask him. that by a little 
care, a bystander may keep up a tolerably connected gossip for a 
quarter of an hour. In the midst of his loquacity, the Doctor 
may stop him by suddenly and authoritatively accosting him thus, 
" Put out your tongue, sir !" " Where do you live ? : ' &c.; but should 
a nurse venture to use such language, she will be met by some such 
reply as " Who made you a doctor, miss ?" 

After witnessing a few of such harrowing effects of drink as the 
one now related, the most fastidious person and powerful opponent 
of a temperance society would become a convert, it is hoped, to 
the proposition that " all liquors are deleterious in our ordinary 
healthy condition : and that pure water, toast-and-water, milk, whey, 

* The reverberation of sound in this churchyard produces a striking 
contrast to the incessant din going on in the streets ; and we gathered that 
this was the ground of his fear. 



60 GOUT AND ITS TK1ALS. 

and other unexciting beverages, would be preferable, if we could only 
consent, in early life, to deny ourselves further indulgence." Unless 
the habit is begun and encouraged at an early period, the practice 
is scarcely salutary in after life, when the system is become habit- 
uated to a certain quantity of alcoholic stimulants. 

Men, when they approach the meridian of life, or are about to 
descend the scale, are like children before they arrive at puberty, 
they become very sensible of those periodical alternations of the year, 
" Spring and Fall." If dram-drinking amongst the lower classes 
fosters " the horrors," the indulgence in wine or malt liquor 
encourages the disposition to gout in the higher classes. This ten- 
dency exhibits itself more when the seasons are unsettled, that is, 
when warm weather is abruptly followed by much moisture, and this 
is succeeded by severe cold nights, as in Autumn ; the skin becomes 
checked in its secretion, and the fluids of the system are not thrown 
off, and gout is engendered. The early steps towards this habit of 
body in wine and beer-drinkers may be thus traced : In the first 
place, the individual suffers from impaired appetite, heartburn, 
flatulence, and even sickness. Strange cramps fly about the frame, 
and when the patient can " throw up " a little sour wind, the pains 
are easier. The mental depression is sometimes painfully great, and 
the worst forebodings are indulged in. Now, although such symp- 
toms disappear after a severe fit of gout, yet many persons get 
relief without going through this painful ordeal. You may generate 
gout, feed it, and at length bring it forth, with all its pains and 
penalties. For when a gouty tendency is born with a man, certain 
habits of indulgence in animal food, beer, and much wine, will 
eventually give rise to the attack : but, on the other hand, the 
disease, or its tendency, may be kept in abeyance for life by careful 
and strict attention to rules of diet unless the innate or constitu- 
tional disposition to an attack is very strong ; and when that is the 
case, " the bite of a flea will excite an attack," as related by Dr. 
Heberden. 

The burly face has become proverbially associated with intemper- 
ance; whilst the "flushings " of certain females, from forty to iiity 



GIDDINESS AND ITS CAUSES. 61 

years of age, have been unkindly construed into the same cause. 
Nothing can be more unjust and untrue. The blotches, black spots, 
and pimples, on the forehead, cheeks, &c., of some young people, 
especially boys, are easily removed by plain living, &c., &c. ; but 
the more obstinate forms of " pimpled face," or of " flushings," are 
not so manageable. It is often hereditary, and is usually seen in 
persons who inherit gout from their parents or grandsire. 

Another poison the human stomach has frequently to grapple 
with through injudicious diet, is met with in tainted fish. Summer 
itching, increased by eating fruit, may give rise to tingling of the 
hands and arms ; but this animal poison is generally resented by an 
attack of nettle rash. The worst form of the kind I ever witnessed 
occurred in a respectable mechanic, who had been to a supper 
party, where three different kinds of fish were on the table. He 
partook of each ; and in less than an hour he became giddy, his face 
swelled and tingled, and the severest vomiting ensued, which could 
not be controlled for twenty hours. This man became " a martyr to 
indigestion " for months afterwards, until he was persuaded to live 
upon spoon food for several weeks, when he ultimately got well. 
Cucumbers, mushrooms, or a draught of senna tea, but especially 
muscles, crabs, and prawns, will produce the attack in some persons. 
The only resource in such cases is to clear the stomach by means 
of an emetic, followed by an antacid aperient, and to pay a strict 
attention to diet, under medical supervision. 

The public, as well as the profession, have sometimes the greatest 
difficulty in dissociating certain feelings in the head such as giddi- 
ness, noises, dimness of sight, and even numbness of one arm, &c. 
from a threatened apoplectic seizure, or an approaching attack of 
paralysis ; though the stomach, or liver, or both, may be, in many 
instances, the seat of the disturbance. 

It will not be here out of place to mention that similar feelings 
may exist in an otherwise healthy person, from the presence of 
Entozoa in the alimentary canal. A tall, robust man, was under 
treatment some time ago with the following singular attack. His 
features were expressionless, there was a dulness of physiognomy, 



62 PARALYSIS ; TllUE AND FALSE. 

and he complained of partial dimness of the left eye ; the iris was 
active and natural. He had numbness extending down the right arm 
and leg, and over the left side of the face ; he was so giddy that he 
was afraid to trust himself to walk across the street. Sometimes the 
numbness was so severe, that he could not put the foot to the ground. 
The treatment he had undergone convinced me that the medical 
man had taken the same view of the symptoms that I should pro- 
bably have done. He had been cupped, blistered, &c., without the 
slightest benefit. The first suspicion that the distress was not seated 
in the head, but that it was referred to that spot by some eccentric 
irritation far removed from it, arose from the circumstance, that the 
numbness would suddenly leave one arm and attack the opposite. 
In the midst of this perplexity, the patient became convalescent in 
a few weeks, by a series of anthelminctic remedies. 



FIFTH STAGE. 

MEN. 

TWENTY-EIGHT TO FORTY-NINE YEARS. 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Healthful harmony of Stomach, Heart, and Lungs Asthma or Stomach 
Cough, and its Freaks The Liver a helpmate to the Stomach Its 
duties and disorders Jaundice Bilious Headaches, their treachery 
and obscurity Hypochondriacs and their eccentricities. 

IT need not be a matter of surprise that the lungs of a man, that is 
to say, his breathing apparatus, should sympathize with derange- 
ment in the duties of the stomach, when we are informed that the 
same track of nervous fibres supplying the one organ affords nerves 
to the other, and that the whole system of heart, lungs, and 
stomach are thereby intimately blended together, and are in unison 
one with another, in health and in disease. The most singular freaks 
are often exhibited by that wonderful nerve (pneumo-gastric), when 
it is deranged in its mysterious operations ; the " nervous spas- 
modic " complaints that ensue are very inexplicable. In no derange- 
ment do we witness such peculiarity more than in asthma. One 
person afflicted with this complaint dares not expose himself to the 
dust of ipecacuanha-powder, without incurring the risk of having a 
fearful seizure of breathlessness, whilst another may do so with 
impunity. 



64 ASTHMA AND INDIGESTION. 

A farmer from the neighbourhood of Bristol always found relief 
in his severest attacks of asthma, if he could reach a certain hotel 
in Tooley Street, London Bridge. 

Dr. Watson relates a still more singular instance. A gentleman 
at Cambridge could sleep in the " Red Lion Inn," but not in the 
" Eagle ;" if at Paris, and he slept in " Hotel Meurice " front, 
he was safe ; if at the back, he never escaped a fit ; and whilst 
Dover Street, Piccadilly, agreed with him, Clarges Street (a stone's 
throw from it) never did. Manchester Square was a torture to 
him, because he said it was built upon piles ! Many such cases are 
on record, which wholly bafHe explanation. One came under my 
notice during the winter of 1859-60. The subject of it was a fore- 
man to a business in a large city market ; his age was forty-three ; 
and he had been suffering from attacks of asthma for eighteen years, 
so that, to use his wife's own words, they both were resigned to the 
certainty that an attack would shortly carry him off. He had 
become much shattered in his fra'me, and was now unable to work 
more than three or four days out of the week. He had been under 
various kirds of treatment, with some temporary benefit, but had 
never lost his seizures. The first thing that struck my mind, as he 
conversed about his maladies, was the entire loss of every tooth but 
one in his head, the stumps of many alone remained. His stomach 
was much enfeebled in its powers, and he was dieted according'y, 
and tonic medicines prescribed. A note was taken of every seizure, 
from the first time he came under my observation, and at the end 
of four months, though he was somewhat relieved, he had had 
some sharp seizures at longer intervals ; these intervals were accu- 
rately timed, and it was now observed that the attacks invariably 
returned on a Saturday or Sunday night ; in short, he had always 
six days' respite, and his wife and friends had remarked that 
Sunday usually found him an invalid. He was urged to see a 
dentist, and he submitted to have all the stumps extracted, and an 
entire new set of teeth put in ; and in this state he improved in 
strength, with a gradual cessation of the asthma but on each 
Saturday he was directed to take a full dose of quinine every four 



SLEEP CAUSES AND EFFECT. 65 

hours during the clay. From that time to the present day (twenty- 
two months), he has never had a single seizure, and an insurance- 
office has consented " to take up " his life, as he now looks the pic- 
ture of health. This is one of the most singular, and at the same 
time the most gratifying instances of a cure of a serious malady, 
that ever came under my notice, through attention to the wants, 
trials, and troubles of a weak stomach and impaired digestion. 

Nocturnal attacks of spasmodic disease are much more frequent 
than diurnal seizures, and the explanation must be sought for in the 
fact, that the pulse becomes slower every evening at nightfall, and 
that it resumes its accustomed rapidity at dawn. Nervous influence 
is at its lowest ebb in the " dead " of the night, and it reaches its 
maximum power at noon. In febrile diseases, especially in children, 
it always augurs an unfavourable sign when the day is passed in 
dozing, and the night in wanderings, sleeplessness, and fever ; the 
reverse of these phenomena are the surest tokens of returning health. 

The most refreshing sleep in our twenty-four hours' cycle, is 
that obtained between the hours of ten and three ; the whole frame 
is then under the least possible excitement ; and, as day dawns, the 
system is gradually roused to watchfulness by the returning activity 
of the circulation. The feathered tribes, with their heads buried 
beneath the wing, are roused from their roost by the increased 
stimulus of the blood on the retina and brain, before the dawn 
approaches, and not by light beaming on their delicate organs of 
vision at sunrise. 

Some individuals become feverish and ill with every return of the 
hay season, though they may be removed miles from the fields. A 
colleague of mine was annually an invalid for a week or more, when 
the hay-making time came on around Hampstead and Hi^hgate ; the 
distance from his rooms to the fields exceeded three miles. 

Beneath those two portions of our body where laughter is repre- 
sented as " holding both her sides," we find the liver on the right, 
and the spleen on the left. Here it is that the stomach reigns as 
prime minister of the whole cavity, and its most imporia. t helpmate 
is the liver. 



C6 BILE AND BILIOUSNESS. 

This gland, like every other organ in our frame, is nourished by 
arterial (red) blood, which returns to the heart again as venous 
(black) fluid ; but, besides this, there is a special arrangement of 
the blood vessels, in which are contained bile-making constituents, 
derived from the digested food in the alimentary canal, so that, 
with its three sets of blood-vessels, its gall-bladder, and bile-ducts, 
it is a signally curious and wonderful appendage to the digestive 
apparatus. We can always estimate the relative value of the- 
several organs of our body, by comparing their presence and 
functions with similar organs in the lower vertebrates. It has been 
already stated that some kind of stomach is found in the lowest link 
oi the animal world ; next in importance to it is the liver, so that, 
whether it be an aquatic or an air-breathing animal, yet some pro- 
vision exists for the purpose of forming bile, and aiding in the all- 
important processes of digestion, nutrition, and growth. As soon as 
the food we swallow is fitted to make its exit from the stomach, it 
meets with the bile. This agent converts the nutrient mass into 
chyle, the food of the blood ; the solvent juice of the stomach is not 
more important in digestion therefore than the presence of healthy 
bile in that portion of the canal immediately below the stomach, into 
which the bile flows. This subtle and all-dissolving fluid serves 
many other purposes : it stimulates the whole alimentary tube to 
a constant vermicular motion ; it preserves the blood from contami- 
nation ; for if the principles of bile remain untaken away from the 
system, the circulation soon evinces the fruit of its presence. The 
brain and nerves, no longer supplied and nourished by health-giving 
blood, flag in the execution of their duties ; the mental powers are 
enfeebled ; the sensitiveness of the individual to trifling misfortunes 
is increased : and both body and mind are prostrated through the 
depressing influence of bile in the system, as it is popularly designated. 
Under these disturbing causes, the patient is troubled with a 
visionary or exaggerated sense of pains, lowness of spirits, ground- 
less apprehension of personal troubles ; peculiar trains of ideas haunt 
the imagination and overwhelm the judgment ; misanthropy, weari- 
ness of life, and a spleenful frame of mind often follow each other. 



DELUSIONS OF HYPOCHONDRIACS. 67 

It is pitiable to witness the human mind succumbing to these 
influences. Any shock to the mental faculties may lead to them ; 
but none is so powerful an agent as disappointment ; hence it is that 
we meet with many instances of this kind amongst the weaker sex, 
after they have received some blight to their prospects in life. 
Yes. but even the wisest and best of mankind are as open to this 
affliction as the weakest. 

The writer once knew a highly-intelligent woman of secluded 
and sedentary habits, whose life, for fifteen years of it, was one scene 
of vexation and disappointment, because she believed herself betrothed 
to an illustrious duke, who, beyond giving a reply to certain communi- 
cations sent to him, had never fed such an hallucination, and the bubble 
did not burst until after his death, when she retired from all society, 
secreted herself from friends, and no one was suffered to ascertain 
her place of abode. She had spent the greater part of her income 
in providing rooms lavishly furnished for the reception of her guest, 
whilst she denied herself the ordinary comforts of home and of 
sustenance. ' " Such persons are usually of a testy frame of mind, 
distrustful, peevish, apt to mistake and ready to snarl upon every 
occasion, and without any cause, with their dearest friends. If they 
speak in jest, the patient takes it in good earnest ; if the smallest 
ceremony be accidentally omitted, the poor creature is wounded to 
the quick. " * It is in this species of mental disturbance that much 
may be done in relieving the sufferers by a proper course of medi- 
cine. The liver has become sluggish, the system torpid, the blood 
is imperfectly deprived of the constituents of bile, and this agent 
re-acts as a poisonous dose on the brain and nervous system. Many 
persons who have been awfully tempted to commit self-destruction^ 
have become relieved of their horrible feelings by a few smart doses 
of blue pill and black draught, with a thin spare diet ; after which, 
a tonic plan of treatment, cheerful society, and intellectual employ- 
ment, with open-air exercise, especially equestrian, have been the 
means of restoring a healthy tone of mind and of body. 

* Burton. 

F2 



68 MENTAL JAUNDICE. 

Well authenticated instances of jaundice are on record, that 
have occurred on the perusal of a letter containing distressing news. 
A father of a family, once under my care, became jaundiced on the 
loss of his wife and two children by scarlet fever. He recovered 
in a fortnight after active purgation. A young physician, of my 
acquaintance, was similarly affected, during the progress of study \ 
for his examination. He ably acquitted himself on the day of his 
trial, and in a brief period afterwards his mind regained its healthy 
elasticity, and the complaint disappeared. A valued relative once 
embarked in an undertaking which might have rendered him com- 
paratively penniless, or from which he expected to realize some 
hundreds of pounds. Although he had enjoyed excellent health 
prior to this anxious enterprise, yet now he became intensely jaun- 
diced, and remained so three months, in spite of a large quantity 
of medicine which he took. He was so vividly yellow, that he was 
known under the sobriquet of " The Prince of Orange." As the 
business in which he had embarked compelled him to appear in 
public, he was the more anxious to obtain a natural hue to his 
features, but it was all in vain. The week of trial arrived, and on 
Thursday evening the whole business was satisfactorily arranged, 
and his expectations realized. He went to bed with a cheerful 
spirit, and on Saturday morning his family could scarcely trace a 
vestige of jaundice in his countenance. He has enjoyed excellent 
health from that time, though thirty-six years have elapsed since 
the occurrence. 

One of the most common ailments, "flesh is heir to," passes 
under the name of bilious, or sick headache. Palpitation of the 
heart, an inordinate craving or sinking at the stomach, restless 
nights and disagreeable dreams often precede such attacks. Flatu- 
lence, with a sense of nausea in the mouth on rising, accompany 
these feelings. The very best management of such symptoms, in a 
person who lives freely and enjoys health, is to proclaim a few 
days' fast, and not to postpone medical treatment, lest a more serious 
attack supervene. It is often a source of flattery to the fast declining 
powers of a consumptive individual, that he gets thin because he 



A BILIOUS COUGH. 69 

suffers from so much indigestion and biliousness. Alas ! poor crea- 
ture, he mistakes cause for effect ; the deranged stomach and liver 
are the consequence of lung disease, and in the improvement of the 
latter, the former also become relieved. A sister of a medical man 
lost all relish for animal food during many months, and if she were 
prevailed on to take some, it usually brought on severe cough, until 
the meal was rejected. She had cough at no other time than on first 
rising in the morning; so that, as the appetite quite failed, the gradual 
wasting of the body did not surprise her or her relatives. She was 
constantly bilious in her feeling and took large quantities of medi- 
cine for supposed liver disorder ; but at length she was reluctantly 
induced to consult a physician. I then found unequivocal evidence 
of advanced consumption ; she was removed to a relative in France, 
where she died in six weeks after the discovery of this insidious 
lung disease, a victim to long- continued self-management and mis- 
understanding of a fatal disorder. 

A very similar occurrence happened during the last year. A 
master carpenter was the subject of constant cough and nausea 
after food, whilst at other times he was able to work and lead an 
active life. His teeth were much decayed, and many were quite 
gone, although he was only forty years of age. He grew weak 
from mal-nourishment. He was desired to see a dentist, and a 
particular line of diet, with tonic and other medicines, were pre- 
scribed, and he ultimately lost both nausea and cough, although 
there was no doubt that each depended on tubercular disease of 
the lung. He \vas the father of the lad whose case of epileptic 
seizures is mentioned at page 39. 



70 



SIXTH STAGE. 

ELDERLY MEN. 

FORTY-NINE TO SEVENTY YEARS. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Life's Great Climacteric Epoch Singular and Curious Metamorphoses 
Brittleness of Bone in the Aged, and their Tendency to Fractures. 

" THE days of our years are three score years and ten," and this 
duration of life has undergone no change from the Patriarchal age 
to the present moment. The Greek physiologists reckoned five 
epochs only in man's life, beginning with the 7th year ; they deter- 
mined that as the 1st climacteric period the 2nd was 3 times 7 ; 
the 3rd, 7 times 7 . the 4th, 9 times seven ; and the 5th, 9 times 9. 
The two last were designated grand climacterics, in which life was 
supposed to have consummated itself. The change which fre- 
quently strikes our notice as taking place, during the period here 
referred to, is of two kinds. A wonderful renovation of power, or 
i else a sudden decay of strength. In the former, deaf people re- 
cover their hearing, weak sight no longer requires spectacles, 
some newly-formed teeth are cut, the hair evinces a similar rege- 
neration, grows again, or is restored to its pristine colour ; and 
the whole man is made young again. On the other hand, a sudden 
breaking up of the system may ensue, and the individual abruptly 



CLIMACTERIC METAMORPHOSES. 71 

sink into a state of general decay. In this instance, medical aid 
may be of essential service, on the application of which \ve may ob- 
serve the powers of life, as in other diseases, rally and become in- 
vigorated down to a good old age. This degeneration, at the 
climacteric period of life, gradually and insensibly comes on. We 
are now arrived at that state of transition in which our various 
tissues undergo some kind of transformation. Women, more fre- 
quently than men, grow fat, with shortness of breath, attended by 
a pale, flabby skin. Certain parts of the body are " cast off because 
their component elements die, as in the case of hair death at the 
hair-bulb precedes the falling off of the hair ;"* so also the removal 
of the fang of a tooth is the result of a degeneration of its parts, 
before the tooth itself falls out. The same laws influence the de- 
cadence of life ; by a curious substitution, fat now takes the place 
of muscles, glands, and even bones. Diseased growths not unfre- 
quently present themselves also at this eventful period of life, and 
tend to destroy the healthy parts around them. Organs, which 
have now ceased to take an active part in the role of man's repro- 
duction or nutrition, are most liable to be the seat of this mal- 
transformatiou. But the most interesting, natural decay in man, 
is to be met with in the skeleton of his body. A salt of phosphorus 
is necessary to our bones. We get this phosphate of lime from 
our meat and vegetable diet, whilst the sheep and oxen get it from 
the herbage they feed on. In the bones of man there are cells, 
the 2,000th of an inch in diameter ; into these cells the globules of 
blood, 3 -5 00th part of an inch in diameter, pass for nutrition. 

As the climacteric period of life draws on, these cells become 
filled with bony matter, and the whole skeleton is progressively 
consolidated during the remainder of life. Hence, a physiologist 
can readily distinguish the various bones of an old from those of a 
young animal. 

The brittleness of bone in old persons, and their readiness to 
ibecome fractured on the least injury, is thus explained ; but if an 

* On Nutrition, by James Paget, Esq., 1847. 



72 HEAD AND HEART DISEASES. 

aged person is capable of taking much out-door exercise, the 
continual waste of tissue that is caused thereby preserves the bones 
from this brittleness. The writer has been told of a man upwards 
of fourscore, who walks six miles, three times a week, to his work 
as a blacksmith. In him, such a change of bone would be very 
much retarded. 

The regeneration of tissue being no longer demanded, this bony 
matter is not only spread out over the whole area of the skeleton,, 
but in due time it is met with on the inner coats of the heart and 
main arteries, especially those within the skull, giving rise to two 
common sources of sudden death heart disease, and brain disease, 
or apoplexy. 

This subject is replete with interest as contrasted with the equally 
marvellous reparative power displayed in bone when destroyed by 
disease, or fractured by accident. The " new fabric then gradually 
becomes perfectly continuous with the old, progressively acquiring 
the form and solidity of the original bone."* It will be observed, 
therefore, that as life decays, the blow it receives is mainly felt in 
two of the most important organs of the frame ; the one, that nicely 
balanced hydraulic engine the heart, presiding over our animal 
existence ; the other the mind, that noble part of man, wherein 
resides his intellectual and moral powers. When one or both of 
these pillars of the fabric begin to crumble, it is not to be wondered 
at if the whole structure of him who was created in the Divine 
Image should soon totter and fall to its mother earth and dust. 

But, as age advances, not only may the body suddenly grow 
corpulent, but the person may, perhaps, " make fat " inwardly r 
whilst his outward appearance presents little alteration. Every 
one is familiar with the dairyman's method of fattening poultry, or 
with the " Smithfield Cattle Show-men's " process of getting the 
beasts to " lay on " as much fat, in a short time, as will insure the 
admiration of the breeder, and gain the prize of the society. We 
should be shocked at the subtle dodges which these persons resort 

* " Carpenter's Physiology," and " Sharpey's Development of Bone." 



EQUIVOCAL "FITS." 73 

to, in order to fatten their stock, but man, with his bad habits of full 
diet, want of exercise, seclusion from society and from fresh air, may 
be classed with the Dorking fowl, the Essex duck, and the Strasbourg 
goose, whose "foie gras" supply the pates held in such high estima- 
tion by epicures. The most distressing family troubles are brought 
about by these bad indulgences ; the mind becomes indolent, the 
temper irritable, and the least disturbing cause is likely to throw a 
female into fits of hysteria, as, in one instance, a woman lost her 
voice for fifteen years ; or give a gouty subject a fit of gravel, if not 
gout. When I was a student, there resided in the same town a 
relative of mine, who was a shrewd, observing woman. In the 
circle of her acquaintance was an unmarried lady just past the 
prime of life, who had suffered from "fits" of an equivocal 
character from time to time. My friend gave her an invitation to 
pass a few weeks at her house, which was accepted, but very shortly 
afterwards these "fits" exhibited themselves, to the great annoy- 
ance of her hostess. However, as they recurred again and again, 
and did not cause any distress to the sufferer, they excited no alarm. 
At length, on one occasion, when the visitor went to lie down 
preparatory to a fit, her hostess seized the opportunity by saying, 

" Well, my dear Miss , if you are going to have a fit to-day, 

I'll lock you up in your bed-room, and go out and spend the day 

with Mr. and his wife," which she did, and took the key with 

her, and returned to her patient in the evening, whom she found 
quite well, but highly chagrined at the treatment she had received. 
Nevertheless, "the fits" were cured, and no one heard anymore 
of them during her protracted residence in the town. Had a 
medical man exercised this apparently cruel treatment, he would 
doubtless have received his conge immediately. 

Such strange attacks in women of riper years, whose experience 
of life is matured, and who possess intelligent minds, are very 
humiliating. The seizures are not wholly wilful, neither are they 
wholly uncontrollable ; but in the majority of instances, sedentary 
habits have induced sluggishness of liver and weak digestion, and 
they require to be constantly roused by mental and bodily dissi- 



74 A DELUDED WOMAN. 

pation, or they merge into a misanthropical state, and a premature 
senile weakness of mind and body conies on. One of the most 
suspicious cases of the kind occurred in a woman who had been bed- 
ridden for nine years, and which is quoted by my kind and valued 
friend, Dr. Watson.* The patient had been under the care of 
various '. 'edical gentlemen, some of whom had a doubt of the nature 
of the helplessness. Several ladies and gentlemen in the neigh- 
bourhood of Regent's Park contributed most kindly and lavishly to 
her support, during the whole period of her bed-ridden state. She 
was at length watched and nursed in the hospital by a sensible, firm, 
though kind nurse, who aided us in trying to move her legs, and, to 
the surprise of all, in ten days she succeeded in getting her to walk 
down the ward, leaning only on the attendant's arm, and in three 
weeks more she was walking alone in the hospital garden. The 
effects of this rapid recovery on the minds of the relations proved 
that some secret collusion had been indulged in, for they went 
round to the benevolent persons who had supported her, and related 
the most vicious untruths respecting the treatment the woman had 
received ; but when, these kind friends sought out the real facts of 
the case, and saw the person in rude health, walking about the 
ward, they were indignant at the imposition, and very properly 
withdrew all support from the former deluded cripple. 

* " Lectures on Principles and Practice of Medicine," Art. " Hysteria." 



75 



SIXTH STAGE. 
ELDERLY MEN. 

FORTY-NINE TO SEVENTY YEARS. 

CHAPTER XV. 

The Heart ; its Troubles and Difficulties ; Fat, Lean, anddegenerate Hearts 
u Breast Pang;" its Character and Treatment Irritable Hearts and 
fretful Tempers. 

REFERENCE has been already made to the fact, that spare persons 
will often grow corpulent as they enter the first great climacteric of 
declining years; namely, forty-nine to seventy. When active 
exercise or employment ceases, and with it the demand for the 
supply caused by the usual " wear and tear" of the animal machine, 
it is no uncommon event to find the elements once consumed in the 
vital working of our frames now stored up in portions of the body, 
where they, in course of time, serve as fetters or bands to the future 
progress of the machine, whilst decay and death are the results of 
this accumulation. In this case, the heart also is one of the earliest 
organs to suffer, fat is distributed around it, in lieu of serving as 
fuel for animal heat or combustion, and a fat heart is necessarily a 
weak heart, and this feebleness of action induces other disturbances 
in the general health. 

It is singular to remark, how instinctively elderly persons avoid 
those articles of diet which contain much fat, and are, therefore, 



76 YOUNG AND OLD HEARTS. 

difficult of digestion. Pork is said to contain fifty, and veal only 
sixteen per cent, of fat ; and amongst fish, herrings possess the most, 
and soles the least oil. Animal heat in advanced life is better sus- 
tained by starchy than by oily food, the former is readily converted 
into sugar, and thus becomes a good heating material, whilst fat 
must be submitted to a more intricate process, analogous to soap 
making, ere it can enter the system, and be serviceable to the 
economy as fat. We find persons in advanced life fond of light, 
farinaceous puddings, they avoid the fat meats of the butcher's shop, 
and prefer poultry, game or fish. A slow heart is attended with 
slow breathing, and feeble circulation ; and the hands and feet are 
prone to be easily chillea ; a quick heart, on the other hand, keeps 
pace with more frequent breathing, a warm skin, and an active 
glow in the extremities. The infant heart at birth, starts into life 
at the rate of 120 beats per minute , the septuagenarian's heart has 
reduced its throbs to one-ha : , and the diminution in these sixty con- 
tractions is greatest from infancy to the second dentition, after 
which period, it averages 80 from puberty to manhood, and then 
gradually verges to 60 per minute until death. The number of 
respirations per minute may be calculated on as 30 in the infantile, 
and 15 in the elderly man, or one-fourth less than the heart's action 
throughout life. 

It is reasonable to expect that if a person rapidly fattens, the 
heart may become involved in the same excess of fat, but there 
is a far more insidious, and, therefore, more important change in 
this organ, which has arrested the attention of medical men, within 
these few years, in consequence of its nature and results having 
been clearly pointed out by a few eminent pathologists who have 
devoted much labour to the subject. In the old bills of mortality, 
one great item of causes of death was commonly denominated by 
the unmeaning term " rising of the lights," and under this head 
was included all instances of sudden death. Doubtless the cause 
now under notice, formed a good proportion of such deaths. The 
change in the heart referred to has been found in the majority of 
instances to take place after sixty years of age. The patient may 



FOLLIES O*' SHE AGED. 77 

have shown evidences of fattening, but with this increase there will 
be also a pale, sickly cast in the general appearance, with a sear 
leaf pallor of the face ; any hasty ascent or exertion, brings on a 
breathlessness ; frequent yawnings before and after meals, slowness 
in the pulse, coldness in the extremities, and listlessnesa of mind, 
are the usual accompaniments of this change in the heart ; yet, as 
Mr. Paget truly remarks, " such persons are fit enough for all the 
ordinary events of calm and quiet life, but are wholly unable to 
resist the storm of a sickness, an accident, or an operation." In 
eighty-three cases recorded by Dr. Quain of this change, sixty-eight 
died suddenly, and doubtless the instances of death from a " rupture, 
or broken heart," in George II., and his relative, the Duchess of 
Brunswick, with two eminent men in our day (Drs. Chalmers and 
Abercrombie), arose from the same fatal change in this organ. 
In all the instances that have come under my observation, it has 
been found that special forms of tonic medicine have greatly relieved 
the persons suspected to be labouring under this disorder. The writer 
is strongly impressed with the belief, that the lamented Prince 
Consort was the subject of this change in the structure of the heart. 
It is scarcely necessary to add, that temperance, calmness, and even- 
ness of temper, are essential to the comfort of such sufferers. 

One singular whim very common to old men in the higher 
walks of life, is the determination to keep up the habits of 
youth ; they will breakfast moderately at nine, and take nothing 
again until the dinner hour at six or seven. Now as breakfast, 
after a refreshing night's rest, is digested more quickly than any 
subsequent meal, the stomach is left unemployed from noon until 
six o'clock, and if the person eats heartily at dinner, the period of 
digestion having been so long postponed, the operation is now more 
tardy and more difficult ; the re-action upon a weak heart, brings on 
a sudden cessation of its functions, and hence it is, that death from 
heart disease commonly takes place after long fasting, or soon after 
a full meal. Yet with all this, a mortal disease may afflict a man 
and that disease not destroy life, until old age, though he may have 
been exposed to innumerable chances cf death. 



78 "BREAST PANG/' 

What an impenetrable mystery is the fathomless depth of Divine 
Providence, with its secret wheel within wheel. Comforted under 
the sacred assurance that, by His Almighty management, all things 
work together for good, we may assure ourselves that we are 

" S.ife in the hand of One disposing power, 
Or in the natal, or the mortal hour, 
All nature is but art, unknown to thee, 
All chance, direction which thou canst not see." 

A celebrated general enters the British army as a youth, rises 
through the several gradations of his profession, is in active service 
in the Peninsular campaigns, at Waterloo, in the Crimea, and lastly in 
India, returns to his native shore, unscathed, and dies suddenly in a 
London omnibus, at the age of seventy-eight, after he had left his 
club to join his family dinner-party. Such was the case of Sir H. 

G . He had suffered from "breast pang" for a few years 

before his death, but, like an old soldier, would never complain or 
seek advice for it, until the enfeebled heart came to a sudden arrest 
in its power, whilst the stomach was under the influence of long- 
fasting. The nutrient arteries of the heart were like bits of coral, 
so advanced was their conversion into bony matter. 

The disease now alluded to " the breast pang" was another 
ancient item of sudden death from " rising of the lights." It has 
been remarked that when an elderly person, who has completed his 
grand climacteric (sixty-three), complains of a sense of strangling, 
seizing him in a moment, and giving rise to an uncontrollable alarm, 
in fact, to a dread of instant death, that such a person is most 
probably the subject of the disease, especially if with this distress 
there is also a painful fulness, or disagreeable plunging sensation 
through the left breast, and which, if severe, shakes the whole 
frame, perspiration bursts forth, slight faintness comes over him, 
and in a few minutes the attack passes off. These dire symptoms 
are sure to be brought on by any exertion, or in ascending the 
stairs, &c. Two eminent ministers were walking together a few 
years ago up a hill, one was twenty years younger than the other, 



NATIONAL DISEASES. 79 

but the elder was the subject of this heart complaint, and every ten 
or fifteen paces, he was compelled to stand still for a few moments 
to get breath ; the younger pooh-poohed it, saying, " I tell you, 
man, it's all nervousness ; come along, and walk it off." In a few 
years the old man died, under the influence of this disease ; and the 
younger has also since fallen under the same, but not until he learnt, 
by much suffering, how erroneously he interpreted the breath- 
lessness of his beloved friend, who had gone before him. In this 
disease there is usually little or no shortness of breath ; in two 
cases now under my care, the persons, both men, are instantaneously 
seized, and to witness the attack is the clearest evidence one can 
receive of the nature of the complaint. In the majority of instances 
of heart disease, I have observed that the patients have been more 
than usually subject to fits of anger, peevishness, or ill temper; in 
short, some have complained that their disposition had become so 
irritable, that they had quite lost their former character of pos- 
sessing mild and amiable tempers. Indigestion, more or less severe, 
is sure to. be a constant source of trouble also in this complaint. 
The utmost precaution must be observed, therefore, in the character 
of diet, and the general state of the alimentary canal ; above all, the 
patient must deny himself active employment, especially after food ; 
nor should he expose himself to sudden fits of anger or mental 
worry. A raw medical student, on first visiting the wards of our 
hospitals, and hearing the various tales of suffering from the poor, 
is often led to suppose that diseases of this organ are more frequent 
amongst the Irish than others, sires they are always complaining of 
" pain at the heart." A witty pi y;ician once corrected such igno- 
rance, by stating that you may always expect to hear a Scotchman 
complain of a " sair head ;" an Irishman, of a " pain at his heart ;" 
whilst John Bull, when ailing, is afraid of being "starved to 
death." 



80 



SIXTH STAGE. 

ELDERLY MEN. 

FOKTY-NINE TO SEVENTY YEARS. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

Recreations and exercises for preserving health Mental toil, and its evils, 
Sir H. Davy Bodily exercises and its abuses, Dr. Samuel Johnson 
Flutterings Smoking Use and abuse of the "Deadly Night-shade" 
family. 

WALKING is, perhaps, the readiest mode of taking exercise, and the 
one most extensively resorted to by us all ; whilst riding may be 
classed amongst the most active forms, since it requires much 
exertion of the whole frame, and where it is practicable is very 
useful to persons advanced in life. But the abuse of these healthy 
occupations for exercise consists in taking them when the system 
is exhausted more or less by previous fasting or by mental labour. 
Some persons injudiciously attempt a long walk before breakfast, 
under the belief that it is conducive to health. Others will get up 
early to work three hours at some abstruse mental toil. The effect 
in both instances is the same; it subtracts from the powers of 
exertion in the after part of the clay. A short saunter, or some 
light reading before this meal, is the best indulgence of the kind ; 
otherwise the waste occasioned by labour must be supplied by 
nourishment and the breakfast will necessarily become a heavy 



MENTAL TOIL ITS EVILS. 81 

meal, and the whole morning's comfort sacrificed by a weight at 
the chest from imperfect digestion of food. These observations 
apply especially to elderly persons who are prone to flatter them- 
selves into the persuasion that they can use their mental or bodily 
powers in age as in youth. Numerous instances are on record, of 
intense mental study cutting short a valuable life, particularly where 
one subject has been ardently pursued, as in the case of Sir Hum- 
phry Davy, who spent the greater part of the day in his laboratory, 
until the appointed dinner hour had passed. He would resume his 
chemical labours until three or four in the morning, and yet the 
servant, not unfrequently, found he had risen before him.* Poor 
Weber's mournful exclamation, in the midst of his numerous 
engagements cannot be easily forgotten, "Would that I were a 
tailor, for then I should have a Sunday holiday !" The contrast in 
the life and pursuits of Davy with those of Lords Brougham and 
Palmerston is remarkable. The enormous powers of labour in the 
former, and versatility of talent in the latter, have been a topic of 
conversation, and a matter of surprise, for the last twenty-five years. 
But, as Burton wisely observed, the body is " domicilium animse," 
the home, abode, and stay of the soul; and, "as a torch gives a 
better light and a sweeter smell according to the matter it is made 
of, so doth our soul perform all her actions better or worse, as her 
organs are disposed ; or, as wine savours of the cask wherein it is 
kept, the soul receives a tincture from the body, through which it 
works." 

The constitution of the natural world around us is in harmony 
also with this healthy condition of man. The gifts of Providence 
are unavailable unless the surface of the earth is tilled by manual 
labour, and mental exertion is as essential to our social comforts as 
bodily exercise is to our health. But, as the ground must have its 
succession of crops to preserve it in a fruitful condition, and its 
terms of fallow or rest, so mental, as well as bodily, labour must 
have its changes and hours of repose. 

* " Biography of Sir H. Davy," by Dr. Paris. 

a 



82 OVERWALKING, AND ITS EFFECTS. 

There is nothing under the sun which will pleasingly engage our 
thoughts for any considerable length of time, but that something 
inferior will invariably be preferred, if it be only new. An eminent 
physiologist, not long dead, when he had been engaged for six or 
eight hours in hard mental toil, found that he derived the greatest 
relaxation by strolling down Regent-street, Piccadilly, and other 
thoroughfares, reading the names, &c., over the houses as he walked ; 
along. A barrister informed me that one of our most acute judges i 
was employed lately in a very abstruse case, and had sat seven or s 
eight hours in court, until he became " misty " in his mental powers ; 
a country gentleman of his acquaintance stood at the side door, 
caught his eye, and beckoned to the judge. He went and chatted 
to his friend for half an hour, returned into court quite another 
person, saw through the whole case, and made his judgment 
accordingly. The mental relief, as he described it, was marvellous. 
And what does my reader suppose formed the topic of conversation 
that gave such repose to his over- taxed mind ? Nothing more than 
the state of health, &c., of some favourite u dogs and horses two 
hundred miles away. 

Men in general may be said to wander through life just as boys 
scramble through an unexplored wood in search of blackberries, 
taking their chance of what they may fall upon, or what may befal 
them. Such individuals are not amongst the gross, ignorant, <ir 
sottish beings of society. But there are men who well know the 
physical machinery of this fair earth, and that fixed laws of Divine 
government and appointment regulate the whole mechanism, and 
yet they appear ignorant of the moral machinery within their own T 
bodies, which actuates every movement of their nature, whether in ' 
their organic and mental life, or in their animal and bodily life. I 
The celebrated Dr. Samuel Johnson was an instance of this strange 
inconsistency. He remarks that " in his own person he had had a 
very severe and alarming instance of the bad effects of too great 
muscular action, occasioned by a habit of walking too fast. After a 
day and night of unusual fatigue and rapid pedestrian exertion, 
together with considerable mental anxiety, I was suddenly seized 



FAMILY. 83 

-with an intermission of the pulse at irregular periods. During each 
intermission I felt the heart give a kind of struggle, as it were, and 
strike with great violence against the ribs, accompanied by a pecu- 
liar and most distressing sensation in the cardiac region, which I 
cannot describe. These symptoms became aggravated and lasted for 
eight weeks, during which I used horse exercise, and kept at home 
in a horizontal position. At length the heart gradually lost its morbid 
irritability, and at the end of fourteen or fifteen weeks I could walk 
as well as ever." 

A medical gentleman who had been on the continent during the 
greater part of his life, once consulted me on the state of his chest. 
He was under medical observation upwards of two years, during the 
whole of which time he only complained of slight cough. But the 
most extraordinary part of the case was the state of the heart. 
This organ did not beat at all in the popular sense of the word, 
but its action consisted rather in a series of rolling, tumbling, 
intermittent movements, resembling the interrupted and irregular 
actions of a muscle under the influence of an electro-galvanic 
battery. This singular state of the circulation was ascertained to 
have arisen from his having taken, whilst at Berlin, small and 
increasing doses of Belladonna (Deadly Night-shade), for the 
purpose of watching its effects. When he arrived at a dose of two 
grains he became delirious, lost consciousness, and was very ill for 
several weeks. He was certain that his heart beat regularly 
"before he left England. 

The prophylactic influence of Belladonna in preserving the system 
from scarlet-fever was much extolled about this period, and it was 
even asserted, by the advocates for its use, that the exemption from 
scarlatina is as certain in those who take this drug, as the preserva- 
tive influence of cow-pox, by vaccination, is in warding off the 
contagion of small-pox. 

A striking instance of the long- continued daily action of Bella- 
donna has just come under the writer's notice. A gentleman with 
cataract of one eye, and who is totally blind in the other, has used 
the extract for twenty-five years, and on Sunday last he was enabled, 



84 SMOKING, AND ITS ABUSES. 

as usual, to read the ordinary print of his Bible, in a quarter of an 
hour after dropping in the solution of this powerful drug. The 
effect of it usually continues till after mid- day. 

The salutary effects of some kinds of exercise when judiciously 
employed are very marked in elderly persons, who are unable to use 
much out-door exertion. An excellent friend of mine, a septuage- 
narian, suffers from hernia, and is unable to follow his favourite 
recreation of riding ; but, by employing his arms in various calis- 
thenic movements, the chest is expanded, the liver and stomach 
glow, and the whole body is revived by the stimulus thus given to 
the circulation. 

The writer has seen a few instances of unequivocal diseases of 
the heart and its great blood-vessel (the aorta) in young men, 
since the erection of the gymnasium in Kegent's Park. A vain 
desire to perform feats and to surmount difficulties at the serious 
risk of injuring the health, by those who are not strongly developed 
in their frame, has defeated the otherwise salutary benefits of 
judicious gymnastic exercises. 

But, since the juvenile fashion of smoking has increased in our 
large towns, out-door exercise has degenerated. The tobacco trade 
never flourished so well as at the present time, and never did society 
present such a mass of sickly, effeminate beings as in the great 
smokers of the day. Indigestion, or mal- assimilation of food, feeble 
appetite, misty brains, and an emasculated frame, are the sequels 
of over indulgence in the use of this other member of the " Deadly 
Nightshade" family (Solanaceas). 



85 



SEVENTH STAGE. 
OLD MEN. 

SEVENTY TO NINETY-EIGHT YEABS. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Rapid Fortunes, with Broken-down Constitutions Endemics and Epi- 
demics Death in Air, Water, and Walls Influenza, Cholera, &c. 

A MAN, born of healthy parents, and therefore possessed of a sound 
constitution, may be calculated upon to live seventy years, or up- 
wards, under favourable circumstances. We all know that existence 
as to duration, is the most uncertain, whilst death is the most cer- 
tain of all things. The conditions unfavourable to life, come into 
operation, even in the silent womb. They continue in operation 
throughout the whole of its appointed period, so that out of a given 
hundred thousand, a certain proportion are cut off in the first, second, 
third, &c., years ; a comparatively small number attain the full age 
which nature promises to a sound life, maintained under favourable 
conditions. Female life is of longer duration than male. The 
suicidal method of living adopted by a large mass of our fellow-men 
in this, and other great commercial cities, is growing more and more 
serious : a rapid fortune is sought to be made at all hazards, men 
are impelled forward in business, or in profession, at an incredible 
speed, a monetary frenzy seizes the mind, and on they madly rush 



86 MENTAL SUICIDE. 

until the over-taxed brain suddenly breaks down, or the finest con- 
stitution is quickly ruined. To get to the counting-house or bank 
at nine, and spend eight or more hours without food or relaxation, 
is a common practice among the Londoners and Lancashire men. 
The " go-a-head " system keeps them on the stretch, and after a 
hurried meal, even then, business must be attended to. It has been 
well said, that " if nature were to punish the daily transgression by 
the nightly suffering, we should find few who, for the sake of pecu- 
niary gain, would thus expose themselves to misery. But unfor- 
tunately, she runs long accounts with her children, and. like a cheat- 
ing attorney, seldom tenders her bill, till the whole subject of 
litigation has been eaten up. Paralysis at fifty comes like the- 
mesne process upon the victim of commercial enthusiasm, and either 
hurries him off to that prison from which there is no liberation, or 
leaves him for a few years, organically alive to enjoy the fruits of 
his labour." * The truth of the above remark has been sadly proved 
under the writer's notice within these few months. He was sum- 
moned soon after daybreak in the summer, to go to the outskirts of 
London and visit a gentleman seriously ill. He found the patient 
to be a man in active business in town, about thirty-five years of 
age, muscular, well- formed, and apparently, with a very healthy 
constitution. But, alas ! he was now prostrate with a sudden attack 
of epileptiform seizures, totally unconscious, and exhibiting some 
of the worst features of irreparable damage to the mental powers^ 
The history of this melancholy case, was one of every day occur- 
rence in London and other great towns. He had embarked in. 
active business, and to carry this on more effectually, he had con- 
verted the whole town-house into offices, &c., and removed his 
family, consisting of an amiable lady of thirty, with four children,. 
&c., to the house in question. Here he had lately been privileged,, 
as he said, with a district "letter pillar;" and after his return 
home from business, he would spend the whole evening, until after 
midnight, in writing to his various correspondents, and posting them 

* Chambers on " Mental Exercise." 



SOCIAL ERRORS IN EDUCATION. , 87 

before five a.m., for the morning " down " mails. Confusion of 
thought, a frontal headache, slight indigestion, were the precursors 
of the fatal blow. In four days from his first seizure, he was re- 
moved from earth, leaving his young wife (enceinte) and family, to 
deplore his untimely end and their loss. His mind never recovered 
itself, only to recognise one or two familiar faces. 

But if we reverse this picture, and look at the pursuits of some 
of our fellow-men, we shall find that sickness and a maudlin state 
of the mind, are engendered by those whose professions take in a 
very limited range of objects ; such as country clergymen, retired 
tradesmen or annuitants, &c., so that by disuse, the brain falls- 
from its original tone, and the results are, sluggishness of body, and 
feebleness of mind. The education of such persons has only given 
them an opportunity of employing one or two of the lesser powers 
of the mind, while all that could have engaged the reflective powers 
has been omitted. This social error in the education of the mind is 
at no time felt more keenly than as age advances, and bodily exer- 
tion becomes a task. Such persons, especially females, spend their 
lives in unbroken seclusion, and are content to limit themselves to 
the performance of a few domestic duties. Motives for exertion, or 
for exercising the medium of usefulness to others are wanting. 
They fix their thoughts on themselves excessive self-love engenders 
self-pity, and a few narrow and puerile ideas, occupy their minds 
until they approach a state bordering on insanity; or else they have 
recourse to stimulating liquors, and thus become a constant source 
of trouble, if not a disgrace to the circle in which they have moved. 

But there are other calamities intimately connected with injuries 
to our health, which are quite within our control, and therefore, 
capable of prevention. Fever, ague, scarlatina, erysipelas, and 
some other formidable diseases, are but expressions of vitiated con- 
ditions of the air breathed, just as lead, copper or arsenic poisons 
may be the result of the contaminated water we drink, of the 
pickles and preserves we eat, or of the pretty green papers we put 
on our walls. The wholesale poisoning of a large number of 
children, which the writer witnessed a short time ago from eating. 



SS POISONINGS IX OUR HOME. 

the sweet ornaments of a twelfth-cake (arsenite of copper), is no 
less serious, or less preventible, than is the fearful havoc that typhus 
or scarlet fever will make in a dirty, ill-drained slum in London or 
elsewhere.* Let these conditions be reformed, in accordance with 
the laws ordained by Providence for human weal, and the diseases 
vanish. The medical officer of health for the parish of Marylebone 
observes, that " It is impossible to express in too strong terms, the 
baneful influence of decomposing excrementitious matters detained 
in proximity to human habitations ;" he then cites two striking in- 
stances of diseases produced under such influence, and which the 
author had communicated to him. A room had been fitted up in 
the Middlesex Hospital, ten years ago, on the basement in the east 
wing, as a dormitory for nurses. No sooner had they taken pos- 
session of the sleeping apartment, than the occupants became sickly ; 
diarrhoea, which proved fatal in two instances, neuralgia of the head 
and face, rheumatism and erysipelas, being the predominating mala- 
dies. As no such complaints attacked the nurses in other parts of 
the building, new dormitories were fitted up elsewhere, and the 
nurses who were removed thither, were no longer subject to such 
affections. But the cause was soon afterwards discovered, when 
this part of the establishment was in process of re-building, two 
large cesspools were sunk in the earth directly under the floor of the 
dormitory. These were emptied and filled up, not without giving 
rise to more attacks of diarrhoea. This room, and an adjoining 
one, has now been used twelve years, as a laundry and sleeping- 
room, and the occupants have enjoyed as good health as any other 
servants of the charity. 

* It may be in the recollection of my readers, that the late ex-king of 
Prance and family, whilst at Claremont, were seriously ill from the effects 
of the action of pure spring water upon a newly-faced leaden tank. One 
of our eminent toxicologists, collected lately 200 grains of dust from the 
bookshelves of a gentleman's library, who had recently covered the waHs 
with the elegant "French green" paper, and from this dust he obtained 
eighty grains of arsenious acid. The exhalations from this new-papered 
room, had given rise to some alarming symptoms in certain members 
of the family who occupied it. 



MIGRATION OF EPIDEMICS. 89 

Those diseases that are regarded as endemic, that is peculiar to, 
or specially prevalent in one spot, and arising from local causes, 
are not to be confounded with epidemic complaints, which are not 
always under our control, and may depend on some obscure 
atmospheric cause, not clearly ascertained. An endemic disease, as 
ague, is not contagious, though another, as typhus is, whilst many 
epidemics seem to be propagated by atmospheric influences only. 
The singular notoriety that some of the latter class of diseases have 
to travel, or migrate from one place to another, is generally con- 
sidered to be connected with a particular state, or contamination of 
the air. 

" On the 3rd of April, 1833," observes Dr. Watson, " all Lon- 
don was smitten with influenza. On the same day ' the Stag ' was 
coming up the channel, and arrived at two o'clock off Berry Head, 
on the Devonshire coast ; all on board being at that time well. In 
half an hour afterwards, the breeze being easterly, and blowing off the 
land, forty men were down with influenza, by six o'clock the number 
was increased to sixty, and by two o'clock the next day, to 160 ; on 
the self-same evening, a regiment on duty, at Portsmouth, was in a 
perfectly healthy state ; but, by the next morning, so many of the 
soldiers of that regiment were affected by ' influenza,' that the 
garrison duty could not be performed by it." The impossibility of 
accounting for its prevalence, upon the principle of mere contagion, 
is greater than the explanation of its outbreak being due to some 
peculiar vitiation of the air. The curious behaviour of another 
epidemic, erysipelas, is also worthy of record. For several years 
this disease constantly occurred in an accident ward on the ground- 
floor of the west wing of the Middlesex Hospital (five cases within 
a very brief period). The ward is the largest in the establishment, 
and therefore deficiency of breathing space, a common exciter of 
erysipelas, was scarcely to be suspected as the cause of the malady. 
By careful observation, it was noticed that the occupants of the 
beds, most liable to be affected, were directly over the dust-hole of 
the hospital, which was situated in a vault in the western front 
area ; the effluvia from which escaped, and entered the ward by 



90 POISONS IN THE AIR. 

the window. By properly securing the dust-hole with double doors, 
and by fastening the ward window so that it could never be opened, 
the further noxious exhalations were prevented. Four years 
elapsed, and not one case of the disease occurred ; when, suddenly, 
it again manifested itself in the same beds. The outer door of the 
dust-hole was found off its hinges, and the exhalations again es- 
caped. The door was repaired, and the disease is unknown in the 
ward ever since as a sporadic complaint. 

" There are many facts," observes an eminent writer, on ventila- 
tion,* "to show that the impuiity of retained breath, scarcely 
heeded in general, has been the chief element of the foul atmos- 
phere which has led to cholera outbreaks." Tooting parish school, 
with its 1,000 inmates, of which 300 were suddenly attacked, and 
the Taunton Union house, were remarkable examples. In the 
latter, thirty cases occurred amongst the girls, in whose room the 
glass windows were entire, whereas in the boys' room, where panes 
of glass were broken, and fresh air admitted, not a single case oc- 
curred ; and there was only one other case in the town. 

Man should learn, that with the same mechanical certainty that 
lie can substitute the pure water of a passing tide, or river stream, 
for defiled water near the shore, so he may substitute pure air from 
the atmosphere, for any air near him that has become unfit for his 
use, and thus ward off diseases of a deadly nature and preserve 
himself in comparative health. In the metropolis, it is computed 
that amongst linen-drapers, haberdashers, and similar trades in 
hosiery, &c., no fewer than ten thousand shopmen are annually 
draughted into this work, from the provincial factories, &c. f to re- 
place a similar number who are compelled to leave London on 
account of ill-health, from over confinement in close, ill-ventilated 
shops ; if they can get over the first two years' residence, they are 
so far acclimatized that they enjoy tolerable health afterwards, 
though many ultimately fall early victims to consumption. 

Every person suffering from a contagious disease becomes a 

Dr.Arnott; 




BRITAIN'S GREAT LOSS IN 1861. 91 

" nidus," from whence it may spread. The noxious particles ema- 
nating from the body mix with other animal gases thrown off. But 
as there is no liquid poison which may not be rendered harmless by 
copious dilution with fresh water, so there can be no aerial poison, 
the action of which may not be similarly influenced by dilution with 
fresh air. The exhalations from animal bodies, in health or in 
disease, are always specifically heavier than the upper strata of air, 
and they are, therefore, confined to the lower parts of the room, 
where, like oil floating on water, with pure air above, they stagnate 
until copious streams of cold and lighter air glide along the floor, 
and drive the aerial poison to the chimney flues, or windows, whilst 
it thus becomes so diluted as to be rendered innocuous. 

The nation is at this moment wrapt in universal gloom. The 
beloved Queen of our realms is a widow, and her amiable and uni- 
versally loved Consort has been taken from us by the hand of death, 
through typhoid fever (the twenty-one-day fever of our forefathers), 
the product of an animal poison. He inhaled it in some secret and 
mysterious way on the first or second day of this month (December), 
and on the 15th day the people of Great Britain were called to weep 
over the loss of one who, next to our own beloved Sovereign, was 
revered, nay, caressed by all classes of society. In the flower of 
his age and the fulness of his strength, in all the glow and vigour 
of manhood, it has pleased the Almighty Disposer of life and of 
death to take from amongst us Prince Albert, a hardy, abstemious 
man of forty-two. May we reverently bow down to this national 
calamity, and hear the still small voice replying to every inquiring 
thought, "Be still, and know that I am God." 



FINIS. 



W. H. Collingrid^e, City Press, 117 to 119, Aldersgate Street, London, E.G. 




University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat "Rei. ladcx FOe" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



