


^rt 



>^ 



i^v 



f'^ 

a.^1^' 



COOKEEY FOE THE LANCASHIEE 
Sy OPEEATIYES. 

BY AN ENGLISHMAN. 1863. 



PEAS SOUP FOU EIGHT PEESOXS. 

Three pounds of any kind of meat, either leg of 
beef, scrag end of neck of mutton, or any part of 
pickled pork ; cut up the meat into square quarter of 
a pound pieces, and put them into a gallon-sized pot 
with three pints of split-peas, which must have been 
soaked over night j add three carrots, four onions, and 
two heads of celery, all chopped small ; season with a 
little pepper, and a large tablesj^oonful of salt, and a 
good sprig of thyme and some dried mint (if salt pork 
be used, omit the salt) ; fill up the pot with cold 
water, and set the whole to boil very gently for about 
four hours, skimming the soup occasionally as it boils 
by the side of the fire j and remember that the peas, 
etc., must be stirred up from the bottom of the pot 
now and then while the soup is boiling, as otherwise 
they are liable to stick to the bottom and become burnt ; 
this accident would render the soup unpalatable and 
spoil it. When the peas soup has boiled continuously, 
and very gently, for four hours, it will be ready for 
use ; the pieces of meat may be lifted out upon a dish 
to be eaten separately. When pot liquor is procurable, 
the meat may be dispensed with. 



\EnUred at Statiomrs' Hall] 



SOUP MADE WITH FEESH MEAT BONES. 

Abont six or eight pounds of fresh beef bones, 
broken np small, and put into a pot capable of con- 
taining three and a half gallons of water; set the pot on 
the fire to boil, taking care to remove all the scum as 
it rises to the surface ; and when the broth has 
thrown up all its scum, add a small teaspoonful of 
pepper and a large tablespoonful of salt, a good sprig 
of thyme, carrots, turnips, onions, or leeks, three of 
each of these, and two heads of celery ; allow the 
])roth to boil very gently for about six hours, and then 
strain it off into a pan ; remove any bits of meat or 
gristle that may adhere to the bones, and put all such 
bits with the broth back into the clean pot again; for 
every pint of this broth, mix a large tablespoonful of 
either oatmeal or peameal, with just enough cold water 
to render it liquid and smooth, and then stir this into 
the broth upon the fire, keeping it gently boiling for 
about twenty-five minutes, and stirring the soup with 
a long spoon all the time it remains on the fire; at 
the end of the twenty-five minutes' boiling ic will be 
ready for use. 

EICE MILK. 

To one pound of rice, well washed and placed in a 
saucepan, add one quart of water, a bit of cinnamon 
or lemon peel, a pinch of salt, and an ounce of butter; 
put the lid on, and set the whole to boil very gently 
on the hob, lifting the rice from the bottom occa- 
sionally with a spoon; and allow the rice to cook 
gently until it becomes soft ; this will take about an 
hour and a half; then add three joints of milk, and 
two ounces of sugar, stir all together over the fire, 
allowing the rice milk to boil gently for about ten 
minutes; it will then be ready for breakfast or supper. 

SHEEP'S HEAD AND BAELEY BEOTH. 

Two sheep's heads split in halves and well washed, 
are to be put into a three-gallon pot, and filled up 
nearly full with cold water, and set on the fire to boil ; 






taking Ccire to remove all the scum as ifc rises, uitl] a 
.s|>oou ; you then add four carrots, as many turnips, 
leeks, onions, and two heads of celery, all cut or 
chopped up small ; a good sprig of thyme, a teaspoonful 
of j^epper, and a large tahlespoonful of salt, and three- 
quarters of a pound of barley ; allow the whole to boil 
very gently by the side of the hob for at least three 
houi*s, and by the end of that time the soup will be 
sufficiently cooked for use. The meat may be eaten 
with the soup, or separately. 

STEWED OX CHEEK. 
Wash the ox cheek thoroughly in several waters-, 
))lace it in a saucepan or a boiling pot with four 
<|uarts of water, set it on tte fire, and when it boils, 
-kim it well ; add carrots, turnips, onions, a sprig of 
:]iyme, six cloves, a good teaspoonful of black j^epper, 
a large tablespoonful of salt, and set the whole on the 
-ide of the hol> to stew gently for at least four hours ; 
at the end of this time the meat will have become 
tender, and the liquor should have reduced to rather 
less than half its original quantity; you now mix four 
ounces of flour with half a pint of cold water, and stir 
this into the steAv ; and after allowing the whole to 
boil very gently by the side of the hob for another half 
hour, the stewed ox cheek will be ready for dinner. 

OATMEAL POEEIDGE. 
Chop two large onions small, and boil them gently 
in two quarts of milk for five minutes ; then mix 
smoothly half a pint of oatmeal with a pint of cold 
milk or water, stir this into the milk and onions, add 
half a tablespoonful of salt and a little pepper ; stir 
the whole while boiling gently on the fire for ten or 
tifteen minutes longer, and then the porridge will be 
ready for a good breakfast. If objectionable, the 
onions may be left out. 

COW HEEL SOUP. 
Place a cow heel in a pot with four quarts of water, 
a pound of rice, six leeks cut small, some chopped 



parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small teaspoon fiil of black 
pepper, and a good tablespoonful of salt ; allow the 
whole to boil gently by the side of the hob for at least 
two hours, and you will thus obtain a nutritious and 
cheap meal. 

A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

Cut three pounds of leg or shin of beef into square 
pieces about the size of an egg, fry these with a bit of 
dripping in a saucepan until they are lightly browned ; 
then shake in four ounces of flour, stir together, add 
six onions, three carrots cut small, and stir in with 
these three pints of water ; season with a teaspoonful 
of black pepper, a tablespoonful of salt, and a sprig of 
thyme ; stir the whole over the fire until it boils, and 
then set the pot by the side of the hob to boil gently 
for at least two hours and a half, and at the end of 
that time the cl-la-mode beef will be ready for dinner. 

IRISH STEW. 
To three pounds of scrag end of neck of mutton, cut 
in i^ieces the size of a large egg, add a good teaspoonful 
of pepper, a tablespoonful of salt, and just enough 
water to cover the meat : set the whole to boil gently 
on the fire for half an hour ; then add six onions sliced 
up, and three or four pounds of peeled potatoes, and 
again set the pot on the fire to stew gently for about 
three-quarters of an hour j at the end of this time the 
Irish stew will be sufficiently cooked. 

BAKED POEK. 

Use an earthen or a tin dish for this purpose ; ])lace 
an iron trivet in the middle of the dish, fill the bottom 
with peeled potatoes, sliced onions, and an a})ple or 
two ; place the jDiece of fresh pork on the trivet, shake 
a litllo bruised dried sage, pepper, and salt, over the 
pork, and half a pint of water in the dish, and send it 
to the baker's. 

BAKED MEATS IN GENERAL. 

Any joint, or piece of either beef, mutton, or veal, 



plciced upon an iron trivet in a tin or earthen dish, with 
peeled potatoes under it, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and half a pint of water poured under the meat, 
and sent to the baker's, will prove a good dinner. 

HOW TO STEW EABBITS. 

\yhen you have a rabbit at your disposal, cut it up 
into pieces the size of an egg ; cut up also half a pound 
of bacon into square pieces the size of a small walnut, 
fry the pieces of bacon in a saucepan, then add the 
pieces of rabbit, and as soon as they are fried of a light 
brown colour, shake in a small handful of flour, and 
little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of chopped shalot 
or onion, and parsley ; moisten with half a pint of 
water, and stew the whole gently on the fire for half 
an hour. 

STEWED HARES. 

These may be stewed in the same manner as rabbits, 
adding double the quantity of seasoning and water, 
and using six or eight onions whole instead of chopped, 
as indicated for rabbits. Hares will require to be 
stewed a longer time than rabbits, say an hour and a 
half 

PIG'S, OR SHEEP'S PLUCK. 

Cut the liver, lights, the heart,, and the fat into 
rather thin slices, roll them in a little flour, and pepper 
and salt ; fry the pieces of fat first, and take up these 
as soon as they are done, upon a dish ; and then with 
the fat that remains in the fryingpan, fry all the 
other i^ieces of the pluck which you have already cut in 
slices, and when all are done brown without being dried 
up, place these also on the dish with the pieces of fat 
you fried in the first place ; you now throw some 
chopped onion and sage with a bit of fat into the fry- 
ingpan, and stirring these over the fire until they are 
fried of a light brown, you then add a good wineglass- 
ful of vinegar, a very little water, and some pepper and 
salt ; boil all this together for five minutes, and pour 
this gravy over the fried pluck. 



FRIED BULLOCK'S KIDNEY. 

Cut up tlie kidney in slices, roll tliem in flour, and 
pepper and salt j cut half a pound of bacon in slices, 
fry these, and take them up on a dish, then fry the 
slices of kidney, and put them with the bacon ; next, 
fry some sliced onions, and as soon as they are done, 
shake in a little flour, pepper, and salt, moisten this 
with not quite half a pint of water, and a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar ; boil all this together for five minutes, 
and pour it over the slices of kidney and bacon. 



HOW TO COOK BULLOCK'S OR ANY OTHER LIVER. 

Either bullock's, or calf's, or sheep's liver, forms a 
cheap meal, when cut in slices, rolled in flour, and 
])epper and salt, and fried with a little butter, lard, or 
dripping ; chopped parsley and onions may be used 
for seasoning, instead of sliced onions, as indicated for 
bullock's kidney. 

HOW TO FRY FISH. 

Draw out the guts, then wash and wipe the fish 
dry j next rub it all over with flour ; you then put a 
piece of hog's lard, the size of an egg, in a frying-pan, 
and set it on th« fire, and as soon as the lard has 
become quite hot, place the fish in it, and fry the fish 
first on one side, and then on the other side, and when 
it is done quite through, take it up on a dish, and 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it. Fish may 
also be fried in a little salad oil, instead of lard. 

BAKED FISH. 

Draw the guts, wash, and wipe the fish, and cut 
away the fins ; next, spread a little butter on the 
bottom of an earthen, or tin dish, shake over this 
some chopped parsley, onion, pepper and salt, and 
some raspings of bread (these are always to be had for 
a penny at all bakers' shops), lay the fish on this 



seasoning, then pour half a gill of vinegar upon the 
fish, repeat the seasoning and the raspings all over the 
top of the fish, place some bits of butter over all, and 
.send the fish to be baked at a baker's. 

Some well boiled potatoes will add to the substance- 
()f this cheap and savoury meal. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Mackerel, herrings, or sprats, do well for this pur- 
pose ; place the fish in an earthen pot and between 
each layer, oi row of fish, season with chopped onion 
and thyme, black pepper corns, and a little salt ; add 
vinegar just enough to reach nearly up to the top of 
the fish, and send the pot to the baker's. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Cut about three pounds of scrag of mutton into 
small pieces, and put these in a pot with four quarts 
of water ; set it to boil and skim it well ; then add 
four turnips, four leeks, one head of celery, all chopped 
small, some chopped parsley, and half a pound of rice, 
and a sprig of thyme ; season with a small tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and very little pepper, and when the broth 
has boiled gently for about two hours, it will be ready 
for use. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut up a pound of lean beef into very small pieces, 
place these in an earthen pot, or a pipkin, pour a quart 
of boiling water upon the meat, and set the whole to 
simmer very slowly on the hob for three-quarters of 
an hour ; when the beef tea is done, strain it oii free 
from any of the meat, add a little salt, and give it to 
the patient. 

HOW TO MAKE GBUEL. 

To a tabiespoonful of Robinson's Patent Groats add 
lialf a gill of cold water, mix these smoothly together, 
and then pour it into a saucepan containing a pint or 



boiling water ; slir the wliole over the fire while 
boiling gently for ten minutes ; pour the gruel out 
into a baain, add a pinch of salt, and a bit of butter ; 
or, if more agreeable, instead of the butter and salt, 
mix in a little sugar and a spoonful of any kind of 
spirits. 

A MEAT PUDDING. 

Line a good-sized basin with a suet or a dripping 
crust, made as shown for the apple-pudding ; and fill 
the hollow with some small slices of any kind of fresh 
meat, well seasoned with chopped onion and thyme, 
pei:)per and salt ; cover in the meat with the over- 
hanging flaps of paste, tie up the pudding in a cloth, 
and boil it in a saucepan, containing plenty of boiling 
water, for at least three hours. The time here named 
is calculated for a pudding of sufficient quantity for a 
family of eight persons. Bullock's kidney answers 
well ifor this purpose. 

A PLAIN mC^E PUDDING. 

To each quart of milk add six ounces of rice (pre- 
viously boiled for three minutes in plenty of water), 
a pinch of salt, one ounce of sugar, a bit of any kind 
of spice, orange or lemon peel ; mix all together, and 
then pour the whole into a well-greased pie-dish, and 
bake the pudding, in moderate heat, for one hour and a 
lialf In case you have no oven, send to the baker's. 



CUEKANT OPv EAISIN PUDDING. 

Get two pounds of dough from the baker's, mix this 
with half a pint of milk^ two eggs, a good pinch of 
allspice, Coz. of currants or raisins, and a pinch of 
salt ; tie the whole up in a well-greased and floured 
cloth, and boil the pudding in plenty of water for at 
least two hours. 



BOILED TRIPE. 

Cut the tripe into square pieces, and place them iu 
a saucepan with some peeled onions, pepper and salt, 
a sprig of thyme, and either skioimed milk, or milk 
and water enough to swim the whole ; and boil the 
tripe, thus prepared, for about one hour and a half, 
and then eat it with mustard, and some well-boiled 
potatoei^. 

BAKED TEIPE. 

Cut the tripe in pieces, place them in an earthen 
pot with plenty of sliced onions, a good sprig of thyme, 
a few peppercorns, and salt enough to season ; moisten 
the whole with just enough ale, or cyder, or vinegar 
and water, and bake or stew the tripe for one hour 
and a half. 

HASHED MEATS. 

Chop a couple of onions fine, and place them in a 
saucepan with a j^int of water, pepper and salt, and 
boil all this sharply for ten minutes ; then throw in 
the meat which had been previously cut up in thin 
slices, and floured over with a good tablespoonful of 
flour ; stir all together while the hash boils on the fire 
for another ten minutes, and then jDOur it out into a 
deep dish containing slices of toasted bread. Let it 
be understood that the meat must have been already 
cooked. 

^YEAV£R'S PUDDING 

Consists of any kind of meat previously cooked, and 
hashed as shown in the foregoing article, and after- 
wards placed in a deep tin, or earthen baking dish, 
and covered in with some well mashed potatoes in 
the same manner as you would cover an ordinary 
meat-pie with paste ; you then bake it, or, if you 
have no oven, in that case you can brown the potato 
crust before the fire. 



10 



EOLLED TREACLE PUDDING. 

Two pounds of flour, twelve ounces of chopped suet, 
or some dripping, a little salt, and a pint of milk or 
water ; mix all this into a rather firm compact paste, 
and then, with a rolling pin and some flour, roll the 
paste out on a table, in the shape and form of a large 
square sheet of foolsca]) paper ; and then spread twelve 
ounces of treacle all over the rolled-out paste, and roll 
it up in the shape of a bolster ; next roll this up in 
a cloth previously greased and floured, and boil the 
])udding in plenty of boiling water for at least two 
hours. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mix one pound and a half of flour, and half a 
pound of chopped suet with a little salt, and three 
gills of water, into a firm smooth paste ; roll this paste 
out to the thickness of a qviarter of an inch, and line 
a greased basin with it, fill the pudding with peeled 
and sliced apples, a few cloves, a bit of butter, and 
four ounces of moist sugar ; gather up the overhang- 
ing flaps of paste which surround the edges of the 
pudding basin, and twist them closely together so as 
to enclose the apples ; tie the basin up in a cloth, and 
boil the pudding for two hours at least. 

COW'S HEAD SOUP. 

First, remember to well wash, and parboil the halves 
of the cow's head in plenty of water for twenty 
minutes ; next, place the cow's head in a sufficiently 
large pot to hold about four gallons ; add a plentiful 
supply of cleaned carrots, celery, onions, leeks, turnips, 
some thyme, two quarts of soaked peas, pepper and 
salt to season, and fill up the pot with cold water ; 
boil the soup very gently for four hours at least, 
taking care to skim it occasionally. The meat, and 
the larger pieces of vegetables, may be eaten sepa- 
rately. 



POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and slice up two pounds of potatoes and six 
onions, and place these in a pot with about five pints 
of water, two ounces of dripping, or else a small piece 
of bacon cut up into small pieces ; season with pepper 
and salt, and set the whole to boil gently on the fire 
for about an hour, taking care to stir the stew fre- 
(juently from the bottom to prevent it from learning, 

HOW TO COOK LING-, OR DEIED SALT FISH, 

This kind of food is always to be bought cheap ; 
remember, that, in order to render it digestible and 
nutritious, it is important that you should take care to 
soah the dried ling overnight in j^lenty of water, and 
that the water should be changed the first thing in the 
morning. And thus, the fish having been soaked, put 
it on in plenty of fresh cold water to boil very gently 
until it is done through, and then remove it from the 
water upon a dish. Some parsnips may be boiled with 
the ling, or separately in another saucepan. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with half a pint of 
water, and half a gill of vinegar ; to this add a piece 
of butter, and pinch of pepper and salt, and stir all 
together on the fire till it boils, and pour this sauce 
over the fish ; a couple of hard-boiled eggs, chopped, 
may be added. 

VEGETABLE POEEIDGE. 

Procure carrots, parsnips, turnips, celery, leeks, and 
onions ; thinly peel — or scrape — and wash them clean, 
and then slice all these up into thin shavings, and 
place them in a pot with a good-sized white -heart cab- 
bage, or a red cabbage, also shred small ; add a piece of 
fat bacon, dripping, or salt butter, a good sprig of 
thyme, some parsley, pepper and salt ; and water in 
the proportion of two quarts of water to every pound 
of vegetables ; set the whole to stev/ very gently over 



12 

the fire for two hours, stirring the soup frequently 
while it is being cooked. Some small dumplings, made 
either with flour and milk, or flour and water, may be 
dropped separately into the soup during its last half 
hour's boilinsr. 



A FEW WOEDS ON AMERICAN DRIED PROVISIONS. 

It appears that American salt and dried provisions 
are now to be had at unusually low prices ; I would 
consequently point out the advisability of your availing 
yourselves of the benefit of this cheap market ; and 
bear in mind that all such provisions are well adapted 
for preparing all the soups and stews set forth in these 
recipes ; always taking care to soah the salt or dried 
meats first, for six hours before using them for food. 



PUDDING MADE WITH CRUSTS OF BREAD. 

Any crusts — or pieces of dry bread — scalded w^itli 
just enough boiling water to soak them, to which add 
two eggs, a pinch of salt, a little moist sugar, a few 
currants or raisins, a bit of chopped lemon peel, and a 
pint of milk — or a quart — according to the quantity 
of bread ; stir all well together, and pour it into a 
greased pie dish, and send the pudding to the baker's. 



POTATO AND BACON PIE. 

Place four chopped onions, three 250unds of peeled 
and sliced potatoes, in a saucepan with just water 
enough barely to reach up to the top of the jDotatoes ; 
season with pepper, and no salt ; allow the wliole to 
boil gently on the fire until the potatoes are well done, 
and then stir altogether into a mash. A pound of fat 
bacon must have been boiled in a separate pot, and 
afterwards cut in slices — and these are to be placed in 
alternate layers with the potato mash, in a greased 
pie dish, and sent to the baker's. 



13 



MEAT A^^D BATTEE PUDDING. 

When you can buy a few bits of meat cutting=!, fry 
them brown with a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; 
and when done, pour the whole into a pie dish con- 
taining the following batter : — Mix one pound of flour 
with two eggs, a quart of skim milk, and a good j)inch 
of salt, and when it has been worked quite smooth, 
pour it into the pie dish, ready for the fried meat, and 
send the pudding to the baker's. Any kind of meat, 
such as beef, mutton, \X)i% heart, liver, or kidney, &c , 
will suit this purpose. 



COLE CANNON. 

Boil some cabbage in plenty of water with a little 
salt ; and when they are well boiled, drain them free 
fropi any water; chop up the boiled cabbage, and season 
it with pepper and salt. You next fry some pieces, 
or slices, of bacon, and when these are fried, add the 
chopped cabbage, and stir altogether until the wdiole 
is quite hot. A comparatively small quantity of this, 
and some well-boiled potatoes, would produce a cheap 
and satisfying meal. Any kind of cooked meat will 
suit this purpose ; when salt beef is used, this dish is 
then called Bubble and Squeak. 



LEEK BEOTH. 

If you are so fortunate as to possess an old hen, or 
a rabbit, cut either up into pieces the size of an egg, 
or leave them whole, and put them on to boil in a 
gallon of water for (if an old cock) at least an hour 
and a half, skimming the pot occasionally ; then add 
a good quantity of well-washed leeks cut in pieces an 
inch long ; add a pound of rice, some pepper and salt, 
and a sprig of thyme, and allow the whole to boil very 
gently on the side of the fire for another hour and a 
half. 



14 



CABBAGE HODGEPODGE. 

Pcire away tlie rust from the outside of a piece of 
bacon, and put it to boil in a pot containing a gallon 
of water ; when it has boiled about half an hour, put 
in some clean cabbages cut in quarters, a head of 
celery, three parsnips, and two carrots scraped and 
cut small ; season with pepper, no salt, as the bacon 
contains salt enough to season the soup ; and when 
the soup has boiled for about an hour and a half, take 
up the bacon with some of the cabbage, on a dish, to 
be eaten after the soup ; the soup may be thickened 
with some boiled potatoes or pieces of bread. 

MILK POERIDGE, OR THICK MILK. 

A pint of milk mixed with a good tablespoonful of 
Hour, and stirred continuously while boiling for ten 
minutes on the fire, seasoned with a little salt, and 
eaten with a boiled potato, or some bread, forms a 
good and cheap meal. Either skim milk or butter- 
milk will answer for this purpose. 

ONION SOUP. 

Chop two onions fine, and fry them with a bit of 
butter, or dripping, in a saucepan ; shake in a good 
tablespoonful of flour, moisten with a quart of water, 
season willi pepper and salt ; stir the soup while boiling 
on the fire for ten minutes, and pour the soup into a 
bowl containing some slices of toasted bread. 

POTATO POEKIDGE. 

Chop four onions, and place them in a pot with 
some small pieces of bacon, pepper, and three quarts 
of water; and when this has boiled for a quarter of an 
hour, add two pounds of peeled and sliced potatoes ; 
set the whole to boil gently on the fire for three 
quarters of an hour, stirring the soup occasionally while 
it boils, and when done, eat it with bread. 



13 



LIXG AND POTATOES. 

Soak the ling in lukewarm water for six hours at 
lenst ; throw this water away, and boil the ling in 
plenty of cold water until done through, and then 
drain it free from water ; have ready some well-boiled 
potatoes, masli them up with pepper and salt, and a bit 
of butter or dripping, and tlien mix the boiled ling in 
with this. Some well-boiled parsnips would form an 
agreeable addition, 

FRIED EGGS AND BACOX. 

Fry some rashers of bacon in a pan, and when these 
are done, remove them on to a dish ; next, break the 
eggs ^\'ithout disturbing the yolks into the fat that 
remains in the frying-pan, and when these are just 
barely half done, or set, shake them gently out of the 
pan, upon the fried bacon in the dish. 

PLAIX DIEECTIOXS FOR BOILING EICE. 

Let the rice be soaked in cold water overnight; strain 
off this water, and then put the rice on to boil in plenty 
of cold water, with a pinch of salt in it ; and, while it 
boils briskly on the fire, let it be occasionally stirred 
from the bottom of the pot vdih a spoon ; when each 
grain of rice ajopears to split at the ends, it v/ill be 
sufficiently cooked ; this will take about an hour's sharp 
boiling. When done, the rice should be immediately 
drained yree from all luater or moisture, and placed in a 
dish ; the addition of dripping, or butter, sugar, boiled 
or baked fruits, honey, or treacle — of course would add 
a relish to the meal, 

BACON AND PARSNIPS. 

One pound of fat bacon, boiled for one hour and a 
half, with a good supply of well-cleaned parsnips in 
plenty of water, seasoned with pepper, a sprig of 
thyme, and a little salt, will furnish a very cheap 
meal for a large family, especially if boiled potatoes 
be added thereto. 



16 



TO PREPARE OR BOIL COFFEE. 

To one ounce of coffee ground, add one and a half 
pint of water ; mix both well together in a coffee pot 
or saucepan, and use a clean wooden spoon or stick, 
to stir the coffee on the fire until it comes to a boil ; 
you then immediately lift it off, pour in a drop of cold 
water, give the bottom of the pot a tap on the hob to 
send the grouts to the bottom of the jitot, and allow the 
coffee to stand for a while in order to give it time to 
clear itself. The best, and most economical plan is, 
to make your coffee overnight, ready for the next day's 
consumption. 

IRISH STEW. 

Mutton from the neck is the best. Cut the meat 
off the bones ; put the bones in cold water and stew, 
say twenty minutes, skim the fat off and take out the 
bones. Then put in the meat and potatoes, and an 
onion, pepper and salt, and stew all well together an 
hour or more. Skim the fat off as much as you can. 

POTATO PIE. 

Take one or two pounds of beef steak, lay at the 
bottom of dish, season with pepper and salt, cover up 
with potatoes to the top of the dish, and lay a paste 
on the top. 

PASTE FOR POTATO PIE AND FRUIT DUMPLINGS. 

A quarter of a pound of salt butter or lard to one 
pound of flour, rolled in an egg well beaten up, and 
then mixed Avith half a pint of water will improve and 
stiffen the paste. If suet is used for paste, it is better 
rolled than put whole into the flour. 

BOILED MUTTON CHOPS. 
Cut your mutton into chops ; boil some water with 



a 



few bones to make the broth better, if you have any, 



say twenty minutes ; put the chops into the lx)iling 
water with some whole turnips, pepper and salt, and 
boil three-quarters of an hour ; serve in a tureen. 
Celery and carrots are a nice addition if liked, also a 
little pearl barley. 



STEWED BEEF STEAKS. 

Put your steak into an earthen vessel with a close- 
fitting lid which will keep the steam in j just cover 
the steak with water, add pepper and salt, and a little 
butter rubbed in to thicken the gravy. Put it in the 
oven for an hour and a half to two hours. If an 
onion be liked, let it be well boiled previously, and 
then stewed with the above. 



OATMEAL AND WATER PORRIDGE. 

Boil a quart of water, and when boiling sprinkle the 
oatmeal into the water, stirring the same time with a 
wooden spoon until it thickens ; let it boil for a few 
minutes, add a little salt, and serve on soup plates or 
a dish, eat with treacle, brown sugar and butter, or 
milk. The coarse Scotch oatmeal is the best for the 
purpose. 

HARD DUMPLINGS. 

Mix two pounds of flour with two pints of milk, or 
water, and a pinch of salt, into a firm, smooth and 
compact paste ; — divide this into twelve equal parts ; 
roll each of these with the hands floured — into balls, 
and drop them separately into a pot of boiling water 
on the fire, and allow the dumplings to boil rather 
fast for about forty minutes ; at the end of this time 
they will be done, and may be eaten either with 
dripping, butter, treacle, sugar, or salt ; they are also 
excellent in peas sou}), or, when added to a baked 
meat dinner. 



18 



RED HERRINGS. 



It is best always to soak the cheaper sort of red 
herrings in water, for half an hour before cooking 
them ; they should then be wiped dry with a cloth, 
split down the back, sj^read open, and either toasted 
or broiled — on, or before the fire, for about four 
minutes ; after which, they should be sprinkled over 
with chopped onions, and a few drops of vinegar, 
and a little bit of butter, and eaten with boiled 
potatoes. 



RICE BROTH. 

Cut one pound of a knuckle of veal into six equal 
parts, — and put these into a ])ot with three pints of 
water, six ounces of rice, a sprig of thyme, a small 
onion, a little parsley, and salt to season ; allow the 
whole to boil very gently for two hours. 



ARROWROOT. 

Mix a tablespoonful of arrowroot very smoothly 
iu a teacup with a gill of cold water, pour this into 
a pot containing half a pint of boiling water, stir the 
Avhole over the fire for about five minutes ; sweeten 
with sugar, or honey ; a bit of lemon peel or cinnamon 
may be boiled in the arrowroot. 



OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with half a 
pint of cold water, pour this into a pot containing a 
pint of boiling water, stir the gruel over the fire 
while it is boiling for ten minutes at least ; and eat 
it with salt and a bit of butter, or sweeten with 
■sugar, honey, or treacle. 



19 



BARLEY GRUEL. 



-Mix one piled-up tablespoonful of Robinson and 
Belleville's prepared Patent Barley, with one gill of 
cold water, and pour this into a pot containing half 
a pint of iDoiling water ; stir the gruel on the fire, 
while it boils for ten minutes ; sweeten with sugar, 
or honey, or simply w4th a pinch of salt. 



TO MAKE TOAST AND WATER. 

Hold a piece of bi ead on a fork before the fire until 
it becomes baked, or, as itis generally termed, toasted, 
of a dark brown colour, without its being at all hicrnt; 
the piece of toasted bread is then to be immediately 
dropped into a jug of water which has been previously 
boiled, and has afterwards been allowed to become 
])artially cold ; cover the toast and water over with a 
saucer, and wlaen the bread has steeped for an hour or 
so, the toast and water will be ready. 



RICE WATER; 
A REMEDY IN CASES OF DYSENTERY. 

Boil four ounces of rice with one ounce of raisins, 
in a quart of water, very gently over* or b}^ the fire for 
an hour ; and drink of this beverage plentifully and 
frequently until the complaint is relieved, or, at all 
events, until the doctor arrives. 



BARLEY WATER. 

Boil a good tablespoonful of any kind of barley, 
w^th a quart of water, for about half an hour ; flavour 
with a bit of lemon-peel, or a bit of cinnamon ; a few 
raisins, or a slice of lemon, may also be used to flavour 
Itarley water. 



20 



APPLE DRINK. 

Boil four sliced apples with a bit of cinnamon, or 
three cloves, in three pints of water, for half an hour ; 
sweeten with sugar or honey ; and when the apple 
drink has become cold, strain it off free from any sedi- 
ment, and let it be drunk when attacked with a severe 
cold attended with fever. 



LEMONADE OR, ORANGEADE. 

Slice up either an orange or a lemon, and place it 
in a large jug with a tablespoonful of sugar ; next 
pour a quart of boiling water to this, and after it has 
become cold, it will be fit to drink in cases of fever, or 
merely to quench thirst. 



HOW TO MAKE CAUDLE. 

Mix four ounces of the prepared groats with half a 
pint of cold ale, stir this into a saucepan containing u 
quart of hot ale, add a piece of bruised ginger, a bit 
of cinnamon, and six cloves ; stir the caudle over the 
fire to boil gently for ten minutes, and then strain it 
off into a jug free from the spice; sweeten with honey 
or brown sugar, and add spirits, or wine, to taste. 



In case any of the ingredients named in the fore- 
going recipes should prove beyond your present means, 
omit them until better times ; and in the preparation 
of your food, adhere to the principal instructions only. 



21 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

American dried provisions, a few words on ... 12 

Apple drink 'JO 

Arrowroot IS 

Bacon and parsnips lo 

Barley water 19 

Beef, a la mode 4 

Beef tea T 

Beefsteaks, stewed 17 

Cabbage hodgepodge 14 

Caudle, bow to make 2) 

Coffee, to prepare IB 

Cole cannon IS 

Dumplings, hard 17 

Eggs and bacon, fried 15 

Fish, how to frj- G 

,, baked (; 

,, pickled 7 

,, salt, how to cook 11 

Gruel, how to make 7 

„ barley 19 

,, oatmeal IS 

Hares, stewed 5 

Herrings, red IS 



Irish stew 

Kidney, bullocks, fried 
Leek broth 

Lemonade or orangeade 
Ling, how to cook 
, , and potatoes 
Liver, hov/ to cook . 
Meats, hashed 
,, baked 
IMutton broth 

,, chorts, boiled 
Oatmeal porridge . 
Ox cheek, stewed .... 
Paste for iiotato pie and fruit dinniilings 

Pie, potato 

,, i^otato and bacon . 
Pluck, pig's or sheep'cs 
Pork, baked 
Porridge, milk 

,, oatmeal and vrater 

,, potato 

,, vegetable 
Pudding, apple 

,, bread crust . 

,, currant or raisin 

,, meat 

. , meat and batter 

,, plain rice 

,, rolled treacle 

,, weaver's 
Eabbits, how to stew 
Kice, directions for boiling 
,, broth 
,, milk 
,, water 



'1' 



PAGE 

Soup, cowheel . . , .» 

,, cow's head 10 

,, made wdth fresh meat bones 2 

,, onion 14 

,, i^eas, for eight persons 1 

„ potato 11 

Sheep's head and barley troth 2 

Stew, Irish 16 

Toast and water, to make 19 

Tripe, boiled !» 

,, baked U 



A. lUELAXD AXD C'\ , PrINTFRS, MANCHESTER. 



'im 



^vA'^SM^ 






>W'^i- ' "K 



K-i^'MWi 



y< 



iM 



^.^,: 



