Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



]' .NTART TaEATI&G to» STimSRTS or AaUCOLTUBK. 

OUTLINES 

MODERN 'fARxMING. 

ROBERT SCOTT BURN. 

VUL. n.— NOTES, inSTORICAL AED PEACTICAL, 
ON PABMINO AND FABSONa ECONOMY. 

riBTVE DttOlJIEBfi A 




r. 



^.r-''''l%i:^Hv<^^^>>i^<^^i^'E^«r.4fl£i?^kJ^ 




k 



OUTLINES 

OF 

MODERN FARMING. 



VOL. IL 

NOTES, HISTORICAL AND PRACTICAL, ON 
FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 



RDDIMEIfTABY TREATISE FOR 8TUDEKT3 OF AQKICULTUSE. 



OUTLINES 



MODERN EAEMING. 



EOBEKT SCOTT BURN, 



i "BOOK OF rABU I H^BMEfTB JRD MAC 



NOTES. HISTOBICAL AND PRACTICAL. ON FARMING 
AND FARMING ECONOMY. 



Rlit^ >Mu't^^1 giajianw. 



LONDON: 
VIETUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER, 

PA.TEBK'OSTEB BOW. 




PREFACE. 



The present volame has been undertaken with a view 
to discuss those points connected with the History and 
Working Economy of Farming, of which the limited 
scope of the first volume prevented any or a full notice 
being given. Although of necessity, in many respects, 
a mere compilation, the Author has, nevertheless, 
endeavoured to make it at once comprehensive and 
trustworthy; at the same time he has not hesitated 
freely to express his own opinions on many of the vexed 
questioiis now agitating the agricultural community. 
Those opinions are not put forth with confidence, as 
likely to be at all decisive, of -the points in dispute, but 
rather, with some diffidence, as contributing to that 
widespread and unprejudiced discussion which he is 
anxious to see inaugurated, and which will ultimately 
lead, he believes, to practically beneficial results. While 
paying due attention to what may be called popular 
historical details, the Author has given the bulk of the 
volume to the discussion of those having a close bearing 
on the practical operations of modern agriculture. To 
aid him in this task, he has consulted a very wide range 



VI PREFACE. 

of agricultural authorities, bearing on tlie theory and 
practice of agricultural chemistry , drainage, and steam 
culture, and on points connected with farm crops and 
farm stock. Considerable space has been also devoted 
to the discussion of the important subjects of the labour 
question, and of agricultural education and statistics. 
What is given on the subject of the agricultural labourer, 
his position, pay, and prospects, is chiefly derived from 
a paper read by the Author before the Central Farmers' 
Club, London, duly alluded to and named in the text. 
It is impossible within the limits of a preface to name 
all the works which the Author has consulted in pre- 
paring notes on the many subjects above alluded to ; 
the majority of them are named in the text. He can, 
however, find space and is glad here to acknowledge 
his obligations to the leading journals of the periodical 
agricultural press — as Tfie Mark Lane Express, The 
Agricultural Gazette, The Journal of Agriculture, North 
British Agriculturist, Scottish Farmer, Irish Farmers' 
Gazette, and the Journals of the leading Agricultural 
Societies. With several of the above the Author has 
had a long and a pleasant intercourse, as a contributor 
to their pages of numerous articles bearing on several 
of the departments of agriculture. From some of these 
articles he has taken extracts wherever he deemed them 
likely to be elucidative of points under discussion ; of 
these due acknowledgments will be found in their 
proper place. While fully sensible of the deficiencies 
and defects of the work in detail and in treatment, 
the Author ventures, nevertheless, to hope that it will 



PREFACE. Vll 

serve some purpose of practical utility, and be possessed 
of some interest to those connected directly or in- 
directly with the art of which it treats. Many subjects 
are brought together in its pages, which have hitherto 
been scattered here and there in volumes and publica- 
tions — not by any means easily got at by the majority 
of those engaged in agricultutal pursuits, and in many 
cases entirely inaccessible, from the ephemeral nature of 
the publications in which they first appeared. Presented, 
therefore, for the first time in a volume aiming at 
unity of design and treatment, the Author hopes that 
some purpose of utility will be served by giving the 
reader a vidimtis of the most important subjects 
bearing on the present position and future prospects of 
agriculture. As adding to the interest of the work, it 
has been deemed advisable to add a few remarks on 
Roman and Continental agriculture. 

Castle Pabm, 
April8,lSQS. 



HISTORICAL OUTLINES 



OF 



FAEMING AND FAEMING ECONOMY. 



INTRODUCTION. 

It has been said by one of its most graphic writers, that 
Agriculture has no history. Whether this is to be 
accepted in its fullest import it is not necessary now to 
discuss ; but it is remarkable that while other arts and 
sciences have had every step of their progress, and every 
triumph of their practice, recorded and commented 
upon j that of Agriculture, the nursing mother of all the 
arts, and the oldest and most honourable of all, has 
been left almost entirely to itself. It has long been 
treated with the utmost indifiference, and as a thing of 
no account, by those engaged in trade and commerce ; 
and, what is still more strange and suggestive, looked 
upon even by those who derived their subsistence from 
its practice, and whose interests were bound up in its 
best and most rapid progress, as if they had really no 
interest in its welfare, and conceived it utterly beneath 
them to make any record of their experience, or any 
trustworthy statement of its facts. For a long time, 
then, although yielding to none of the arts and sciences 
which have ministered to the power and added to the 

B 



2 PARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

riches of the nation. Agriculture has occupied a singu- 
larlv unsatisfactory position. 

But of late, much of the vigour which has distinguished 
other callings has characterised that of Agriculture, and 
a new era has been opened up in its history, and an 
immense impulse has been given to all tliose improve- 
ments in practice, and all those developments of theory, 
calculated to improve its processes and increase the 
value of its produce. For long, men of science, on the 
one hand, were cautious in the extreme in offering to 
Agriculture their aid in helping forward its progress ; 
but now chemists, physiologists, engineers, and ma- 
chinists, vie with each other as to who shall lay before 
it the most treasured gifts. Farmers, on the other hand, 
sneered at the advances of science, or at least most 
doubtingly hailed all those benefits which she offered 
for their acceptance ; now, the most energetic farmers of 
the day are eager to bring forward, to aid in the develop- 
ment of their art, all the suggestions of theory, and all 
the resources of scientific skill. Steam, too, the mighty 
power which has revolutionised other branches of trade, 
is offering its aid to Agriculture ; and from the minor 
operations, so to speak, of cutting the roots or threshing 
the corn, it aspires to help the farmer to plough his 
fields, sow his seed, and reap his corn; and promises, with 
no meagre hope of realisation, to wrest fertility from 
barrenness ; to change lands which are now poor as the 
moss, or sterile as the sands of the sea- shore, into tracts 
of smiling pastures and fertile fields, with their flocks 
and herds, glad with the glow of waving corn, or rich 
with the treasures of the bulging root. 

Agriculture, then, is in a transition period, so to 
speak, in which she is looking forward to its further 
and freer development, aided by all that scientific skill 



INTRODUCTION. *8 

and patient inyestigation can so well offer; and looking 
back^ to gather from the experience and investigation of 
the past what will help her progress in the future. And 
this experience, and those investigations of the past, may 
be said to form a perfect mine of wealth, from which 
may be dug treasures of priceless worth. 

For although much, very much, is now unfortunately 
lost respecting the experience of the past, and lost 
beyond recall, which would have been as valuable prac- 
tically as they would undoubtedly have been historically, 
there exist, scattered through numerous and singularly 
varied sources, an immense number of facts within the 
reach of the patient investigator. '' All knowledge lies 
hid in books,^' and although not strictly, still it is 
mainly true with reference to the history of the art of 
Agriculture. This is more especially the case with 
its history during the last twenty years. For within 
this period, or but little beyond it, have nearly all the 
improvements been made, and discoveries registered, 
which have had such an influence in raising Agriculture 
from one of the most inert to one of the most active 
callings of the present time. And during this period 
there has been a ceaseless activity in the literature of 
Agriculture, so that the material for a comparatively 
full record of its historical facts is within reach. 
. The following, which we have in part elsewhere given, 
may be taken as introductory to the more detailed 
expositions constituting the body of the work, and will 
convey a pretty fair notion of the sequence of events 
connected with the improvement of the Agriculture of 
Great Britain. 

'^ In early times, when the population was scattered 
widely over the land, and their wants were few and 
easily satisfied, the spontaneous products of the earth, 

b2 



4 IfARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

scanty as they were, would amply suffice. But as the 
people increased in numbers, and civilisation progressed, 
attempts would be made to extend the products of the 
land by the efforts of industry and skill. The cereal 
crops would then be cultivated, and farinaceous food 
used to supplement the spontaneous herbage of the 
soil. But the system of culture this discovery inaugu- 
rated was confined solely to the preparing of the land 
to receive the seed, not to any attempts to stimulate 
its productiveness. What the land naturally yielded 
would be considered as the extent of its capability. 
The nature of all agricultural processes for ages was 
simple in the extreme, progress being retarded by the 
devastating wars and civil discords which for many 
ages afflicted all the nations of Europe. The husband- 
man reaped his tiny crop beneath the shade of the 
feudal castle, and was ready at the shout of the 
warder, or the trumpet call, to throw down the sickle 
and seize the sword, — and it was long ere he left this 
sheltering shade, and cultivated the valleys, and crept 
up the hill-side; dotting the smiling landscape with 
his flocks of sheep and cattle, and adding to the beauty 
of the scene by the glistening glories of the summer 
com. But long after intestine wars had ceased in our 
country, when the rusty firelock or the notched sabre 
were the only relics of the troublous times we have 
alluded to, agriculture still presented the same torpid 
symptoms, and little evidence was shown of the desire 
to increase the natural productiveness of the soil by 
improved methods of treatment.'^ It was very early 
discovered that the cereal crops were exhaustive ones, — 
that is, if crop after crop of the same grain was raised 
from the same patch of soil, it was observed soon to be 
incapable of further production, at least to any amount. 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

This proved that the crop withdrew certain properties 
of the soil. In districts where land was plentiful and 
easily obtained, this difl&culty would be got rid of by 
cultivating new patches of soil, just in the same way 
now followed by the careless farmer in America, who 
crops until he exhausts his land, when he moves oS 
to another " location,^' where virgin land, abounding in 
all the elements of fertility, is to be had, which in its 
turn undergoes the same process of exhaustion. In 
process of time, the lands which were discarded as 
exhausted and incapable of producing crops would be 
returned to, or taken into cultivation by other hands, 
the result being that crops would be raised as before. 
This necessarily attracting attention, and the fact be- 
coming registered, that exhausted land would again 
become productive if allowed to remain uncultivated — 
that is, at rest — for a certain period ; hence the inaugu- 
ration of the "fallow ^^ system. The old Roman system 
consisted in raising a crop of grain one year, allowing 
the land to remain at rest the next. In this country 
a variety of circumstances tended to introduce a peculiar 
system of Agriculture : the exigencies of a population 
concentrated in a much greater degree than in any 
other of the European states ; the length of the winter, 
and the uncertainty even of the favourable months; 
the comparative scarcity and deamess of land, and the 
existence of a higher degree of exhaustive property in 
the cereals than in the southern countries ; the natural 
richness of the herbage of the fields, — all induced a 
comparatively peculiax system. As daily experience 
registered facts, the truth would soon become appa- 
rent that it was not necessary to wait for the land 
becoming again productive by allowing it to lie a 
comparatively long period idle; that the fertilising 



6 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOBfY 

properties could be restored to it by the addition of 
manure, this being obtained from the stock of the 
farm, the cattle — sheep, horses^ cows, &c. The in- 
crease, therefore, of the cereal productiveness of the 
land evidently depended upon the amount of manure 
placed at the disposal of the farmer ; hence the efforts 
to increase the number of stock kept. At first the 
system was much aided by the spontaneous growth of 
large crops of grass — one of the peculiarities of our 
climate. The plan adopted, therefore, was to have 
half the farm devoted to pasture lands, and half to 
the cultivation of cereals, a portion of this latter half 
being kept in fallow. But the exigencies of our climate 
placed a limit to the number of cattle kept, and, in 
consequence, the amount of manure produced. For 
a large portion of the year the herbage is liable to be 
frozen or covered with snow ; the animals are in con- 
sequence unable to partake of it. It became necessary, 
therefore, if the stock was to be increased on our farms, 
to provide a supply of food by which to maintain the 
animals during the severe weather of winter, these 
being housed, instead of starving in the open fields as 
in the old system. The want being thus felt, it was 
in time supplied by the introduction of what are 
known as the green crops — artificial grasses and roots, 
as turnips, exclusively raised for the maintenance of 
the stock. As this system was adopted, the breadth 
of land under fallow, and latterly that under the cereal 
crops, was diminished. In process of time, the grand 
principle which completely revolutionised Agriculture 
was introduced : we refer to the ^^ Rotation op Crops,^^ 
or the " four-year course system.^' This was founded 
upon the theory that forage plants derive the principal 
elements of their growth &om the atmosphere giving 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

to the soil more than they take from it, and afford in 
addition a large amount of manure when consumed 
by stock ; thus they contribute in two ways to the re- 
fertilisation of the soil exhausted by the cereal crops, 
which derived their nutriment, to a great extent, from 
the inorganic or mineral constituents of the soil.* This 
system, known as the "Norfolk rotation,^^ in which 
green crops alternate with grain, owed its introduction 
in this country chiefly to the persevering efforts of the 
celebrated Arthur Young, and not less celebrated Lord 
Leicester. The principle had long been acted upon, 
however, in Flanders. 

'^This formed the key to the problem which had 
long attracted the attention of agriculturists — the 
increase of extent of soils calculated to raise cereal 
crops, and the increase of fertility of those already 
under cultivation, and the increase of means of main- 
taining large numbers of cattle to insure the requisite 
supply of manure. These desiderata were obtained 
by the new system : the greater the cultivation of the 
green crops was extended, the larger the number of 
cattle which could be kept, and the greater the amount 
of manure obtained ; while at the same time the re- 
fertilisation of the soil, and the consequent increase of 
the cereal crops obtained by the manure, was aided 
by the system of rotation. Once fairly established, 
all the other improvements of modern agriculture 
followed in comparatively quick succession; indeed, 
the very exigencies of the new system created the 
necessity for improvement.^' 

But while the advantages of manure as a fertiliser 
were thus appreciated, it soon became evident that in 
order to have the full value of it, the land to which 

* See Notes on Rotations in Division First, Book II. 



8 FARMING AND FARMfNG BG0N0M7. 

it was applied required to be brought into a fit state 
to receive it. Manure might be applied to land where 
it would never act as a fertiliser^ as in the case of 
thoroughly wet lands. The plants being known to 
derive many of their constituents from the atmosphere^ 
and its action on the soil, it was reasonable to suppose 
that the soil would be improved by being broken up 
and pulverised, so as to allow the atmospheric gases to 
penetrate the mass, and the roots of the crops to pene- 
trate the soil in search of nourishment. To do this 
a variety of implements were required, and invented, 
one after another, to meet the demand. But wet soil 
could not thus be treated, and to enable it to be 
worked Drainage was resorted to, and "this, one 
of the most important of the mechanical means of 
improving the soil, was found to bring an immense 
amount of advantages with it/^ so much so, that a 
first-rate authority affirms " that the neglect of drain- 
ing is the true cause of most of the bad farming to be 
seen, and that a single farm does not exist, not already 
thoroughly drained, which would not be much the 
better for draining.^' The soil once improved by 
draining, auxiliary operations were easily and usefully 
applied. " Under the old system, the preparation of 
the land was confined to a mere scratching of its 
surface; but with draining, and a knowledge of the 
vast benefits derivable from allowing the air to pene- 
trate the soil for a great distance beneath its surface,'^ 
came Subsoiung and Deep Culture. These processes, 
so difficult to be carried out by horse power under 
disadvantageous circumstances of soil or season, are 
now carried out with wonderful precision and quickness 
by the various systems of Steam Cultivation. 
All these operations involved the necessity to use 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

Implejments and Machines, ^' more or less complicated, 
the manufacture of which gave rise to a distinct branch 
of trade employing numerous hands, and called into 
existence a large amount of engineering science and 
mechanical skill/^ Again, we find improvement taking 
a step in another direction ; and, to increase the pro- 
ductiveness of natural pasture, and of the crops of 
artificial grasses, plans of Irrigation were adopted 
which resulted in a great accession to the crops. The 
home or steading processes of the farm became also in 
time greatly modified and improved, — manual labour 
was in a great measure dispensed with, and mechanism 
introduced; the power of Steam was called into re- 
quisition to " thresh the com, cut the straw, slice the 
turnips, and bruise the com and the oil-cake,^' which 
served as food for the cattle. And this new system of 
feeding brought with it a new system of housing ; and 
in place of the littered and exposed farm-yard of the 
old system, stalls and yards, properly sheltered and 
supplied with all facilities for feeding, were provided. 

Chemistry and Geology next offered their aid to 
Agriculture. The latter pointed out the different species 
of soils and subsoils, how they were formed, and in 
what districts they were most likely to be met with, 
and explained many of the diversities which sometimes 
puzzled the farmer to account for; the former sub- 
jected the soils to strict examination, traced their con- 
stituents, and showed their influence upon vegetation. 
The relation of the soil to the plant was next examined, 
and the manner in which the food was used to build 
up the plant. Thus Liebig showed that, in the different 
species of plants, the chemical elements of which they 
are composed differed in proportion; and that to 
these different proportions the varieties of vegetables 

b8 



10 FARMma AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

owed their distinctive peculiarities. From these facts 
he deduced the important theory, that the main art of 
culture was to supply to these vegetables the elements 
which were necessary to their growth and productive 
qualities. Hence was opened up a wide field for the 
exercise of research and experiment in connection with 
manures J resulting in the application of a large number 
of substances, the composition of which had for its 
aim the giving to the land the elements which the 
special plants grown upon it took from it. These 
became known as '^ Special or Artificial Manures." 

As bearing on the alliance between Agriculture and 
Chemistry, Dr. Hoflfman has the following : — 

" To keep up the fertility of his fields, the cultivator 
of the soil has to make himself acquainted with its 
general composition, as well as with the nature both 
of the particular substances which he is annually ex- 
tracting from it, and of those with which he must 
supply the loss. For each of these purposes the aid of 
chemistry becomes indispensable to the farmer. Davy's 
excellent work on Agricultural Chemistry first called 
the attention of the more intelligent British farmers 
to the value of chemistry in the improvement of their 
art, but it is only within the last twenty years that the 
attention of agriculturists has been generally directed 
to the subject, more particularly by the works of 
Liebig and Boussingault. The nature of manures once 
clearly defined, almost every agricultural improvement 
at which practice had arrived by slow degrees, receives 
a satisfactory explanation, whilst a variety of improved 
applications necessarily suggested themselves. The 
principles of fallowing and of the rotation of crops, 
and the theory of soil-burning, are no longer mysteries ; 
the action of lime, of wood ashes, and of bones, is now 



INTRODUCTION. 11 

perfectly intelligible. In this country too high a value 
cannot be set upon the discovery of new sources of 
material convertible by the farmer into human food. 
Chemistry has put us in possession of the excreted 
wealth which centuries had accumulated in the islands 
of the Pacific ; and if the means which it has suggested 
for preventing the enormous waste of valuable matter 
perpetually and irrevocably swept away by the Thames 
and others of our large rivers, have not as yet been 
perfectly successful, it has enabled us to substitute for 
natural manure artificial products, for the components 
of which the refiise of every trade and manufacture is 
now carefully sifted. Perhaps there is no more striking 
illustration of the value of the aid which agriculture 
has derived from her new ally, than the success which 
of late has attended the search for mineral manures. 
This search, directed by the philosophical interpretation 
of a few isolated facts, has been rewarded by the dis- 
covery of considerable quantities of phosphate of lime 
in various parts of England; thus realising the pro- 
phetic anticipation of Liebig, that ' in the remains of 
an extinct animal world, England is to find the means 
of increasing her wealth in agricultural produce, as she 
has already found the great support of her manufac- 
turing industry in fossil fael, the presei^ed matter of 
primeval forests, the remains of a vegetal world/ ^' 

The subject of the utilisation of our Town Sewage, 
has also been taken up and discussed, and although still 
one of the vexed questions of Agriculture, it bears with 
it all the elements of importance which demand a full 
discussion.* The Improvement op the Breeds op 

♦ The whole subject of town sewage will be discassed in the volume 
** On the Utilisation of Town Sewage, Irrigation^ and Keclamation of 
Waste Land/' in the present series. 



12 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

Cattlb AND Sheep were not forgotten amidst the im- 
provements of other departments, — the Bakewells and 
Collinses were not behind the Townsends or the Youngs, 
— and the result was the foundation of improved breeds 
of cattle and of sheep, and an impulse was given to this 
department which has never yet abated, and which has 
placed British stock as the first in the world for prac- 
tical value. 

The help of chemistry and physiology was brought 
to bear upon the Feeding and Fattening of Cattle, 
both important departments of farming. Thus the 
processes by which substances contained in the food 
were assimilated and converted into the substances of 
the animal, the functions of the animal, its respirative 
and digestive processes, and how the food aided these, 
were all investigated; and led to inquiries into the 
relative value of different foods for feeding and fattening 
stock, and the discovery of improved modes by which 
these foods could be most economically prepared and 
administered to them. We may sum up our rapid 
review of the progress of British Agriculture by quoting 
the suggestive remarks of a well-known writer, as given 
in the Quarterly Review, No. 206, April, 1858, in a very 
clever paper on the " Progress of English Agriculture/^ 

'' The spirit,^' says this vrriter, ^' of the old agriculture 
and the new are diametrically opposite : that of the old 
agriculture was to be stationary, that of the new is 
progress. When Young made his tour through the east 
of England, in 1771, he remarks, as a peculiarity, that 
the turnip-cabbage of a Mr Reynolds, which had a 
special superiority, was gradually adopted by his neigh- 
bours, 'a circumstance,' he adds, 'that would not 
happen in many countries.' His works are, in fact, a 
narrative of individual enterprise and general stupidity. 



INTRODUCTION. 13 

A Mr. Cooper, who went into Dorsetshire from Norfolk, 
could only get his turnips hoed by working himself, year 
after year, with his labourers, and refusing to be tired 
out by their deliberate awkwardness for the purpose of 
defeating his design. After he had continued the prac- 
tice for twenty years, and all the surrounding farmers 
had witnessed the vast benefits to be derived from it, 
not a single one of them had begim to imitate him. Mr. 
Cooper, with two horses abreast and no driver, ploughed 
an acre of land where his neighbours, with four horses 
and a driver, ploughed only three-quarters of an acre. 
Yet not a labourer would touch his unclean implement, 
as they deemed to think it, and no farmer, with such an 
example perpetually before his eyes, chose to save on 
each plough the wages of a man, the keep of two horses, 
and the extra expenditure incurred by the diminished 
amount of work performed in the day. No longer ago 
than 1835, Sir Robert Peel presented a Farmers' Club, 
at Tamworth, with two iron ploughs of the best con- 
struction. On his next visit the old ploughs, with the 
wooden mould-boards, were again at work. ' Sir,' said 
a member of the club, ^ we tried the iron, and we be all of 
one mind that they made the weeds grow.' On Young 
recommending the Dorsetshire agriculturists to fold their 
ewes in the winter, they treated the idea with contempt ; 
and, on pressing them for their reasons, they replied 
^ that the flock, in rushing out of the fold, would tread 
down the lambs,' though no such accident had ever been 
heard of, ' and that the lambs would not be able to 
find their dams in a large fold,' though certainly, says 
Young, ^ a lamb in Dorsetshire has as much sense as a 
lamb elsewhere.' Whether the method had been bene- 
ficial or not, the grounds for rejecting it were equally 
absurd. Of two neighbouring counties, one was some- 



14 FARMma AND FARMINQ ECONOMY. 

times a century behind the other. A lazy desire to 
creep with sluggish monotony along an established path, 
and a feeling of impatience at being pushed into a novel 
track, helped to maintain hereditary prejudices, and 
tenants invented fanciful excuses for not doing what 
was plainly advantageous to be done, because they pre- 
ferred present sloth to future profit. They were like a 
man who had lain upon one side till he shrunk from the 
trouble of turning over to the other, though when the 
process was performed the new posture might be easier 
than the old. But once roused and put in motion, 
and the inherent reluctance to stir being overcome, the 
gain in interest as well as in pocket was felt to be great. 
He who has profited by one innovation is ready to try 
another, and his pride and his pleasure is to improve 
where his fathers gloried in resisting improvement. 
There are still large districts of England which have yet 
to be converted to a rational system of agriculture : 
landlords who are ignorant of the principles of manage- 
ment which attract or create intelligent tenants, and 
tenants who are ignorant of the methods by which the 
land is made to double its increase. But the wave 
of agricultural progress has acquired irresistible might, 
and they must mount it or it will sweep them away. 
The best thing which can be done for these laggards in 
the race is to persuade them to take in an agricultural 
newspaper; to get them to consult the commercial 
travellers who collect orders for the manufacturers of 
artificial manures ; to talk them into replenishing their 
worn-out implements from the marts of the great makers; 
to prevail on them to visit the annual shows of the 
Royal Agricultural Society ; to throw them, in short, 
in the way of seeing the products of advanced husbandry, 
and of hearing the ideas of enlightened cultivators. 



INTRODUCTION. 15 

By some^ or all of these means, they may be put upon 
the high road to improvement; and when they have 
gone an inch, there is little fear, unless they are afSicted 
by a hopeless incapacity, that they will refiise to go the 
ell. He who lives within the diameter of a little circle 
has ideas as narrow as his horizon, but the influence 
of numbers and skill together is irresistible, and no 
impersonation of ignorance or bigotry has probably 
ever visited a single great agricultural exhibition without 
returning a wiser and a better farmer.^^ 

Having thus briefly glanced at the leading features of 
those steps which have gradually led to the present 
advanced position of British Agriculture, we are now 
prepared to take up the detailed discussion of its various 
important departments, prefacing them with a brief 
account of the early history of British Agriculture. 



16 FARMING AND FARMINQ ECONOBfY. 



BOOK I. 



DIVISION FIRST. 

EARLY HISTORY OF BRITISH AGRICULTURE.— HISTORICAL 
NOTICES CONNECTED WITH OUR FARM CROPS. 

Of the Agriculture of the Britons before the Roman 
invasion we have no certain record. Originally savages 
— subsisting upon chance products of the field or the 
forest^ the roots and the nuts, and the flesh of animals — 
what little they knew of agriculture during a period of 
a century or so prior to the Roman invasion was pro- 
bably imparted to them by those who, emigrating, as 
tradition hath it, from Gaul, established colonies on 
our sea-coast, and brought with them some knowledge 
of farm produce. 

That the more advanced or civilised inhabitants 
inhabiting the sea- margin districts, were acquainted 
with the modes of growing com previous to the Roman 
invasion, may be inferred from the statement of Caesar 
that the uncivilised inhabitants of the interior did not 
grow it. It is conjectured that this grain was barley, 
wheat not being known. Diodorus Siculus mentions 
that the ancient inhabitants of Britain used subterra- 
nean apartments in which they kept their grain, these 
being constructed of stones rudely placed together. 
Strabo even writes of their flocks and herds ; and Caesar 
notes that cattle were in abundance. 

The Romans, themselves wonderfully well acquainted 



EARLY HISTORY OF BRITISH AGRICULTURB. 17 

with many of the details of successful farming, would, 
however, soon impart to the natives a knowledge of the 
art ; and that this was so, and moreover carried to no 
small extent, may be surmised from a suggestive fact, as 
recorded in history, to the effect that in the fourth 
century the Emperor Julian exported from Britain, for 
the use of his continental subjects, a quantity of grain, 
which required no fewer than 600 vessels. Reckoning 
the tonnage of each of these at 70 tons, " they were 
capable,'^ says Gibbon, "of exporting 120,000 quarters ; 
and the country which could bear so large an exportation 
must have attained an improved state of agriculture/^ 
Mr. Hewitt Davis has some ingenious and interesting 
speculations as to the evidences still existing in our old 
pasture fields as to the labours of the Roman agricul- 
turists. In a paper in his work entitled " Improvements 
in Farming,^^ he says.: — " That most of the pastures 
of England have, in former times, been under tillage, 
will be seen by every one practised in agriculture who 
examines the ridges, furrows, banks, roadways, land- 
marks, cuttings, &c., still to be found upon them. In 
many instances, the carefully rounded lands, the highly 
raised headlands, the large amount of soil worked from 
higher to lower ground, and the marks of cultivation 
terminating at points where occasional floods limited 
the application of the ground to the growth of com, 
are unmistakable evidences of the plough having for 
agesljeen at work, and the former application of the 
land to growing corn. When we reflect upon the time 
which has been spent in working up many of these old 
lands into their present high ridges, and in ploughing 
down sides of hills into the breaks so often met with, 
and the care exercised in forming them to free them of 
water, we shall be convinced that those marks of culti- 



18 FARMINQ AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

vation were not formed in the occasional breaking up of 
wastes for a temporary growth of com, but owe their 
origin to an age of continuous tillage, conducted with 
considerable skill, and the use of ploughs very superior 
to those wooden stakes we see delineated on Saxon coins 
and drawings. I cannot help taking great interest in 
tracing these evidences of the former application of the 
land to raising com; for they, like the Druidical remains, 
the ruins of large towns in South America, and the 
canal net- works in the East, &c., are monuments which 
stand up to remind us of a former occupation, and a 
population of which we know nothing ; and the more 
we reflect on these evidences of general application of 
the land to grow corn, the more occasion we shall find 
to confess our very uncertain knowledge of the past 
history of this country. In my examination of the 
land's surface, I continually find marks of a former 
general cultivation, which belong to a period inEngland's 
history when agriculture must have been practised with 
a skill that has afterwards been lost ; and, as Mr. Bailey 
Denton calls on me to give my reasons for dating this 
back to the time of the Romans, I will endeavour to do 
so. We know for a certainty that many of the pastures 
to which I allude as showing evidences of cultivation, 
have been in grass from time immemorial, whilst the 
extent of our population, and its want of corn, becomes 
less and less as we go back in English history. How 
are we to reconcile this ? The lines of furrows are Often 
cut asunder by very ancient highways and fences being 
made. Of the great antiquity of this former general 
cultivation, many instances are to be found in Windsor 
Forest and about the park, where the ancient furrows 
and ditches may be traced, with gigantic oaks standing 
in them, hollow, and in decrepitude, from extreme old 



EARL7 HISTORT OF BRITISH AGRICULTURK 19 

age, — trees that have occupied centuries to attain ma- 
turity, and centuries after to reach their present decay. 
To what page in English history are we to look for the 
cultivation of this land ? When did England formerly 
possess a population with civilisation and security to 
have worked this land ? And when can we suppose the 
wants of this country called for such general cultivation 
as we here have evidence of ? My answer is — ^We can 
only find it in the latter period of the Roman dominion 
of Britain, when her powerful sway had given ages of 
internal peace, and called forth the useful arts and 
sciences, of the existence of which, at that time, we have 
other evidences. To such times of security, luxury, and 
repose, as are described as having been fatal to the 
martial spirit of the Britons^ and to have afterwards laid 
the country open to barbarous invasions when Roman 
protection was withdrawn, must we go back to account 
for this general tillage of the land. 

^' The open fields, diffused population, general cul- 
tivation, and occupation of the people in tillage, of 
which we have indisputable evidences in these remains, 
could not have existed whilst the country was a prey to 
Picts and Scots, Danes and Normans. Nor was it to 
be found under the ever-shifting government of the 
Heptarchy, nor after the Norman Conquest, when 
barons found security only in their castles, and the 
population had been reduced by ages of internal war- 
fare. But if we go back to the Roman times, we 
alight on a state of affairs that at once admits of it, 
and of wants that called for it. 

" The occupation of the Romans lasted nearly four 
centuries. We are told they oppressed the natives by 
employing them in making roads, draining, embanking, 
and works of public improvement, which refer to a 



20 PARBfING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

general occupation of the country for cultivation ; and 
drew large supplies of grain from the island^ calling 
the Isles of Man and Anglesea the granaries of 
the western provinces. Here, then, was a condition 
of the country, with employment of the people, and 
a consumption for its com, that will account for a 
general application of the land to tillage, and which 
certainly cannot be reconciled with the condition of 
the country or its population at any period after the 
fiomans had left it. I might considerably extend this 
letter by referring to other evidences of cultivation 
to be found in woods, over our commons, and high 
upon hill tops, on land not now applicable to growing 
corn. I might also enlarge, in proof of the large 
returns sent from this country, on the consequence 
that the Romans attached to the possession of the 
island, and the evidences of civilisation and luxury 
they left behind, which can only be accounted for by 
supposing their receipts from the island to have been 
very important to them. That they were so there can 
be no doubt. They could have drawn little else from 
here but com ; and com supplies were, indeed, impor- 
tant to them. Rome, with her four or five millions of 
inhabitants, and the large population of the principal 
Italian towns, were fed for centuries with foreign corn 
drawn from her provinces, among which Britain, we 
know, ranked very high for the tribute in corn it 
paid.^^ 

Be all this as it may, whatever improvement agri- 
culture had made from the time of the Roman inva- 
sion till the conquest of the country by the Anglo- 
Saxons, that improvement was not sustained during 
the period when the conquerors held the sway. Fond 
of the chase, the Anglo-Saxons despised the arts of 



EARLY mSTOBY OF BRITISH AGRIOULTURB. 21 

tillage^ and deemed them at best tlie fitting employ- 
ment of slaves and women. • The Britons gradually 
sunk^ therefore^ into a depressed condition; and with 
it came the loss of the knowledge of farmings as taught 
them by, or obtained chiefly from, an intercourse with 
the Romans. Some idea of their wretched condition may 
be derived from the fact, that associations were formed 
to enable a yoke of oxen and a plough to be kept for 
the united benefit of the members ; and stringent laws 
were passed by them, which show the miserable state of 
the implements which they employed. What little know- 
ledge of farming remained in Britain about the period of 
the Norman Conquest, was monopolised by the monkish 
fraternity, who, for many years, exhibited skill in the 
best modes of gardening and of farming, and to whom 
we are indebted, doubtless, for our knowledge of them. 
The position which agriculture occupied during the 
sway of the Anglo-Saxons, may be understood from 
the statement of a few facts. The price of land was 
miserably low. Dr. Gall mentions that in Cambridge- 
shire it sold at the rate of four shillings of our currency 
per acre ; four sheep were considered as an equivalent 
for this quantity of land, and three times the quantity 
for a single horse. We have already alluded to the 
miserable condition of the implements; thus, at this 
period it was enacted that " no man should undertake 
to guide a plough who could not make one ; and that 
the driver should make the ropes of twisted willows 
with which it was drawn. Such also was the helpless 
individual condition of the cultivators of the soil, th^t, 
as alluded to above, associations were formed for the 
purchase of a plough, and the members hedged in and 
protected by many minute and curious laws. Although 
the temporary occupation of land was rendered easy by 



22 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMT 

the laws enacted^ and which are described below^ still 
the cultivation was of such a wretched description, 
that bread for the population could scarcely be raised. 
Temporary occupation of land was given by the follow- 
ing laws : " If any person laid dung upon a field with 
the consent of the proprietor, he was by law allowed 
the use of the field for one year ; and if the dung was 
carted out in great abundance, he was allowed the use 
of it for three years. Whoever cut down a wood, and 
converted the ground into arable with the consent of 
the owner, was to have the use of it for five years. If 
any man folded his cattle for a whole year upon ground 
belonging to another with his consent, the former was 
allowed to cultivate that ground for his own benefit 
for four years." 

The system of dividing estates into "inland" and 
"outland," or "in-field" or "out-field," originated 
with the Saxons. The "in-fields" were those portions 
which lay nearest to the mansion, and were cultivated, 
for and under the immediate superintendence of the 
bailifl^, or of the owner, by slaves or villeins. The 
" out-fields " were all let at exceedingly moderate rents 
to the farmers, who were then designated ceorls, or 
churls. 

At a period close upon that of the Norman Conquest, 
the condition of agriculture was wretched in the 
extreme. Extensive tracts of grass land, commons, 
and of forests, absorbed so much of the available soil, 
that little was left for tillage, that little being com- 
petent only for the maintenance of two millions of 
people, or as some authorities have it, only a million 
and a half. The husbandman, moreover, was kept 
under, and prevented from introducing any improve- 
ment, or from having any stimulus to his industry, by 



EARLY HISTORY OF BRITISH AGRICULTURE. 23 

a harassing series of severe and vexatious laws and 
regulations. Nor was the state of matters improved, 
and the condition of the husbandman* much amelio- 
rated, by the change of masters which took place in 
the Norman Invasion and Conquest ; on the contrary, 
they were rendered much worse. Large tracts of land 
which bore comparatively good crops of com, were on 
various pretences laid waste, and converted into forests 
and hunting grounds. "The excessive passion,^' says 
the elegant historian Hallam, "for the sports of the 
field, produced those evils which are apt to result from 
it — strenuous idleness which disclaimed all useful 
occupations, and an oppressive spirit toward the 
peasantry. The devastation committed under the 
pretence of destroying wild animals, which had always 
been protected in their depredations, is noticed in 
serious authors, and has also been the topic of popular 
ballads. What effect these must have had on agricul- 
ture, it is easy to conjecture. The levelling of forests, 
the draining of morasses, and the extirpation of mis- 
chievous animals which inhabited them, are the first 
objects of a man^s labour in reclaiming the earth to 
his use; and these were forbidden by a feudal race, 
whose control over the progress of agricultural im- 
provement was unlimited, and who were not willing to 
sacrifice their pleasure to their avarice.^^ 

" The early charters relating to forests, chases, parks, 
and warrens,^^ says a recent writer in Once a Week, 
"are as enjoyable as a portfolio of sylvan sketches; 
the perusal of the different clauses opens out glade 
after glade, mellow with green and gold, purple and 

* See the introduction to a succeeding Division — the Labour Ques- 
tion — for a resume of the laws affecting the conditions of the serfs or 
bondsmen. 



24 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

ricli brown tints. Forest laws made by Henry III. 
held good after the B estoration. ' A peer of the realm, 
being sent for by the king, in coming and returning, 
may kill a deer or two in the forest through which he 
passes; howbeit it must not be done privily, but by 
the view of the forester, if present ; but if absent, by 
causing one to blow a horn for him, lest he seem to 
steal the deer/ The ring of the horses^ hoofs, the 
echo of the horn, the rustle of the brushwood, the 
shouts of the cavalcade break on the ear as we read. 
If any one caught a stray hawk, he was to give it up to 
the sheriff, who would make proclamation in ^ the good 
towns ^ of the connty, and so ascertain her rightful 
owner; if, however, no owner was found within four 
months, the hawk was to be restored to the person who 
found it, if he happened to be ^ a man of estate who 
might conveniently keep a hawk ;^ but if the finder was 
a ^mean man,' the sheriff was to retain the hawk, 
and make him some compensation for it. N o one was 
to conceal a hawk. K they did so they were to pay 
the value of it, and suffer two years' imprisonment; 
and, if they were not able to pay the price of the hawk, 
they were to be detained in prison a longer time. Every 
freeman was to have his honey that was found in the 
forest, also his ^ ayries of hawks, eagles, and herons.' " 
This, however, gives but the romantic view of the 
question, and opens up to us but little knowledge of the 
oppressive influence of these laws upon the progress of 
agriculture. Yet it must not be supposed that the 
Normans brought with them nothing but the art of 
oppression, and the love of war and the chase. Many 
of them were well acquainted with farming, and had 
brought with them the knowledge of its practice, as 
exemplified on the, even at that early period, highly 



BABLT HISTORY OF BEITISH AQRICULTUBB. 25 

cultivated plains of the Low Countries. Moreover, the 
monks were zealous in the pursuit of agriculture. Pos- 
sessing large tracts of land^ and having abundance of time 
at their disposal — and cultivating, moreover, kindlier 
feelings towards the labourers, and exercising a greater 
care of their moral and physical condition than did the 
barons to their serfs — agriculture, upon the whole, pro- 
gressed under their care favourably. Large tracts of 
tidal lands were reclaimed under their superintendence ; 
moors and marshy lands were taken in by them ; and 
while the soU, thus wrested from barrenness, was made 
to yield its produce, that of the cultivated lands of old 
was greatly increased by their painstaking care. The 
Latin work called ^'Fleta'^ (1340), was, doubtless, the 
production of some monks, or, at all events, of those well 
acquainted with their modes of farming. It contains 
minute directions for the management of land ; the 
cultivation of the crops ; and the use of manure, and 
the sowing of seed. 

The implements of husbandry in use amongst the 
Normans were few in number, and rude in construction. 
The plough had wheels, but only one handle ; although 
a plough without wheels seems also to have been in use. 
Their carts, their sickles, and harrows closely resembled 
those at present in use, varying only in the details of 
construction. Of the system of culture in use, it is 
difficult to form a true conception. Farm-yard dung 
was the main manure used, although marl seemed to 
have been in repute. Summer fallowing for wheat was 
also practised ; and the operations of harrowing, reaping, 
and threshing, closely resembled our own. 

But the progress of agriculture, such as it was, was 

destined to meet with a rude arrest by the outbreak of 
the '^ civil war of the Roses.^' Yet out of its great 

c 



26 FABHING AKB FABMIKG S00N01I7. 

evils came good^ for ''the nobility and gentry who took 
part in the conflict were obliged to commute much of 
the personal services due by their tenants, for rents in 
money, in order to meet their expenses in the field. 
Many bondsmen were thus emancipated; and acquiring, 
together with their release from servitude, an interest 
in the soil which they had not previously possessed, 
they applied themselves with more earnestness to its 
cultivation. The estates of many landholders were 
either dismembered to pay off mortgages during the 
long continuance of that civil strife, or, falling at their 
death to collateral heirs, were divided among a much 
greater number of proprietors, who, severally drawing 
their subsistence from a smaller portion of land, were 
necessarily compelled to devote more attention to its 
improvement. The increase of population, and the 
charters granted to corporate bodies, swelled the 
numbers of inhabitants in the towns ; and markets, which 
had not previously existed, were opened for the produce 
of the country. Although leases had been long cus- 
tomary, yet they were voidable by the sale or aliena- 
tion of the land, and the tenant's property was even 
subject to the debts of his landlord ; but both of these 
abuses were rectified by statutes passed in 1449 and 
1469. Thus the dissensions by which England was 
agitated throughout the greater part of the fifteenth 
century gradually contributed to the amelioration of 
her civil institutions, and gave rise to that middle 
order of society to which much of its prosperity in 
the succeeding ages is to be attributed.'' But all this 
was of slow growth, and much distress for a long 
time existed in the rural districts. Great tracts of 
land were enclosed for the purposes of pasture, and 
gave rise to wide-spread uneasiness and dissension. 



SABLT HISTOBT OF BRITISH AGRICULTURK 27 

Famines were of irequent occTurence; and such was 
the wretchedness of the common people^ that many of 
them^ as mentioned by Stow^ were compelled to dry 
the roots of field herbs to be converted into bread. 
From the end of the fifteenth to the middle of the 
seventeenth century, peace fortunately prevailed in 
England; and although much progress was not made 
in agriculture, still it displayed, in common with other 
arts, the advantage of the peace. The art of printing 
gave to agriculture, as it also gave to the other arts 
and sciences, a wonderful impetus. Works began to 
be published containing records of farm practice, and 
rules for its guidance, as well as epitomes of the 
methods pursued by the ancient nations. Thus, in 
the early part of the sixteenth century. Sir Anthony 
Fitzherbert, Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas, and 
himself a practical farmer, published "The Book of 
Husbandry,'' which contained much useful matter con- 
nected with enclosing, draining, fallowing, and the 
management of sheep and cattle. This was followed 
by other works, published in the reign of Elizabeth. 
The most important of these were, Tusser's "Five 
Hundred Points of Good Husbandry,'' a work which, 
in rough-and-ready doggrel, gave instruction to the 
farmers of those days on the various points of their 
calling. "The Whole Art of Husbandry," by Bamaby 
Googe, was chiefly a description of the Grecian and 
Boman modes of farming; while Sir Hugh Piatt's 
works drew the attention of the farmer to many kinds 
of substances useful in manures, as salt, clay, weeds, 
and the like. During the reign of Elizabeth, agricul- 
ture greatly flourished; large tracts of forest and 
common land were taken under the plough, and those 
which had been under cultivation were improved. 

c2 



28 FARMINa AND FARMIKa EC0N01I7. 

Although the progress of agriculture^ from the end of 
the reign of Elizabeth to the restoration of Charles 11.^ 
was marked by many ebbs and flows^ still the general 
movement was forward, and great improvements were 
made. The period was pretty prolific in useful works, 
of which, perhaps, the most valuable were those of 
Walter Blythe, who drew attention to the cultivation of 
clover, as grown in Flanders; and of Sir Richard 
Weston, who still further advocated its use, and who has 
been called the ''modem founder of alternate hus- 
bandry/' This period witnessed the drainage of exten- 
sive tracts of land in the fen districts ; the proposal of 
an Agricultural College, by Samuel Hartlib, the friend 
of Milton ; and last, not least, the foundation of the 
race of gentlemen, or proprietor, farmers. 

In the seventeenth century, near its close, a periodical 
was commenced, entitled Houghton^s Collections on 
Husbandry and Trade, In this, the earliest notice is 
found of the now esteemed and widely practised plan 
of feeding oflF turnips with sheep — '' that animal with 
golden feet," as it has been called, in allusion to the 
value of this practice. About the same time, Wor- 
ledge^s ''System of Agriculture*' discussed drainage, 
irrigation, and the cultivation of green crops. Early in 
the eighteenth century, Mortimer's ''Whole Art of 
Husbandry" was published, and in 1731 appeared the 
work of the famous Jethro Tull, entitled " Horse- 
hoeing Husbandry." The system of which this book was 
an exposition, gradually worked its way into favour — 
though at first, and for long, greeted and pursued with 
ridicule and disdain — and ultimately gave a new and 
a remarkable direction to the art of husbandry. Since 
its introduction the whole of what may be called the "im- 
provements of modern agriculture" have taken place. 



EABLT HISTORT OF BRITISH AGRICXTLTURB. 29 

It was towards the middle^ or perhaps more correctly 
towards the end, of the eighteenth century, that the 
value of the alternate mode of husbandry began to 
be appreciated, in which alternate crops of cereals 
and grain crops were taken from the land, the latter 
enabling larger supplies of cattle to be maintained, and, 
by consequence, larger supplies of manure to make up for 
the exhaustion of the land by the cereal or com crops. 
Drainage also began to be practised on a larger scale, 
and on more scientific principles. Several new crops 
were added to the list of those formerly at the service 
of the farmer, as, for instance, the potato (about 1750) 
— previously cultivated in gardens — the Swede turnip 
(about 1790), the mangold-wurzel, and the spring variety 
of wheat (about 1795). In 1760 Bakewell began his 
celebrated experiments on the improvement of stock, 
which resulted in completely changing their character 
— ^more especially that of sheep — and rendering them 
of far greater value for breeding and feeding purposes. 
In 1777 the ''Bath and West of England Society'' was 
instituted, having for its special purpose the improve- 
ment of agriculture. In 1784 the institution of the 
Highland Society followed ; and in 1793 the Board of 
Agriculture was formed by the legislature, and placed 
under the control of the celebrated Sir John Sinclair. 

'' It would seem, then,'* says the able writer in the 
Quarterly Review, already quoted, " that the first great 
epoch of modem agricultural improvement began with 
Lord Townshend, who demonstrated the truth embodied 
in the adage — 

' He who marls sand 
May buy the land ;' 

showed the value of the turnip ; and, as we presume, 
must have been a patron of the four-course system. 



80 FARMIKa AND FARMINa SOONOMT. 

whicli had its rise in Norfolk about the same time. 
The second epoch was that of Bakewell^ whose principles 
of stock breeding have ever since continued to raise^ 
year by year, the average value of our meat-producing 
animals. The third epoch dates from the exertions of 
such men as the Duke of Bedford, and Coke of 
Holkham ; the latter of whom, combining usages which 
had been partially acted upon, brought into favour 
drilled turnip husbandry ; carried out all the branches 
of farming, as far as was permitted by the knowledge of 
his time ; and did the inestimable service of inoculating 
hundreds of landlords and tenants with his own views. 
The fourth epoch, if we were to take each advance from 
its earliest dawn, would comprise the various dates of the 
opening of the first railroad, the importation of the first 
cargo of guano, the publication of Liebig's first edition of 
the ' Chemistry of Agriculture,^ and the deep draining 
of the Bonesetter's field on Chat Moss ; but, in general 
terms, it might be said to date from the first meeting 
of the Royal Agricultural Society, at Oxford, in 1839, 
when farmers began to be familiarised with men of 
science, and men of science learned not to despise 
agricultural experience. This last era is almost the 
birth of yesterday, and already, as compared with any 
former period, the results read more like a page from 
the 'Arabian Nights' than like a chapter in the history 
of agricultural progress. Deep drainage, artificial ma- 
nures, artificial food, improved implements, and railroad 
conveyance, have been the leading means by which the 
change has been wrought. Deep drainage has brought 
into play the unexhausted fertility of our strong clays. 
Portable manures, and purchased food, have increased 
the crops on land of every degree. Mangolds and 
Swedes have been made to flourish on stiff soils, and 



EARLT HISTORT OV BKITISH AGBIOULTURB. 81 

cereals on sieve-like sands. Downs have been trans- 
formed from bare pastures to heavy root and rich grain- 
bearing fields. The visitors to Salisbury Plain, at the 
Agricidtural Show of 1857, were surprised to find a 
large part of it converted into productive com land — a 
change which has been almost entirely effected within 
the last twenty years. The scientific mechanic has 
provided the tools and machinery for breaking up and 
pulverising the ground, for sowing the seed, for gather- 
ing the crop, for preparing it for market.'* 

Such, then, is a rapid glance at the early history of 
British Husbandry, so far as England is concerned. 

Of the condition of Scottish agriculture in very early 
times, history has left little or no record. But as in 
England, so in Scotland, agriculture and horticulture 
owed much to the exertions of the monks and the 
religious communities. Mr. Cosmo Innes, in his recent 
work, " Scotland in the Middle Ages,'' gives most 
instructive details, showing the interest the monks took 
in, and the immense services they rendered to the agri- 
culture of Scotland in the thirteenth century. After 
explaining many very curious customs, he concludes 
as follows : — " The immense number and variety of 
agricultural transactions, the frequent transference of 
lands, the disputes and settlements regarding marches; 
the precision and evident care of leases, the very occur- 
rence so frequently of the names of field divisions, 
and of the boundaries between farms, settled by King 
David in person, show an enlightened attention and 
interest in agricultural affairs, that seem to have spread 
from the monarchy and reached the whole population, 
during that period of national peace and good govern- 
ment which was so rudely terminated by the ' Wars of 
the Succession.' " 



82 FARMING AND FARBnNG EOONOHT. 

Although the condition of agriculture in Scotland^ in 
early times^ was very depressed^ judging from some 
enactments of the parliament of Alexander 11.^ still 
some idea of correct cultivation of the soil must have 
been prevalent, from the enactment of a severe law 
against those who allowed a pernicious weed to grow in 
their fields. In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, 
oats and barley were the principal crops grown, although 
wheat seems to have been cultivated as early as the 
thirteenth century. One authority states that at this 
period " the peasants neither enclosed nor planted, nor 
endeavoured to ameliorate the sterility of the soil.^* 
About the beginning of the seventeenth century, ac- 
cording to the testimony of an English traveller, cattle 
and horses seem to have been abundant. The time of the 
year for putting the horses to grass was deemed of such 
importance by the legislature, that they enacted that this 
should be the 15th of May ; and the period to extend 
for six months. Of the progress agriculture, in Scot- 
land, made during the seventeenth century, we have no 
correct means of knowing. Ray, who visited its eastern 
coast in 1660, mentions that he saw little or no fallow 
ground ; some lay land he noticed, which was manured 
with sea-weed ; barley and oats he saw, but little wheat 
and rye ; and of the condition of the peasantry, and of 
their industrious habits, he seemed to have formed a low 
opinion. The seventeenth century witnessed the enact- 
ment of laws which exercised a most beneficial influence 
on the future progress of agriculture. Thus, the law of 
1633 enabled landlords to have their tithes valued, and 
to purchase or commute them at six or nine years' 
value ; and the laws of 1695, bearing on the separation 
of properties which had become intermixed, and for the 
division of commons, — all had a beneficial influence ; so 



EARLY BISTORT OF BRITISH AGRIOULTURB. 33 

that the same period which witnessed the devastating 
effects of the civil and religious wars^ saw also improve- 
ments begun. 

At the period of the Revolution, agriculture was in 
very low condition in Scotland, so much so that many 
farms were unoccupied, and landowners were as eager 
to get tenants as the tenants now are to get landowners 
to let them their farms. The union of Scotland with 
England gave rise to a gradual and steady improvement. 
In 1723 the Society for Improvement in the Knowledge 
of Agriculture in Scotland was established; and in 
East Lothian great exertions were made by patriotic 
gentlemen there resident to improve the state of culti- 
vation. John Cockburn, of Ormeston, was one of those 
who exercised a remarkable influence in this wav, as weU 
as the Earl of Stair, who is said to have been the first 
who grew turnips in Scotland. Mr. Maxwell also took 
great interest in the society above-named ; and he it was 
who published its " Select Transactions,^' from which 
it appears that "the practice of drainage, enclosing, 
summer fallowing, sowing flax, hemp, rape, turnip, and 
grass seeds ; planting cabbages after, and potatoes with, 
the plough, in fields of great extent, is introduced.^' 
Summer fallowing, mentioned in the above extract, 
was not introduced in Scotland till about this period, 
although in use in England from the time of the 
Saxons and Normans. Mr. John Walker, in East 
Lothian, was the first who practised it in Scotland. 
About 1790 the swing-plough was greatly improved by 
Small; and in 1795 the threshing-machine was in- 
vented by Meikle. To Mr. Dawson, of Roxburghshire, 
the agricultpre of Scotland was greatly indebted. He 
has been called the " father of the improved system 
of husbandry in Scotland.'' He introduced, in 1763, 

c 3 



84 FARMINa AKD FARMIKO BOOKOMY. 

the drill system of turnip culture^ and what has been 
termed the convertible husbandry^ in which the growth 
of clover with sown or artificial grasses^ is alternated 
with com and roots. From this period agriculture 
rapidly improved^ till the farming of Scotland took that 
remarkably high position for which it is now so famous. 
Little can be said of the early history of the agri- 
culture of Ireland; for little information^ save of a 
purely conjectural character, is at hand. From the 
peculiarity of the climate, which is humid, and the 
nature of the soil, a rich loam upon limestone, Ireland 
has chiefly been a pastoral and grazing country ; tillage 
or husbandry has, therefore, been little attended to 
up to a comparatively recent period. And what hus- 
bandry has been practised was of the highest order, 
on accoimt chiefly of the small-farm system, which 
may be said to have been the rule for many years, if it 
is not even still the rule. Much of the land confiscated 
to the soldiers of Cromwell fell into the possession of 
English farmers, well acquainted with the improved 
modes of farming carried out in England ; but many 
circumstances — as the unsettled state of the country, 
and the prejudices of the population — prevented these 
modes from being taken up and followed out to any 
great extent ; the condition of farming was, therefore, 
anything but a flourishing one. In 1737 the estab- 
lishment of the Dublin Society, which had for one of its 
aims the encouragement of agriculture, gave a slight 
impetus to improved farming. In 1847 the Royal 
\ Society for the Improvement of Agriculture was insti- 
tuted; and, since its establishment, much has been 
done to bring the state of culture of many farms and 
districts up to a high point of comparative perfection. 
The labours of the Encumbered Estates Court have also 



niSTORIOAL NOTICES OF OUB FARM CBOPa 85 

had a marked influence on the progress of agriculture, 
by throwing facilities in the way of purchase of land by 
men possessed of capital and skill. The future, there- 
fore, of the agriculture of Ireland may be looked upon 
as encouraging. 

Such may be taken as a brief survey of the principal 
points connected with the early history of British 
Husbandry. The survey is necessarily deficient in many 
points ; but space does not permit of much elaborate 
detail being given. Our aim has been, as the very title 
of our work shows, to give mere outlines of its principal 
features. Nor is more required in this place, for 
under the various divisions of the work that more 
extended detail which may be considered necessary will 
be given. These divisions will take up, in somewhat 
systematic order, the following subjects : — Crops ; 
Chemistry ; Soils ; Rotations ; Manures ; Cattle Food ; 
Drainage ; Culture of the Soil ; Steam Culture ; Stock ; 
the Labour Question; Statistics; Agricultural Societies; 
and Education. 



DIVISION SECOND. 

HISTORICAL NOTICES CONNECTED WITH OUR FARM CROPS. 

Wheat. — Little is known as to the early history of 
this, the most important of all our food-producing 
plants. Its cultivation seems to have dated from the 
earliest period in the history of man. The Scripture 
makes frequent mention of it, and the profane writers 
of the classical world recur to it repeatedly. The 
Romans paid great attention to the cultivation of 



86 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

wheats and the rules which their writers have handed 
down to us, adopted by them, are even now worthy of 
our attention. "Under the name of wheat,'' says 
Mr. Fergusson, in a recent paper, " is comprised an 
immense number of varieties ; but there are only two 
such usually recommended, namely, Triticum sativum 
and Triticum hybemum, summer and winter wheat 
Our wheats have, during an extended cultivation, 
through a long series of ages in every variety of climate 
and soil, produced so many distinct races of more or 
less permanency, that it has become exceedingly difficult 
to reduce them to their primitive botanical species. 

'^None are to be found wild in any form approach- 
ing to that in which we cultivate them. It has never, 
however, been pretended that their original types have 
become eiJLtinct. A very curious fact has been ascer- 
tained by the experiments and observations of M. 
Espirit Sabre, a gentleman in the south of France, 
a fact which has been often suggested but always 
scouted : that agricultural wheats are cultivated varie- 
ties of a sort of grasses common in the south of Europe, 
which botanists have uniformly regarded as belonging 
to a diflferent genus named (Egylops, M. Sabre has 
shown how readily their character becomes modified 
by cultivation ; and although wide as is apparently the 
diflference between (Egylops and common wheat, he has 
proved their botanical identity ; for, from the seed of 
the (Egylops sown 1838, and re-sown every year from 
the produce, he had, through successive transforma- 
tions, by the eighth year, obtained crops of real wheat 
as good as that generally grown in his neigbourhood. 

" The wheat plant is certainly an exotic, or a native 
of the Temperate Zones, yet it has a much larger range 
of habitat than any other of the cereals.'^ 



HISTOBIOAL NOTIOBS OF OUR FARM OBOPa 87 

With reference to the above statement as to the 
origin of wheat, a well-known writer — the ^'Old Norfolk 
Parmer^' — goes pretty fully, in the Mark Lane Express, 
and the following is the summary of his observations : — 

"What, then, are the inferences that I intend to 
draw from this chain of evidence ? First, a confirma- 
tion of the fact that wheat has been the common food 
of man at least ever since the Flood, and that it then 
possessed the same features and bulk of grain as at 
present ;* and, secondly, that the East, which was first 
inhabited by man, and was the subject of the catas- 
trophe of the Deluge, was the native country of that 
cereal, from whence, when the race became scattered 
and emigrant, they conveyed it wherever they went; 
and thus it became circulated, first on the countries 
bordering the Mediterranean Sea, and from thence 
extended by the Romans in their conquests to the 
various countries subjected by them. 

'^Away, then, with the fruitless idea of finding a 
parent for this universal plant in any of the grasses 
bearing an affinity to it. Doubtless many of these are 
cereals, and by cultivation may be raised far above 
their station in vegetable life, as you may make a lord 
of a clown or a blacksmith. We know well what culti- 
vation will effect in the most unpromising plants and 
animals ; and, in the floral department, what wonderful 
transformations are daily produced by it. We know, 
too, that if cultivation is neglected, these plants will 
revert to their original condition ; but such is not the 

♦ The author of the ahove remarks points out that the peculiarities 
of the com mentioned in the Bible (Genesis xli. 22), as having " seven 
ears in one stalk/* are still met with in the variety of wheat known as 
Triticum compositum, and which is grown now in Egypt. The pecu- 
liarities of the "corn "correspond also with the mummy wheat discovered 
in a fiarcophf^guf i^ ap. J^llgyptian tomib. 



88 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

case with wheat. Some of the finest types of that 
grain we receive by importation grow spontaneously in 
the interior of Russia; that is^ the ground is left to seed 
itself from the former crop, and is only ploughed-in in 
the most rude and slovenly manner. 

'' Such is the theory I have adopted of the origin of 
wheat. I believe it to be one of those natural blessings 
which were originally bestowed upon man, to enable 
him, by the use of the powers and faculties he pos- 
sesses, to avert in some measure the consequences of 
the curse/' 

Barley. — Like the wheat, this crop has been culti- 
vated and highly esteemed from the remotest periods 
of antiquity. If we endeavour to trace its origin, we 
are taken back to times ^' hoary grey with eld." Men- 
tion is made of it in Holy Writ, and allusions to it 
abound in the writings of oiu* classical authors. Barley, 
like the wheat, was highly esteemed by the Romans, 
who cultivated it extensively. Much has been written 
as to the origin of our cereals, but the truth is, that 
all we know is — ^that we know nothing. Everything 
connected with the subject is purely conjectural. 

Oats, — Although this cereal has been cultivated from 
remote times — so remote that we have no record as to 
its origin — it does not appear to have been known to the 
ancients. No mention is made of it in Scripture, and 
the Roman agricultural writers are altogether silent 
about it. Conjectures have been offered as to its original 
country having been in Persia, or Mesopotamia; and 
this is partially corroborated by the fact that Colonel 
Chesney found, on the banks of the Euphrates, a variety 
of oats growing in a wild state. From the fact above 



HISTOBIOAL NOTICES OF OUB FARM OROPa 89 

noticed^ of the Bible makiDg no mention of it^ it is 
doubtful^ however, whether the plant was known in the 
East at^ an early period in the world's history. The 
probability seems to be that it is of modern origin, being 
in every respect so well suited for cultivation in northern 
climates. 

Rye appears to have been cultivated from a very early 
period. It is mentioned in Scripture, or it is supposed 
to be mentioned, for the word which would seem to 
denote it in one place, denotes in another fitches or 
vetches. None of the classical writers make mention 
of it specially. Pliny only makes incidental allusion 
to a plant which is supposed to be rye. 

Beans, — Frequent mention is made of beans in 
Scripture. The bean is supposed to have been cultivated 
on the banks of the Nile. Its native country is usually 
said to be Persia. De CandoUe is of opinion that " it is 
a native of the borders of the Caspian Sea.^' The 
Greeks seem to have used beans as an article of food ; 
but, from the writings of Roman authors, we gather 
how unimportant a place the crop assumed in their agri- 
culture. Many superstitious notions were connected 
with beans, which still further tended to give an 
importance to them in the eyes of the Roman people. 
It is difficult to state when, and by whom, the bean was 
introduced into this country. Some maintain it to have 
been introduced by the Romans themselves; others, that 
it came in shortly after the Moorish invasion of Spain. 

Pease, like beans, were well known to the ancients, fre- 
quent mention being made of the crop by their writers. 
It has been known and cultivated with us for many 



40 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

centuries. Dr, Lindley believes that the pea has its 
origin in the grey pea, growing wild to this day in 
Greece, and other parts of the Levant. 

Turnip, — This plant gives place to none in its claims 
to a high antiquity. Although it is indigenous to this 
country, it is diflBcult to say where it was first cultivated 
— in the garden or in the field. The Romans, and, as 
it appears, also the Grecians, have shown us in their 
writings the knowledge they possessed of its cultural 
capabilities, and the way in which they cultivated it. 
Curious is it to note that the plan — ^which we look upon 
as advanced modem practice — of sowing along with the 
seed a certain quantity of manure, which can be readily 
taken up by the plants, was well known to, and practised 
by, Roman agriculturists. So highly was the turnip 
thought of by the Romans, that Pliny mentions that it 
took the third place in the rank of their chief products : 
the vine being held in the highest estimation, corn 
next, and turnips the third. Turnips seem to have been 
grown in this country from a very early period ; their 
cultivation being confined apparently to the gardens 
of the monastic establishments. Writers mention this 
fact so early as 1586, 1579, and 1629; but, from a 
confusion in the names, it appears doubtful whether 
'^rape^^ was not meant in place of turnips. Ray, 
however, so early as 1686, sets the matter at rest, by 
stating that turnips were grown everywhere, both in 
field and garden, and " for the sake of their roots.^^ 

The turnip, however, did not begin to take the 
important place in field culture which it now occupies, 
till about 1730, when Lord Charles Townsend, by intro- 
ducing the practice of marling the soil, was so successful 
in its cultivation, that he was known thereafter by the 



HISTORIOAL NOTICES OF OUR FARM CROPS. 41 

soubriquet of " Turnip Townsend/' The turnip culture, 
no doubt^ after this> received a great impetus^ from the 
introduction of the drill mode of sowing, a part of the 
horse-hoeing husbandry system of Jethro Tull. Fine 
as are now the crops of turnips grown in £ngland> 
nearly all authorities agree that it is to the attention 
paid to turnip cultivation by farmers of Scotland and 
the north of England — such as Dawson, Pringle, and 
Culley — that we are chiefly indebted for the modem 
turnip. In 1745, the year of the Great Rebellion, Craig, 
of Arbigland, tried, and tried successfully, the mode of 
growing turnips in the drill ; while, ten years later^ 
it was also done by Philip Howard, of Corby, a 
Northumberland proprietor. Mr. Pringle, of Cold- 
stream, grew, year after year, crops of turnips on the 
new plan; but his example was not followed by his 
farmer neighbours till they had another example set 
them by a tenant-farmer of the name of Dawson, who, 
having resided some time in Norfolk, went down there- 
after to Roxburghshire, and carried out the system 
there. George Culley, the celebrated authority on 
cattle, introduced the improved system of turnip growing 
into Northumberland. 

Between the years 1755 — 1780, the turnip crop re- 
ceived a most valuable accession in the shape of a 
new variety — the Swede. This came originally from 
Gottenburg (about 1755), as from the same place 
came also, in all probability, the yellow turnip ; both 
calculated for storing and keeping through the winter 
months. 

The Cabbage, — Some of the varieties of this useful 
plant seem to have been well known to the ancients ; 
with the Romans it was highly esteemed as a culinary 



42 FARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

herb. It has been cultivated in Europe for many 
centuries. It was most likely brought into this country 
by the Romans. For long it was exclusively cultivated 
in the gardens of the monks^ to whom, as the conser- 
vators and introducers of many of our garden and farm 
plants^ we owe the deepest obligations. 

Mangold'Wurzel, — ^A variety of the beet, which was 
well known to the Greeks and Romans. It is to the 
continent that we owe the mangold-wurzel, the plant 
having been introduced about the end of the eighteenth 
century. 

The Carrot is indigenous to this country. It is 
met with as a wild weed in all the light soil districts ; 
as an edible root it has been long cultivated, but we 
have no record of the time when it was changed from 
the weed to the edible root. The carrot was known 
to the ancients. It was probably introduced into this 
country from the continent, and taken in charge by the 
monks, and cultivated in gardens, from whence it was 
gradually extended to our fields. It was not, however, 
till nearly the end of the eighteenth century that the 
carrot began to be cultivated in fields. 

The Potato has been so recently introduced into this 
country, that we know more of its early history than of 
any other of the farm crops which we have named. It 
is a native of South America, where it was met with 
growing wild. Sir Joseph Banks was of opinion that it 
was brought into Europe by the Spaniards, about the 
end of the sixteenth century. It was not till the end, 
nearly, of the eighteenth that it took place as a field 
crop. In 1584 the root is supposed to have been intro- 



HTSTORIOAL NOTIOBS OF OUR FARM CROPS. 48 

duced into this country. This was the result of a voyage 
of discovery made under the command of Sir Walter 
Raleigh^ to whom generally is attributed the honour of 
having brought over specimens of it. lu 1663 the 
Royal Society endeavoured to overcome the prejudices 
of the people against potatoes as food. In 1684 they 
were cultivated pretty extensively in Lancashire ; and 
in 1728 they were introduced into Scotland. After 
this period the crop began to be more highly esteemed^ 
and its growth was gradually and extensively adopted ; 
and in 1750 potatoes were introduced into field culture. 
There is a feature of peculiar interest eonnected with 
the potato crop^ which cannot be passed over here^ and 
this is the ^' disease '' which created so much distress 
amongst us when first it broke out^ and so much discus- 
sion on the causes of and remedies for it. " In 1843,'' 
says Professor Tanner, in an able paper on the " Culti- 
vation of the Potato/' " the potato crop in America was 
much injured by disease, and some few instances were 
observed in England in this and the following year. It 
remained for 1845 to reveal the fearful loss which this 
disease was capable of producing. The weather had 
been remarkable during the summer of this year for 
a large amount of moisture, both in the form of vapour 
and in rain, accompanied with a more than usually 
clouded sky. From the 1st to the 10th of August the 
sun gained more power, and the moist atmosphere, 
combined with this increased warmth, caused a luxu- 
riance of growth in the potato crop, almost unparalleled. 
These hot and humid days were after this date succeeded 
by cold, and in some places frosty, nights ; and the con- 
sequence was that the potatoes were very generally 
struck with disease, so that within ten days almost 
every part of England joined in the panic-stricken cry, 



44 FARMING AND FARMING BCONOMT. 

'The potato crop is destroyed/ Those districts in 
which the potato formed the staple food were threatened 
with famine, and but for the praiseworthy exertions 
then taken by all classes of society, the horrors of 
famine wonld have been far greater than they were. 

''The loss and alarm thus occasioned led to the 
substitution of other crops ; but in Ireland, where the 
sole support of the greater part of her population was 
potatoes and milk, this could not be accomplished 
immediately, and for two or three years great misery 
and distress prevailed. The Royal Agricultural Society 
of England was actively engaged, immediately after the 
appearance of the disease, in stimulating the introduc- 
tion of remedial measures, and through her officers and 
other scientific men, investigations were instituted into 
the cause of the disease. From that day to the present 
time some degree of mystery has shrouded the catise ; 
although many imagined that they knew the cause, still 
exceptions could in each case be produced to show that 
other agencies had been in operation. 

"These investigations, followed by subsequent exami- 
nations, bring the cause under that extended term 
'atmospheric agency.^ Those who advocated that 
guano and other manures, or the growth of fungi, or 
the development of animal life, had in their respective 
opinions been the cause, have since then seen cause to 
regard them either as results, or else as promoters of 
the disease rather than the cause. The true cause 
is, doubtless, wrapped up in the term, 'atmospheric 
agency;^ and until we are more fully acquainted with 
the subtile influences here combined, and have some 
clearer views of their individual powers, we shall be 
unable definitely to explain the agency employed. 
There are, however, many who will be disposed to go 



HISTOBICAL NOTICJES OF OUR FARM CROPS 45 

with me even beyond this point, and view this disease 
as a remarkable visitation of Providence, intended to 
produce the most important results, and accomplished 
by the command of Him who rules and governs the 
operations of Nature, and at whose will the powers 
of the atmosphere became the agent employed for this 
purpose/^ 

Clover, — The red clover was introduced into this 
country from the Netherlands, in the year 1645, by 
Sir Richard Weston, then ambassador to the Low Coun- 
tries. In the beginning of the eighteenth century, so 
rapidly had the crop got into estimation, that Lisle 
tells us in his " Observations on Husbandry,^' that it 
was seen in general cultivation in Hampshire, Wiltshire, 
and Gloucestershire. 

Rye- Grass. — Perennial Rye, or Ray-grass {Lolium 
perenne)y is one of the oldest cultivated grasses we have. 
In Worledge^s "Mystery of Husbandry Discovered,^' 
published in 1611, it is specially mentioned as a valuable 
grass. Dr. Plot, in his " Oxfordshire," published in 1677, 
mentions that they had lately begun to sow ray-grass 
for the improvement of "cold, sour, clay, weeping 
ground.'* To Mr^ Pacey, of Northleach, the agricul- 
tural world is indebted for that attention to the crop 
which resulted in the change of the " annual variety '' 
to one adapted for two or three years' growth. Italian 
rye-grass (Lolium Italicum) owes its introduction to 
Mr. Charles Lawson, of Edinburgh, the well-known 
authority on agricultural produce. It was brought 
from the continent in 1831 to the extent of 160 bushels, 
which sold at the rate of forty -two shillings per bushel. 
In 1855 the firm of Messrs. Lawson imported 35,000 



46 FARMIKO AND FARMIKa EOOKOMT. 

bashels^ the selling price of which was five shillings per 
bushel. 

Lucerne, — This plant was highly esteemed by the 
ancients, and their best writers speak in favourable 
terms of its value as a fodder plant. It is mentioned 
incidentally by some of our early British writers on 
agriculture ; as by Worledge, Hartlib, and Blythe ; but 

it was not till the middle of the seventeenth centurv 

• 

that it began to be cultivated as a farm crop. The 
seed was first imported from Prance. The eighteenth 
century was well advanced before its cultivation was 
introduced into Scotland; Lord Haddington and Mr. 
Cockburn having introduced it into East Lothian, 
some time between 1720 and 1730; and Lord Stair 
into West Lothian, about 1740. 

Sainfoin, — This plant was introduced into Great 
Britain about the middle of the seventeenth century ; 
but, like many of our forage crops, it was known 
long previous to this on the continent. On being first 
introduced into this coimtry, it was known as " French 
finger grass.'' 

Flaw, — This, the most important of our special or in- 
dustrial crops, is also one of the most ancient. Scripture 
makes such frequent mention of it, as to show the esti- 
mation in which it was early held. The Greeks and 
the Romans wBre well acquainted with it; and the 
agricultural authorities amongst the latter people con- 
demned it, as one of the most exhaustive crops which 
could be cultivated. Whatever other opinions held by 
the Romans have gone out, and are in no repute, this 
has, at all events^ survived to the present day^ and is 



HISTOBIOAL NOTIOBS OF OUR FARM OROPa 47 

precisely that which is maintained by the majority of our 
modem farmers. Flax appears to have been cultivated 
in this country as early as the end of the twelfth 
century, and great pains were taken to increase its 
cultivation, as may be gathered from an enactment of 
Henry VII I., requiring that, for every sixty acres of land 
under tillage, one rood of it, at least, should be under 
flax; this quantity being increased, in the reign of 
Elizabeth, to one acre. 

The Hop does not appear (at least the point is obscure) 
to have been known to the ancients. Evidence there is 
to show that, about the ninth and tenth centuries, the 
plant was cultivated, although to a very limited extent. 
In the fourteenth century its cultivation appears to have 
greatly increased ; the Germans being the first who paid 
attention to the crop, and used the seeds for the making 
of beer. From Germany it was introduced into the 
Low Coimtries, about the sixteenth century. It does 
not appear that the plant was known and cultivated in 
this country before the middle of the sixteenth century. 
It is said to have been introduced from Artois. It 
was not in high estimation for some time, as appears 
from an ordinance of the royal household, forbidding 
hops to be used for the making of ale. It was only 
toward the latter half of the sixteenth century that 
hops began to be cultivated to some extent, and direct 
encouragement was given by the legislature to their 
cultivation, by privileges being granted to the possessors 
of hop-grounds. So limited, for a considerable period, 
however, was the culture, that hops were imported from 
the continent ; until, in the counties of Kent, Surrey, 
SuflFolk, and Essex, the crop had increased so much that 
the produce was equal to meet the home consumption. 



48 FAHMU^a AND FARMINa ECONOMY. 



BOOK 11. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTICE OP THE RISE AND PROGRESS OP 

AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 

At a very early period in the history of British 
Agriculture, chemists offered their aid to hasten forward 
its progress ; but, although convinced that the healthy 
development of plants was dependent on chemical 
changes taking place in them, and in the soil in which 
they grew, still the opinions held were so vague, the 
statements so contradictory, and the data on which these 
changes were supposed to take place so imperfect, that 
little practical benefit resulted. Hence, the opinions 
of such men as Kircher, Digby, Hook, and Bradley, 
may be looked upon as merely the curiosities of che- 
mical literature, and as exercising no influence on the 
chemistry of agriculture. The progress of this now 
important department of the science of farming was 
much retarded by the introduction of the theory of 
Jethro Tull, which, attributing the increase of the 
fertility of our soils to mechanical pulverisation, drew 
away the attention of scientific men from the importance 
of its chemical requirements. This, doubtless, was also 
brought about by the imperfect nature of the science 
of chemistry itself; which, until systematised by the 
celebrated Lavoisier, was incapable of throwing any 
true light upon the matter. 

In 1795, shortly after the establishment of chemistry 
upon true principles, as expounded by Lavoisier, 



RISE AND PROGRESS OF AGBIOULTURAL CHEMISTET. 49 

named above^ the Earl of Ihmdonald published his 
"Treatise showing the intimate connection that subsists 
between Agriculture and Chemistry/' This was ad- 
dressed to the farmers of Great Britain and Ireland, 
and to the proprietors of estates in the West Indies ; 
and brought prominently out the value of the aid which 
the science of modem chemistry was so well fitted to 
bestow on agriculture. Although abounding in much 
that was interesting in the composition of plants and 
soils, and their treatment, still the work was considered 
as that of a visionary, and, not emanating from a 
"practical man'' — that objection which is fatal to 
many a valuable suggestion — ^it was speedily condemned 
to neglect. The same fate attended the publications 
of the celebrated Saussure, containing results of those 
remarkable researches which extended over a long 
series of years, and which laid the foundation of 
almost all our accurate knowledge of the chemistry 
of vegetation. " Although/' to quote the words of 
one who has himself laid the agricultural world under 
no small obligations, for his own chemical researches in 
connection with agriculture, " Saussure traced with 
singular care and accuracy the whole phenomena of the 
life of plants, and indicated the mode in which the facts 
he established might be taken advantage of in improving 
the cultivation of the soil," nevertheless it was not till 
the publication of the lectures given by Sir Humphrey 
Davy, that the advances of agricultural chemistry 
began to have any practical effect. These lectures 
were delivered, in 1812, before the Board of Agriculture, 
which owed its existence to the celebrated Sir John 
Sinclair. In these lectures. Sir Humphrey Davy 
showed that "agricultural chemistry" had for its 
object " all those changes in the arrangements of matter 



50 FARMING AND FARMING BGONOMY. 

connected with the growth and nourishment of plants ; 
the comparative values of their produce as food ; the 
constituents of soils ; the manner in which lands are 
nourished by manure, or rendered fertile by the different 
processes of cultivation/^ But, valuable as the expo- 
sitions of this celebrated chemist were, and marked (as 
compared with what had been done by previous authori- 
ties) as their influence was, on the advance of the science 
of agricultural chemistry, still the interest they excited 
was of no great duration ; and although at intervals, 
writers, such as Grisenthwaite and Madden, and ex- 
perimenters, as Schubler, kept up the interest in the 
subject somewhat, it was not till the publication of 
the work of the now celebrated Dr. Justus Von Liebig, 
of the chemical school of Giessen, that agricultuiil 
chemistry took its place as one of the most important of 
modern sciences. Since then, the researches and pub- 
lications of such able men as Berzelius, Boussingault, 
Wolff, Barral, Stockhardt, on the continent; and in 
our own country, of Johnston, Way, Voelcker, and 
Anderson, have greatly contributed to its advance. In 
1844 the '^ Agricultural Chemistry Association of 
Scotland ^^ was founded. This is now merged into, and 
taken up by, the Highland and Agricultural Society of 
Scotland. In connection with all the agricultural 
societies of England, Scotland, and Ireland, Consulting 
Chemists are appointed. 

It was in 1840 that Liebig's first great work appeared. 
It was entitled, "Chemistry, in its application to 
Agriculture and Physiology.^^ 

"At that time,^^ says a distinguished author, "a 
very general impression prevailed that British agricul- 
ture was capable of great development, but that there 
were no established principles to guide its advance^ nor 



RISE AND PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRT. 51 

even any sure ground on which to tread if any deviation 
were made either to the right or to the left of the beaten 
track marked out by our forefathers. 

" The appearance of Baron Liebig's book was there- 
fore naturally hailed with great delight. All admired 
the masterly way in which he traced the elements of 
vegetable life to their original sources, pointed out their 
chemical composition, and followed them through the 
various stages of the plant^s development and maturity, 
until the process of decay had again reduced them to 
the elemeiatary form. His main position, too, that in 
order permanently to maintain the fertility of cultivated 
land^ it was necessary to restore to it all the substances 
contained in the various crops exported from the farm, 
was as new to agriculturists as it was convincing, and 
its application to practical agriculture seemed as simple 
and easy as it has since been found to be complicated 
and difl&cult. 

" For the time, however, the whole secrets of the 
science of agriculture seemed to be laid open by the 
production of this master key; nor could it well be 
otherwise. The accuracy of the chemical investiga- 
tions which formed the basis of this work has never 
been questioned; and the reasoning with which the 
various results were united into one constituent and 
comprehensive scheme, seemed so sound and satisfac- 
tory, that the delighted reader was led on by easy steps 
until he reached an elevation from which it was difficult 
to avoid believing that the prospect before him included 
the whole pasty present, and futwre of agriculture.^' 

The expectations thus raised in the minds of practical 
men as to the value of the principles of agricultural 
chemistry, in their application to every-day practice, 
were not realised ; nor were they likely to \ie, ^iJci^XX^^ 

D 2 



62 JfABMING AKD FARHIKa ECONOMY. 

as they were by a perfect host of writers, who, with 
no real knowledge of science, flooded the country with 
a wide and wild variety of the most absurd theories and 
speculations. Men of true science saw this, and warned, 
but warned in vain, farmers of the danger of trusting 
too much to what chemistry could do for agriculture. 
The natural result was, that a reaction set in ; and from 
the extreme of expecting too much from its aid, they 
began to discredit its power, and believed that it could 
do nothing for them. Juster views of the matter are, 
however, daily gaining groimd, and a correct estimate 
of the value of what chemical science can do for agricul- 
ture is gradually being formed by practical men. The 
following, by Dr. Anderson, will be a fitting conclusion 
to our introductory remarks on the subject : — 

" The extreme complexity of the problems with 
which agricultural chemistry has to deal may be con- 
ceived from the fact, that most plants contain from 
twelve to fifteen different substances, all essential to 
their existence, the relations of which must be investi- 
gated before definite views can be obtained regarding 
the changes which go on in the organism of the 
plant. These relations, moreover, are far more com- 
plicated than even the number of the elements alone 
would lead us to suppose. The single element of sulphur, 
for instance, which does not constitute more than two or 
three parts in the thousand of most plants, exists there 
in not less than three different forms of combination, 
in each of which it is as essential to the plant as those 
which form the great proportion of its bulk. Now, 
it must be sufficiently manifest, that questions involving 
elements of such complexity are not to be solved as 
rapidly or easily as the far simpler problems of mineral 
chemistry; and that not merely on account of their 



RISE AND PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURAL CHEHISTRT. 58 

superior complexity alone^ bnt because^ in the one 
case, theoretical chemistry sets us far on our way 
towards the solution, while in the other there is still 
a great gap to be filled up — a whole mine of scientific 
facts to be worked out — before we are in the condition 
to approach sufficiently near the comprehension of these 
more complicated phenomena. In fact, they are not 
questions of pure chemistry, but are intimately inter- 
woven with vegetable physiology, — so much so, indeed, 
that in many instances it is scarcely possible to decide 
to which of these two sciences they ought strictly to 
belong. And it is just herein that their great difficulty 
consists; for there is nothing more certain than that 
these questions which lie, so to speak, on the confines 
of two sciences, require for their successful investiga- 
tion a high degree of development of both the sciences 
on which they depend. Now, chemistry is still far 
from having attained all that development of which 
it is capable, as the time during which it has been 
cultivated has not been sufficiently long to admit of 
much progress, except in special departments. Few 
of those who are not themselves chemists are aware 
that the facts and doctrines of modem chemistry have 
been determined duriug little more than the last sixty 
years ; and that, with few exceptions, all the laborious 
investigations of the older chemists, and, without excep- 
tion, all their general doctrines, were then swept away, 
to be replaced by the science as it now exists ; while 
organic chemistry, with which agriculture is more inti- 
mately connected, has been successfully prosecuted for 
not more than half that period." 

^' If it be asked," says an able writer, ^' what has been 
practically gained within the last twenty years by the in- 
vestigations of the agricultural chemist, we YioxsXdL^w^^^t , 



54 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

certainty. We knew years ago that farm-yard mannre 
was excellent. By the light of chemical science we learn 
why it is ^ a perfect universal manure;' we learn how 
to manufacture and employ it best ; and we learn why, 
on clay soils, it may be safely, nay, advantageously, 
left for weeks on the surface before being ploughed in. 
Chemical science again teaches us why lime, which is 
not an active manure, although valuable as a destroyer 
of elements hostile to fertility, produces great eflFect for 
a series of years, and then not unfirequently ceases to 
show any profitable results. It teaches us to what crops 
guano, superphosphate of lime— to what farm-yard 
manure may be most profitably applied — and when 
a mixture of all three. Chemistry settles the com- 
parative value of linseed-cake, cotton-cake, and carob 
beans ; shows when pulse should be used for fattening 
pigs, and how to compound a mixture of Indian com 
and bean-meal which shall produce fat bacon neither 
hard nor wasteful. The conclusions of science were 
previously known empirically to a few, but their range 
was limited and their application accidental. They 
have been reduced to order, and rendered universally 
available for the use of plain farmers, by the investiga- 
tions of men like Lawes and Voelcker. As the latter 
observes, ' There are too many modifying influences of 
soil, climate, season, &c., to enable us to establish any 
invariable laws for the guidance of the husbandman.' 
But the more we can trace eflects to their causes, and 
ascertain thie mode in which nature operates, the nearer 
we are to fixed principles and a sure rule of practice.^ 



» 



THB OHBMISTRT OF OONSTITUBNTS OF PLANTS. 56 



DIVISION FIRST. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF OONSTITUENTS OF PLANTS.— SOILS.- 
EXHAUSTION OF SOIia — ROTATIONa 



Section I. — Constitubnts of Plants. 

It is to the researches of Liebig that agriculture is 
indebted for an exposition of the important constituents 
upon which plants depend for their peculiarities. Plants 
are composed of various substances^ all of which come 
under one of two classes : the organic and inorganic. The 
organic portions of plants are those which are capable of 
being consumed^ and which have been the seat of life, 
either animal or vegetable. The inorganic substances of 
plants have not been so distinguished, and they are in- 
combustible, being the portion left when the plant is con- 
sumed ; they are also frequently termed the ^^ ash,^^ or 
'^ mineral constituents '' of plants. The researches of 
Liebig, so late as in 1840, showed that the peculiarities 
of plants depend upon their mineral or inorganic consti- 
tuents. This truth was clearly foreseen by chemists 
years before this date. In 1698, for instance, Beid 
published, in the " Philosophical Transactions,'' a list 
of the mineral ingredients of plants; and Saussure, 
in 1804, made some researches bearing on the point; 
but it took no particular place till Liebig devoted 
himself to its investigation and elucidation. So small 
a proportion do the mineral ingredients bear to the 
whole plant, that for long it was supposed they could 
play a very unimportant part in the vegetable ecovvcyKs^ , 



56 FARMING AND FARMING SOONOMT. 

But this was taking the very narrowest view of the 
subject^ as if quantity or bulk alone enabled any sub- 
stances to increase in value. This was shown very 
clearly by Liebig, who said, ^^ Their small quantity does 
not indicate their inutility. The phosphate of lime 
existing in the animal body does not amount to a fifth 
part of its weight ; yet it cannot be affirmed that this 
salt is unnecessary to the formation of its bones. I have 
detected the same compound in the ashes of all plants 
submitted to examination, and we have no right to 
suppose that they could exist without it.^' Space does 
not permit us to go more fully into an exposition of 
Liebig^s views; suffice it say that they were generally 
accepted as correct, and have had a marked influence 
in placing vegetable physiology on a right basis. A 
pretty full statement of the views generally held as to 
the value of the constituents of plants will be found in 
the companion volume, ^^ Outlines of Modem Farming," 
Vol. I., '^ Soils — Manures — Crops.^' It is right, how- 
ever, here to state, that views are held by eminent men 
at variance with those enunciated by Liebig, and held 
by the majority of scientific men. Dr. Cameron, of 
Dublin, has been lately instituting a series of experi- 
ments in connection with the inorganic constituents of 
plants, and has published many interesting details. In 
a recent article he states that it is his intention to pro- 
secute still further inquiries into the subject, and says, 
^^ I am not vain enough to suppose that the results of 
my investigations, however elaborate and extensive they 
may be, will solve these important problems ; their com- 
plete and satisfactory solution can, indeed, only be accom. 
plished by the labours of many chemists and by the 
careful performance of a large number of experiments. 
The more I study this subject the more I am disposed 



THE CHEMISTRY OF CONSTITUENTS OF PLANTa 57 

to believe that many of the mineral substances found 
in plants are either wholly useless or are present in 
greater quantity than is necessary or useful. It also 
appears to me that too much importance is given to 
the difference in the composition of the ashes of various 
kinds of plants. Excepting those plants^ such as the 
GramiruB and the EquisetcB, which contain a large 
quantity of silica for mechanical purposes^ there is, 
after all, but little difference between the composition 
of the ashes of all our cultivated plants. How often 
do we not find a greater difference in the composition 
of two specimens of the same plant than in the com- 
position of two plants belonging to different species ? 
That sea- weeds contain a large amount of sodium com- 
pounds is no proof that soda is the alkali they prefer. 
They are constantly moistened with sea-water, of which 
sodium is the most abundant constituent. Ought we 
not rather to consider potassium as the alkali essential 
to sea-weed, since, when watered with a fluid contain- 
ing thirty times more sodium than potassium, they 
absorb from it both elements in nearly equal propor- 
tions ? Were potassium the preponderating ingredient 
of sea-water, 1 have no doubt the amount of sodium 
existing in sea- weeds would be exceedingly small. The 
opinion of the late Dean (Herbert) of Manchester, that 
plants do not grow naturally in the soils best suited to 
them, absurd though it may at first sight appear, is, 
after all, not very far from the truth, ' I saw,' said 
the sagacious Dean, ^ a crocus, a sternebergia, and an 
omithogalum growing in contact with each other aloft 
on the meagre soil of Mount iEnos ; but not a seed- 
pod of the sternebergia could be discovered, and very 
few of the crocus. In a more fertile soil they would have 
been choked by some stronger plant, but t\ye^ ^w5^^ 

D 3 



58 FARMIKa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

rejoice in a better soil if protected against the oppres- 
sor/ The Dean contends that the reason why certain 
plants are found in peculiar situations is not because 
they prefer them, but simply because they alone are 
capable of existing there, or because, in more favourable 
places, they would be overcome by more vigorous plants. 
I am almost disposed to adopt the Dean's theory in its 
entirety. Do we not see the furze flourishing in places 
where the wheat, the pea, or the cabbage would speedily 
perish ; yet who can doubt that the furze thrives still 
better when cultivated in a kindly soil ? The bare rocks 
to which the Algae cling are *sterile to the cultivated 
plants; but what chance of existence would the soft 
mass of cells which form these vegetal mechanisms have 
if surrounded by such firm, hardy plants as the thistle, 
the sweet brier, or the cabbage ? It is not the par- 
tiality of the sea- weeds for soda which is the cause of 
their growing only on the coast ; it is because their 
low organisation permits them to live upon the coarse 
fare supplied by the ocean, and to be developed under 
other conditions of existence, which would speedily 
prove fatal to plants higher in the scale of vegetal 
life.^' 

During the last few years a large number of analyses 
of the ash of plants have been made by agricultural 
chemists. Many of these have been published ; and we 
here give an analysis showing the per centage of the 
constituents of the Cereal, Root, and Forage Crops. 

The whole subject here opened up is still, however, 
in the region of controversy, and much has yet to be 
done in the way of its thorough investigation before 
definite conclusions can be arrived at. There is, how- 
ever, a probability that nothing definite can be deter- 
mined, where so much is beyond man's finite knowledge. 



ANALYSES OF CROPS. 



59 



Grain of Cereal Crops. 





Wheat. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


Rye. 


Silica . . . . f - - 


117 

49-81 

0-24 

2-81 
1203 

0-67 
23-72 

9-05 


25-27 
3205 
0-95 
0-37 
2-41 
8-39 
0-76 
26-30 
122 
0-68 
1-60 


45-03 
25-14 
1-76 
0-23 
3-59 
6-32 
0-84 
15-13 
1«63 

0*44 


0-43 

49*55 

0«98 

4-93 
10-35 

1-36 
22-08 
11-07 


Phosphoric acid . . 
Sulphuric acid . . 
Carbonic acid . . 
Liime .... 






Magnesia . . . 
Peroxide of iron 
Potash , , . . 






Soda .... 






Chloride of potassium 
Chloride of sodium 




^Straw op Cereal Crops. 




Wheat. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


Rye. 


Silica 

Phosphoric acid . . 
Sulphuric acid . . 
Carbonic acid 
Xiime . . . . • 






65-38 
307 
6-82 

6-70 
3-82 
1-30 
12-44 
016 


59-25 
4-04 
2-45 
1-76 
8-84 
2-59 
0-73 

14-99 
1-20 
0-18 
3-92 


49-56 
5-07 
3-35 
1-36 
7-01 
3-79 
1-49 

19-46 
1-93 
2-71 
4-27 


0-46 
3-82 
0-83 

9-06 

•41 

-36 

1 -36 

•31 


Magnesia . . . 
Peroxide of iron 
Potash .... 
Soda .... 






Chloride of potassium 
Chloride of sodium 





The Leouminous Crops. 



Beans. 



Potash 

Soda 

Magnesia • . • . 

Lime 

Phosphoric acid . . 
Sulphuric acid . . . 

Silica 

Peroxide of iron . . 
Chloride of sodium . 
Chloride of potassium 



24-50 
2-85 
3*84 

3283 
5-75 
2-83 
3-96 
3-44 
1-89 
1-86 



Pease. 



36-67 
7-32 
8-62 
5-39 

30-88 
4-43 



2-17 



60 



FABMIKa AND FARMING BCONOMT. 



Root Cbops. 





Tnrnlp. 


Potofco. 


KohlRAbL 


Potash 


41-96 


5288 


45*58 


Soda 


6-09 

13C0 

6*34 


0-53 
2-59 


2-84 

40-51 

5-98 


Lime 


Magnesia 


Phf»phorio acid 


7-58 


5-13 


9-89 


Oxide of iron 


1-28 


0-17 




Sulphnric acid 


13-60 


^1912 


2206 


Chlorine 


3-60 


4-82 




Silica 


7-95 


0-53 


10-37 


Chloride of potassium . . . 






5-99 


Chloride of sodium .... 






18-56 



Green, or Leaf Crops. 



Cabbage. 



Potash 

Soda 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Oxide of iron . . . , 
Phosphoric acid . . . 
Sulphuric acid . . . 

Chlorine 

Silica 

Chloride of potassium . 
Chloride of sodium . . 
Carbonic acid . . . 



11-70 

20*42 

20*97 

6*94 

0-60 

12-37 

21*48 

6-77 

0-75 



Rape. 



31-51 




5-88 

0-82 

12-78 



FoRAOB Crops. 



I 



Potash 

Soda 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Oxide of iron, alumina, &c. 
Phosphoric acid . . • 
Sulphuric acid .... 

Chlorine 

Silica 

Chloride of sodium . . 
Peroxide of iron . , . 

Chlorides 

Silicic acid 



Hay. 



1811 
1-35 

22-95 
675 
1-69 
597 
2-70 
2-59 

37-89 



Italian 

Rye 

Grass. 



12-45 
3-98 
9-25 
2-23 

6*34 
2-82 

59-1 
5-58 
•7 



Clover. 



31-73 
0-67 

32-80 
8-40 

8-40 
3-33 



Lucerne. 



0-40 
7-20 
7*07 



1403 
6-44 

50-57 
3-64 
63 

13-68 
4 32 
3-23 
3-46 



Sainfoin. 



29-57 
6-28 

31-55 
4-14 
095 

1317 
4-90 
2-26 
7-1 



OHEMISTBT OF SOII& 61 



Section n. — Soils. 



We have already seen that when chemistry offered 
her aid to agriculture^ great things were anticipated from 
it. It was supposed by sanguine admirers that by its 
aid not only would the fertility of any soil be easily 
estimated by it^ but^ that should any soil be deficient 
in fertility, chemistry would show at once how to 
apply the substance or substances necessary to make 
it productive. It is right, however, to state that 
chemists did not themselves hold out such extrava- 
gant views; and the result of the last few years^ 
experience has proved them to be right. For although 
chemistry has certainly, in some instances, been able 
to show at once the absence of a ^^ particular valuable 
constituent,^' and to clearly indicate the cause of 
infertility, yet in many instances, as Dr. Anderson 
remarks, " analysis has hitherto failed to assign a reason 
why one soil should be barren, and another capable of 
producing luxuriant crops,'' " Limited as our informa- 
tion still is," continues the same authority, " I think it 
has been pretty clearly established that there erist two 
classes of soils — one containing a larger quantity of 
alkalies in the portion insoluble in acids, and possessing, 
therefore, a permanent source of fertility ; the other, in 
which the alkalies are present in small quantity, and 
entirely in the portion soluble in acids; so that such 
soils, if left to themselves, would soon be exhausted. 
The former class comprises for the most part the rich 
alluvial soils, such as that of the Carse of Gowrie, and 
those formed by the disintegration of trap rocks. The 
other class, though certainly inferior, embraces many 
of our finest and most fertile wheat soils. In these, 
as in many other cases, it cannot be doubted that the 



62 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

mechanical condition of the soil is an important element 
of its fertility/' 

Soil is usually considered^ or rather perhaps popularly 
considered^ to be a homogeneous mass^ of which all the 
particles are more or less useful to^ and supportive of^ 
plant life ; this utility being of course in some soils of 
higher value than in others, just as they are fertile or 
the opposite. But recent investigations into the nature 
of soils have shown that the soil is not homogeneous or 
of uniform quality. Dr. Daubeny has shown that a soil 
consists of two portions, the " active '^ and the '^ dor- 
mant ;'' to which is now added a third, the ^' gritty " 
portion. The '^ gritty/' " dormant/' and ^' active/' are 
the three steps in the ascending scale of soil value or 
fertility. The ^'gritty" portion is made up of the 
stony particles of the rocks from which they have 
derived their origin, and which have been the last to 
succumb to the action of the atmospheric agencies. 
The ^'dormant" portion is made up of the gritty particles 
in a stage more fully acted upon by the atmospheric 
agencies — soil in appearance, but having the food of 
plants, which it contains " insoluble," and therefore not 
capable of being assimilated by them. The "active" 
portions are the dormant particles still more fully acted 
upon by the atmospheric agencies, so that the food of 
the plants which they contain are rendered soluble, 
and are therefore easily assimilated by them. These 
views materially modify the value of a soil analysis, 
which merely takes up the soil as a mass ; for it is evident 
that the proportion of the active ingredients in it will 
alone influence its immediate value. Dr. Daubeny has 
shown the importance of the classification of soils now 
explained ; for in many analyses of soils made, one half of 
the alkalies, and one-eighth only of the phosphoric acid, 



CHEMISTRT OF SOILS. 68 

were in an active state ; the remainder being dormant. 
Had the analysis of the soil as an entire or homogeneous 
mass been taken in these instances^ its value would have 
been estimated as higher, by nearly twice the quantity 
of alkaline matter and seven-eighths of phosphoric acid. 
It is by cultivation and tillage that the dormant portions 
of the soil are raised to the higher scale of the active. 

While on the subject of soils, we must not omit 
mention of the experiments of Mr. Way on tfieir 
absorptive powers. These experiments, although not 
conclusive, have yet such an important bearing upon 
the question of the cultivation of our soils, that we 
must here give a rapid resumS of the investigations of 
Mr. Way. Chemists were long acquainted with the 
fact, that clay possessed to a small extent the power of 
absorbing ammonia. Mr. Huxtable, in 1848, was the 
first to notice — at least, the first to publish — ^the fact 
that arable land had the power of so acting upon liquid 
manure, as to deprive it of all bad smell and colour. 
Mr. H. S. Thompson made the ^^fine discovery that 
soil had the power of returning in an insoluble state 
the alkali of an ammoniacal solution, even when the 
base was not free, but engaged in such combinations 
as the muriate, the sulphate, and the nitrate of am- 
monia.'^ It was, however, reserved to Mr. Way, to 
show very clearly that this absorptive power was pos- 
sessed by all fertile soils, and that not only ammonia, 
but the alkalies and magnesia could be absorbed by 
them. Soils also exercise this absorptive power upon 
organic matters; thus, when putrid urine is filtered 
through a soil, it loses its ammonia, and its odour and 
colour also. The absorptive powers of soils differ very 
much, and some curious anomalies are observable in 
experimenting with them. The absorptive power was at 



Ill 



04 lAKUIVQ AND FAHUmQ ECONOHT. 

jirst attributed by Mr. Way entirely to the clay whi 
all soils contain, but a difficulty presented itself whi 
forbad this to be accepted as the reaaon ; for while 
happened that a pure clay only absorbed 0"ilS47, a loan 
soil — possibly one half of which was sand — absorb 
0-3438, a much larger quantity. Mr. Way, therefoi 
instituted another set of experiments, to test the accura 
of the supposition that the absorptive powers of soils a 
not due alone to the presence of clay " as a whole, b 
rather to some particular substance existing in it, ai 
possessing a high degree of absorptive power." The 
experiments resulted in elucidating some highly i: 
teresting and practical results. The experiments i 
cannot detail here, but we give the practical infereni 
from the facts which they made clear, as stated I 
Dr. Anderson, of whose account of the experimen 
we have before given a resumi. " Suppose the soil 
contain the silicate of lime and alumina, and a quanti 
of sulphate of ammonia to be employed as a manui 
we should necessarily have produced the absorpti' 
effect actually observed in practice; sulphate of lin 
would be formed, and the ammonia would pass in 
the sparingly soluhle double silicate of alumina ai 
ammonia, which would thus become a magazine fro: 
which that important element of our crops would 1 
slowly liberated, to the extent of a grain for evei 
gallon of water, so as to fulfil the requirements of tl 
plant. The solubility of these compounds is, howeve 
so small, that in some instances a sufficient quantit 
of potash and ammonia might not be obtained by tt 
plant, were it not that their solubility is remarkabl 
increased by carbonic acid and common salt. M 
Way found that a gallon of water, saturated wit 
carbonic acid gas, dissolved 2*5 grains of ammoni 



OHBMISTRT 07 SOILS. 65 

from its compound; and a solution containing 1*97 
per cent, of common salt^ dissolved out ammonia at 
the rate of 23 grains per gallon. We have thus 
another function which carbonic acid may possess ; and 
in addition to that of acting as a food for the plants 
it may serve as the agent by means of which an addi- 
tional supply of other substances, is presented to it. 
The fact just mentioned may also explain the effect 
produced by common salt^ which has always been a 
diflBculty, especially since we have seen reason to 
believe soda is of little importance as a food of plants.^' 
The following is given, by a recent author in the 
Journal of Agriculture, as the conclusions arrived at by 
Mr. Way: — " (1.) That plants do not absorb manure 
from solutions. (2.) That the form under which 
mineral substances and ammoniacal salts are applied to 
the soil, is matter of indifference in agriculture, inas- 
much as the soil possesses the power of bringing them 
all into that peculiar state in which they are presented 
to plants ; — aliappy circumstance for the cultivator who 
is seeking to introduce an alkali as a manure into the 
soil ; for, according to this view, the salt which will 
supply the alkali required, at the lowest price, is that 
to which he should give the preference. Mr. Way also 
found that an aluminous soil possesses antiseptic pro- 
perties ; for urine, agitated or filtered through clay, did 
not undergo putrid fermentation ; which points to the 
belief, when looking to the efficacy of placing sheep on 
arable land (parcage — ' feeding off ^), that plants have 
the property of assimilating other nitrogenous sub- 
stances besides ammonia and nitric acid. In fact, 
Mr. Way thinks that artificial manure ought to be 
spread with all the regularity that is possible, if a uni- 
form vegetation over all the field is desired; for, in 



66 f ARMINa AND FABMINO ECOKOMT. 

consequence of their insolubility^ after being intro- 
duced into the soil they cannot be diffused by the 
water percolating through that soil. For the same 
reason^ however^ he maintains that there may be a very 
high manuring, without risk of loss, by drainage ; for 
a good soil can retain, without loss, sixty times as much 
fertilising matter as is introduced in any one manuring/' 
Liebig has also experimented on the absorptive power 
of arable soils, and found that all of them, whether 
rich or poor, possessed " the same absorbing power /' 
and that this *' absorbing power is due in part to the 
chemical action of the silicates, and of the hydrates of 
alumina on the silicates of potash, but that it partly 
depends on the physical condition of the soiV^ The 
result of the joint researches of Way and Liebig may 
be said briefly to be — the absorptive power was given 
to the soil that it might prepare the food for the plants 
growing on it ; and that this food existed in the soil 
in very nearly an insoluble condition. But while Way 
held that it still possessed such a degree of solubility as 
to supply the necessities of the plants, Liebig maintains 
that it exercised a dissolving action on the '' substances 
which are so sparingly soluble in water ;^' and this through 
the medium of the roots. We believe that this view 
was first put broadly forward by Mr. E. Russell, editor 
of the '' Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural 
Society of Scotland," — an agriculturist no less dis- 
tinguished by the acuteness of his theoretical views 
than by his practical skill and success as a farmer. 
The experiments of M. Brustlein — instituted at the 
suggestion of Boussingault — completely demonstrate 
that the '' absorbing powers of soils are due to their 
physical properties." Such is the opinion of Mr. 
Russell, as given in a paper in the Journal of Agricul* 



CHEMISTRY OF SOILS. 67 

turCy and from which we also take the following most 
suggestive sentences. The whole article is worthy of 
most attentive perusal. 

'^ In the new views which we are now forced to take 
of the absorbing powers of soils, the question of the 
action of the roots on ammonia and potash is greatly 
simplified. These, being merely adhering to the sur- 
face of the substances constituting the body of the 
soil, are by no means out of reach of the direct action 
of the roots of plants. The roots come in contact with 
them in forcing their way through the soil, and take 
them up by special absorption, in the same way as the 
leaves of plants do carbonic acid from the atmosphere. 
The principle of the difiusion of the gases in the 
atmosphere is not the most active means of bringing 
carbonic acid in contact with the leaves, although we 
might suppose it capable of doing so to a slight extent. 
The circulation of the atmosphere, in being constantly 
disturbed by winds, accomplishes this — the rapid bring- 
ing of the nutritive substances in contact with the 
leaves. So, in the soil, the roots are constantly extend- 
ing in search of food ; and the rains, as they descend, 
greatly assist in diffusing it equally over the absorbing 
surfaces. That, however, the food of plants exists in 
the soil in forms so slightly soluble in water as to be 
totally incapable of being dissolved by it, and supply- 
ing the wants of plants, has been forcibly put by 
Liebig : — ^ Let us assume that on a 2i-acre field 
12,000,000 lbs. of rain-water fall in a year, and that a 
third of this quantity dissolves from the soil the same 
ingredients, in the same proportions, as in the drainage 
waters analysed by Way. Let us farther suppose that 
these 4,000,000 lbs. of water are, during the months 
of June, July, August, and September ^ ^otk^^X.^^ 



68 FABMINO AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

absorbed by the roots of a crop of potatoes^ and again 
evaporated from the leaves ; then it follows that^ on 
four fields of 2^ acres each, the whole crop of potatoes 
would not receive a single pound of potash ; ou two 
others^ of the same size^ they would obtain rather 
more than a pound ; and on a seventh 2i-acre fields 
two pounds. Now^ from an average crop of potatoes 
on a 2i-acre fields there are obtained 408 lbs. of ashes^ 
in which are contained 200 lbs. of potash.' 

'' Brustlein still refers to the experiments of Hales^ as 
well as of Lawes^ in support of the idea that plants may 
take up all the food they require in a soluble state. It 
ought to be borne in mind that plants do not take up 
earthy substances in proportion to the amount of water 
that they respire. Indeed, it is often quite the reverse — a 
circumstance which is the strongest argument in favour 
of special absorption, as well as the dissolving action of 
the roots. Plants perspire less when the dew-point of 
the air is high, and when evaporation is constantly 
weak. It is then, however, that growth is most active, 
and that the earthy substances must be taken up in 
greater quantity. For the same reason mangold- wurzel, 
which resists drought better than turnips, can take up 
a much larger quantity of food in proportion to the 
water it evaporates. So also in water plants, in which 
the circulation of the fluids is so much slower than in 
land plants, the food, being in solution, is specially 
absorbed by leaves as well as roots. There is no greater 
diflSculty in accounting for the special absorption of the 
nutrient matters by the roots, than that of the carbonic 
acid by the leaves from the atmosphere. Indeed, the 
chief nutrient matters are only retained by the soil by 
mechanical attraction or adhesion, while the roots have 
a chemical affinity for them. The weaker force merely 



GHEMIBTRT OF SOILS. 69 

yields to the stronger^ on absorption by the roots taking 
place. The vital force is a directing power, no doubt ; 
but all changes in both living and dead organisms are 
effected by chemical affinity. 

^^ It is in the discussion of problems which lie just 
beyond those connected with the absorbent powers of 
soils, that the practical agriculturist is more particularly 
concerned. In order that plants should exercise those 
functions which we attribute to them, it is essential 
that the soil should contain no matters interfering with 
the healthy action of their roots. Pinger-and-toe,* 
clover sickness, and some other diseases, are evidently 
owing to certain conditions interfering with this dis- 
solving and absorbing power of the roots of plants for 
their earthy food. This hypothesis is the means of 
affording an explanation of many obscure facts well 
known to agriculturists.'^ 

As a suggestive addition to what we have said above 
in connection with soils, we may state that MM. Bous- 
singault and Lewy have shown that the soil is much 
richer in carbonic acid than the air ; in recently ma- 
nured soil, two hundred and fifty times as much. This 
quantity, as remarked by Dr. Anderson, is obviously 
produced by the decomposition of the humus in the 
soil ; thus showing that the importance of humus is 
not on account of its forming a direct food for plants, 

• " It may here be observed that Liebig, in his * Letters on Agri- 
culture/ while he has so for given his assent to our theory of finger-and- 
toe, mistakes, like many others, the peculiar disease itself. It is the 
forked or branched state of the roots which he describes as being cured by 
an application of lime. But this is mere degeneracy, and not a disease 
at all in the strict sense of the term. Finger-and-toe, or ambury, we 
believe, is caused by the attacks of insects, which only touch those plants 
whose juices are in a corrupt state, owing to a want of earthy matter 
within the plant. Lime cures the disease by inducing such a decomposi- 
tion of the vegetable matter aa maintains the healthy functions df the 
roots." 



70 FiLRMING AND FARMINO ECONOMY. 

as formerly believed, but because it is a source of 
carbonic acid. The legitimate conclusions which are 
drawn from the experiments of MM. Boussingault and 
Lewy are — that the oxygen of the atmosphere^ on de- 
scending into the soil^ unites with the carbon existing in 
its organic portions, and forms carbonic acid. The 
oxygen of the atmosphere thus descending into the Boil> 
bums not only the carbon existing in the organic remains 
of the soil, but the hydrogen also, — in this manner sup- 
plying the roots of plants not only with carbonic acid, 
but also with water, and preventing the formation of 
formic, acetic, humic, and other acids, which would de- 
teriorate the soil. 

The following are M. Boussingault^s remarks in his 
recent volume, " Agronomic Chemie Agricole et Phy- 
siologe," on this important subject : — "Organic matters, 
when they are submitted to the united influence of 
air, moisture, and a suitable temperature, give birth to 
carbonic acid and water, and, if they are nitrogenous, 
to ammonia. When they are buried in a soil which is 
suj9B[ciently open, their combustion is so manifest, that 
in warm countries it may happen, at the end of some 
years, that a clean soil, rich in humus, becomes so 
poor as to be unable to give a crop without the applica- 
tion of manure. Thus mould, humus, and all the last 
terms of the putrefaction of vegetable substance, are 
so many sources which emit carbonic acid ; and it is 
beyond doubt that an important part of the efficacy of 
manures of organic origin ought to be attributed to this 
emission; whether it be that the carbonic acid gas 
absorbed by the roots run the course of the organism 
of the plant, or that, turned into the surrounding 
atmosphere, the light decomposes it, under the influ- 
ence of the leaves which assimilate the carbon. The 



OHEMISTRT OF SOIia 71 

utility in the dunghill of the carburetted principles 
proper for being modified into humus and brown acids, 
which slow combustion afterwards destroys, is so evident, 
that, at this day, a practical agricultarist would regard 
as incomplete a manure that wanted them. One may 
conceive every particle of dung, humus, and mould as 
a focus whence carbonic acid gas is constantly ema- 
nating, — an emanation very feeble, yet sufficiently con- 
tinuous to modify the composition of the atmospherical 
air with which the soil is impregnated. It is in this 
subterranean atmosphere that the roots of plants de- 
velop themselves and live ; and these researches estab- 
lish the fact that they find there, in notable proportion, 
assimilable principles, which can only be recognised in 
infinitely small quantities, in the two most essential 
vehicles of vegetation — water and air.^' 

These researches of MM. Boussingault and Lewy are 
of great importance, inasmuch as they show that, unless 
there is abundance of carbon in the soil, it matters not 
how liberal may be the amount of nitrogenous matters 
supplied to it; for carbon is the basis of all vegetable 
organisation. Moreover, carbon can only become the 
food of plants in the form of carbonic acid gas; that is, 
when the carbon unites with the oxygen of the atmos- 
phere. The way in which plants decompose the carbonic 
acid supplied to them, by the imion of the carbonaceous 
compounds in the soil with the oxygen of the atmosphere, 
so as to take up the carbon and set free the oxygen, is 
one of the grand secrets of vegetable life which scien- 
tific men are ever tiying to grasp at — but vainly trying. 
This much only is known, that heat and light are essen- 
tial elements in the process. 



72 FARMING AND FAKMINO BOONOMT. 



Sscnoif nL— ExBAUinoN o7 Soils. 

It being now well established that the inorganic con- 
stituents of plants are derived only from the soil^ the 
question has arisen of late^ will not the continual 
withdrawal of these constituents, through successive 
croppings, ultimately exhaust the soil of these inorganic 
constituents of plants? The question has been raised, 
with his accustomed force, by Baron Liebig. In a recent 
letter, addressed to Mr. Mechi, the Baron has stated : — 

"It is true that the diligent tillage of the fields, 
sunshine, and timely rain, are the outward conditions, 
perceptible to all men, of good harvests ; but these are 
perfectly without eflFect upon the productiveness of the 
field, unless certain things not so easy of perception 
by the senses are present in the soil, and these are the 
elements which serve for nourishment, for the produc- 
tion of roots, leaves, and seeds, and which are present 
in the soil always in very small quantity, in proportion 
to the mass of the soil itself. 

"These elements are taken from the soil in the 
products of the field — in the com, or in the flesh of the 
animals nourished by these products; and daily ex- 
perience shows that even the most fruitful field ceases 
after a certain series of harvests to produce these crops. 

" A child can comprehend that under these circum- 
stances a very productive field, in order to remain very 
productive, or even simply productive, must have the 
elements which had been withdrawn in the harvests 
perfectly restored ; that the aggregate of the conditions 
must remain, in order to produce the aggregate results, 
and that a well, however deep it may be, which receives 
no supply of water, must in the end become empty, 
if its water is constantly pumped out. 



EXHAUSTION OF SOII& 78 

^' Our fields are like this well of water. For cen- 
turies^ those elements which are indispensable to the 
reproduction of the crops, have been taken from the soil 
in those crops, and that, too, without being restored. 
It has only recently been ascertained how small a 
supply of these elements the soil really has. A begin- 
ning has been made to restore to the fields the losses 
which they sustain through the annual harvests, by 
introducing from external sources manures containing 
the same elements. Only a very few of the better 
informed farmers perceive the necessity of this resto- 
ration, and those of them who have the means, have 
zealously endeavoured to increase the amount of these 
elements in their fields ; but by far the greater part of 
them know nothing of such restoration. They think 
that they may continue to take from the field as long 
as there is anything left, and that it will be time 
enough to provide for this necessity when it knocks at 
their doors. They do not, of course, know how large 
their stock on hand is, nor are they aware that when 
the necessity shows itself there will be no means to 
correct it ; they know not that what they have wasted 
is irretrievable.^^ 

Saron Liebig advocates the use of the excretse of 
our town populations, for the purpose of restoring the 
elements of fertility to the soil. As the whole question 
of the utilisation of our town sewage will be discussed 
in another volume of the present series,* we leave this 
part of the subject at present; and proceed to note 
that this subject of the ^^ exhaustion of the soils,'^ like 
other questions connected with the chemistry of agri- 
culture, is much disputed. For the opinion of the able 

♦ "Rudimentary Treatise on Irrigation, the Utilisation of Torw^ 
Sewage, and the Keclamation of Waste Lands.'* 



74 FARMING AND FARMINa ECONOMT. 

authority, Dr. Anderson, we refer the reader to the 
work uudemoted, p. 17.* Dr. Anderson, it may here be 
stated, comes to the conclusion that there is no danger 
of the land becoming exhausted of its mineral con- 
stituents, as these are returned to the land in a variety 
of ways. Mr. Baldwin, of the Glasnevin Agricul- 
tural School, Ireland, who has devoted much time to 
the investigation of the subject, from a practical as 
well as a chemical point of view, believes that there is 
no more momentous question connected with agricul- 
ture than this of the exhaustion of the land of its 
mineral constituents. To the question, '* Can the land 
continuously bear cropping without any return to it 
of these mineral matters ?^^ he answers in the nega- 
tive; and this answer, he says, has "the weight of 
imiversal experience.^' Mr. Baldwin, in his treatise 
on "Manures" (London: Simpkin & Marshall; 6rf.), 
goes very fully into the details of the question, and to 
that treatise we refer the reader desirous to follow his 
ingenious and suggestive remarks. He thus concludes : 
" We have for centuries subjected it (the soil) to a slow 
system of spoliation, — we have weakened the links 
which complete the circle of fertility ; and if we 
blindly persevere in the same course, the chain will 
sooner or later snap, as surely as eflfect follows cause. 
There is hidden in many soils, it is true, a prodigious 
amount of material which the farmer can manipulate 
into the substance of the connecting link, but there 
is no reserved store in the great bulk of our light 
lands" 

• ** Rudimentary Treatise: Outlines of Modern Fanning, in Theory 
and Practice," Vol. L, ** Soils, Manures, and Crops." J. S. Virtue, 
London. 



BOTATIONS. 75 



Section IV. — ^Rotations. 



It was only towards the end of the last century 
that a knowledge of the importance of a change 
or rotation of crops began to be prevalent amongst 
farmers. Rotation of Crops is, indeed, one of the 
points which distinguish so markedly the farming 
of modern and that of ancient and mediaeval times. 
The ancients seem to have been nearly, if not quite, 
ignorant of the system ; and all our own writers, down 
to the period named above, were equally so. Arthur 
Young, who rendered so many services to the agriculture 
of his period, rendered this one also, of pointing out 
the importance of, and impressing upon agriculturists 
the necessity for, adopting the system of rotation. His 
enthusiastic efforts in this department were crowned with 
success, and to him in great measure is the rapid progress 
of systematic agriculture due. In 1770, Arthur Young 
made his now celebrated excursion into Norfolk, where 
he saw and examined the rotation there adopted, and 
which had been for a long time previous to his visit ; 
the. system having been introduced originally from 
Flanders. This rotation — turnips following the wheat, 
barley the turnips, clover the barley, and wheat the 
clover — was thus eulogised by Young : ^' It is a noble 
system, which keeps the soil rich.'^ Lord Leicester, to 
whom is usually attributed the introduction or founding 
of the four-course rotation, adopted the system, and 
modified it to a five and six-course ; taking grass two 
years, as suggested by Arthur Young. 

The two most celebrated theories accounting for the 
fact that no soil can grow, for a series of years, a suc- 
cession of the same crop, without that crop gradually 
deteriorating — are the " excretory '' theory, ^\A *Cs^^ 

E 2 



76 FARMXNG AND FARMINa ECONOMT. 

'' exhaustive '' theory. The excretory theory was first 
promulgated by De Candolle,* and was founded upon t 
series of experiments^ which apparently showed that 
plants excrete in the soil certain substances which are 
inimical to their own growth ; that these substances 
differed in constitution according to the plants from 
which they were derived ; and that while they were pre- 
judicial to the plants themselves, they were also preju- 
dicial to other plants ; yet to certain other plants tfaef 
proved nutritive. This excretory theory has almost 
entirely been given up, and its place taken by another, 
which has risen out of Liebig^s theories as to crops 
removing certain inorganic constituents from the soil 
A full description of this theory will be found in the 
work undemoted.f Beautiful as the theory is which thus 
accounts for the necessity for a rotation, in the fact that 
one crop removes from the soil different constituents than 
another, it is, however, necessary to state that the more 
complete investigations into the nature of our farm crops 
makes the theory of a rotation more difficult than ever. 
For recent and careful analyses show that there is not 
such a great difference— or rather the difference is very 
minute — between the ashes of our farm crops; and, 
moreover, it seems probable (we use the term probable, 
for, as will be seen from what we have already stated on 

♦ The "excretory" theory, as it is called, is generally, as noted aboye, 
attributed to De Candolle ; but researches have proved that it was 
broached in the first instance by Brugmans, who wrote several treatises 
on botanical subjects, about 1783. London, in his GentlemarCs Magazine, 
points out that Brugmans held " that a portion of the juices which are 
absorbed by the roots of plants are, after the salutiferous portions havd 
been extracted by the vessels of the plants, again thrown out by exuda- 
tion from the roots and deposited in the soil." De Candolle took up the 
matter, and from having more fully explained it, and given more pub- 
licity to his views, the theory has been generally attributed to him. 

t " Outlines of Modem ^Farming — Soils, Manures, Crops : ** VoL L 
J. S. Virtue, London. 



ROTATIONS. 77 

the exhaustion of soils^ the matter is disputed) that all 
our fertile soils contain so large a quantity of inorganic 
constituents^ that an almost endless succession of crops 
may be supplied with them. The solution of the ques- 
tion seems, therefore, a difficulty not yet overcome. 
Mr. Lawes, whose ingenuity and careful scientific re- 
searches have done so much for agriculture, has taken 
up this subject also, and has propounded a view which 
we briefly notice here. The view is, that crops do not so 
much exhaust the inorganic substances of the soil as its 
nitrogen, and that the exhausting crops are those de- 
manding the largest supply of nitrogen. Dr. Anderson, 
in explaining Mr. Lawes^ views, in a paper in the 
" Transactions of the Highland Society^^ (J^v, 1854), 
states that the experiments of Mr. Lawes have shown 
that nitrogen is not a necessary constituent of a manure 
for the turnip, while " it is absolutely essential to the 
more exhausting wheat, and to the cereals generally. 
Of course it is not meant that no nitrogen is required 
for the turnip, but simply that the quantity contained 
in the soil, or derived from the air (in the form of am- 
monia or nitric acid), is sufficient for its requirements.^^ 
Wheat, however, requires a large proportion of nitrogen; 
not that the plant assimilates it all ; on the contrary, 
Mr. Lawes believes — at least his experiments tend to 
carry out the belief —that a large proportion of the 
nitrogen is exhaled by the plant, a small proportion 
only making its appearance in the plant ; the quantity 
passing through or from the plant being in direct rela- 
tion to the carbon assimilated by it, and converted into 
starch, and the non-nitrogenous compounds. Hence, 
as the cereals do contain in their seeds a large quantity 
of starch, &c., they exhaust the soil in which they grow. 
Leguminous plants, containing less of tke T\atL-T>^Vt^- 



78 FARMING AND FARMING SGONOMT. 

genous compounds^ and being rich in nitrogen^ exhaust 
the soil less than the cereals. It is thus that tumipsy 
on this view of Mr. Lawes^ are not exhaustive^ as the 
bulbs do not require nitrogen; but when grown for 
seed — which seed contains much oil — they do exhaust 
the soil^ as the seed requires nitrogen for its formation. 
In proportion^ then, as the products of our farm crops con- 
tain the non-nitrogenous substances, so are — according 
to this view of Mr. Lawes — their exhaustive properties. 
Dr. Anderson in commenting upon this view of the rota- 
tion question, which he characterises as very ingenious 
and worthy of all consideration, points out, however, that 
it should be received with caution ; for the fact that 
plants exhale nitrogen in very considerable quantity is 
open to doubt; and that view also which Mr. Lawes main- 
tains — namely, that the turnip requires no nitrogenous 
manures. In Scotland it assuredly does. '' The fact 
is,'^ says Dr. Anderson, " that the effect of a manure is 
not constant and definite, but varies to a much greater 
extent than we were at one time inclined to admit, with 
the influence of climate and various other circum- 
stances ; and, ingenious as Mr. Lawes^ idea is, we ought, 
I think, to suspend our judgment." 

In view of the wide diversity which characterises the 
practice of agriculture, the influence of a widely different 
variety of soils and climates, it seems to us not unlikely 
that no theory of rotation applicable to all the circum- 
stances of farming will ever be established. As our 
soils differ in nature, and climate and locality in influ- 
ence, and thus necessitate different modes of treatment, 
may not, also, the principle necessitating a rotation be 
different ? or may not a rotation be in some cases un- 
necessary ? Do not the cases of Lois-Weedon and Colne 
Engraine culture, and the experiments of Mr. Lawes, 



ROTATIONS. 79 

above noted, bear out this view ? It is exceedingly 
dangerous to generalise in the science of agriculture. 
It is not a fixed science, in the general acceptation of 
the term, like mathematics. A remarkable difierence 
exists between the style of farming of one district as 
compared with another. A mineral will be benejScial 
on one soil, while it will be prejudicial on another ; one 
mode of treatment will be useful, while another wiU be 
the reverse ; while, still more puzzling, a mode of treat- 
ment will be successful on a soil in one season, while 
on the same soil it will be the reverse in another 
season. On this point the following remarks of Mr. 
Pusey will be suggestive : — 

" Other scientific societies deal chiefly either with 
facts, as the existence of some hitherto unknown insect, 
or bird, or mineral, or even planet ; or else with some 
supposed new law of nature, electrical or astronomical. 
Those facts are simple, those laws single. If the specu- 
lator fall into error, no harm ensues. But not so in 
agriculture. Our facts are not simple, nor our laws 
single. They vary with the climate, the soil, the 
seasons. What is true in Kent, is not true in Suther- 
land. While, too, there is so much more exposure to 
error, the consequences of error are also more serious ; 
for a reader will easily forgive a mistake as to the sup- 
posed site of some Roman temple, but may not so 
readily forget the expenditure of twenty pounds on a 
useless manure. Besides this variation in facts and in 
niles, another difficulty arises from the difiference in 
the knowledge and skill of farmers. You must not 
recommend a turnip-cutter to a Norfolk farmer, who 
has used it for years ; and you will recommend it vainly 
to a Welsh farmer, who has never seen the instrument, 
or even, perhaps, had a turnip to slice. What \& ^ 



80 FARMING AND FARMING EGONOlfT. 

truism here^ will be derided there as a crotchet. The 
experience, however, of our best farmers is the safest 
source of improvement, and cannot be passed over, 
though for such readers there may be nothing new in 
the statement/' 



DIVISION SECOND. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF MANURES: FARMYARD — ^ARTIFICIAL 
MANURE. — THEORIES OP MANURING. — FERTILISING PRO- 
PERTIES OP RAIN-WATER. — THE SOURCES OF THE FOOD 
OF PLANTS. — COMPOSITION OF DRAINAGE- WATER. — 
SUCCESSION OR ROTATION OF MANURES. 



Section I.— Fabm-Yabd Manure. 

Manures, their value, and mode of collecting, storing, 
and using them, were well known to the Greeks and 
Romans. Virgil gives evidence in his writings of no 
small knowledge of the value and mode of using ma- 
nures. Pliny mentions that there were many kinds of 
manure, and that the thing itself was very ancient. 
Their agricultural writers give ample directions on the 
use of manure, and display a knowledge of the uses of 
various kinds of it — a knowledge which was apparently 
quite unkown to the great majority of the farmers of 
Great Britain at the commencement of the present cen- 
tury, if we may judge from their methods of employing 
and saving it. The ancients ^' considered the application 
of manure as one of the principal operations of agricul- 
ture, and placed it next to ploughing.'' 

For a long time the British farmer's only resources in 



FABM-TARD MANURE. 81 

the mamire department were in the '^ dung '' and the 
'^ compost'^ heap; the former being the main stay. 
Little, however, was known of its composition, and 
marvellously little care was paid as to the best way of 
saving and using it. The researches of Dr. Voelcker 
have, however, done much to show us its composition, 
and the best way of using it. The conclusions to which 
they lead are thus given in a paper by another well- 
known chemist : — ^^ Farm-yard manure in its fresh 
state contains but a small quantity of ammonia, most 
of its nitrogen being there as insoluble nitrogenous 
matter. But as decomposition advances, the ammonia 
increases, and a quantity of organic matter becomes 
soluble. For this reason, the manure should be pre- 
served in such a way as to prevent the escape of the 
soluble portions, which are most valuable. This can 
be effected by keeping it in water-tight pits, or under 
cover ; but in the latter case, the manure, particularly 
if it contains a large proportion of litter, is not suf- 
ficiently moist to admit of its ready fermentation, and 
water must be added in sufficient quantity to promote 
that change. The worst of all modes of keeping manure 
is to pile it into heaps in the comers of the fields, for 
under such circumstances it is most liable to loss; and 
if the manure must be carted out, it is better to spread 
it out at once, because when this is done fermentation is 
stopped, and as there is very little free ammonia, the 
loss is small, and the soluble matters are uniformly led 
into the soil by the rain. Dr. Voelcker is of opinion 
that the most advantageous mode of applying the ma- 
nure would be in all cases to leave it on the surface to 
be washed into the soil, by which means its distribution 
is more uniform than if it be ploughed in. The most 
disadvantageous mode of making manure is to produce 

E 3 



82 FARMING AND FARMING KOONOMT. 

it bj cattle in open yards^ for in this waj at least two- 
thirds of the valuable matters are lost after a year's 
exposure/' With reference to some of the points al- 
luded to in the above extract^ it is right to notice that 
much diversity of opinion exists amongst practical men. 
Thus, although Dr. Voelcker, and, indeed, most of the 
scientific men connected with agriculture, are in favour 
of covered dung-pits, many practical men are not so ; 
for instance, the committee of the Royal Agricultural 
Society of England, appointed to adjudicate in the 
matter of the prize essay for the best plans of farm 
buildings, decided that covered dung-pits were not 
essential.* 

Section II. — Artificial Manttbes. 

The principle upon which artificial or special manures 
are founded, springs from, and depends upon, the truth 
of the importance of the mineral constituents of plants, 
as propounded by Liebig, and already described. On the 
supposition that on these depended the peculiarities of 
each plant, the deduction was made, that to supply a 
proper quantity of food, so to speak, to the plant, it was 
necessary that that food should not only minister to the 
organic, but also to the inorganic materials of the plant, 
so that the peculiar properties, as indicated by the mi- 
neral constituents, would be maintained by a supply 
of these materials. Hence the introduction of special 
manures. To Liebig, popular belief attributes the 
enunciation of the doctrine of special manures. Mr. 
Stephens, however, in the ^' Book of the Farm,^^ shows 

♦ For further remarks on farm-yard manure, see the companion 
volume in this series, entitled ** Outlines of Modern Farming," Vol. L, 
" Soils, Manures, and Crops." 



ARTIFICIAL MANURBS. 83 

that a prior claim to the honour, not only of the dis- 
covery of the importance of the principle, but of its 
able enunciation, is substantiated in favour of Mr. 
Grisenthwaite, of Nottingham, who expounded his 
views in the first place in 1818, at one of the annual 
meetings of agriculturists, which were held under the 
auspices of the celebrated Mr. Coke ; and thereafter in 
a second edition of his "New Theory of Agriculture,'' 
published in 1830. So clearly and soundly were his 
arguments stated, that Mr. Stephens remarks, ^^the 
observations of even Liebig himself seem but amplifi- 
cations '' of them. The following extract from Mr. 
Griseuthwaite's book will show how advanced were his 
opinions on the subject of special manures. " Let us 
recur," he says, ^^once more to the grain of wheat. 
In that grain there always exists, as has been stated, a 
portion of phosphate of lime. It is the constancy of 
its presence that proves, beyond reasonable doubt, that 
it answers some important purpose of the economy of 
the seed. It is never found in the straw of the plant ; 
it does not exist in barley, or oats, or peas, although 
grown upon the same land, and under the same cir- 
cumstances ; but, as has just been observed, always in 
wheat. Now, to regard this unvarying discrimination 
as accidental, or to consider it as useless, is to set at 
defiance the soundest principles of reasoning that phi- 
losophy ever bruited. If phosphate of lime had some- 
times onlv been found in wheat, or if it had been 
discovered in barley or clover, then we might have 
concluded that the whole was accidental — that it in no 
way whatever assisted the formation of the perfect 
grain, nor contributed to promote the general design 
of it. They who can oppose these conclusions, will 
depart from a method of reasoning long established in 



84 FARlONa AND FARMING EOONOlfT. 

every department of human knowledge — a method to 
which the Baconian philosophy directs us^ and to which 
we must have recourse whenever we are desirous to 
explain the causes of physical effects. As little atten- 
tion/' he continues, '^ has hitherto been paid to these 
saline bodies — at least as they regard the subject of 
vegetation^ and much as they respect the operations ot 
husbandry — I have, for the sake of distinction, called 
them specific manures. Hereafter, when a more com- 
plete analysis of vegetables shall be made, it is probable 
that a nomenclature, founded on their specific sub- 
stances, may at least classify, if not particularise, every 
kind of plant. Already we know that there are several 
vegetables which exercise the power of selection ; and 
it is reasonable to infer, that when investigation shall 
have more fully laid open the secrets of physiology, 
that then the uses and design of this selection will be 
rendered apparent, and the propriety of regarding it 
in practical husbandry completely established.*' 

But if the principle of artificial manures was not 
expounded prior to the date above given, their practical 
use dates from a very much earlier period. A writer 
more than three hundred years ago records the fact, 
that some farmers, believing that colewort grew best on 
salt ground, manured it with saltpetre and ashes. 
Another writer, in the end of the seventeenth century, 
foreshadows the value of nitrate of soda — proved to be 
so valuable to the grain crops by Mr. Pusey, and now 
largely used. '^ Bains and dews, cold and dry winters, 
with store of snow, I reckon equal to the richest 
manures, impregnated as they are with celestial nitre ; 
and I firmly believe that were saltpetre — I mean fic- 
titious nitre — to be obtained in plenty, we should need 
but little other composts to meliorate our grounds. 



93 



ARTIFIOIAL MANURBS. 85 

Again, Arthur Young commenced in 1769 an extensive 
series of experiments with manures, in which he used 
an exceedingly wide. range of substances; amongst 
others, bones, ammonia, &c. The celebrated chemist. 
Sir Humphrey Davy, paid great attention to the 
subject, and strongly advocated the use of artificial 
manures. At the period of his death (1829), artificial 
manures were beginning to be much used. Bones had 
been introduced for pasture lands. 

True, guano was known, but only as a curiosity ; for 
in the above-named year (1829), it was sold at the rate 
of 6d. per lb., 3 cwt. of it having been imported into 
Scotland in that year. In 1831, 3 cwt. was the weight 
of it imported. In 1841 only, it began to be used in 
bulk, 2,881 tons having been imported ; and now such 
is the extent to which it is used as a manure, that in 
1860 the import was no less than 141,435 tons. The 
year 1841 witnessed the introduction of ^^ superphos- 
phate.^^ This manure owes its discovery to the brilliant 
genius of Liebig, and is now so much used, that its 
annual value is represented by more than a million of 
money. 

Dr. Anderson, in a valuable paper in the " Transac- 
tions of the Highland Society ,^^ gives some very inter- 
esting statements as to the extent to which artificial 
manures were employed in 1860. After noting that 
the value of the guano annually imported may be set 
down at £2,500,000, he proceeds to say — 

'^ Next to guano, the largest consumption is that of 
bones, of which, including bone ash, 84,000 tons are 
imported annually. In addition to this, however, it is 
necessary to take into account the bones collected in 
this country, of which it is only possible to form an 
approximate estimate. In Glasgow^ there are collected 



86 FARMING AND FARMING BCONOICT. 

about 6 tons 2 cwt. of bones for every 1,000 of the 
population, and if this were the case all over the 
kingdom, the quantity would amount to upwards of 
150,000 tons ; but in country districts a considerable 
quantity of bones are lost, and the consumption of 
meat is also much smaller than in towns, and I do not 
think the quantity of bones collected can be safely 
estimated at more than 50,000 tons — giving, for the 
total quantity of bones used, 134,000 tons/' (If we 
take the population of our island to be 24,000,000, 
the average consumption of meat by each individual 
75 lbs., and that this weight contains 12 lbs. of bones, 
that would give an annual yield of bones equal to 
128,571 tons.) ^^ A very large proportion of the bones 
collected in this country is converted into animal char- 
coal for the sugar refiners, but as the spent charcoal 
eventually finds its way into the hands of the manure 
manufacturer, it is not necessary to take this into 
consideration ; but I estimate the quantity used in the 
manufacture of ivory black, for turning &c., at 20,000 
tons, leaving 114,000 to be employed in agriculture. 
Of this proljably 40,000 tons are to be used as bone 
dust, costing the farmer £6 per ton, which is equal to 
£240,000, and 74,000 are converted, by the action of 
acid, into 110,000 tons of superphosphate, which, at 
£7 per ton, is worth £770,000. 

'^ The consumption of mineral phosphates, as far as 
I have been able to ascertain, is as follows : — 

Cambridge coprolites 40,000 tons, 

Saftolk coprolites 3,000 „ 

Apatite, and all other mineral phosphates . 5,000 „ 

48,000 „ 

which, being entirely converted into superphosphates, 
will yield 72,000 tons, at £5, value £360,000. 



ARTIFICIAL MANURES. 87 

" Of nitrate of soda, the average imports amount to 
26,000 tons, of which about one-half — worth, at £15 
per ton, iS 195,000 — is used for agricultural purposes. 

''Of sulphate of ammonia it is difficult to obtain 
any definite information, but the opinion of persons 
conversant with the manufacture is, that about 6,000 
tons are used as manure, which, at £\5 per ton, is 
worth £90,000. 

" If we add to this the sum of £50,000, as covering 
the value of the blood, fish-offal, animal matters of all 
kinds, potash, salts, &c. &c., used in the manufacture 
of manures, we have the following general statement : — 

Guano £2,500,000 

Bone dust, 40,000 tons, at £6 240,000 

Superphosphates, made from bones and bone 

ash, 110,000 tons, at £7 770,000 

Superphosphate from coprolites, 72,000 tons, 

at £5 360,000 

Nitrate of soda, 13,000 tons, at £15 . . . 195,000 

Sulphate of ammonia, 6,000 tons, at £15 . . 90,000 

All other substances, say 50,000 

£4,205,000 

'' It would be very interesting,^^ the professor con- 
tinues, "were it possible, to ascertain what relation 
this large sum bears to the value of the farm-yard 
manure annually consumed throughout the country; 
but on this point it is not easy to obtain any reliable 
information. A vague estimate may perhaps be ob- 
tained from the number of acres of land under culti- 
vation. It is said that the land under tillage on the 
British Islands exceeds 24,000,000 acres, and though 
this is probably above the mark, it may be adopted 
without much error. If it be assumed that one-fourth 
of this is annually manured to the extent of 10 tons 
per acre with farm-yard manure, the annual consump- 
tion must be 60,000,000 tons, worth about £20,000,000. 



88 FABMING AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

It is probable that this estimate is too high^ but it 
sbo'ws that at least one-fifth of all the manures now 
used is artificial, and chiefly derived from foreign 
sources/' 

Of the discovery of coprolites alluded to in the above 
extract, the following, from an able article in the 
Quarterly Review, will be interesting : — 

" Professor Henslow, whose great acquirements as a 
botanist had not prevented his attending to other 
branches of science, had noticed in 1842 some nodules 
at Felix Stowe, on the coast of Suffolk. In 1843, 
haunted with the idea that they were something of 
importance, he returned to Felix Stowe, collected a 
quantity of them, and placed them in the hands of 
Mr. Potter for analysis. The analysis showed them to 
be fossils, commonly called coprolites; and that they 
consisted of animal excrement, containing from 50 to 
55 per cent. o{ phosphate of lime. From this discovery. 
Professor Henslow might have realised a considerable 
fortune. The quarry of coprolites was to be had at a 
common rent, and there were manure manufacturers 
prepared to pay for the information, but he 'did not 
consider such a course consistent with his position as a 
man of science and a clergyman ; ' and after keeping 
silence on the subject for some months, at the request 
of Mr. Potter, ' who wished to have the chance of 
availing himself of the discovery,' he gave the results 
of his investigation to Mr. J. B. Lawes, who made the 
superphosphate, obtained from coprolites, the subject of 
a patent, which he was not able to maintain. Subse- 
quently, beds of coprolites were discovered in Cam- 
bridgeshire, Hampshire, and Dorsetshire; and further 
investigations in Norway placed Mr. Lawes in the 
exclusive possession of great beds of a mineral, called 



ARTIFICUL MAKURBS. 89 

apatite, rich in phosphates, of which he imports whole 
cargoes for his manufactory at Bow, near London. 
However, the superphosphate of lime produced from 
fossils being much less soluble than that from fresh bones, 
can only be usefully applied wlien mixed in moderate pro- 
portions with the latter.^' 

Mr. C. W. Hoskyns, in his usual graphic and dry 
humorous style, tells us that shortly after the introduc- 
tion of these ^^ coprolites, a distinguished agriculturist, 
Mr. Huxtahle, narrowly escaped being reported as 
having introduced coppery lights into the dark places of 
agriculture." 

As to the origin of guano, it has been the generally 
received opinion that it is principally formed from 
the excrement of sea-fowls. A writer in the Cottage 
Gardener, in discussing the point, states, that he never 
could feel satisfied that birds could congregate in such 
vast numbers as to form these immense accumulations, 
from which such stores of manure have been drawn for 
years ; and he has often raised the inquiry — '^ Why do 
the birds flock there? Certainly," he says, "not 
merely for the purpose of depositing their excrements." 
Then, again, the same writer has always looked upon 
the analysis of guano as agreeing better with the sup- 
position that it is the remains of decayed fish and flesh, 
than of the same organic remains after being digested. 
In corroboration of these views he gives a very interest- 
ing letter from a Captain Bulford, who has traded 
much to the islands, and for the trustworthiness of 
whose statements the writer gives his guarantee. 

" Guano, or Huano," says Captain Bulford, " is com- 
posed of the decomposed bodies of seals, aquatic birds, 
and their deposits. The birds are penguins, pelicans. 
Solan geese, and a small bird resembling the diye\& 



90 FARMING AND FARMTNG RCONOMT. 

seen in our channels. There are other kinds^ but those 
I have mentioned are the most numerous. Perhaps, 
were I to describe the present state and appearance of 
one of the islands that^ as yet^ is undisturbed^ it maj 
better convey an idea how guano has been formed than 
anything else I could write. 

^^The Chincha Islands are three in number, extending 
about seven miles in a north and south direction, about 
twelve miles to the west of the town of Pisco, on the 
coast of Peru, and about 120 miles to the south of 
Lima. The north and middle islands are those from 
which all Peruvian guano has been, and is yet being 
taken. The south island is untouched, and remains in 
its natural state. I landed several times on this island, 
for the purpose of getting birds' eggs. It is about 
three miles in circumference, and the middle and 
highest part is about seventy feet above the level of 
the sea, with a deposit of guano of twenty-five feet at 
its greatest depth. Like the other two islands, there is 
no vegetation of any kind on it ; and, from the innu- 
merable bird holes in the guano, it has the appearance 
of a rabbit-warren. These holes run about a foot or 
two feet from the surface, in every possible direction, 
and as they are from five to ten feet long, frequently 
running into each other, the guano for two or three 
feet from the surface is perforated like a honeycomb. 
In each of these holes are birds like divers sitting on 
their eggs ; and, in turning up the guano to get at the 
eggs, we often turned up dead birds, old ones, that had, 
doubtless, crawled into these holes to die, and would in 
all probability, if we had not disturbed them, added, in 
the course of ages, to the stock of guano. 

" I believe it is well known to naturalists that seals 
generally congregate to one place in common, to die ; 



ARTIFICIAL MANURSa 91 

and observation on this island goes to establish that 
fact^ for although thousands of seals are seen on it^ in 
every stage of decomposition, none are seen on the 
main land. The general opinion is, that the seals, 
vrhen ill, have crawled up as high on the island as they 
could. The guano being soft, from the innumerable 
perforations, they soon work a bed for themselves, 
which may account for their being found generally half 
buried, and prevented from decomposing as fast as they 
would on rocks, sand, or any other substance; for 
guano is well known to preserve dead bodies from 
putrefaction. I have seen many dead seals on the 
south island, in a dried state, like mummies; the 
skeletons of others, that a kick would send into dust ; 
and parts of skeletons, fins, &c., bodies of pelicans and 
other birds in the same state, which, in my opinion, 
all goes to prove that guano is composed of the bodies 
of seals and birds, more than the excrements of birds. 
My friends told me it was ten years since they first 
visited the islands, and that the south one had imder- 
gone no change. The bodies of the seals were then as 
they now are, which proves decomposition of bodies 
in and on guano takes a long time. Eggs, in a sort of 
petrified state, are frequently found many feet deep in 
guano. Much sal-ammoniac, in pieces from the size 
of a marble to a man^s fist, is also found some ten to 
twenty feet from the surface. I have some now in my 
possession, the scent of which is as powerful as any 
sal- volatile I ever smelt." 



92 FARMING AND FABBONO ECONOlffT 



Section III. — Tiibobies or Manubino. 

The theories of manuring have been very numerous^ 
and many of them Bufficiently absurd. Salt^ oil^ hair^ 
fuUer^s earth, and other substances, were, in the early 
days of agriculture, lauded as the universal fertilisers. 
Thus, Sir Hugh Piatt, in his ^' Jewel House of Art and 
Nature,*' published 1594, says of salt — " The secret 
virtues which lie hid in salt confirm the same. For 
salt whiteneth all things, it hardeneth all things, it 
preserveth all things, it giveth flavour to all things ; it 
is that masticke which gleweth all things together; 
it gathereth and kindleth all mineral matters, and of 
manie thousand pieces it maketh one masse. This salt 
giveth sounde to all thinges, and without the sounde 
no metall will wring in his shirle voyce. Salt maketh 
men merrie, it whiteneth the flesh, and it giveth 
beautie to all reasonable creatures ; .... it is salt that 
maketh all seeds to flourish and growe ; and although 
the number of men is verie small which can give any 
true reason whie dungue should doe anie good in arable 
groimdes, but are ledde thereto more by custome than 
anie philosophicall reason, nevertheless it is apparent 
that no dungue which is layde uppon barroun 
groundes could anie way enrich the same if it were 
not for the salt which the strow and hay lefte behind 
them by their putrifaction.*' 

Again, in the '' Systema Agricultura,'* published in 
1668, this universal salt was admitted to be of impor- 
tance, but only when combined with other agents, of 
which the writer thus discourses : — 

^' Although the spirit of mercury be that active and 
moving part that principally appears in the generation 



THEORIES OF MANUBINa. 98 

or conception of any vegetable or animal^ and is also 
the first that flies in the separation or dissolution of 
bodies^ yet it is imbecile and defective without that 
most excellent^ rich, and sulphureous principle which is 
of a little thicker consistence than the spirit, and next 
imto it the most active; for when any mixture or 
compound is separated, the spirits first fiy, then follow 
after the sulphureous particles. The temperature of 
everything, so far as to the heat, consistence, and curious 
texture thereof, doth principally depend on sulphur; 
from hence every plant, fruit, and fiower received those 
infinite varieties of forms, colours, gusts, odours, signa- 
tures, and virtues; it is that which is the proper 
medium to unite the more volatile mercury or spirit to 
the more fixed salt. This sulphur, or oily part, is 
easily separated and distinguished in vegetables by the 
more curious; it ariseth out of the earth with the 
aforesaid mercury or aqueous spirit, though not at the 
first discernible, yet in every plant more and more 
maturated and augmented by the sun's influence, as 
the seed or matrix is more or less inclined to this 
principle. This is also that which gives to our hot 
and stinking dungs, soils, or manures, the oleaginous 
pinquidity and fertility, and which begets that fiery 
heat which is in vegetables, hay, corn, &c., laid in heaps 
not thoroughly dry/' 

Up to the period in which Jethro Tull flourished, no 
theory at all philosophical in its conception and details 
had been promulgated. Tull was the first to bring 
out a theory; and although it was by no means the 
correct one, it nevertheless gave the first great impulse 
to chemical and physiological inquiry in connection with 
the food of plants. Up to the time of Tull, the office 
which the soil performed was considered to be a ver^ 



94 FARMINa AND FARMIMa B00N0M7. 

secondary one^ acting merely as the seat of plants^ and 
as a reservoir of the water and manure which they 
required. TuU's theory was that the finely pulverised 
particles of the soil were the food of the plants. The 
following is his own explanation of it : — 

'' The only way we have to enrich the earthy is to 
divide it into many parts^ by manure^ or by tillage^ or 
by both. This is called pulverisation. The salts of 
dung divide or pulverise the soil by fermentation; 
tillage by the attrition or contusion of instruments^ of 
which the plough is chief. The superficies, or surface, 
of these divided parts of earth, is the artificial pasture 
of plants, and afibrds the vegetable pabulum to such 
roots as come into contact with it. There is no way 
to exhaust or drain the earth of this pabulum, but by 
the roots of plants; and roots are now proved to 
extend much further than it was commonly thought 
they did. Division is infinite; and the more parts 
the soil is divided into, the more of that superficies, or 
vegetable pasture, must it have, and the more of those 
benefits which descend from the atmosphere will it 
receive ; and also the less quantity of plants there is to 
exhaust it, the richer and the more replete with pabulum, 
or vegetable particles which adhere to the said super- 
ficies, will the soil remain. For, if the vegetables carry 
off a less quantity of matter than is received from the 
atmosphere, the substance of the land is increased; 
but if it be contrary, then it is diminished.^' 

Tull's theory, once expounded, led the way to the 
enunciation of a number of other theories. One 
maintained that water was the proper food of plants ; 
another that it was oil ; and a third that the atmos* 
phere and its vapours yielded plants their food ; a 
fourth that it was derived from salts; and another 



THBOBIEB OF MAKUEINQ. 95 

that all tbe substances named above formed the food 
of plants. The theory which supplanted these crudely- 
stated and conjectural assumptions^ as to the action of 
manures on the sources from which plants derive their 
nutriment^ was that known as the humtis or humic 
theory^ and which was almost universally held as the 
right theory up till 1840, when Liebig showed its in- 
correctness. Humus is woody or vegetable matter in 
a state of decay. It is fine and light in texture, and 
brown in colour. It is made up of various organic com- 
pounds formed in the decay of the organic matter in the 
soil. Dumas has shown the number of these substances 
to be considerable ; others doubt their existence. The 
organic matter of the soil, or humus, is divided into three 
classes : first, those which are soluble in water ; second, 
those soluble in caustic potash ; and third, those in- 
soluble. To humus was ascribed a direct nutritive and 
manurial action ; 'and the fertility of a soil was in direct 
proportion to its presence there. In 1840, Liebig, in his 
celebrated work on Agricultural Chemistry, showed the 
fallacy of the theoretical notions connected with humus. 
" He clearly showed that the vegetable juices, supposed 
to be the great causes of richness in garden mould, 
could not be imbibed by other plants till they had been 
decomposed ; in other words, that the carbon of plants 
must first be turned into carbonic acid, in order to be 
assimilated by plants, whether they derive it from the 
soil through the roots, or from the atmosphere through 
the pores of their leaves.'^ Liebig himself, in his latest 
work, " Modern Agriculture,'' says — " We know that it 
(humus) is only useful when the soil contains in suf- 
ficient quantity the fixed mineral constituents service- 
able to plants, and that it is without action when these 
are wanting. By its decomposition in the soil; huma% 



96 FABMINQ AND FARMINa ECONOMY. 

forms a source of carbonic acid^ by which the fixed ele- 
ments of food are rendered soluble^ and capable of 
being distributed in all directions/' 

We now come to notice the *' mineral theory " of 
Liebig, to which allusion has been already made, and 
which is founded upon the doctrine so clearly expounded 
by him, and now generally held as correct, '' that eveiy 
kind of plant has certain specific minera/ elements, every 
one of which, in its due proportion, must be assimilated 
by the plant, or it will not thrive/* From this, Liebig 
propounded that " the produce of our fields will increase 
or diminish in a direct ratio with the supply of mineral 
elements capable of assimilation,*' the organic or com- 
bustible substances of the plants being derived from the 
atmosphere. 

The following extracts from Baron Liebig's latest 
work, "Letters on Modem Agriculture'' (Walton 
and Maberley, London), have a close bearing on the 
subject, and will be interesting : — 

"As our cultivated plants undoubtedly absorb through 
the leaves as much nitrogenised food in the form of 
ammonia and nitric acid from the air, as well as dis- 
solved in rain and dew, as uncultivated plants which 
receive no nitrogenised manure from the hands of man 
— ^we can, therefore, conceive that the agriculturist will 
seldom have to seek the reason of his poor crops in a 
deficiency of ammonia or nitrogenised food alone ; and 
that he must first of all direct his attention to certain 
other conditions in order to improve his harvest. A 
knowledge of the quantity of ammonia or nitrogen in a 
soil is, therefore, not sufficient to enable us to judge of 
its fertility or capacity for production. For, even 
though a better crop be obtained from many fields by 
the application of ammonia^ on by far the great majority 



THEOBIES OF MANURDTG. 97 

of others^ the largest quantities of this food produce no 
effect; because^ though the nitrogen must indeed be 
there^ and takes part in the formation of the vegetable 
mass^ yet it produces by itself no effect when the 
conditions are wanting which render it active/' 

On this theory Liebig produced his celebrated mine- 
ral wheat manure^ which was based upon the analysis 
showing the mineral constituents carried off by the crop 
from the land. This manure signally failed^ and its 
failure was the means of drawing no small ridicule on 
the celebrated chemist^ and of lessening very consider- 
ably the faith of the farmer in his worth as a teacher. 
^' The result/' says an able writer, '^ of the propagation 
of Professor Liebig's views, accompanied by his prac- 
tical advice, was, that he was soon followed by a host 
of imitators and manure makers ; who, learning from 
his work that plants were to be classified as potash 
plants, silica plants, &c., bestowed much attention on 
the composition of the ashes of plants, in the hope that 
when that was duly ascertained, farming would be re- 
duced to a simple equation : — " Given the elements of 
the soil and the composition of the plant, required the 
manure.'' It was at the laboratory, and in the fields 
of Rothamsted, that Mr. Lawes instituted a series of 
experiments, the result of which elicited views contro- 
verting, or at least greatly modifying, those of Liebig, 
and the publication of which, in the '^ Journal of the 
Boyal Agricultural Society of England," gave rise to 
a controversy which for long held the agricultural 
world in suspense, and which even now is not yet de- 
cided or set at rest ; and it is perhaps one of the most 
important now agitating the agricultural community. 
So close a bearing, indeed, has it upon the future of 
agriculture, that we would be wrong to pasa it \s^ ^wJ^Js^ 

P 



98 FARHIKQ AND FARMING EOONOHT. 

merely an allusion. We therefore deem it right to 
detail the chief points connected with the question; 
and this we cannot better do than in the words of 
Professor Anderson, as given in a recent paper in the 
^^Transactions of the Highland and Agricultiiral Society 
of Scotland : '^ — 

" The constituents of plants have been divided into 
two great classes — the organic, and inorganic or mi- 
neral; and it is unnecessary to say that the food 
supplied to the plant must contain an adequate amount 
of both these classes of substances, if it is to grow and 
arrive at maturity. The inorganic matters are derived 
from substances which are fixed, and can be obtained only 
from the soil; while, on the other hand, the oi^anic 
constituents of the plant are derived from substances 
such as water, carbonic acid, ammonia, and nitric acid, 
which are either gaseous or volatile, and can, conse- 
quently, be obtained either from the air or the soil. The 
fixed matters which are absorbed by the soil, and form its 
ash, are called its inorganic or mineral food ; and those 
which form its organic portion are called its organic 
food. If, now, a succession of crops be cultivated on 
a given soil, and removed from it, the efiect must be 
that, sooner or later, all the available food contained in 
the soil will be removed from it, and it will no longer 
be capable of supporting the life of plants. But it is 
manifest that, as matters stand in nature, it might 
be possible to remove from the soil the inorganic or 
mineral food ; but the organic matters never could be 
exhausted, because the air forms a never-ending source 
from which new supplies of these substances may be 
obtained. A soil which ceases to produce plants, is, 
therefore, practically exhausted only as regards its 
mineral matters^ and might be again rendered fertile 



THEORIES OP MANURING. 99 

by the addition of these substances only, the air being 
competent to afford an undiminished supply of carbonic 
acid, ammonia, and nitric acid. This point is so self- 
evident that no one will be found to doubt it, and it 
forms the nucleus of the mineral theory. The position 
which Liebig takes up is, that while the mineral and 
the organic — or as he now prefers to call them, the 
terrestrial and atmospheric elements of the food — are 
equally important to the plant, we may with confidence 
rely upon the atmosphere alone for an adequate supply 
of the latter, but must take care to add the inorganic 
or terrestrial matters in the form of manure, in order 
to keep up the supply in the soil. Now, the point at 
issue is this : it is admitted on all hands that, in a soil 
containing only mineral matters, plants will grow, 
arrive at maturity, and produce a certain amount of 
crop, deriving their organic food entirely from the air ; 
but if it be required to obtain the maximum amount of 
produce, whether ought we to add an additional supply 
of mineral matters to the soil, still leaving it to obtain 
the whole of its nitrogen from the air ; or, whether 
should we supplement the latter by the addition of a 
nitrogenous matter to the soil ? The former is Liebig^s 
view — the latter, that of Lawes and Gilbert, and the 
majority of agricultural chemists. The following quo- 
tation from Liebig's last reply to Messrs. Lawes and 
Gilbert, sufficiently indicates his opinion : — 

'^ ' A certain mass of silver and gold circulates in the 
world, and the art of becoming rich consists in knowing 
the way to divert from the main stream an additional 
brook to one's own house. In like manner there cir- 
culates in the air and in the soil a relatively inex- 
haustible quantity of the food of plants, and the art 
of the farmer consists in knowing and using tTaa tdl^'s^s. 

f2 



100 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

of rendering this food efficient and available for his 
crops. The more he is able to divert from tbe moving 
stream (the air) to the immovable promoter of his pro- 
duction (the soil of the fields)^ the more will the sum 
of his wealth and of his products increase. 

" * I had advised farmers not to bestow their chief 
attention on that element of the food of plants which 
the heavens constantly shower on our fields^ but rather 
to care especially for those constituents which are not 
restored spontaneously^ or without our assistance/ 

^' It is clear, also, that his conviction of the accuracy 
of this view has gained strength, as shown by the fol- 
lowing extract from the address to farmers, which 
accompanied his well-known ' patent manures :' — 

" ' All manure which is to be used next winter con- 
tains a quantity of ammonia corresponding with the 
amount of nitrogen in the grain and crops which are 
to be grown. 

'^ 'Experiments in which I am at present engaged, 
will show whether in future the cost of this manure 
may not be greatly lessened by excluding the half or 
the whole amount of ammonia. I believe that this 
can be accomplished for many plants, as for clover, 
and all very foliaceous plants, and for peas and beans ; 
but my trials are not so far advanced as to prove the 
fact with certainty.' 

" These extracts, as well as the general tenor of his 
works, appear to show that Liebig, while maintaining 
the equal importance of all the constituents of the 
food of plants, believes that the farmer may safely 
trust to obtaining from the air a sufficient supply of 
ammonia to ftdfil the requirements of even the most 
abundant crops. The opposite view has been submitted 
to the test of experiment by Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert^ 



THEORIES OF MANURING. 101 

and they believe that they have refuted his view ; while 
Liebig finds in their experiments the most conclusive 
evidence of its accuracy. To attempt a formal criti- 
cism of the elaborate papers which have been published 
on both sides, is impossible here. I must observe, 
however, that it appears to me that Liebig has scarcely 
done justice to his opponents. He seeks to have us 
believe that they had attributed to him the opinion 
that ammonia is of no importance as a manure — a 
statement which no one at all acquainted with even 
the elements of agricultural chemistry, and, certainly, 
least of all Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, would have 
ventured to make; and in his later papers he has 
chosen to consider ammonia as a mineral substance, an 
assertion which is tantamount to begging the whole 
question, and which is singularly at variance with his 
' Traite de Chemie Organique,^ in which no less than 
ninety-one pages are devoted to ammonia and its com- 
pounds. After all, however, the matter does not turn 
upon nice distinctions of whether any substance is to 
be considered organic or inorganic, for this distinction, 
once so marked in a chemical point of view, is rapidly 
disappearing ; but on whether or not it is necessary 
to use nitrogenous manures. No one doubts that the 
soil, or the plant which grows on it, can obtain from 
the air a sufficient supply of ammonia and nitric acid 
to produce the amount of vegetation which a soil yields 
in its natural condition ; but the case is undoubtedly 
different when the abnormal crops required by an 
advanced state of agriculture are to be produced ; and 
Liebig has adopted a most unadvisable course when he 
recommends the farmers not to bestow their chief 
attention on ammonia and nitric acid. I believe that 
the air does not supply so much of these &uh^\.'sx^^^^ 



102 FARMING AND FARMINQ BCONOMT. 

as a large crop requires^ and that they must be supple- 
mented by the manure ; and^ in practice^ there is no 
good farmer who does not apply them largely. The 
experiments on the absorbent power of soils afford a 
reason for this necessity ; for, while the important 
inorganic constituents of the soil are diminished only 
by that which the crop removes, the nitrogenous 
matters are subject to a twofold loss, dependent both 
on the crop and that which passes off by the drainage- 
water. In fact, the soil loses in the drainage-water 
nearly twice as much nitrogen as the rain brings down 
to it. The careful farmer will therefore add nitro- 
genous matters to his manure, but he must be cautious 
also not to rely upon them alone. The true practice 
is that which adds to the soil all the constituents of 
the food of plants in quantities at least equal to those 
in which they are removed, and it is that in actual 
operation on all good farms.'' 

Although the " mineral theory'' has many adherents, 
still it may be held that, as a rule, both among chemists 
and practical men, it has not been accepted in this 
country. On the contrary, the opinion holds most 
decidedly in favour of the principle established by the 
experiments of Mr. Lawes — " nitrogen for the wheat, 
phosphates and sulphates for the turnips." On this 
controversy of Lawes and Liebig, Mr. Baldwin remarks, 
" The practical experience of nearly all British agricul- 
turists, and more especially of those who belong to 
the school of high farming, and who patriotically aim 
at raising the produce to the maximum standard, con- 
firms the distinction which Mr. Lawes makes as to the 
manurial requirements of root crops — of which turnips 
may be taken as the type — and the cereals. The habits 
of the several families of plants, and their wants, in the 



THBORIES OF MANURINa. 103 

artificial state to which the agriculturist has brought 
them, are totally difierent. At the same time, we 
think the laws of vegetable growth are immutable, for, 
as Liebig says, no one can rationally suppose that 
nature has, by way of exception, created special laws 
of nutrition for the wheat plant; and, accordingly, 
mineral manures compounded in accordance with the 
analysis of the ash of crops have failed with all crops 
and in all soils deficient in organic matter. But with 
all this we are not to discard Liebig's theory, which 
involves momentous interests/' The following may be 
taken as a short statement from the pen of Mr. Acland 
^' of the principles elicited from the practice of farming 
as conducted in England •/' — 

" The analysis of crops, when taken by itself, is not 
a safe guide in the selection of manures. The habits 
of plants must be studied as they actually occur in the 
rotations of husbandry. The examination of the four- 
course rotation shows, that where the green crops are 
consumed on the farm, the amount of minerals removed 
from the land and not returned to it is small. An 
abundant restoration of minerals will not, by itself, 
secure the profitable growth of plants. The mineral 
chiefly required to be imparted is phosphorus — potash 
sometimes (lime and salt have special functions in 
certain cases). 

'^ Carbon is largely consumed — that is, not only 
turned into meat, but burnt away — ^in stock-feeding ; 
and as there is no other available source, it must ulti- 
mately come from the air. If the plant is healthy it 
easily accumulates carbon. 

^' Nitrogen is dissipated by corn crops and grass ; it 
is collected by clover, beans, and other leguminous 
plants ; it is retained by root crops consumed on the 



104 FARMING AND FABMINO SGONOHT. 

farm ; it is also collected by day soils^ wlien porous; 
it is imported as ammonia in guano^ as nitric acid in 
nitrates^ in various combinations in feeding stufb. 

^^Carbonaceous matter^ such as oil^ starchy sngaTi 
form fat in animals ; but so much of them as passes 
through the animal into the dung is^ in time^ changed 
into carbonic acid^ which has no appreciable money 
value, being abundantly supplied from the air. 

^' Nitrogenous matters form fleshy and are only taken 
into the animal system in small quantities^ but so much 
of them as passes through is found again in the dung 
as ammonia^ which has a high money value^ the supply 
being limited. Therefore^ the more meat is made on 
a farm^ the more ammonia^ and^ under suitable con- 
ditions of soil and climate, the more corn/' 

Liebig, on the other hand, after showing what is the 
common view of agriculture, proceeds to state his views 
very clearly. He says, that " teachers of agriculture 
have, for the last sixteen years, taught that a fertile 
field contains an inexhaustible amount of the ash consti- 
tuents of plants, and that, consequently, deficiency of 
these can never occur in it ; that the fertility of a soil 
is in exact proportion to the quantity of combustible 
matters y of humus and nitrogen in it; and that the 
want of fertility is owing to the want of nitrogen ; and 
that the exhaustion of the land depends on the with- 
drawal of the latter. Manure, they assert, does not 
produce its beneficial efiects by returning to the ground 
those elements which have been withdrawn from it in 
corn, clover, turnips, tobacco, flax, hemp, madder, 
wine. Sec, but it acts by its combustible constituentr, 
and its efiect is in proportion to the amount of nitrogen 
it contains. Its incombustible elements only quietly 
look on to see how the other matters are doing, some • 



THBORIES OF MANURING. 105 

thing in the same way as the moon does when the dew 
is falling/' And he thus proceeds: — "In complete 
opposition to the modem doctrine of our agricul- 
turists^ it is proved by indisputable facts that the 
fertility of our soil is not increased by the organic or 
combustible matters in it, or by the supply of these 
alone ; that a soil which contains these in abundance is, 
as a rule, unproductive ; and that the application on a 
wheat-field of nitrogenous matters — such as the salt of 
ammonia — in many cases diminishes rather than in- 
creases the crop of grain. It has further been proved, 
that ammonia and nitrogenous manures do not augment 
the produce of clover, unless accompanied by the ash 
constituents of the plant ; that by themselves they act 
favourably only on such fields as are rich in mineral 
matters, and that their continued use in such cases 
only more completely exhausts the land — that is, makes 
it still more unproductive for future crops than it would 
have been without their action. If our fields really 
contained so large a quantity of the mineral matters of 
plants that they could not be exhausted by cultivation, 
if the fertility was dependent on the presence, and 
their exhaustion on the absence, of ammonia or nitro- 
genous substances, then an endless series of full crops 
should be obtained by the supply of these alone, 
without the addition of any mineral matter. It is, 
however, an established and indisputable fact, that the 
maintenance of the fertility of our fields is impossible 
without replacing the minerals withdrawn by the crops. 
Hence it follows, that farm-yard manure does not act 
by its combustible elements, and that if the latter in 
any case produce a favourable effect, it is only when 
they are accompanied by the ash constituents of plants 
which have been removed by previous crops, and which 

jp 3 



106 FARMINQ AND FARMING BCONOICT. 

arc a-wauting in the field. I believe tliat among the 
readers of these letters there will scarcely be found one, 
at all acquainted with the rules of logic, who could have 
any doubts of the truth of the conclusions deduced 
from the chemical analyses of the soil, of plants, and of 
farm-yard manure. These analyses have been made in 
thousands by different chemists in Germany, England, 
and France, and all agree perfectly in their results. 
If, indeed, the existence of a fact can be ascertained 
by the balance, there is none in the whole domain of 
chemistry more firmly established than this, that even 
the most fertile soil contains but an extraordinarily 
small quantity of the ash constituents of plants in com- 
parison with its chemically inactive mass. It will be 
suflScient to give an idea of this fact, when I state that 
the ablest chemists failed in discovering, before 1834, 
potash as a constituent of soils, of clay, and of lime- 
stone^ because its amount is so small ; and that, before 
the discovery of new and hitherto unknown re-agents, 
the simple detection in the soil of phosphoric acid, 
without any attempt to ascertain its quantity, was 
attended with the greatest difficulty.'' 

It will not be out of place here to describe very 
briefly the '^ theory of agriculture," as proposed and 
propounded in an able paper in the Journal of Agricul- 
ture (No. 69, 1860), by the Rev. Dr. Macvicar, of 
Moffat. To understand this theory, does not necessi- 
tate an intimate knowledge of the details of natural 
philosophy, chemistry, and physiology ; all that is re- 
quired is a general knowledge of the chemistry of the 
atmosphere, and a '^ comprehensive acquaintance with 
a single law.'' That law is known in the language of 
modem science by various names — generally the '^ law of 
continuity, '' sometimes the law of diffusion, sometimes 



THEORIES OF MAKlTRIKa. 107 

the law of osmosey sometimes the law of capillarity, 
of catalysis, and of affinity. But the name by which 
it is perhaps best suited to define the phenonema of 
plant life, is that which physiologists claim for it, 
namely, the " law of assimilation.'^ Assimilation is 
" simply to the effect,^^ says Dr. Macvicar, " that when 
two dissimilar yet kindred media meet together, the 
one consisting of plastic material and the other of a 
living organism in want of redintegration or increment, 
that organism, while maintaining its own type, assimi- 
lates more or less the plastic material to itself, and 
riBorganises it ; while the plastic material, on its part, 
assimilates more or less the organism to itself/' In 
virtue of this law, " mutual penetration,^' including in 
this term diffusion, osmose, capillarity, &c., does not 
take place " between gases- only, nor between liquids 
only, nor between solids only, nor yet between solids 
and liquids only, but also between aeriform and con- 
crete media/' In virtue of this law, there is a per- 
petual descent, so to speak, of the air into the earth, 
and a perpetual ascent of the particles of the earth 
(which are capable of assuming the aeriform condition) 
into the air. From this law, which is most graphi- 
cally and beautifully illustrated by Dr. Macvicar, by 
the description of various cosmical phenomena, is 
deduced this, — that the " vegetable kingdom as a whole, 
what is it, when viewed in relation to the atmosphere, 
but air become concrete as vegetable tissue, piercing 
down into the earth, and rooting itself in it ? And 
viewed in reference to the earth, what is it but a system 
of earth-particles — aqueous, gemmous, earthy, saline — 
suspended and diffused in air to the utmost by the 
concrete air-tissue (that is, the vegetable tissue) as a 
scaffolding; these particles, meanwhile^ in so far as 



108 FARMING AND FARMINa XC0N0M7. 

they are capable of the aeriform state^ exhaling into 
the air in forms often fragrant, and always more 
aeriform than those in which they enter the plant V 
The law, then, of assimilation is, to (1) ''carry up in 
forms^ as aerial as possible, earth-particles, and to 
suspend them in a state of diffusion in the air, when 
they cannot be made to vaporise into it ;" and (2) ''to 
carry down, in forms as concrete as possible, air-particles 
into the earth/' We cannot find space to glance, even, 
at the various statements in support of this theory; 
we can only give here the statement of the " rational 
system of cultivation '^ dependent upon it, and which is 
stated in three propositions, as follows : — 

I. An ample area for each plant, that there may be 
abundant air-food for the foliage^ and earth-food for 
the root. 

II. T^e full development of the root, and the preven* 
tion of injury to it, whether by mechanical obstructions 
on, or poisons in, the soil. 

III. The storing of the soil unth food for the plant — 
that is, with those concrete air-and-earth elements of 
which the plant under cultivation consists ; and that, 
so that they may severally present themselves to the 
rootlets in a state fit for absorption at the several epochs 
during the growth of the plant, when they are needed 
for its development, whether soon after germination for 
the foliage, or afterwards for the seed or fruit. The 
theory, as adduced, gives no countenance to such 
notions as that plants can develop themselves healthily 
by being fed at the root with raw chemicals, as acids, 
alkalies, or salts dissolved in water. It aims at a per- 
fect cultivation, in which the soil is a compost, so to 
speak, full of all the matters required by the plant, and 
thoroughly permeable by its roots. It points with 



THEORIES OF MANURING. 109 

favour to the " old doctrine of an abundance of well- 
rotted manure as the grand desideratum/' but in a more 
portable^ concentrated form^ " so that it may be carried 
like seed^ and sown with it^ as the great object which 
the enlightened agricvdturist ought^ at the present day, 
especially to aim at/' 

Important as manures are^ and essential in all true 
forming, it may surprise some of our readers to know 
that there haye been, and are now, those who maintain 
that manures are not necessary. Jethro TuU, whose 
theory of manuring we have already noticed, deduced 
from that theory that manure was not required : pul- 
yerisation of the soil being well attended to, all the 
fertilising materials were obtained, the elements of 
nutrition being absorbed by the plant from the soil. It 
is, however, now established that the constituents of the 
plants must be in a state of solution before they can 
be taken up by it ; and that no matter how fine may be 
what Jethro Tull called the '^ vegetable pasture, *' or 
pulverised particles of the soil, the spongioles of the 
plants are infinitely too minute to allow of the passage 
of those particles. The theory of Jethro Tull has been 
revived in our time, and advocated in a work entitled 
*' Tillage a Substitute for Manure." 

A modification of the Tullian mode of cultivating 
without manure, is the '' Lois-Weedon system,'' intro- 
duced, and advocated so ably by the Bev. Mr. Smith. 
For a description of this method see the work under- 
noted.* 

* " Outlines of Modern Farming; " Vol. L — Soils, Crops, Manures. 
Virtue Brothers, London. 



110 FARMIKG AND FARMINO BOONOMT. 



SscTxoif IV. — Fbutilisino Propertibs in Raxn-watsr— Fobma- 
TioN OF NiTBic Acid in thb Air. 

Saussure was the first, as far as history records the 
matter^ to have observed or detected the presence of 
ammonia in the air. M. Brande^ in 1825^ detected 
ammonia in rain-water. The authorities endeayoured 
to determine the quantity, but such a discrepancy 
existed between their results as to make them of com- 
paratively little value. 

Liebig was the first to show the agricultural im- 
portance of the presence of ammonia in the air, and in 
rain-water, dew, &c. 

M. Barral, a well-known continental scientific agri- 
culturist, instituted a series of experiments demon- 
strating the existence of ammonia and nitric acid in 
the rain-water collected in the rain-gauges of the Paris 
Observatory, during the years 1851 and 1852. Prom 
these experiments, M. Barral deduced the fact that the 
rain annually carried down to the soil no less a quantity 
of nitrogen than 20*84 lbs., of which more than half 
(10*70) was in the form of nitric acid, the remainder 
(10*40) being in the form of ammonia. This announce- 
ment created, as may be supposed, no small amount of 
attention ; for when, as pointed out by Dr. Anderson, 
an average crop of wheat or barley does not contain 
more than 44 to 56 lbs. of nitrogen, and when, in 
addition, it might reasonably be supposed that a further 
supply would be carried down by the dew, and when, 
further, it was known that the soil has a powerful ten- 
dency to absorb ammonia, and might possibly be able 
to take it directly from the air, ^' it seemed no very un- 
reasonable supposition that an adequate supply might 
be obtained from this source, without the necessity of 



RAIN-WATER— FOG— DBW. Ill 

getting it from the raanure, or even from the soil/' 
Other experimenters, however, followed M. Barral ; and 
although M. Boussingault and Mr. Way corroborated 
M. Barral, so far as that nitric acid and ammonia did 
both exist in the air ; still, that the quantities of these 
— especially of the nitric acid — were not so large as 
that authority stated or believed to exist. Thus, the 
experiments of Mr. Way showed that, in place of 11 lbs. 
of nitrogen, in the shape of nitric acid, being given by 
the rain-fall to an acre of land, some three-quarters 
only of a pound was the quantity. This result was 
obtained from the experiments on the rain-fall of the 
years 1855 and 1856. Boussingault further showed that 
a much larger quantity of nitric acid and ammonia was 
present in rain-water falling in town than in the 
country, and more in rain-water than in spring and 
river water; the difference being attrioutable, in all 
probability, to the absorptive powers of the soil through 
which the latter pass (see remarks on the absorptive 
properties of soil in a preceding section). The same 
authority, extending his observations to dews and 
fogs, showed that the water of these was much richer 
— and this held more specially true of fog- water — in 
nitric acid and ammonia, than rain-water. Although 
the experiments of M. Barral have an important bear- 
ing upon agriculture, still, those of other authorities 
have not borne them out as regards the quantity of 
fertilising matter due from this source of rain-water ; 
some, as Bineau for instance, stating as one result 
of their experiments, that no nitric acid is in the air. 
Nevertheless, as Dr. Anderson remarks, " enough has 
been ascertained to show that the quantity of ammonia 
and nitric acid in the air is sufficient to produce a 
material influence in the growth of plants. The large 



112 FAKMINO AND FARMINa EOOVOMT. 

amount of these substances contained in the dew is also 
particularly worthy of notice^ and may serve to some 
extent to explain its remarkably invigorating e£Pect on 
vcfijctation." 

In close connection with this subject is the question 
*' how is nitric acid formed in the air ^' It is, doubtless, 
produced by the combination of its elements in the air, 
but the mode in which this occurs is imperfectly known 
to us. Dr. Anderson suggests that ''it is probably 
connected with the existence of ozone in the atmosphere 
— a substance which must have very important beiurings 
on the growth of plants — and many other atmospheric 
phenomena.^' Ozone is a modification of oxygen, and 
has amongst other powerful properties a capability to 
unite directly with nitrogen. M. Ville, a recent ex- 
perimenter, has however shown, or endeavoured to show, 
that porous bodies are capable of promoting the com- 
bination of nitrogen and oxygen. If his views are cor- 
rect — they, however, require further corroboration — the 
possibility is easily understood of the '' soil itself being 
an active agent in the change^ and causing the particles 
of these gases to unite exactly where they are most 
wanted.'^ "The subject,^' Dr. Anderson remarks, "is 
one of great importance, in affording us an explanation 
of the great change occurring in the life of plants ; for 
at present it is admitted that the great mass of ammonia 
and nitric acid existing at the earth's surface, are pro- 
ducts of decomposition of the nitrogenous matters of 
plants and animals ; and, as a certain part of the nitro- 
gen contained in them is continually passing into the 
elementary state, it is beyond a doubt that there must 
be some great cause at work producing a supply of these 
essential supporters of vegetable life. 



THE SOUROBS 07 THE FOOD OF PLANTS. 113 



SECnON v. — ThB S0UKOB8 OF THB FoOD OF FULNTS. 

All plants are formed by a number of cells, the outer 
part of each cell, as it is now generally held, being formed 
of cellulose, and the inner part of membrane, this inner 
part being more the seat of life than the outer, which 
may be looked upon as the shell. Each plant, as we have 
already shown, requires an abundance of ammonia, as 
well as of acids and salts. Not a cell can be formed with- 
out nitrogen, and small as the per centage of this may 
be, and is, yet its presence is absolutely indispensable. 

As to the sources of the food of plants, much has 
already been given while treating of soils and manures, 
so that comparatively little need be said here in con- 
nection with it. While authorities are at one as to the 
sources from which plants derive their inorganic con- 
stituents — namely, from the soil alone — and from which 
they derive three of their organic constituents, carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen, in the combined forms of carbonic 
acid and water ; there is still much dispute as to the 
source from which the fourth organic constituent nitrogen 
is obtained. The two opinions on this point are — ^first, 
that nitrogen ^' is obtained exclusively from ammonia/^ 
and second, that it is obtained ^^ partly from ammonia, 
and partly from nitric acid/^ which nitric acid is a com- 
bination of nitrogen and oxygen. Of the former view, 
Liebig has been long considered as the exponent, and 
may still be so, although even he now admits that 
nitric acid may be a source of nitrogen ; for the admis- 
sion is made so guardedly that it may be held that he 
still maintains his original view. The view that nitric 
acid is a source of the nitrogen of plants, in addition 
to that of ammonia, is held by numerous, ^e \cl^ 



Hi FARMING AND FARMINQ EOONOMY. 

say the majority of, chemists^ and is ably expoanded 
by Dr. Anderson ; ivho maintains that the evidence of 
nitrie aeid being a souree of available nitrogen^ rests 
upon as good ground as that in favour of ammonia 
being the source. Thus, while the experiments of 
Priestley, as early as 1779, and those of Saussure, 
Boussingault, and Ville, prove that ammonia is a source 
of the nitrogen of plants ; those of WolflF and othen 
prove that nitric acid is also a source of it. Dr. Ander- 
son, in summing up the arguments which he adduces 
in favour of the view of nitric acid being a source of 
nitrogen, says — "It is manifest, therefore, that am- 
monia cannot possibly be the only source of nitrogen 
of plants. But direct experiment has established the 
fact that nitric acid does promote vegetation, and the 
considerations, just given show that it is the only sub- 
stance capable of producing that delicate adjustment 
by which the quantity of available organic nitrogen is 
sustained at its proper level. ^' 

In connection with this point, it is worthy of record 
here that this same eminent chemical authority has 
thrown out a very interesting and, we think, valuable 
suggestion, that seeing the marked influence of nitrate of 
soda — a powerful manure, the effect of which is due to its 
nitric acid — on the graminaceous plants, that is, the 
cereals and grasses, and its comparatively inert influence 
on the cruciferous plants, or roots and clover, that —as 
" there are two classes of animals — carnivorous and 
herbivorous — so there might possibly be two classes of 
plants capable of deriving their nitrogenous constituents 
from different sources, one assimilating it chiefly or only 
from ammonia, the other possessing in addition the 
power of elaborating it from nitric acid.'^ 

Seeing the importance of nitrogen in the vegetable 



THB SOURCES OF THE FOOD OF PLANTS. 115 

world, the question has arisen, can plants absorb nitro- 
gen directly from the atmosphere ? To the solution of 
this question M. Boussingault has directed his attention 
during many years, and has instituted most careful 
researches and experiments. The importance of the 
solution may be understood^ when we reflect that if 
plants are capable of absorbing nitrogen directly from 
the atmosphere — of which it forms four-fifths, — then 
the art of agriculture will consist in preparing the soil so 
that the crop which it bears will best be able to draw its 
supply of nitrogen. On the other hand, if the plants 
cannot absorb nitrogen directly from the soil, then the 
problem of agriculture will be how to prepare the soil, 
and how to supply it with nitrogen in those conditions in 
which it can be assimilated, and in which it is indis- 
pensable to the plants which it bears. M. Boussingault 
has come to the decided conclusion that plants do 
not absorb nitrogen from the atmosphere directly, 
but that it must be supplied from external sources; 
and these external sources are ammoniacal salts and 
nitrates. ^^This doctrine,^^ says a lucid English ex- 
ponent of this great chemist's views, '^ he verifies by 
many experiments made with the nitrates of potash and 
soda as manures, as also others with phosphate of lime, 
both with and without nitrate. The result of the whole 
is to the effect that phosphate is indispensable* in every 

♦ M. Boossingault's experiments on the action of phosphate of lime, 
with or without nitrates, are very suggestive and important. The follow- 
ing are his concluding remarks on this : — ** It has been seen that phos- 
phate of lime acts favourably upon plants only when it is associated 
with matter, bringing to the soil such nitrogen as I have named assimil- 
able, in order to distinguish it from the gaseous nitrogen of the atmos- 
phere, which vegetables do not assimilate directly. These new experi- 
ments show that a substance rich in assimilative nitrogen does not act 
as a manure, except with the concurrence of phosphates ; and that, if 
indeed, a plant, under its influence, grows larger than when it grows 
imder the influence of phosphate alone, it, nevertheless, never attains a 
normal development This notion of the necessity of two t«x\ii&^vDL^ 



116 FARMING AND FARIUNG SOOVOHT. 

case ; and that of the nitrogenous matter^ which is abo 
needful as an accompaniment to the phosphate^ a nitraU 
is preferable to an ammoniacal salty inasmuch as nOratet 
appear to be fully assimilable by plants, and being mart 
fixed are less likely to be lost than ammoniacal aalts^ all 
of which are more or less volatile/' 

The experiments of M. Boussingault have estab- 
lished the beautifully suggestive fact^ that the seed of 
every plant contains the '^ nitrogen and phosphorus^ and 
of all the characteristic materials of the vegetable 
species whose seed it is ; that in virtue of their existence 
in it, the seed will grow in a perfectly pure air and 
barren soil, and although fed with only pure water^ will 
develop into a perfect plant which may flower and even 
ripen seeds, while yet the quantity of nitrogen in the 
entire plant is no more than that which was in the seed 
to begin with. In the seed there is usually from one 
to six per cent, of nitrogen. In the entire plant there 
is less than one per cent." 

In the companion work, '^Outlines of Modem Farm- 
ing,^' Vol. I., Soils — Manures — Crops, we give a brief 
outline of the theory of vegetable life, and of the assimi- 
lation of food ; and showed how the oxygen of the 
air was taken up by plants, and carbonic acid gas was 
expelled by them. 

'^The celebrated French chemist, M. Boussingault^ 

agents in a manure, generally admitted now, has yeiy happily con- 
tributed to put a stop to the fraud of a sort of trade which is of the 
deepest interest to the rural population. May I be permitted to add, 
that this notion was introduced into science twenty years ago, by VL 
Payen and myself. I should not, therefore, have judged it necessaiy to 
undertake new researches to corroborate an opinion so completely 
accepted, if I had not had in view to appreciate, and in a manner to 
measure, the useful effect on vegetation which is exercised by each of the 
two most efficacious principles of the dunghill, viz., nitrogen, engaged 
either in nitric or ammoniacal combinations, and the phosphoric acids 
entering into phosphates." 



THB SOURCES OF THB FOOD OF PLANTa 117 

has recently presented a memoir to the French Academy 
detailing a series of interesting and highly valuable 
experiments in the so-called respiration of plants, by 
which he has been led to the discovery of a new and 
unexpected fact in connection with this process. Our 
knowledge of the influence which the green parts of 
plants exercise on the atmosphere has been but little 
advanced since the memorable researches of Theodore 
de Saussure. The separation of the elements of carbonic 
add by leaves under the influence of the sun^s light, 
the assimilation of the carbon, and the elimination of 
oxygen, still expresses the extent of our acquaintance 
with phenomena discovered in the course of the last 
century, and no sufficiently precise determination has 
since been obtained of the connection existing between 
the volume of the oxygen evolved and the carbonic acid 
decomposed. In all the experiments of Saussure, and 
also in the very careful experiments of MM. Chez and 
Gratiolet, Deipper, and others, a considerable quantity 
of nitrogen had always been found accompanying the 
other gases, and this nitrogen, it was supposed, was 
emitted by the plant along with the oxygen set free by 
the decomposition of the carbonic acid in the process of 
respiration. M. Boussingault was induced to submit 
this nitrogen to a more careful scrutiny, and he was 
abundantly rewarded by finding that it contained a 
portion of a combustible gas. Analysis indicated that 
this gas consisted of carbonic oande, with a trace of some 
carburetted hydrogen. The nitrogen that had misled 
Saussure and his successors was found to be derived 
from the air absorbed by the plant in its exposure to 
the atmosphere and the surrounding moisture, and it 
now appears that during the decomposition of the 
carbonic acid by the leaves no nitrogen is emitted^ Imi 



118 FARMING AND FARMING BCONOMT. 

that the oxr/f/en is accompanied by oxide of carbon a$d 
carburetted hydrogen, the combustible gases being pro- 
duced iu the proportion of I'll to every 100 of oxygen. 
Light appears indispensable to the development of these 
com])ustil)lc gases. If the apparatus filled with leaves 
be placed in strong sunlight^ but covered with a black 
cloth, until the water attains a temperature of 38°, 
the gas collected contains no trace of carbonic oxide or 
carburetted hydrogen. To keep, then, the expression 
of these results strictlv within the conditions of M. 
Boussingault's experiments it may be stated that these 
combustible gases constantly accompany the oxygen 
which is evolved from a plant under the influence of 
solar light when immersed in water impregnated with 
carbonic acid. 

^'M. Boussingault concludes his memoir by asking 
' Is it not curious that after the lapse of a century it 
should be established before this academy that, probablyi 
the leaves of all plants, and very certainly the leaves of 
aquatic plants, in emitting oxygen, which ameliorate 
the atmosphere, also emit one of the most deleterious 
gases known — oxide of carbon ? In the emanation of 
this pernicious gas may we not discover one of the 
causes of the unheal thiness of marshy countries.''' 



Section VI. — Composition op Dkainage-Watkk. 

An inquiry, having very important results, has been 
made into the composition of the drainage-water of soils, 
by Mr. Way, late Chemist to the Royal Agricultural 
Society of England. The waters passing from drains, 
as examined by this celebrated chemist, contained only 
very minute traces of potash and phosphoric acid, and 
such a very small per centage of ammonia, as not 



COMPOSITION OF DRAINAGE- WATBR. 119 

to be worth notice, being only one part in three and 
' a half millions, or 4^ grains in one ton of water. 
But the quantity of nitric acid was in some instances 
very considerable. Prom soils richly manured with 
nitrogenous manures, as much as 15 grains of nitric 
acid were obtained from a gallon of the drainage- water; 
but the average of ordinary soils may be put down at 
from 1 to 4 grains per gallon. This, calculating the 
average fall of rain on the drier soils at 25 inches for 
each inch on an acre of land, a hundred tons of water 
gives a quantity of nitric acid equal to 62 lbs. per acre, 
or 161bs. of nitrogen as the amount of matter carried 
off by drainage-water from average soils. Thus, more 
is carried off by drainage than is supplied by the rain- 
water. Again, the rain-water supplies it in the form 
of ammonia, while the drainage- water carries it off in 
the form of nitric acid. Of nitric acid little is found 
in soils, so that the quantity found in drainage-water 
must be derived from the manure ; the nitric acid being 
obtained from the nitrogenous matters in the vege- 
table and ammonial manures which are supplied to the 
soil, and which undergo putrefaction therein. Where 
the supply of air is limited to the soil ammonia is gene- 
rally formed, but where it is amply supplied, and where 
calcareous matters are abundant in the soil, the nitric 
acid is, if not the chief, at least an abundant product of 
the decay of the manures in the soil. Hence drainage, 
lightening the soil, and making it permeable to the air, 
may, in fact, bring about a loss of fertilising matters. 
It is worthy of note, that the quantity of nitric acid 
obtained from drainage-water is likely to be smaller in 
the winter months, when putrefaction goes on slower, 
than in the summer months, when it is more rapid. 
Fortunately during the summer months, less draivi^^- 



120 FARMINO AND FARMINa BOONOMT. 

water flows from the land^ so the matter is compen- 
sated. Dr. Anderson^ from whose admirable paper 
we have compiled the above^ very suggestively points 
out that the bad cflfects of heavy and continued rains in 
summer may not only arise from the excessive moisture 
in the temperature^ but from the quantity of nitric 
acid washed out of the soil ; the practical inference 
from this beings that the loss may be supplied by a 
small top-dressing of nitrate of soda at a suitable time. 
Another practical inference derived from the facts now 
stated and pointed out by Dr. Anderson is^ that while 
ammoniacal manures may be applied to the soil at any 
time^ a nitrate must be applied when the crop is in full 
growth^ so that it can seize upon it^ and the rain^ if it 
does fall, is got rid of by evaporation, leaving the 
nitrate in the soil. We may state that w6 have had 
a practical exemplification of the truth of this in the 
application of nitrate of soda to our wheat crops. 



Secttion Vn. — Succession ok Rotation of Manubes. 

We have seen the importance of havii^g a succession 
of crops on the same soil if we wish to keep up their 
productiveness; but it is only of late that the im- 
portance of having a succession of manures has had any 
attention paid to it. Dr. Anderson draws attention to 
the importance of this succession of crops where 
special manures are much used. Thus, he points 
out (" Agricultural Chemistry," p. 160) that ammonia;, 
for instance, although proving beneficial when first 
used, begins, in some cases, to lose its effect; and, 
doubtless, on account of the phosphates existing in 
the soil being reduced in consequence of the use of 
ammonia, while the ammonia itself accumvdates. The 



CHEMISTRT OF OATTLE-FOOD AND FEEDING. 121 

necessity for a rotation or change of manures is less 
obvious in the case of the use of farm-yard manure^ 
which contains all the constituents of fertility, but 
where special manures are used, it is necessary to note 
very carefully their efiFects. There is, perhaps, no more 
interesting and useful subject than this point of succes- 
sion of manures ; of it, indeed, we know comparatively 
little, but it takes no great consideration to show that the 
effect of a continual use of any one special manure, is 
yery likely to be somewhat in the way pointed out by 
Dr. Anderson. 



DIVISION THIRD. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FEEDING. 

It was reserved for modem chemists to show that 
the chief organic constituents of the animal frame 
have their representatives in the vegetable kingdom. 
Thus, the nitrogenised portions of food, the vegetable 
fibrin, albumen, and caseine, are identical with the 
animal fibrin, albumen, and caseine. These portions 
of food in the vegetables go to make up in the animal 
frame its muscle and flesh. Again, much of the fat or 
oily matter of the animal has its representative in the 
vegetable. The modern theory of cattle-feeding owes 
its enunciation to Liebig. This great teacher of agri- 
cultural science points out what, indeed, is evident 
enough, if we survey in a proper spirit the evidences 
which everywhere surround us of the design and care 
of Him who rules all things well, in every departmLecA. 

o 



122 FARMING AND FARMINa EOONOMT. 

of nature : that the life and development of our organic 
being cannot be regarded as at all dependent upon 
chance. The assimilation of the food of which it par- 
takes^ the change of the elements of this food into the 
bonc^ bloody ficsh^ and muscle^ which make up the 
living form, arc all governed by laws which play into, 
and arc dependent upon, each other, like the parts of 
a well-made machine, and give rise to all '^ vital 
manifestations, its existence, and continuation '^ of 
animal life. 

Chemical analysis proves that in the seeds of the 
cereals, as wheat, barley, and oats, and of leguminous 
crops, as beans or peas, the sulphur and nitrogenous 
constituents are always accompanied by alkaline phos- 
phates and alkaline earths, '' and that between both 
there exists in each seed a fixed and unchangeable 
relation/' The sulphur and nitrogenous constituents 
of the food form the combustible matters of the blood. 
With the increase or decrease of phosphoric acid in the 
seeds of the crops named above, there is an increase or 
decrease in like proportion of the blood-forming con- 
stituents. Still further, chemical analysis has shown 
us, that in the blood of bread-fed men, or seed-fed 
animals, the incombustible matters are the same as 
those which are found in the plant. In animals fed on 
turnips, herbs, or potatoes, the blood ash-constituents 
are the same as the ash constituents of the plants they 
consume. 

We have already seen how indispensable to the life 
of the plants are the mineral constituents of the soil. 
Now, Liebig shows that the mineral elements are just 
as indispensable to the ^^ life of animals, to the forma- 
tion of their blood, and to its functions.' ' Of the brain 
and nerves phosphoric acid is an important constituent; 



CHEMISTRY OF CATTLB-FOOD AND FEBDING. 123 

of the iiesh, alkaline phosphates and alkaline earths; 
while phosphate of lime is indispensable for the forma- 
tion of bone. '^ The ash of green crops is rich in alka- 
line carbonate and common salt; and the blood of 
herbivorous animals abounds in alkaline carbonates. 
.... Were it possible for a plant to grow, flower, 
and bear seed without the co-operation of mineral 
matters, it would be utterly valueless to man and 
animals. A dog will die of hunger in presence of a 
dish full of raw or boiled white and yelk of eggs in 
which is' wanting one of the substances most important 
for the formation of blood. The first trial teaches him 
that such food is as inefficient as a stone for the pur- 
poses of nutrition. The constituents of the ashes of 
turnips and of meadow plants give them their nutri- 
tious value. Did they not exist in them, such plants 
would not be consumed by horses and cows. Every- 
where in nature prevail these harmonious laws which 
attach life to the earth, and maintain it in perpetual 
freshness and duration." 

All food is capable of being divided into two parts, 
the inorganic and organic. The inorganic portions are 
termed the ash or mineral, and are those which are 
left in burning or consuming the food. The mineral 
or ash constituents of food are composed of earthy, 
insoluble matters — principally lime and phosphoric 
acid, the uses of which in the animal economy are to 
supply its bone ; salt, and phosphate of soda, which enter 
into the composition of the blood; and the salts of 
potash, which enter largely into the juices of the animal 
frame. 

The organic or combustible substances of food are 
divisible into two great classes, the nitrogenised and 
the non-nitrogenised. The nitrogenised portions deei^- 

G 2 



124 FARMING AND FARMINO ECONOHT. 

natcd as albumen, casein, and fibrin, are composed of 
four elements^ carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrooen. 
The non-nitrogenous compounds of food are gum, sugar, 
starch, pectin, and fat. In these^ nitrogen is never 
present, only the three elements, carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen. 

The office of the niirogenised portions of food is to 
form the blood and tissue of the animal, that of the 
non-nitrogenised portions to maintain the heat, and to 
promote the respiratory functions of the animal. 
Although the plants which serve as the food of the 
farm-stock are comparatively poor in flesh-forming or 
nitrogenous compounds, still they play an important 
part in the animal economy. No food in which they 
are entirely absent will support animal life for any 
length of time. Carefully made experiments go to 
prove that ^^the animal organism does not possess 
the power inherent in plants of compounding and 
preparing the substance of the muscles from its 
elements/^ so that it is absolutely essential that the 
food of animals shall contain nitrogenous substances, 
which are, in fact, ready -formed muscle and blood, so 
to speak. 

At one period in the history of the chemical inves- 
tigation of the food question, the nutritive value of a 
food was determined by the quantity or proportion of 
its nitrogenised constituents or flesh-formers. " Only,^^ 
says Liebig^ ^^ those substances are in a strict sense 
nutritious articles of food, which either contain albu- 
men, or a substance capable of being converted into 
albumen/^ again, ^^only nitrogenous substances are 
capable of being converted into blood.^^ Boussingault, 
on the authority of the celebrated agriculturist Von 
Shaer, gives a table showing the ^^ relative degree of 



CHEMISTRY OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FBBDINa. 125 

nutriment aflForded by various plants to cattle^ and then 
places by the side of it a statement of the proportion of 
azote present in them " — all going to prove the " de- 
pendence of the nutritive quantities of various articles 
of food upon the proportion of nitrogen '' in them. 
The following is the table : — 

Nutriment 

equivalent. Asote. 

Ordinary Hay .... 100 . . 0*0118 

Red clover 90 . . 00176 

Beans 83 . . 00141 

Wheat Straw .... 400 . . 00020 

Potatoes 200 . . 0*0037 

Beet 397 . . 00026 

Maize 59 . . 0164 

Barley 54 . . 0*0176 

Wheat 27 . . 00213 



We shall see, however, as we proceed, that the opinions 
of chemists are now very much modified as to the 
nutritive value of a food being determined by the 
proportion of its nitrogenous constituents. It will be 
necessary here to state, in order to avoid any confusion 
of terms, that the nitrogenised portions of food are 
sometimes called the ^^ albuminous compounds,'^ some- 
times the ^^ protein compounds,^^ Mulder having shown 
that they are all compounds of protein; so that, in 
the technical language of the chemistry of food, 
'^ nitrogenised compounds,^* ^' flesh-formers,'^ '^ albumen- 
ised'^ and ^^ protein compounds,^' all denote the same 
thing. 

The oflBce of the non-nitrogenised substances of food 
— the starch, sugar, and gum — ^is, as we have already 
pointed out, to promote respiration; although, if 
these are taken largely, the excess goes to form fat; 
the fatty and oily matters maintaining the animal 
heat, and producing fat. From these oflBlcea «xv%^ \3ckfe 



126 FARMING AND FARMING BCONOXT. 

names which are sometimes giren to nom-nitrogemM 
substances, as " heat-givers," "respiratory compoands/' 
and " carl)onaceous compounds." Dr. Laukester likens 
the non-nitrogcnised portions of food to the "JM 
which keeps up animal heat. The body of a man has a 
temperature of 98' Fahrenheit. This warmth results 
from the burning of these substances, which produce as 
much heat in the body as they would if burned in an 
open fire out of the body. A man inhales about 3^000 
gallons of air in twenty-four hours, in order to bum the 
daily amount of food-fuel, containing about ten ounces 
of carbon or charcoal. The products of combustion 
pass out by the mouth, just as they would fly up the 
chimney of an open fire were the charcoal burned in it. 
Less food-fuel is required in hot weather than in cold ; 
and less in hot climates than in cold ones. Tropical 
foods contain about twenty to thirty parts in the 100 of 
charcoal ; arctic blubber and fats from eighty to ninety. 
The intense cold of the polar regions, compels the in- 
habitants to devour large quantities of food-fuel to keep 
up the heat of the body to 98\ Arctic travellers state 
that 20 lbs. of blubber is not an uncommon meal for one 
person." 

Dr. Playfair compares the consumption of food in 
the body to the consumption of fuel in a furnace. 
^^The body," he says, "is the furnace, the food is 
tlic fuel, the excrements are the ashes, and the gases 
respired from the mouth are of the same composition 
as those which fly up the chimney of the furnace.*' 
Of course, burning or consumption, as here spoken 
of, simply means oxidation; as when wc say a metal 
is burned by rust, it means that the oxygen of the 
air has combined with the iron, and gradually con- 
sumed it. 



CHBMISTRT OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FEBDING. 127 

The following is the summing up of Dr. Voelcker as 
to the two great classes of food-substances : — 

NiTBOOBNous Compounds. 

Vegetable albumen. — A substance identical in composition with the white 
of egg. 

Vegetable fibrin, or gluten. — A compound occurring in considerable 
quantity in wheat, and giving elasticity to the dough made with 
wheaten flour. 

Vegetable caserne. — A substance identical in composition with the curd 
of milk. 

Legumin. — A peculiar vegetable principle which derives its name from 
its occurrence in large quantities in pease, beans, and other 
leguminous seeds. 

There are other substances, but in such small pro- 
portion or of such rare occurrence as to require no 
special mention.* 

Non-nitrogenous Compounds, 

AU oily and fatty matters ; starch, or amyline. — ^Which constitutes the 
principal part of wheaten flour, oat and barley meal, rice, Indian 
com, and the dry matter of potatoes. 

Sugar. — Which abounds in mangolds, carrots, and turnips. 

Oum and mucilage. — Constituents of every kind of food. 

Pectin. — The jelly-like substance which is found in carrots, mangolds, 
turnips, and many other bulbous roots. 

Cellular and woody fibre. — Substances which constitute chiefly the bulk 
of straw and hay, and occur abundantly in every other vegetable 
produce. 

With these views of the chemistry of the various kinds 
of food^ it has been a matter of no small importance to 
have analyses of them, showing their constituents, so as 
to enable anv one of them to be valued as a food. The 
number of analyses taken of foods has been very great, 
and in this department the services rendered by Drs. 

* It is right to state here that some chemists hold, with Mulder, that 
vegetable albumen and caseine are not identical. 



128 



FARMING AND FARMINO EOONOMT. 



Voelcker and Lankestcr have been eitremely valuable. 
As ill a former division we have given analyses showing 
the nominal constituents of the cereals, root crops, &c., 
so now we give analyses showing their nutritive con- 
stituents. 



Tub Grains of thb Cebbals. 













Mafse 














or 


Back. 


Constituents. 


Wheat. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


Rye. 


Indian 
Cora. 


wheat 


Water 


12-26 


14-65 


13-09 


1300 


14-96 


14-2 


Flcsh-formera . . . 


11-64 


10-84 


11-85 


13-83 


11-27 


8-6 


Heat and fat producers 


68-74 


68-71 


63-34 


71-50 


67-48 


75-4 


Woody fibre .... 


2-61 


3-45 


9-00 


1029 


5-02 


20-6 


Ash 


1-75 


2-75 


2-72 


1-7 


1-27 


1-8 



The Straw of thb Cbrbals. 



Constitaents. 


Wheat. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


Rjre. 


Water 

Flesh-formers . . . 
Heat and fat-producers 
Woody fibre .... 
Ash 


14-23 

1-79 

31-06 

45-45 

7-47 


14-30 

1-68 

39-98 

3990 

4-24 


1206 

1-63 

3998 

39-80 

4-24 


14-30 

2-29 

37-15 

43-18 

3*08 



LEauHiNous Seeds. 



Constituents. 


Beans. 


Peas. 


Lentils. 


Water 

Flesh -formers . . . 
Fatty matters . . . 
Woody fibre . . . 
Ash 


14-8 
23-3 
48-5 
100 
. 3-4 


141 
23-4 
500 
10-0 
3-4 


12-5 

24-0 

52 

90 

25 



CHEMISTRT OF CATTLB-FOOD AND FEEDING. 129 



Stb^w of thb Lsouminous Plants. 



Constituents. 


Beans. 


Peas. 


Water 

Flesh-formers 

Fatty matters 

Woody fibre 

Ash 


2-90 

6-79 

65-96 

6-35 


1200 
12-55 
21-93 
47-52 
6-00 



Kefusb of thb Cebeals and Leguminous Seeds. 







*i 


^ 


1. 


s i 


S 


Bice do&t. 


Constituents. 


n 


3 
3 

1 


•C3 

i 


Brose-m 
Brock 


Pea-hul 

from 
Maple P 


1 


Water . . . 


12-86 


6-24 


9-31 


9-12 


10-12 


1103 


12 02 


Flesh-formers . 


13-80 


25-62 


692 


10-66 


5-64 


8-46 


6-69 


Oil .... 


5-56 \ 




321 


1-65 


0-66 


3-47 


5-61 


Woody fibre 


11-50 [ 


59-44 ) 










36-67 


Starch gam . . 


5017) 


72-86 


7508 


80-21 


69-73 


25-52 


Ash .... 


611 


8-70 


7-70 


3-49 


3-37 


7-31 


13-49 



Boots. 



Constituents. 


Swede. 


Mangold. 


White 
Globe. 


Aberdeen 
Yellow. 


Water .... 
Flesh-formers . . . 
Fattv matters . . . 
Sugar, pectine, gum 
Woody fibre . . , 
Ash 






89-40 

1-44 

not deter. 

6-93 

2-64 

•62 


87-78 
1-54 

8-60 

1-12 

•96 


90-43 
1-14 
not deter. 
2-96 
2-000 
1-021 


90-57 
1-30 

•441 
4-181 
2349 

•649 









Potatoes. 

Water 75-2 

Flesh-formers 1-4 

Heat and fat-formers 22-5 

Ash , • <^^ 

G a 



rAKMme and FARicnia ecohoict. 



Water SliM 

Flesh -roniien 1-21 

Heat anil fnl-prodaccra .... T'O 

Wood* fibre 8-08 

A>h 1-M 

Water 87'S 

Flesli -formers O* 

Heat-producerB 6« 

Woody fibra 88 



CnniHtoenlj. 


Top. 


Purpt. 
Top. 


Water 


B6020 

■aa? 

2-506 
6007 
■970 
■300 

B^933 
i-230 

■197 


-177 

S-006 
4-486 
-919 
■269 

■ '896 

■139 


Soluble proteinc compounds . . 
Sui-ar-cnm, proliinc .... 
Salts tiuluble in water .... 

Digestible fibre and insoluble 

Woodj fibrei, cellulose . . . 







£. 


'■- 


Man- 
gold*. 


Swedes. 


Haj-. 


n™ 


Water 


86-28 


870! 


91'96 


88-36 ; 14-61 


■75-42 










2-08 1 «■** 




Heal-prodocers . , . 


7lft 




4-98 


7-25 ; 43 63 


10-02 


A>h 


1-87 




1-29 


2-29 1 6 16 




Woody fibre . . . . 




3S6 




- ,27-16 


10'4B 



CHBHISntT 07 CATTLB-roOD AND VBKDINO. 131 





■sittzz 


^jiu.ia 


. 3 IE 3 S S 


■>mioqiU 


;S S| S J 




j|||SS 


-(D.»D. D/>v>;p,jr) 


.3 = gS? 
2 - § " S 2 


,..„..,„.,.^, 


a S S « S S 


-(u,n,rf...DPU) 


S2|l|i 


-{=«». Bl-ial 


2 "* a " S 2 


-(™iupB)|o^'j) 


2 - i " 1 i 


■'-SS^S'""" 


lipll 


■(i»'ir>'"™»?l»/f.«) 


|ip|| 




2 = Pii 


<t >|l|U.Wf JIlUlEjd Illllf^^J ) 

J34UJ3 0|djnj 


2 - S " S 2 


-(H«(0jJllOW>fl.U) 


E S ! 1 ! S 


s 


sisals 



182 



rABHiNa Ain> varmino economt. 



Oil-Cakes. 






Constltnenta. 


Linseed 
Cake. 


Bape 
Cake. 


CottOQ 

Seed 
Cake. 


Water 

Oil 

Flosh-formers .... 

Heat-givers 

Ash 


1214 
12-79 
27 28 
41-36 
613 


1068 
11*10 
29-53 
40-90 
7-79 


1119 

908 

2516 

48*93 

564 



<( 



In determining the nutritive values of different 
foods the great points are/^ says Dr. Anderson, ^^ the 
albuminous compounds (flesh-formers), and the fats 
(the heat-producers).'' But, important as it is to know 
this, ^^ we are still greatly, nay,'' continues Dr. Anderson, 
'^ altogether in the dark as to the relative value of these 
two classes of substances/' It is easy to know the 
quantities of each, but the diflSculty is to ascertain the 
nutritive value due to each constituent, when, as is often 
the case, ^^ two or more of them occur in the same sub- 
stance." The following table is given by Dr. Anderson 
as likely to be of some value in determining the value 
of diflferent foods: — 



Proportion op Albxjminous Matter contained in 100 Parts. 



Poppy cake 31*46 

Rape cake 2953 

Crambolina cake . . . 28*79 

Common Scotch tares . 28*57 

Hopetoun tares . . . 28*32 

Linseed cake . . . . 29*69 

Field beans 27*05 

Winter tares (foreign) . 2673 

Spring tares (foreign) . 26*54 

Oats 10*16 

Buckwheat 9 84 

Guinea corn 9*27 

Wheat 9-01 

Common Scotch bean straw 8*25 

Barley. 7 74 

Hay (new) 6*16 



Winter bean straw . . 6*71 

Hay (old) 4'00 

Cotton seed cake . . . 25*16 

Beans (65 lbs. per bushel) 24*70 

Linseed 24*44 

Lentils 24*67 

Large lentils (Scottish 

growth) 24*25 

Grey peas 24*25 

Foreign beans .... 23*49 

Kidney beans . . . . 20 06 

Maple peas ..... 19*43 

Clover hay (second crop) 13*52 

Sunflower seed .... 12*70 
Crimson clover (T. Inear- 

natum) 3*30 



CHEMISTRY OP CATTLB-FOOD AND FEEDING. 133 



F&OFORTION OF ALBUMINOUS Ma.TTBB CONTAINED IN 100 PaRTS — 



(continued.) 



Yellow Clover . . . 

Lncerne 

Cow grass (T. medium) 
Bed clover .... 
Chevalier barlej straw 



3-26 
314 
2-75 
2-59 
1-90 



Early Angus oat straw 
Red wheat straw . . 
White wheat straw 
Turnips 



1*50 
1-50 
1-37 
1-27 



Proportion of Oil contained in 100 Pj^rts of Various 

Substances.* 



linseed . . . 
Sunflower seed . 
linseed cake 
Bape cake . . 
Crambolina cake 
Cotton seed cake 
Oats . . 
Poppy cake 
Guinea com 
Grey peas 
Buckwheat 
Barley 
Wheat . 



34-00 

29-98 

12-79 

1110 

9-50 

9-08 

6-12 

6-75 

3-46 

3 30 

2-69 

8-18 

1-99 



Lentils (Scotch grown) 
Maple peas .... 
Winter tares (foreign) 
Beans (65 lbs. per bushel) 
Field beans .... 
Foreign beans . . . 
Foreign lentils . . . 
Hopetoun tares . . 
Common Scotch tares 
Spring tares (foreign) 
Kidney beans . . . 
Turnips 



1-79 
1-72 
1-50 
1-69 
1-58 
1-51 
1-61 
1*49 
1-30 
1-26 
1-22 
0-20 



We have already alluded to the fact that Liebig 
originally enunciated the doctrine that the nutritive 
value of a food was dependent upon its proportion of 
the nitrogenised compounds. This opinion, held at one 
time by nearly all chemists, is materially modified now ; 
and the majority of authorities on the subject agree 
that a combination of the two classes of substances — 
the nitrogenous and the non-nitrogenised compounds — 
are essential to promote the "healthy performance of 
the functions of life." On this point Dr. Voelcker has 
the following : — " I am very much inclined to believe 
that the oil is by far the most valuable constituent of 
all oil-cakes. I am aware that it was the fashion not 
many years ago to measure the feeding properties, and 

* Where the substance, as compared with the above list, is not 
mentioned, it either contains no oil, or so little that it cannot be accurately 
determined. 



134 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

even the fattening qualities of articles of food, by the 
amount of nitrogenous or flesh-forming matters ; but 
these views are not supported by any practical experi- 
ments, nor, indeed, by the everyday experience that we 
have respecting not only human but cattle food. We 
pay more for food rich in starch, mucilage, and matters 
capable of producing fat, than we pay for food which, 
like bean-meal, is extremely rich in nitrogenous matter, 
but which does not produce so much butcher^s meat. It 
is a matter of much importance to the farmer to know 
how much he gets back for the money he expends in the 
purchase of food. I have no hesitation in saying that 
more money is made by the purchase of food rich in oil, 
starch, or sugar, than in the purchase of food which 
contains an excess of nitrogenous matters.'^ 

For a considerable period the " food question '' was 
attempted to be solved by chemical considerations 
alone ; but, of late, those of physiology have begun to 
have attention paid to them. While chemists have in- 
sisted on the importance of the substances of food, the 
physiologists have insisted, with equal force, upon the 
importance of the '^ alimentary process ;^^ so that while 
chemists have considered more as to what the ^* foods 
are in themselves,^^ physiologists pay attention to the 
^^ relation they bear to the organism which they 
nourish.^' So important a bearing has the whole dis- 
cussion on the progress of one of the most important 
departments of practical agriculture, and so frequently 
has it been discussed of late in agricultural circles, that 
it would be wrong to omit giving an outline of the 
matter as it now stands. And this we may be per- 
mitted to give in an extract from an article which we 
contributed to the pages of the Mark Lane Eatress, 
and which had for its object an exposition of the 



OHEMISTRT OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FBBDINa. 135 

opinions of Mr. G. H. Lewes, perhaps the most lucid 
advocate of the views of the physiologists : — 

^' Mr. Lewes, be it at the outset observed, is not at 
variance with chemists at all points, nor is he backward 
in acknowledging the claims which they have ably 
laboured for, to be considered as assistants to physiolo- 
gists. He fully admits that the physiologist cannot 
advance without the chemist^s assistance; but chemistry 
he looks upon as a means of exploration^ not of deduc- 
tion, ^The chemist,^ he says, ^may analyse fat for 
him ; but he (the physiologist) will request the chemist 
not to trouble him with hypotheses respecting the part 
played by fat in the organism. For, although the 
chemist may accurately estimate the heat evolved in 
the oxidation of so much fat, the physiologist has to 
do with a vital laboratory, extremely unlike that in 
which the chemist works, and he has to ascertain how 
the fat comports itself there,' The nutritive quality of 
a food is not alone regulated by the amount of organic 
or inorganic substances which it contains, but by the 
relation which these bear to the special organism which 
they are destined to nourish. We say the special 
organism ; for here comes in the proverb, ^ One man^s 
meat is another man^s poison,^ to remind us of the 
difference of constitution or temperament existing 
between different animals; and not only different 
animals, but between different members of the same 
class. Thus, referring to individuals of our own species, 
we all know how, while one kind of food pleasantly 
agrees with one individual, with another it just as pain- 
fully disagrees : with the one it is a nutritious food ; 
with the other in a measure it acts as a poison, dis- 
arranging for a time the whole animal economy. How 
suggestive on this head is the Scottish proverb, ^ He 



136 FARMING AKD FARMINa BCOKOMT. 

pits his meat intill an ill skin I' The same meat which 
fattens his neighbour keeps him lean. Nor will those 
of our readers who hare been and are accustomed to 
the fattening of animals^ fail to remember numerous 
instances where the same food has had different effects 
upon different animals ; and yet^ according to strict 
chemical analysis^ the food contained substances to 
which a nutritive value was assigned^ and which value, 
if the chemical theory is correct, ought to have had the 
same effect in all cases. For very interesting examples 
of the different effects of the same food in different 
animals, the reader may refer to pp. 59 to 63 of the 
* Physiology of Common Life/ .... 

^^ ' We have little or no guidance fix)m our estimates 
of the properties of substances out of the body, because 
the body itself is an important factor in the sum, acting 
on the substances, as well as being acted on by them ; 
annulling or exalting their ordinary properties in a way 
quite peculiar to itself/ It may be well here to point 
out what Dr. Voelcker says on this point, not only as 
corroborative of what has been already stated, but 
also as indicative of the growing opinion — even among 
some of the upholders of Liebig^s classification of food 
— that the food question is to be decided not merely 
from chemical data, but from physiological reasonings 
^ The total nutritive effect which an article of food is 
capable of producing thus depends, first, on the pre- 
sence of all those substances (nitrogenous and non- 
nitrogenous) ; and secondly, on a variety of circum- 
stances to which I beg now to direct the attention of 
the reader. In estimating the practical value of an 
article of food we must take into consideration — 1st, 
The age of the animals. 2nd, The various kinds of 
food. 3rd, The natural disposition or temper of the 



CHEMISTRY OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FEEDING. 137 

animals. 4th^ The purposes for which the animals are 
kept/ On all these points the Professor enlarges; 
space^ however, precludes us from giving his remarks 
in full ; a slight glance at their nature is, therefore, all 
that is permitted us. On the first point, young animals 
require a more concentrated and easily-digestible food 
than old, with a view to supply muscle and maintain 
their rapid growth; the conclusion being that food 
highly nutritious for old will be totally imfitted for 
young stock. On the second point (see above), he 
states that it is well known that what is suited for one 
animal, as a horse, is not so for another, as a cow ; 
the nutritive value of food varying with the description 
of the animals to which it is given. The natural (third 
point) disposition of the animals influences the nutritive 
value of the food ; one breed of cattle, for instance, as 
the Herefordshire or Shorthorns, fattening better than 
another breed, as Welsh or Kerry cows. The efiect, 
also (fourth point), of the food is influenced by the 
work which the animal does, or the purposes for which 
it is kept. After fully dilating upon these points. Dr. 
Voelcker has the following physiologically suggestive 
remarks : — ^ These few examples show that the opinion 
which is generally entertained of food cannot be in- 
variably the same, but is regulated, amongst other 
circumstances, by the purposes for which the animals 
are kept on the farm. The fitness of the same kind of 
food thus varies with the age, natural disposition, and 
kind of the animals to which it is given, as well as with 
the purposes for which they are kept on the farm ; and 
it is, therefore, quite impossible to classify the various 
articles of food in an order which will indicate their 
relative feeding values in all cases. But ' — and here 
the reader^s attention is particularly directed to the 
physiological value of Dr. Voelcker^a tetoai^s. — ^ "s^- 



138 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMY. 

posing the composition of food to be known, and the 
wants of the animals are well considered^ it is still 
impossible in all eases to estimate beforehand what 
practical eflFect a feeding substance will produce ; for it 
may be rich in flesh-forming substances^ and contain 
fat and heat-producing compounds^ as well as saline 
and earthy matters, and yet it may be, comparatively 
speaking, but poor food, inasmuch as its constittients are 
not assimilated by the animal organism. The digesti- 
bility of food consequently is a point which ought to 
be kept well in view in estimating its nutritive value. 
Our knowledge of this process of digestion, unfortu- 
nately, is so limited, that we cannot speak definitely of 
all the conditions which regulate the digestibility of 
food. Still, however, a few circumstances may be 
pointed out, by way of example, which influence the 
assimilation of food by the animal system.^ And here 
follows an enumeration of these, as — 1. Of the kinds 
of animals. 2. On the amount and character of the 
woody fibre contained in food. 3. On the amount of 
flesh-forming substances. 4. On the bulk of food. 5. 
On the form in which the food is presented to the 
animal. 6. On small proportions of substances with 
V)hich vje may not be even acquainted. Still further, the 
nutritive value of food is influenced by (1) the pre- 
judicial substances which food may contain ; (2) by the 
mechanical efiect the food exercises ; (3) by the physical 
condition of the food ; and (4) by the flavour which it 
imparts to the meat or milk. All these points Dr. 
Voelcker fully illustrates ; but his remarks, valuable as 
they are, space precludes our giving. The reader will 
find them in extenso in the 4th volume, new series, of 
the ^Journal of the Bath and West of England 
Society.' 

''In the above extracts we have marked certain 



CHEMISTRY OF CATTLE-FOOD AND FEEDING. 139 

passages in italics, to indicate the very important bear- 
ing which physiology mtist have upon the food question. 
For here chemistry owns itself in fault, and tells us 
plainly that analyses will not alone show the real 
practical value of the foods we use. And we find one 
of the ablest exponents of Liebig's theory pointing 
out to us a startlingly wide variety of circumstances 
influencing the value of food, other than the con- 
stituents which chemistry unfolds to us 

'' While chemistry and physiology are at one as to 
the fact that the animal economy requires ^ food which 
is both tissue-making and heat-making to repair the 
fabric and sustain the temperature,^ they are remark- 
ably at variance as to the oflBces which the various 
constituents of food fulfil. Thus, while the chemist, 
as we have already shown, following Liebig's teaching, 
maintains that the nitrogenous substances alone furnish 
the animal with the materials required to form blood 
and flesh, and that the non-nitrogenous alone maintains 
the heat and respiration, but cannot make the ^ slightest 
particle of flesh,' the physiologist maintains that the 
nitrogenous constituents are not the only tissue-making, 
or, to use Liebig's term, plastic materials of food, but 
that they are heat-making as well ; moreover, that non- 
nitrogenous substances of food are not merely heat- 
making, but that they are tissue-making as well. ' The 
division of food,' says Mr. Lewes, ' into nitrogenous 
and non-nitrogenous is a chemical division to which no 
objection need be made, for it expresses a chemical 
fact. But when the fact that albuminous substances 
form a necessary proportion of organised tissues, is 
made the ground for specially distinguishing them as 
plastic, and when the presence of nitrogen in these 
substances is made the ground for specially dis- 



140 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMY. 

tinguisliing nitrogen as the plastic element^ the per- 
centage of which is to aflFord the standard of nutritive 
value, we sec a striking example of chemical reasoning 
applied to physiology, which a confrontation with 
nature suflBces to upset. For observe : while it is true 
that " albumen is the foundation, the starting-point, of 
the whole series of peculiar tissues which are the seat 
of vital actions,^^ (Liebig) — while it is true that the 
peculiar characteristics of organised tissues is that they 
contain albuminous substances as necessary ingredients 
— not less is it true that the other substances thus 
arbitrarily excluded from the rank of tissue-makers 
(namely, the fats, oils, and salts, all destitute of 
nitrogen), are as essential as albumen itself. Not a celt, 
not a fibre, can be formed, nor can subsist, withotU a cer- 
tain amount of fat and salts. Not a tissue can come 
into being, or continue its functions, without a large 
proportion of non-nitrogenous materials, a proportion 
greatly exceeding that of the nitrogenous.' Anatomical 
evidence apparently is clear upon the point that no 
animal tissue exists composed of albumen, or other 
nitrogenous substances, without the admixture of fats, 
water, and salts ; and physiological evidence is equally 
clear upon the point that ^albumen undergoes chemical 
changes, accompanied by the disengagement of heat.' 
Therefore, says Mr. Lewes, the classification of Liebig 
' must be rejected.' Liebig is not unaware of these 
anatomical and physiological objections to his theories, 
but he considers all substances which he finds in muscle, 
over and above the albumen in it, as ' mere accessories.' 
But what Mr. Lewes states seems very reasonable, 
if not very convincing. ' But to the anatomist aU the 
substances are essential, because it is by their united 
properties that the muscle performs its peculiar offices. 



CHEMISTRY OP CATTLB-FOOD AND FEEDING. 141 

A muscle deprived of its water will no longer act as a 
muscle; the anatomist, therefore, regards water as 
essential to the muscle — the chemist regards it as an 
accessory. In the laboratory, the water may be disre- 
garded ; it will not interfere with chemical reactions. 
In the organism, the water is just as essential to the 
functional activity of the muscle as the albumen itself.' 

'^ Mr. Lewes goes also pretty fully into an investiga- 
tion of Liebig's statement, that the non-nitrogenous 
matters are not usefiil as furnishing plastic material, 
but that ' they only serve to keep up the temperature 
of the body,, being rapidly burnt in the body.' We 
cannot go fully into the matter, but have room only for 
the following suggestive statements, which Mr. Lewes 
gives in support of his argument that the non-nitro- 
genous matters of food are plastic or tissue-making. 
' That fruits are eaten in southern climates which are 
less heat-producing, because they contain much less 
carbon than the train-oil eaten in polar regions, would 
be a tolerable argument, if only fruits were eaten in 
the south ; but the Sicilian and Neapolitan eat more 
oil than the Swede, and their macaroni is a highly car- 
bonised substance ; and the Hindoo often subsists on 
rice and butter — substances highly carbonised, and 
classed as chiefly respiratory, furnishing in superabun- 
dance that very heat which his climate renders so very 
undesirable. According to theory, the Hindoo should 
eat very little non-nitrogenous food, and be content 
with plastic substances, since he wastes his tissues in 
daily labour, but does not stand in need of any surplus 
beat; whereas, according to fact, he eats very little 
nitrogenous food, and a great deal of *^ heat-making'' 
food.' 

*' Chemistry has hitherto assigned a very unimportant 



142 FARMING AND FARMING BCONOMY. 

part to the inorganic substances of food. We have seen 
that, with the exception of the part played by the 
phosphates of lime and magnesia^ which act as the 
furnishers of ^bone materials/ and the saline substances 
which supply the blood and animal juices with the 
necessary mineral ingredients, no other office is assigned 
to them ; and water is entirely ignored. Physiology, 
however, claims to pay attention to all the constituents 
of food, and expounds, as a principle, that ^ that is an 
aliment which nourishes; whatever we find in the 
organism as a constant and integral element^ either 
forming part of its structure or one of the conditions 
of vital processes, that, and that only, deserves the. 
name of aliment/ '' 

Chemists have been accustomed to value the roots 
which form part of the food of our farm stock, nutri- 
tively according to the quantity of water which they 
contain — those having the most being the least valu- 
able. In this way, the following are valued in the 
order of their rotation : — Potatoes (highest). Parsnips 
(second), Carrots (third). Mangolds (fourth), Swedes 
(fifth) , and Turnips (lowest). Liebig, in his classification 
of the substances of food, ignores the value of water 
altogether. Physiologists do not thus dismiss water as an 
unimportant element of food. Forming two- thirds of the 
living body, and being in point of fact the '^ most sus- 
taining of all articles,'-^ they maintain that if ''the 
purpose of food be to sustain the oi^anism, that article 
which sustains it longest, and can with the least immu- 
nity be withheld, must be the most nutritive of all/^ 

Again, we have seen that some chemists, as a body, 
maintain the identity between animal and vegetable 
substances, or, at all events, that there is little or no 
difference between them. The physiologist sees between 



CHEMISTRY OF OATTLB-FOOD AND FBEDING. 143 

them a ^' profound diflFerence ; he sees the lion perish- 
ing miserably of inanition in presence of abundant 
herbage, which, to the elephant or buflFalo, furnishes 
all that is required. The ox eats the grass, and the 
tiger eats the ox, but will not touch grass. The flesh 
of the ox may contain little that is not wholly derived 
from the grass, and the chemist analysing the flesh of 
both may point out their identity; but the physiological 
question is not. What are the chemical constituents of 
nutritive substances ? it is. What are the substances 
which will nourish the organism ? If one animal will 
not eat, or having eaten, cannot assimilate a certain 
substance, that substance is no food for that animal, be 
its chemical composition what it may.^' The following, 
from the pen of a practical farmer, as given in the 
pages of the Mark Lane Express, will also be of utility 
as bearing upon this point : — 

''We must,'' says this author, "correct a very 
erroneous doctrine taught by our chemists, that the 
' nitrogenous elements ' or ' protein elements ' of feed- 
ing stuffs are the flesh-forming materials, as if flesh 
was wholly formed of such elements. Now, one plain 
truth of the matter is soon told, for, as yet, chemistry 
cannot tell us what the proximate principles are of 
which beef, mutton, pork, game, &c., &c., are com- 
posed. As yet, we do not know chemically those 
principles that distinguish one kind of meat from 
another, or one kind of feeding material from another 
kind. We know beef from mutton by the taste — the 
flesh of goose from that of caperculzie — veal from 
venison. Our cattle also know, by the first two cata- 
lytic processes in the chemistry of food (smell and 
taste), the plants they respectively require for food; 
and this, we repeat, is more than our agricultural 



144 FARMING AND FAlt3iINa BCOKOMY. 

chemists have^ as yet^ told the English fanner. 
Chemical research has^ however^ made sufficient pro- 
gress to warrant the conclusion that the so-called 
* flesh-forming theory' is a very fallacious one, and 
very reprehensible, owing to the immense amount of 
harm which it has done in practice. In other words, 
the so-called flesh-forming materials only form a very 
small fractional per-centage of flesh. Thus, Berze- 
lius, long ago, gave the following as Hs analysis of the 
lean of beef : — 

Muscular fibre, vessels and nerves .... ^^'^ 1 17.70 
Cellular tissue, convertible into gelatine . . 1*9 3 

Soluble albumen and colouring matter 2*20 

Phosphate of lime, and albumen 0*08 

Alcoholic extracts, with salts (osmazome) ... 1*80 

Aqueous extracts, with salts . 1*05 

Water 77*17 

100*00 

" More recently, Liebig found in the juice of flesh, 
kreatine, kreatinine, lactic acid, mosinic acid, phos- 
phoric acid, phosphate of potash, chloride of potassium ; 
while there remained other substances not yet ascer- 
tained. 

'^ Now, such being some of the proximate principles 
present in flesh, — ^present, too, in greater abundance 
when animals are fed on the natural system than when 
they are fed on the obese system, — the manifest con- 
clusion to be deduced is this : that our artificial obese 
systems and flesh-forming theories are both subject to 
improvement j and that, for the necessary information 
to guide us in this work of improvement, instead of 
going to the laboratory of the chemist, and the crack 
farm of the amateur obese experimentalist, we ought 
rather to go to the practical school of nature.'' 

Such may be taken as our unprejudiced resum6 of 



CHEMISTRY OF CATTLB-POOD AND FBEDINO. 145 

the opinions of the chemists and physiologists of the 
present time on the food question. Whatever may be 
the value of the positions advanced by physiologists in 
controverting those of the chemists, there can be little 
doubt, we apprehend, in the mind of those who have 
at all studied the habits and peculiarities of our farm- 
stock, that the various phenomena connected with 
their feeding and fattening are not to be accounted for 
by the dicta of chemistry alone. Physiology must 
also be brought to aid us in discovering how best and 
quickest to bring up our animals. 

But there is still another consideration which has 
lately begun to attract the attention of chemists them- 
selves, as to the value of food analyses. These considera- 
tions we have briefly enforced in an article contributed 
to the Mark Lane Express, which we here venture to 
re-produce : — 

^' Of late years, chemistry has done much to place 
before us analyses of our various crops, from which we 
are enabled to judge not only of their relative but their 
actual feeding value. But, notwithstanding all the 
care which has been bestowed upon this branch of 
agricultural economics, it may be considered almost 
certain that this same diversity in the condition of 
crops — which is certainly found to exist in a very marked 
manner, not merely between the crops grown in one 
locality and those grown in another and perhaps dis- 
tinct one, but even, as I have above stated, in crops 
grown in the same soil — does very materially modify the 
value of these chemical analyses, and, in the same pro- 
portion, the feeding effects which may be predicated 
to follow from their use, taking these analyses as the 
basis of our belief in our conjectures. In making this 
statement, I am not at all desirous to underrate th& 

H 



146 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY 

importance of the services which chemistry has rendered 
to agriculture. On the contrary, I think highly of 
these services; and, indeed^ the most advanced and 
trustworthy of all our agricultural chemists — the 
worthy Dr. Voelcker — has himself, in very pointed lan- 
guage, directed the attention of feeders to the danger 
and loss likely to arise from supposing that the chemical 
value of a food defines its practical value. He says : 
* We are too much in the habit of speaking of cake, 
turnip, mangold, or hay as if these complex mixtures of 
substances were simple chemical combinations; whereas, 
the differences in two samples of the same produce are 
often very great. Any one who has tried practically 
the nutritive effect of good and badly-made hay, or of 
turnips grown on good land and on peaty land, knows 
well that there is a vast difference between hav and 
hay, or a turnip and a turnip/ Such considerations 
open up points of the highest possible importance to 
those connected with farming. It is impossible to over- 
rate this importance. We have yet much to learn in 
regard to the modifying circumstances of different 
modes of cultivating crops, on their nutritive value, the 
influence of soil, manure, and the modes of their 
treatment and application, peculiarities of the weather, 
the absence or presence of rain, &c., &c. On all these 
points connected with crop culture we shall doubtless 
grow wiser as we grow older in agricultural experience ; 
this only, however, where, with advancing years, we 
determine to acquire advancing wisdom, and if our 
practice, moreover, will not disdain to co-operate with 
theory in bringing the matter to a successful issue. 

'* Such considerations as in this note I have briefly 
and crudely presented, while they point out the danger 
of implicitly following any analysis of a food, as in- 



CHEMISTBT OF CATiyR-EOOJ) AND FEEDING. 147 

dicative of its feeding value in practice, by no means 
prove that these analyses arc useless. They do — and 
in doing this they are of high value — show, whatever 
else they do not show, the relative value of feeding 
substances, from which comparative data are obtained 
as to the value of one grain compared with another 
grain, or one root with another root. For it is to be 
presumed that, although one mangold may vary from 
another mangold in value, yet all mangolds will possess 
the same characteristics of composition which distin- 
guish them from other green crops, as cabbages, turnips, 
or rape, or from the grains. Each crop possesses its own 
distinctive feeding, as it possesses its own cultural cha- 
racteristics. These comparative data are essentially of 
high value ; for by their means we can ascertain how 
far likely one root is to serve our purposes, as compared 
with another root, or one grain with another grain. 
It is diflBcult to say whether the fact is to be regretted 
or not, that the peculiarities of culture prevent analysis 
from going to the extent of indicating that the value 
of a grain or a root-crop, once obtained, will always be 
its value/^ 

But our historical outlines of farming economy, in 
the department now under consideration, would be very 
incomplete did we ignore the importance, or overlook 
the notice, of the question connected with the use of 
concentrated or condimental cattle foods, now attracting 
so much attention amongst practical and scientific 
agriculturists. The whole matter at stake in the dis- 
cussion is of such vital importance to the agricultural 
community, that we deem it right to devote some space 
to show how the question at present stands. 

When first introduced, these foods were liberally 
advertised as containing a large amount of nutritive 

H 2 



148 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

matter in a very small bulk, that is, in a highly con- 
centrated form. Hence they were called concentrated 
foods. In so calling and so considering them — or, at 
all events, in being desirous to have the farmers who 
were to use them as cattle food so to consider them — 
the advertisers and makers of these foods were evidently 
led away by the idea that just as the researches of 
science had enabled concentrated manures to be used 
for the support of plants, so, in like manner, could con- 
centrated foods be used for that of animal life. But 
the Tcry important distinction between plants and 
animals was overlooked. Dr. Anderson, in an able 
paper on the '^ Composition of the different kinds of 
Concentrated Cattle Foods,^Mn the '^ Highland Society's 
Transactions,^' (1862), shows the profound difference 
between plants and animals, and that their functions 
are diametrically opposed. While plants imbibe their 
food in the form of simple compounds, building up 
therewith the complex constituents of their tissues; 
animals possess, on the contrary, no such powers, but 
require their food in bulky and complex compounds. 
In performing the functions of life these compounds 
are destroyed, returning to their original simple forms ; 
so that a plant may be looked upon as '' a piece of 
mechanism adapted to the construction, and an animal 
to the destruction, of organic compounds.'' A manure, 
therefore, may be concentrated, because from it may 
be extracted the simple compounds required for the 
food of plants ; but a food cannot be so concentrated, 
inasmuch as the animal economy requires that the food 
compounds shall be at once complex and bulky, as in 
the forms '^ of sugar, albuminous compounds, and the 
Uke." 

Mr. Lawes also very forcibly, and we think decisively. 



CHEMISTRT OF OATTLE-FOOD AND FEEDING. 149 

puts this matter at rest. In using a concentrated 
manure^ which contains ^' a certain amount of nitrogen 
and phosphates, the bulk of the crop is obtained 
from other sources — such as the atmosphere and water, 
not supplied by the farmer's hand, the natural con- 
stituents existing in his soil, and the residue from various 

manures and crops No concentration of 

constituents, nor any amount of supply of some only 
of those required for the respiration, the perspira- 
tion, the excrements, and the increase, can enable the 
animal to obtain a particle of what is requisite for 
those from any other source than his food/^ Moreover, 
a certain amount of bulk is required in the food, 
especially for our ruminating animals; without this 
physical quality the animal economy suflFers. 

The notion, then, of being able to give a food in a 
concentrated form was apparently given up, and the 
use of the term '^ condimental '^ substituted. And with- 
out prejudice it may here be stated that the weak poi^t 
of the makers of these foods was thus abandoned, and 
a much stronger position assumed. This opinion, 
however, we shall see as we proceed, is not universally 
held. 

These condimental foods, as they are now termed, 
are, for the most part, mixtures of " several different 
substances, of which fenugrec, caraway, &c., form 
part.^' Dr. Anderson analysed several of these com- 
pounds, the most important of which we here give. It 
was difficult in making these analyses to obtain and 
examine the essential oil which formed a part of these 
compounds, as it was so small in amount, and the odorous 
principles which came ever along with it in the process 
of distillation so marked its peculiar smell, that it could 
not be recognised. Enough is given in these anal^%«s^> 



150 



FARMma AND FARMING E00N0M7. 



however, to enable an opinion to be formed as to the 
substances of which these '^ foods'^ are compounded. 



Thorlbt*s Cattue Food. 



Organic Constltaents. 

Water 11-41 

Oil 406 

Albuminous compounds . 11-47 

Sugar 17*15 

Starch 46-90 

Woody fibre 6*22 

Ash 2-83 



Inorganic, or Ash. 

Sand 0-32 

Phosphates 0*51 

Phosphoric acid in combi- 
nation with alkalies . 0*53 



The aromatic seems to be fenugrec, but accompanied 
with a bitter substance, probably gentian. 



Henri's Patent Cattlb Pood. 



Organic Constitnents. 

Water 11-26 

Oil 6-22 

Albuminous compounds . 12-87 

Sugar 9-05 

Starch, &c 46*57 

Woody fibre 9-66 

Ash 4-37 



Inorganic, or Ash. 

Sand 1-72 

Phosphates 1*23 

Phosphoric acid in combi- 
nation with the alkalies 0*64 



This food contains some oily seed, and its taste is more 
bitter than Thorley's, and its colour yellow. 

These foods are not recommended by the makers to 
be used alone, but in conjunction with the ordinary 
food of the stock. Dr. Anderson has shown that their 
only peculiarity is the aromatic or bitter matters which 
they contain. 

For long these foods, although apparently largely 
used by practical farmers, were not taken cognizance 
of by our agricultural societies. The subject was, how- 
ever, brought before one of the weekly meetings (1862) 
of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, and a 
prominence was given to its discussion which had never 
before been accorded it. This meeting had the useful 
effect of bringing before the agricultural world the 



CHBMISTRT OF OATTLB-FOOD AND FEEDING. 151 

arguments^ pro and couj of practical farmers and men 
of science. And of these it may be said^ as a rule^ that 
those who are in favour of condimental foods belong to 
the body of practical farmers ; those who do not favour 
them belong to the body of scientific men. 

The discussion at this meeting was opened by Mr. 
Beale Brown, a well-known agriculturist, who stated 
that at one time he was prejudiced against the use of 
these condimental foods ; but he had found, from his 
own experience, that they possessed excellent fattening 
and tonic properties. His opinion, he also stated, 
could be backed up by a " pile of letters " from prac- 
tical men who had used them with the like results. 
Mr. J. B. Lawes, the well-known chemist, and Pro- 
fessor Simmonds, of the Royal Veterinary College, 
took part in the discussion. ''A larger quantity of 
food,^' says Mr. Lawes, '• is required to give the same 
increase of flesh. When Thorley's food is added, and 
this is the result which science would predict, there is 
nothing in science to predicate that an article which 
has great tonic and stimulating properties is likely to 
increase the assimilation of food. You may make a 
large quantity of food pass through the stomach of an 
animal, but you cannot make him assimilate these 
foods. If, therefore, you regard these things as food 
for animals which are in good health, they are not to 
be recommended at all. Call them medicines if you 
like. I have no doubt they have considerable n\iedicinal 
properties, and do enable animals to digest their food 
where otherwise they would not do so.'' Professor 
Simmonds is clearly of opinion that, ''even as medi- 
cinal agents, they are very bad indeed as medicinal com- 
pounds,'' although he admits that many of them may 
have the effect of '' invigorating the system, and if the 



152 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMT. 

powers of digestion of tte animal were weak, of enabling 
it to digest a given amount of food in a less space of 
time, and consequently to appropriate, by assimilation, 
a larger portion of food than otherwise would be assi- 
milated/^ All these effects, the Professor believes, 
would be obtained much cheaper and simpler by the 
farmers making for themselves a condimental food, 
such as '^well-ground linseed meal, mixed with bean 
meal, salt, cumin seed, caraway seed, ginger, gentian, 
or any of those materials which would act simply as 
stomachics/' 

It appears to us that in the discussion of this most 
important question, too much stress is laid by the 
opponents of these condimental foods upon the high 
price at which they are sold. Now, in treating the 
matter calmly and philosophically — as it should be 
treated — this, although part of the question, is not the 
whole of it, nor, indeed, by any means, the most im- 
portant part of it. The great point we take it is, '' is 
there any feeding value in these foods ? " Let this be 
decided in the negative or affirmative, as the case may 
be, and decided in such a way that the farmers of the 
kingdom will accept the decision as authoritative and 
trustworthy. If in the negative, there is no use in 
further discussing the matter ; but if in the affirmative, 
then is the time to discuss what this value is worth. 
If it is proved that the manufacturers of these foods 
ask more for them than they are really worth, then 
means may be taken to get them at a cheaper rate. 
But we contend — and this in no way as the advocates 
of cattle food, but solely in the interests of the body so 
closely connected with practical farming — that the true 
way is, not to discuss the price as the important point 
first to be attended to. If we want to buy a yard of 



CHEMISTRY OP CATTLB-FOOD AND FEEDING. 153 

cloth, or a farm, we first test their value, then discuss 
the price. If we want neither, the price, be it low or 
be it high, need not, and does not in reality, trouble 
us. Further, the physiological points connected with 
the question have been too much ignored or overlooked 
in the discussion of the question. The likes and dis- 
likes of our animals must, and do, exercise an important 
influence on the food which they partake of; and we 
know that condimental and medicinal properties are 
present, as pointed out by an able writer, in the 
richest and most esteemed of pur cattle food, namely, 
the ^^ natural herbage of the fields. In the common 
language of practical farmers, the medicinal properties 
of the grasses and other plants eaten by cattle are their 
odorous and sapid properties. All attempts hitherto 
made to classify them under such heads as bitter, sac- 
charine, saline, astringent, acid, aromatic, fetid, acrid, 
alliaceous, musky, &c., fee, have failed. When several 
of them are combined, or present together in one plant, 
as they generally are, such as saccharine, saline, bitter, 
acid, and aromatic, it is not very easy distinguishing the 
one from the other, or saying which may be predomi- 
nant, or how many may be present in one plant. But 
with the peculiar taste and smell of each plant farmers 
are familiar, and also with the fact that the quantity 
and quality of these odorous and sapid properties are 
very different under different seasons, and under different 
modes of management and circumstances connected with 
the harvesting and using of them. They are also familiar 
with the fact, that the value of these plants as feeding 
materials are dependent upon the fineness of the quality 
and the largeness of the quantity of the odorous and 
sapid properties, or natural condiment, which such 
feeding materials contain when given to cattle.^' 

H 3 



154 F ARMING AND FARMING SCONOMT. 

Still further, we have yet much to learn in connec- 
tion with the physiological effect of the mixtures of 
different kinds of food, and of the state, form, or con- 
dition in which they are given. We have also much to 
learn as to the process of digestion, — so much, that 
a correct definition of the term, or rather a statement 
of the process which the term includes, is not yet 
decided on. We incline to the belief that much good 
will ultimately result from the discussion of this con- 
dimental food question, and that it will be the means 
of urging men of science, aided by those of practice, to 
endeavour to ascertain the reason of certain phenomena 
which are now puzzling in the extreme. We have of 
late been examining these phei\omena, and pushing 
forward inquiries into this most interesting field of 
investigation. The result of the observations we have 
made we purpose giving in an extended paper on the 
whole subject of cattle-feeding, in another medium. 



DRAINING. 155 



BOOK III. 

HISTORICAL OUTLINES CONNECTED WITH THE MECHANICAL 
TREATMENT AND CULTURE OF THE SOIL. 



DIVISION FIRST. 

DRAINAGE. 

The advantages obtained by the drainage of our farm 
soils — using the term in its wide and modern accepta- 
tion, as " thorough " or complete — have been briefly set 
forth in the companion volume undernoted.* These 
advantages have only been recognised within a com- 
paratively recent period. At a very early period of our 
agricultural history, the necessity seemed to have 
forced itself upon farmers of ridding the land &om 
its superfluous moisture, as being likely to increase 
its fertility. The readiest way in which this would 
present itself would be the digging or scratching of 
channels at various distances in the surface of the soil. 
These would naturally be drawn at something like 
parallel distances, so that the result would be the 
raising of certain parts, and the form of " ridge and 
furrow '^ would thus be brought about. As the water 
could not be taken — by any means known to the 
farmers of the period — out of the land, the next best 
thing to do would be to take the land out of the water, 

* " Outlines of Modern Farming, Vol. I.— Soils, Manures, and Crops." 
Virtue Brothers, London. 



166 FAr.MIKQ AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

which would, to some extent, be done by the mode 
above described. This *^ surface draining '^ was that 
which was alone practised for many ages. The Romans 
were acquainted with the benefits arising from the 
drainage of land, and classical authors describe several 
ways of forming drains. Apparently gathering a lesson 
from the Romans, the inhabitants of this country — or 
rather, Saxon colonists — executed considerable drainage 
works at a very early period. 

It was not, however, till the middle of the seven- 
teenth century that a move was made toward the 
carrying out of the principle of deep drainage. In 
1652 was published the third edition of a work by a 
Captain Blith, entitled, " The English Improver Im- 
proved ; or, the Survey of Husbandry Surveyed,^' in 
which are given directions for the draining of swampy 
lands. These indicate that the author had a fair know- 
ledge of the advantages derivable from the getting rid 
of the "bottom water ;^' the trench, in his system, 
being made so deep that ''it was to goe to the 
bottom of the cold spewing moyst water that feed the 
flag and the rush/' 

In 1764, Mr. Joseph Elkington, a farmer of Warwick- 
shire, discovered a mode of draining which, for a long 
time, was highly thought of and extensively adopted ; so 
much so, that Parliament deemed it right to^ grant a 
sum of £1,000— some say £5,000— to Mr. Elkington 
for his discovery. Mr. Elkington's system was appli- 
cable to sloping land liable to be '' drowned by the out- 
bursting of springs.^' When the higher-lying portion 
of such land is porous, rain falling upon it sinks down 
until it is arrested by clay or other impervious matter, 
which causes it again to issue at the surface and wet 
the lower-lying ground. Elkington showed that " by 



DRAINING. 157 

cutting a deep drain through the clay, aided when 
necessary by wells or auger-holes, the subjacent bed of 
sand or gravel, in which a body of water is pent up by 
the clay as in a vessel, might be tapped, and the water 
conveyed harmlessly in the covered drain to the nearest 
ditch or stream." Applicable to many places, this 
system, when carefully carried out, served the purpose 
intended by it ; but ignoring as it did the evils arising 
from the mass of water lodged in the general mass of 
the soil, or running over or stagnating upon its surface, 
it did not meet the requirements of a perfect system of 
drainage. 

These were, however, met — or met to a large extent 
— by the " thorough " system of drainage introduced 
by the celebrated Mr. Smith, of Deanston, in the year 
1823. The system was the "formation of narrow 
parallel drains, of from two to two and a half feet 
in depth, in the furrows between the ridges, at such 
short intervals as to insure the speedy carrying off 
of all surplus water, whether derived from rain or 
springs." The position of the drains in the furrows 
gave rise to the term "furrow draining," by which 
SmitVs system is often designated — from the frequency 
and the parallelism of the drains ; it is also termed 
sometimes "frequent draining "and "parallel draining. 
Mr. Smith himself termed it "thorough draining, 
for reasons obvious enough. 

Although Mr. Smith, from the enthusiastic exer- 
tions he made to render his system publicly known, 
as well as to explain the mode of carrying it out, 
is entitled to all credit as its discoverer (in one 
sense, perhaps, the most valuable, namely, the 
practical), he was, nevertheless, anticipated in theprin" 
ciple of his system, by the old writer. Captain. BlxtV^^ 






158 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMT. 

already alluded to. As proof of this, read the fol- 
lowing remarkable sentence from his work ; not the 
less noteworthy, in our opinion, because, in the 
manner of many of our old writers— more honoured 
now in the breach than in the observance — ^it con- 
cludes by giving honour to Him to whom honour is 
truly due, and from whom, indeed, all blessings flow : — 
" Goe to the bottome of the bogg, and there make a 
trench in the sound ground, or else in some old 
ditch, so low as thou verily conceivest thyselfe as- 
suredly under the level of the springs or spewing 
water, and then carry up thy trench into thy bogg, 
straight through the middle of it, one foot under 
the spring; .... but for these common and many 
trenches, ofttimes crooked too, that men assuredly 
make in their boggy grounds, some one foot, some two, 
never having respect to the cause or matter that maketh 
the bogg to take that way. I say, away with them 
as a great piece of folly, lost labour and spoyle. After 
thou hast brought a trench to the bottom of the 
bogg, then cut a good substantial trench about thy 
^^^^*^ ^^d when thou hast so done, make one mark 
or two just over thwart it, upwards and downwards, 
all under the matter of the bogg. Then thou must 
take good green faggots — willow, elder, elme, or thome 
— and lay in the bottom of thy works, and then take thy 
turfe thou tookest up in the top of thy trench, and 
plant upon them with the green sward downwards; 
or take great pebbles, stones, or flint-stones, and so fill 
up the bottome of thy trench about fifteen inches high, 
and take thy turfe and plant it as aforesaid, being cut 
very fit for the trench, as it may join close as it is 
layd downe ; and then having covered it all over with 
earth, and made it even as thy other ground, waite and 



DRAINING. 159 

expect a wonderfull efiFect througli the blessing of 
God." 

Mr. Parkes, the well-known agricultural engineer, 
suggested, and carried extensively out, an extension of 
Mr. Smith's system, in so far as to increase the interval 
between the drains, and the depth of the drains up to as 
much as four feet. This system is known as the '^ deep 
draining." 

In the " Essex " system of drainage — which was car- 
ried out extensively in that county, and in Suffolk, and 
also in Scotland, long before the introduction of the 
'^ thorough drainage" system — shallow drains were dug 
at intervals, and filled up to a certain point of their 
depth with brushwood, hedge cuttings, straw, &c., on 
which the surface-soil was laid. The rapidity with 
which such materials decayed, and the little resistance 
they offered to heavy bodies, as carts, passing over 
them, suggested the use of more durable materials, as 
stones, tiles, and bricks. The construction of drains 
with such was, however, very costly, and it was not till 
the introduction of the ^' drain-tile," and ^^ drain-pipe " 
making machines, that thorough and deep draining was 
so much facilitated. Pipe-tiles were little known before 
1848. They were originally made as large as three 
inches diameter; they were soon, however, used with 
a bore as small as one inch. Mr. Parkes mentions 
that about the year 1804 pipe-tiles were laid down on 
the estate of Sir Thomas Whichcote, in Lincolnshire. 
It appears also that T. Edwards, Esq., of Llandaff 
House, took out a patent for making drain-pipes early 
in the present century. Mr. Bead, as early as 1796, 
commenced to make drain-pipes, but they were made of 
wood. 

'' Up to a period," as we have remarked in. ^ ^«^«t 



160 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMT. 

on "Land Drainage/' contributed in 1856 to the 
Journal of Agriculture, " dating, in point of fact, a few 
years ago, draining, being a simple operation, and 
carried out at a comparatively trifling cost, was very 
generally looked upon as one of the ordinary depart- 
ments of husbandry, to be carried out by the farmer 
himself independently of the aid of the landlord ; but 
the value of which, ineflScient as was the principle on 
which it was conducted, was sufficiently recognised 
as an improvement to be paid for by compensation 
between an in-going and out-coming tenant. The 
investigations of scientific men, and the extraordinary 
results of improved practice, gave a wonderful impetus 
to the art of draining, and fully, at least pretty gene- 
rally, convinced agriculturists of the value of the system 
of deep draining. As this, however, involved increased 
expense, increased difficulties arose in the way of the 
farmer carrying out drainage works on his own responsi- 
bility and at his own cost. Taking, for instance, a 
case, numerous enough in heavy, wet districts, where 
the capital employed in the cultivation of an acre of 
land was £6 — it is evident that the occupier cannot 
from this take £5 to drain each acre permanently and 
efficiently, leaving £\ only to carry out all the other 
processes of his farm. Indeed, as Mr. Denton remarks, 
the proposition for tenants alone to incur this outlay 
is a ^practical absurdity/ for the amount of capital 
generally employed in the cultivation of inferior lands 
is too little to secure even fair treatment of the land in 
the ordinary processes, far less to allow of any portion 
of it to be sunk for the extraordinary process of draining 
permanently and efficiently. The importance, however, 
of the subject led many interested in the progress of 
agriculture to devise some means by which the occupier 



DRAINING. 161 

could have his land drained by the owner, or some third 
party advancing the money, the only burden being the 
payment of sundry instalments, or a slight increase to 
his work. Henqe originated the system of drainage 
loans * and ^ drainage companies/ The first public Act 
was that of Mr. Pusey, which was passed in 1840. This, 
from the complexity of its clauses, remained inoperative, 
but was followed by the ' Public Money Drainage Act,\ 
in 1846. This public loan being now all expended, the 
means of borrowing money for drainage purposes are as 
follows: — (1) The Private Money Drainage Act (12 
and 13 Vict., cap. 100) ; the time for repayment imder 
this act being twenty-two years. (2) The West of 
England, or South-West Land Draining Company's 
Act (11 and 12 Vict., cap. 142); under this a land- 
owner may charge his estate in perpetuity. (3) The 
General Land Drainage and Improvement Company's 
Act (16 and 17 Vict., cap. 154); imder this the term of 
repayment is twenty-five years. All these acts have 
established the principle, ^tbat under drainage was the 
legitimate work of the owner, and that the only con- 
tribution to be made by the tenant should be the pay- 
ment of the annual instalments by which the cost may 
be repaid in a given number of years.' Beyond estab- 
lishing this equitable arrangement between landlord and 
tenant, the obligation enforced on the borrower of the 
money, to show that ' the improved annual value shall 
exceed the amount of annual charge by which the cost 
of drainage shall be repaid,' furnished a very wholesome 
and just criterion by which every landowner may be 
guided in the outlay of his own money in draining. 
'In fact,' continues Mr. Denton, 'the principle in- 
volved in this obligation shall be made the rule in every 
case of improvement. It is not sufficient that the 



162 FARMING AND FARMING SCONOlfT. 

owner, spending his own money, should get simple 
interest j he must get so much more than interest as 
will enable him to establish, if he thinks proper, a 
sinking fund, to repay him his capital within the period 
for which the work will last, or the projected improve- 
ment is not worth doing/ 

" In connection with this system of borrowing money 
for land drainage purposes, a very important point, so 
far as the tenant is concerned, is the time over which 
the repayment is to be extended. Coincidently, how- 
ever, with the extension of the term must be that of 
the durability of the work ; hence the necessity of having 
it done under the direction of experienced men, and in 
the best possible manner. ^It is manifest that the 
extension of the art of draining will very materially 
depend upon the rate of instalment charged upon the 
tenants; and however unprofitable individual cases of 
drainage may be shown to be, the benefit to the nation 
will be unappreciable, unless we satisfy the tenants 
generally that, during all the vicissitudes of times, they 
can afford to pay all the increased rent they are to be 
charged. The advantage of a lengthened period will 
be shown by comparing the increased rent a tenant 
would have to pay to liquidate the expenditure of £5 
per acre in fifty years and twenty-five years. In the 
former case, the increased rent would be from 4». 6rf. 
to 5^. 3rf. per acre, and in the latter, from 6*. 6rf. to 
7*. 2rf. / the difiference is nearly fifty per cent. Now 
if drainage is substantially done there is no reason 
whatever to doubt that it will last fifty years ; and it 
follows, therefore, that the time of repayment may 
extend, if need be, to that period.' '^ 

In giving a " bird's-eye view,'' so to speak, of what 
had been done, and what remained to be done, in the 



DRAINING. 



163 



matter of drainage at the period of the publication of 
his paper (March, 1856), Mr. Bailey Denton stated that 
"it was necessary to divide the whole country geolo- 
gically into three great characteristic areas : — (1) The 
western and north-western, or alpine district, of pri- 
mary and transition rocks. (2) The middle district, 
of secondary strata, exclusive of and up to the lower 
margin of the chalk. (3) The eastern and south-eastern 
district, comprising the chalk of the upper secondary 
strata, the wealden and the tertiary and post-tertiary 
deposits overlying the chalk. ^' The arrangement of 
these districts is so suggestive of much that is useful 
and interesting to the agriculturist, that we give them 
here : — 



Alpinb Distbict, of Fbimabt and Transition Bocks:— 



Cornwall. 
Somerset. 
Monmouth. 
Deron, parts of. 
Wales, ditto. 
Worcester. 
Hereford. 
Lancashire. 



Northumberland. 
Scotland, part of. 
Salop. 
Yorkshire. 
Cumberland. 

Outlying portions in die Midland 
Districts. 



Middle District, op Secondary Strata, exclusive of and up to 
THE Lower Margin of tue Chalk : — 



Devon, parts of. 
Dorset, oitto. 
Monmouth, ditto. 
Salop, ditto. 
Lancashire, ditto. 
^Northumberland, ditto. 
Westmoreland, ditto. 
Scotland, ditto. 
Norfolk, ditto. 
Huntingdon, ditto. 
Buckiaeham, ditto. 
Serks, ditto. 
Warwick. 
Rutland. 
Nottingham. 
Stafford. 



Somerset, parts of. 
Gloucester, ditto. 
Worcester, ditto. 
Wales, ditto. 
Yorkshire, ditto. 
Cumberland, ditto. 
Durham. 

Lincolnshire, parts of. 
Cambridge, ditto. 
Bedford, ditto. 
Oxford, ditto. 
Wilts, ditto. 
Northampton. 
Leicester. 
Derby. 
Chesnire. 



164 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 



Third ob Eastern District, the Chalk of tot Upper Secoitdart 
Strata, the Wealden, and thb Tertiart and Post-Tsbtiart 
Deposits overlyinq the Chalk. 



Dorset, parts of. 
Berks, ditto. 
Oxford, ditto. 
Bucks, ditto. 
Cambridge, ditto. 
Hertford. 
Surrey. 
Kent. 

Suffolk, parts of. 
Lincoln, ditto. 
Wilts, part of. 



Hants, ditto. 
Beds, ditto. 
Hants, ditto. 
Middlesex. 
Sussex. 
Essex. 

Norfolk, parts of. 
Yorkshire, ditto. 

Outlying portions on the Western 
side. 



Taking the map, and drawing a curved line from 
Berwick-npon-Tweed to Exeter, the division between 
the middle and western districts will be pretty well 
defined; while the line of the lower margin of the 
chalk ''commencing at Weymouth, in Dorset, and 
ending at Flamborough Head, in Yorkshire, will form a 
defined boundary between the middle and eastern dis- 
tricts.^' The following table will, in connection with 
those districts given above, be of interest : — 



i i i 
f i i 



pJaiuppflBijiJiUB;!* pj 



a midw pan 'puiomnJ (OOfTa 



II § ■ 



166 FARMING AND FARMING SCONOMT. 

The modes of draining now in use may be classed as 
follows — " deep draining," " shallow draining/' '' com- 
bined deep and shallow draining/' and the " Keythorpe 
system/' 

Of these, the " deep draining " is almost universally 
acknowledged to be based on correct principles. Of 
the case, as between the ^Meep" and "shallow" systems, 
the following, by Mr. Bailey Denton, will give a fair 
statement. It need scarcely be said that Mr. Denton 
is the great advocate of deep drainage, and he has had, 
perhaps, the most extensive experience in connection 
with it of any one in the kingdom : — 

'^ It is a common assertion * that water cannot get 
down through clays,' but in no one instance has it been 
successfully shown that water will disobey the laws of 
gravitation, or will fail to descend through any clay 
soil however absorbent and retentive, to an approximate 
level with drains of reasonable depth (not less than four 
feet), if they be placed sufficiently near each other to 
counteract such absorbent and retentive properties, 
and to meet the eflFect of atmospheric humidity in 
maintaining them in force. 

" Frequently has it fallen to my lot to meet men 
retaining prejudices in favour of shallow draining, on 
clays which they have declared to be so stiflF and reten- 
tive that it was impossible water could find its way 
down, and so dense and dry in the subsoil, that no 
water could be gained by cutting into it. These clays 
have, nevertheless, been drained from four to five feet 
deep, and water has flowed copiously from the outlets ; 
still the advocates of shallow draining, when asked 
'from whence comes the water?' reject this simple 
proof of their error. 

'^ In the same way they refuse all evidence of the 



DIUIINING. 167 

superior eflPect of deep drains^ afforded by the facts that 
they generally commence running before shallow drains 
— that they invariably run as soon and more copiously 
than shallow drains — that they continue to run long 
after the shallow drains have ceased torun^ and that 
they discharge clear water, while the shallow drains dis- 
charge discoloured water — showing how perfectly the 
former act as a means of conveying to the subsoil (which 
the shallow drains hardly penetrate) a portion of the 
manure the farmer has taken pains to put on his land ; 
but of which he is robbed by his shallow drains. If 
the advocates of shallow draining cannot adduce any 
instance of the failure of deep draining, it cannot be 
said that no instance can be found in which shallow 
draining has failed to keep even the surface of land 
dry ; leaving out of consideration the many benefits 
incidental to deep drainage, and which are altogether 
lost sight of, but which are of equal importance with 
drainage itself/' 

Mr. Bullock Webster may be accepted as the advo- 
cate of ^^ shallow '' drainage. For a full exposition of 
his views the reader may consult his two papers in 
the "Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of 
England," vol. ix. p. 237, and vol. xi. p. 311. During 
the discussion which occurred at the meeting following 
the reading of Mr. Denton's paper, abeady alluded to, 
Mr. Webster stated that he objected to the deep (four 
feet) drains in retentive clay soils, because the drains 
could not be placed further apart ; because the expense 
of the fourth foot often costs nearly as much as the 
three first feet ; because of the expense of the out- 
falls and their maintenance, occasioned by the extra 
depth ; and because he thought that if crops were 
kept "within the influence of the sun in eighteen 



168 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOlfT. 

inches of well-manured soil/' that *' the produce would 
be far more than if you tempted them into four 
feet of clay subsoil, if you could do so/' As between 
the deep and shallow systems^ a fact mentioned by Mr. 
C. W. Hoskyns is very suggestive in favour of the 
former, that while the '^ operation of deep drains had 
been uniformly successful/' '' shallow drains were often 
taken up/' but deep ones in no instance had been 
disturbed. 

The "combined deep and shallow system" is, as 
its name imports, a species of compromise between 
the two. The system owes its introduction to Lord 
Wharncliffe. The deep drains are laid down to a 
depth of four feet, at distances of from eighteen to 
twenty yards apart. Not parallel to these, but forming 
an acute angle with them, shallow drains are placed 
two feet in depth, and at distances of some eight yards 
apart. The junction of the shallow with the deep drains 
is eflFected by either sloping down the shallow ones at 
their mouths, or by having a few loose stones placed 
in the interval between the two, so as to allow the 
upper stream to descend to the deep drains. The 
deep drains follow the incline or fall of the land, the 
shallow ones run across it. 

The " Keythorpe system " — originally introduced on 
the estate of Lord Bemers, a nobleman greatly inte- 
rested in agricultural progress — is highly spoken of 
by eminent agriculturists, as in accordance with the 
principles of science and the demands of practice, 
and as being at the same time economically carried 
out. Mr. Trimmer, the well-known geologist, thus 
explains its principles: — "Between the soil and the 
subsoil there are certain irregularities, forming a series 
of furrows. An idea of these may be obtained by 



BRAINING. 169 

supposing a series of artificial ridges made by the 
plough in an impervious clay district^ and these to 
be covered by a soil of a more loose and pervious 
character. It is obvious that water percolating through 
the loose upper soil would reach the furrows^ or spaces 
between the ridges^ and be led along these to places at a 
lower level. Pipe-drains are led across or transversly to 
these furrows — ^those pipe drains intercepting the water 
which percolates through the soil to the furrows — ^the 
furrows acting as minor drains ; while the pipe-drains are 
the sub-mams, so to speak. The method by which these 
subterranean channels or furrows are known or found 
out is as follows : — The drainer first digs numerous 
trial-holes^ to find the point at which water enters^ the 
height to which it rises^ and the relative height -which 
it maintains with respept to the holes above it. He 
then puts a drain at the greatest distance from his 
upper hole that he has ever known to free it from water ; 
and if that does not succeed^ he puts in another^ and 
sometimes a third. They were thus enabled to effect 
the draining of a certain area with fewer drains than 
by the system of parallel drains at equal distances.^' 

In reviewing the various and in many cases most 
conflicting opinions as to drainage^ and how it should 
be carried out^ which have formed an important feature 
in the agricultural history of the past few years, it is 
impossible to resist the conclusion that the uniform 
system, to all classes of soils and all localities, is neither 
philosophical nor possible to be carried out with true 
economy and efficiency. " Land,^' as we have remarked 
in an article in the Journal of Agriculture, '' land is 
not like cotton, which can be carried through one un- 
varying series of, operations The nature of 

the soil must be ascertained, and the conditions neces- 

1 



170 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

sary to insure efficient drainage be deduced therefrom^ 
before any one system is finally adopted. Hence the 
value of landowners instituting experiments — as sug- 
gested by Lord Portman at a recent meeting of the 
Boyal Agricultural Society — with a view to assist their 
tenants^ who are not generally able to pay^ to ascer- 
tain the best methods to be adopted. And seeing 
that experience points out that the peculiarities of 
one field or part of a field may be no index to those 
of another on the same farm^ or even at another 
part of the same field, we agree with a recent cor- 
respondent of the Mark Lane Express, that it should 
' be laid down as a principle that each experiment can 
only determine the drainage quality of the soil on 
which it is made, and that the depth, distance, and rise 
of drains should in every case be settled by experi- 
ments on the small scale, before the general work of 
draining a field, farm, or estate is commenced, on everv 
different kind of soil.^ " 



DIVISION SECOND. 

IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES CONNECTED WITH THE ME- 
CHANICAL TREATMENT OF THE SOIL. — THE PLOUGH, 
AND PROPOSED SUBSTITUTES FOR. — STEAM CULTIVATING 
MECHANISM. 



Section I. — ^Implements and Maohinbs. 

We have already said that agriculture possesses no 
history. Here and there isolated facts are to be met 
with, but there is no full and complete record from 



IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES. 171 

which we can gather all the details connected with 
the progress of improvement in the cultural and'imple- 
mental departments of farming. '' Did these materials 
exist/^ as we have elsewhere remarked^ '^ nothing would 
be more interesting than to trace the gradual improve- 
ments made in agricultural mechanism — where^ and by 
whom. But these unfortunately do not exist sufficiently 
detailed to trace this progress satisfactorily. At best, 
we have but a dry list of names and machines ; but of 
the various difficulties which must of necessity have 
encountered the inventors, we have no record. Stages 
of progress, therefore, such as can be traced in the 
history of the steam-engine, cannot be traced in like 
manner in connection with the mechanism of agricul- 
ture. We hear only of results, and barely at times of 
these ; but history is silent as to the way these were 
worked out, and of the nature of the difficulties by 
which they were surrounded. In looking back, then, 
at the last half century — a period the most prolific in 
real practical projects — we have to content ourselves 
with the vaguest of information, and the slenderest 
of details. We can but say that engineering has done 
great things for agriculture: at first, beginning in a 
very doubtful and feeble way, she profiered her services 
to drive here and there a threshing-machine in some 
far oflF northern district ; then, emboldened by success, 
she began to cut the roots and the hay, and to crush 
the corn and the cake; and, getting more ambitious 
with each successive triumph, she walked boldly into 
the field, and now threatens to supplant the plough by 
the steam cultivator. We refer, in these points, to the 
aid which steam has given to agriculture through the 
medium of engineering ; but in other, perhaps less 
ambitious and daring, but not less useful ways, has her 

I 2 



172 FARMING AND FARMING BCONQMT. 

aid been remarkable. The implements of the fields and 
the machines of the steadings have all reeeiyed in torn 
a portion of her zealous care^ and have been stamped 
with the impress of her mechanical genius. At first 
she found the machines and implements of the turn 
few in number^ defective in principle, and still more 
glaringly defective in point of construction; but by 
dint of perseverance, and the outlay of large soms^ the 
number of effective machines was greatly augmented, 
till, from the rudimental ones, as the spade, the plough, 
and the harrow, we had the roller, the clod-crusher, the 
grubber, and a -host of others, too numerous to take 
note of here. Construction, at the same time^ was 
attended to, till the rude unfinished examples of early 
days were supplanted by those in which accuracy of 
detail and highness of finish strove for the mastery. 
With the increase of supply came the increase of 
demand, till at last, from a few isolated makers, scat- 
tered here and there through the rural districts, working 
in tiny shops, sprang up the great makers of the present 
day, with their giant establisments sending out thou- 
sands of machines and implements, owing their existence 
to the labours of hosts of workmen.^' 

The Plough^ as the oldest and the most important of 
all the implements, claims our first attention. The 
historical points connected with the plough^ the reader 
will find in the under-noted work.* What we have 
now chiefly to do with is the controversies which have 
agitated, and are now agitating, the agricultural world. 
These have reference, first, to the superiority of the 
wheel over the swing plough, or vice versd, — second. 



* Agricaltnral Engineerinflr — '< Field Implements and Machines." 
Virtue Brothers and Co. 



THB PLOUGH. 178 

to the supplanting of the plough as an instrument of 
culture by another implement calculated to do the work 
more effectuallj and economically. 

Twenty years ago there was scarcely any agricultural 
subject discussed with so much keenness as the ques- 
tion of the relative value of the "swing'' an4 the 
" wheel plough," the former of which may be said to 
be, as a rule, the favourite implement in Scotland, the 
latter in England. Mr. Handley and Mr. Pusey may 
be looked upon as the advocates of the wheel plough, 
showing, " that as a general rule, the addition of the 
wheel ensured better work at a less expense of draught;'* 
and Mr. James Slight, the well-known machinist of 
Edinburgh, as the advocate of the swing plough. In 
the " Book of Farm Implements and Machines," edited 
by Henry Stephens, Esq., author of the *'Book of the 
Farm," will be found a full exposition of the two views 
on the wheel question. In the same work, the author 
of the present volume endeavoured to show that the 
reason why, as a rule, swing ploughs were used in 
Scotland, wheel ploughs in England, was dependent upon 
principle which we have, as follows, briefly stated in a 
recent article in the " Journal of the Bath and West 
of England Society :" — " The more highly cultivated 
our soUs, the more uniform in texture and quaUty they 
become. This uniformity brings about a comparative 
ease in working them, and renders the use of a machine 
more available than that of an implement. The dis- 
tinction between the two is worthy of note, as some 
points of (agricultural) mechanical importance are in- 
volved in it. An implement may be defined to be an 
apparatus designed to do a certain work upon a certain 
material, which material, not possessing uniformity, 
requires now and then the adjustment of the imple- 



174 FARSaNG AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

ment^ and this through the judgment exercised by the 
attendant^ according as the varying circumstances of 
the material demand. A machine, on the contrary, is 
an apparatus which works on a material possessed of 
uniformity, so that when the machine is once adjusted 
to its work it can be kept at work with this adjustment, 
inasmuch as the material is unvarying in its character. 
An American farmer, in ploughing his recently re- 
claimed land, finds it studded with the blackened and 
ghastly stumps of felled trees, and every now and then 
he has to exercise his judgment in the manipulation of 
his plough to avoid these stumps, or to ease it over the 
entanglement of their roots. The plough is therefore 
required to be of extreme simplicity of parts ; and as 
uniformity of material is not obtainable, uniformity of 
depth or work is not attempted. A swing plough is 
therefore used; and, used thus, it has the character- 
istics of an implement. But as his soil improves, and 
the stumps and roots disappear, and uniformity of tex- 
ture is secured, the wheel plough may be used, and 
used with economy ; because possessing the attributes 
of a machine in which the first is the only adjustment 
likely to be required, and as skill or judgment is less 
required to be exercised, cheaper labour will do as much 
work as dear labour. In good soil we have seen a 
Howard^s plough keep well to its work for yards com- 
pletely left to itself; the same plough, in other and 
unequal soils, would have required the constant exercise 
of the judgment of the attendant to adjust its operation 
to the varying circumstances. Where this constant 
adjustment is necessitated, wheels would only add to the 
weight and difficulty of adjustment ; wheels, therefore, 
are dispensed with. A machine can always be worked 
more economically than an implement, and where it 



THE PLOUGH. 175 

can be made available it will in time be preferred, for 
prejudice will ultimately succumb to pecuniary con- 
siderations. With a steady improvement of our soils 
we may see, and indeed we already see, a steady increase 
in the use of wheel ploughs. The point, therefore, so 
long under dispute as to which is best — the wheel or 
the swing plough — is, we believe, to be settled by some 
considerations such as these, if not exactly those we 
have now indicated/^ In close connection with this 
point, it is worthy of note, as mentioned by Mr. John 
Chalmers Morton in his recent valuable paper on 
'^ Recent Agricultural Experience,^^ that of the 30,000 
ploughs sent out during the last six years by the 
Messrs. Howard, of Bedford, ^^ not more than twenty- 
five out of every thousand have been swing ploughs/^ 

The point in dispute in connection with the plough, 
as alluded to at the commencement of the present 
division of our work is, however, far from settled; 
indeed it is now in full discussion. The point is 
whether the plough is the best implement for cultivating 
the soil. On this, as giving some of the salient points 
of the question, we may be permitted to place before 
the reader a few remarks we contributed on the subject 
to the Mark Lane Express : — " So fast a hold has the 
plough had on the agricultural mind, that ' ploughing ' 
and ' cultivation ' have been considered as synonymous 
terms ; or rather, to put the matter more correctly, the 
term ^ cultivation ' has been used as if it meant only 
that it could be effected by ploughing — that is, by the use 
of an implement by which the soil was turned over and 
inverted, and laid in regular slices at a determinate 
angle. Now, however, a school of agriculturists main- 
tain that cultivation does not involve the use of the 
plough, or indeed of any definite or pre-determined 



176 FARMING AKD FARMIKa ECONOMT. 

implement ; that if the soil is stirred^ pulverised^ and 
made ready as a seed-bed^ it matters not by what 
implement this desideratum is effected. But this same 
school insist further that the plough^ with its share^ 
coulter^ and mould-board^ is not the implement by 
which the proper seed-bed can be obtained, — by the term 
^proper/ holding that it means a seed-bed much 
deeper than generally made, and quite beyond the depth 
to which a plough can be made economically to pene- 
trate. And they base their opinion, certainly very 
counter to the generally-received opinion, on reasoning 
somewhat like the following : — 

*' The principal feature of the operation of the plough 
is the complete inversion of the soil, the side lying 
originally uppermost, when finished, lying lowest. This 
inversion is brought about by the action of the coulter, 
which cuts vertically the slice of soil from the land ; by 
the further action of the share, which cuts, or rather 
partially cuts and partially tears, horizontally the slice 
from the land ; and finally by the action of the mould- 
board to which the slice is delivered. The size of the 
slice thus cut off is usually 10 inches by 7, or in those 
proportions, and the angle at which the slice is turned 
over is 45*. The result of all these operations is that, 
when a succession of slices is laid over, one leaning 
against the other, a series of projections and hollows, 
angular in section, cover the surface of the land. The 
advantages of this arrangement are, first, that the 
angular hollows afford a series of seed-beds parallel to 
one another, which are easily covered by the action of 
the harrows, following the throwing in of the seed ; and 
secondly, that the angular projections are of such a 
section, that the greatest possible extent of surface is 
exposed to the action of the atmosphere. But, say the 



THB PLOUGH. 177 

school of agriculturists to which we have already alluded^ 
admitting the value of these advantages^ we maintain 
that the disadvantages completely overpower them. 
Thus^ the sole of the plough, passing as it does over the 
bottom of the flirrow, leaves it hard and crusted, so that 
in place of the bottom of the seed-bed being sofk and 
penetrable, it is hard and impenetrable to the roots of 
the growing plants, and the deeper the pulverised soil 
into which these roots can extend, the better the produce 
of the plants to which they belong. But as the plough 
in general use is set to work year after year to a uniform 
depth, the obvious result is that the sole of the plough 
will, year after year, drag over the same surface, till it 
is hard and crusted beyond belief. Again, as there are 
angular spaces below as well as above, the lower side of 
which spaces is formed by the hardened sole above 
alluded to, these angular spaces (say the opponents of 
the plough) only form receptacles in which water lodges, 
the hard crust of the sole preventing its downward per- 
colation. Deep culture is now acknowledged, by all 
nearly, to be an essential in good cropping; but the 
deep culture desiderated cannot be done by horse labour 
attached to the plough without an immense increase of 
draught; and however deep the plough is driven, its 
limit is always, and must always, be bounded by the 
hard sole or crust, the evils of which we have already 
pointed out. Hence, say the opponents of the plough, 
another style of culture must be adopted which will 
secure a stirring of the soil to a much greater depth 
than the plough can give us, and without the crust or 
bottom which the plough inevitably creates. This, 
they moreover say, rotatory cultivation can give, and 
give cheapest, although they admit that, to a certain but 
less perfect extent, deep stirring of the soil is obtained 

I 3 



178 FARMIKG AND FARMTNG ECONOMT. 

by the grubbing process of Mr. Smith of Bletchley, or 
Messrs. Howard of Bedford : only — and this only, be 
it noted^ is pregnant with meaning — the rotatory system 
can best and cheapest do the work.'' 

The two modes of preparing the soil here alluded to, 
in place of that of the plough, namely, the rotatory 
cultivation and the grubbing process, may here be briefly 
described. 

The great and most graphic advocate of the rotatory 
system is Mr. Charles Wren Hoskyns — a well-known 
agriculturist and author. Of the plough, he says, " I 
say that the plough has sentence of death written upon 
it, because it is essentially imperfect, and what it does 
is little towards the work of cultivation ; but that 
little is limited by a radical imperfection — damage to 
the subsoil, which is pressed and hardened by the share 
in an exact ratio with the weight of soil lifted, plus 
that of the force required to eflfect the damage, and 
the weight of the instrument itself. Were there no 
other reason for saying it than this, this alone would 
entitle the philosophical mechanist to say and see 
that the plough was never meant to be immortal.^' 

Mr, Hoskyns, in advocating a substitute for the 
plough — thus so graphically doomed to death — starts 
with the proposition, that as the spade is a better 
implement for cultivating the soil, so there is a sys- 
tem superior to that of the spade, namely, the rotatory 
system. " All judgment,'^ he says, " is comparative, 
and though there may exist no implement holding the 
same relative advantage over the spade which that does 
over the plough, yet the same course of analysis which 
showed the latter to be limited to the capacities of the 
horse, proves the spade to bear a corresponding relation 
to manual labour^ when the attempt is made to sub- 



IHE PLOUGH. 179 

stitute its action by steam-power/' The further con- 
sideration of Mr. Hoskyns' arguments in favour of 
rotatory cultivation, will be taken up in the department 
of Steam Cultivating Mechanism, as these are based on 
the supposition that steam-power is to be used in 
place of horse-power. We therefore come to explain 
the '^ grubbing process/' which has been successfully 
applied to the culture of land, and by none more so 
than by the practical introducer of the system, Mr. 
William Smith, of Little Woolston, near Bletchley. 
This gentleman has, since the year 1855 — in con- 
junction with steam-power — grubbed his fields, pro- 
ducing large and satisfactory crops, to the complete 
exclusion of the plough. If the reader will refer to the 
volume in this series on '^ Agricultural Engineering, 
Field Implements and Machines,'' he will find a drawing 
and description of the grubber or cultivator, and of its 
mode of action. The following is Mr. Smith's own state- 
ment as to the principle of grubbing land in place of 
ploughing it. Alluding to the prejudice held against the 
use of the grubber, he says, '^ I am not going to assert 
that there are no grounds for this opinion — or preju- 
dice, as I had rather call it for the sake of argument ; for 
almost all the scufflers and cultivators in ordinary use 
had been constructed without principle, and the tine was 
so set, that it had a tendency to rise fi-om the soil ; and 
the consequence of using these implements was, that 
we scuffled and scuffled till we had no porous soil left 
at all. Hence the origin of this prejudice. I am not 
so vain as to suppose that I was the only person who 
saw this; but I must say, that this led me to the 
invention of an implement which should have a ten- 
dency to draw into the ground, and I took the ship 
as my model. I confess I was astonished at tho 



180 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

result^ for I had constructed a plough which would 
so imbed itself into the ground, that four powerful 
horses could not draw it. My only difficulty now was 
to keep it from penetrating too deep. After another 
experiment or two, I succeeded. On this principle 
both my patent cultivator and my steam-plough are 
constructed. Speaking, perhaps, rather in hyperbole, 
they are no more like an ordinary cultivator, scuffler, 
or scarifier, than the best of our ship anchors are 
like a great stone tied by a string to keep a boat 
to the side of a pond. My steam-plough is, in 
point of fact, three of the best-formed anchors that 
1 can find, braced together with iron enough to sup- 
port the strain upon them. I was not more gratified 
than amused to find that it was some sea-side friends, 
if they will allow me to call them so, who, were the 
first to detect the real principle on which my ploughs 
were constructed. 

" I am led, however, by this, to inquire more especially 
whether it is necessary to turn over the soil at all, in 
the sense in which the Royal Agricultural Society and 
many of the public understand it, and to consider how 
it was that the plough came to have its mould in its 
present form. I find on reference to old engravings, 
that one of the most primitive ploughs we have de- 
picted is a single share (very like in principle to one 
of the shares of Coleman's Cultivator), without a mould, 
board. Subsequently to this, we find that in order 
to widen the furrow (and it must be remembered that 
each passage of the plough made but one furrow), 
a board was placed on each side of the share, so as to 
throw the earth on both sides; and even so late ajs 
the. year 1737, there is good authority for believing 
that this plough was used in many parts of England. 



THB PLOUGH. 181 

What then was the object of inventing the single 
mould-board in its present state to turn over the soil^ 
which was, without doubt, in existence in many parts 
of England long before 1737? I am inclined to believe 
that the main, perhaps the sole object^ was to raise 
those high ridges which we may see in many districts 
of this kingdom, so that the land might be lifted out 
of the water, and people be enabled to grow com on 
the ridges, where before they had grown none. But 
since we have been taught by the ingenuity of our 
predecessors the way to draw the superfluous water 
from the land, why should we so pertinaciously adhere 
to the system, of which the necessity has passed away ? 
Especially when the obvious consequence of this very 
process is, that the soil is both hardened by the friction 
and the pressure, and more or less impregnated with 
the iron worn from the side of the ploughshare, which 
we know to be hurtful to vegetation, till a winter's 
exposure to the air renders the iron really beneficial. 
I pass by with a single remark, that the modern form 
of the plough buries the obnoxious weeds to grow 
again, instead of destroying them. Such are some 
of the disadvantages of the plough in its present form. 
But I have some reason to believe that the advantages 
of the older form of the plough are not adequately 
appreciated. Now that steam has supplied us with 
power enough to break up the soil to a depth greater 
than even the spade can obtain, except by the toilsome 
process of double-digging, the older form of the plough 
exhibits a palpable advantage, which the more modem 
turn-over cannot obtain; because the older one does 
not, when we attempt deeper cultivation^ as the modem 
one does, turn up to the surface the whole of the 
deleterious substances which are commonly found in 



182 FARMING AND FARMTNG ECONOMT. 

the subsoil at once ; but^ bringing up some small quan- 
tities of these to be oxidised or chemically changed^ 
leaving other portions beneath to be washed and 
cleansed of properties obnoxious to vegetation, and 
breaking up the pan beneath the share to allow the 
percolation of these hurtful properties to the drains, 
enables us to obtain a state of cultivation equal, if not 
superior, to that which we can attain to by spade- 
husbandry. 

^' Besides this, there is one advantage of surpassing 
consideration: where three or more subsoil ploughs 
are combined together, the greater part of the under 
surface is torn up and broken, just as it is by the 
spade; and if the operation is performed when the 
soil is dry, the advantage is immense. I seek an 
illustration of this from Professor Johnston's Agri- 
cultural Lectures, who says, * It is well known that, 
if a piece of stiff clay be cut into the shape of a brick, 
and then allowed to dry, it will contract and harden, — 
it will form an air-dried brick, almost impervious to 
any kind of air. Wet it again, it will swell and be- 
come more impervious. Cut it up while wet, it will 
only be divided into so many pieces, each of which 
will harden when dry, or the whole of which will 
again attach themselves and stick together if exposed 
to pressure. But tear it asunder when dry, and it will 
fall into many pieces, will more or less crumble, and 
will readily admit the air into its inner part. So it is 
with a clay subsoil.' Remarkable examples of this 
are presented on various parts of my farm ; but perhaps 
none was more evident than on the piece of tenacious 
clay land on which the beautiful crop of barley was 
grown. This had been three times steam-ploughed, 
twice for the previous pea crop, and once for the 



THB PLOUGH. 188 

barley. On the 9tli of April, wlien the barley was 
just up, three hundred persons at least walked over, 
when not only was there no drift or washing per- 
ceptible from the winter rains, but more — the soil 
was so completely absorbent, that though a heavy 
shower of rain had fallen about two hours before, the 
trace of this number of persons was scarcely visible. 
The soil seemed to have lost the natural tenacity 
belonging to the clay, and its absorbent properties 
were so remarkable, that there was not the slightest 
appearance of its being overcharged with moisture. 
If it were not foreign to the question, it would cer- 
tainly lead me to too great a length to enter upon 
the inquiry, how far this deeper cultivation promotes 
a greater deposit of dew, checks the evaporation of 
moisture from the surface, and supplies the place of 
the evaporation which does take place from the stores 
of moisture beneath the surface.^' 

We can give no better evidence than this of the 
value of the grubbing principle ; it is right, however, 
to state, that it is controverted by other authorities, as, 
for instance, by Mr. C. W. Hoskyns, who gives the 
following in the ^^ Cyclopaedia of Agriculture,^' edited 
by Mr. J. C. Morton, and published by Blackie and 
Sons, of Glasgow : — " The primary consideration in all 
machines for cultivating the ground was, that mere 
stirring or confusion of the soil was not cultivation, 
though sometimes thought to be so : it was found in 
actual farming that there must be an absolute inver- 
sion of the soil into some regular furrow, kept open for 
that object, and, consequently, all cultivating machi- 
nery in which that essential was overlooked would fail 
in practice. The first essential was, therefore, that a 
regular frirrow should be continuously kept open, into 



184 FAKMING AND FABlfTKG ECONOMT. 

which each successive portion of the soil should be 
received ; and a second was^ that there should be a 
proper relation between the rate of progression of the 
cultivator and the rate of turning over of the soil in 
order to effect thorough cultivation/' It is worthy of 
note^ that Mr. Fusey^ the well-known agriculturist^ 
foresaw the importance of the grubber as an implement 
of cultivation. He said^ in his Report of the Agricul- 
tural Machinery Department of the Great Exhibition 
of 1851^ that if ever steam was successfully applied to 
culture of the soil, that it would probably be less by 
ploughing or digging than by the use of a cultivator or 
grubber. 

Section n. — Steam Cultubb. 

We now approach a period of surpassing interest in 
the history of agriculture, pregnant with the most 
important results for its future progress ; we allude to 
that in which the power of Steam was brought to aid in 
carrying on the processes of the fold and of the field. 
What steam has done for us in adding to our natural 
resources, and in proportion thereto to our national 
wealth, in our manufactures, trade, and commerce, is 
well known. Applied to our manufactures, it has 
changed the whole aspect of their economics, and in- 
creased a thousandfold their capabilities. With a 
singular adaptability to its own circumstances, steam 
has enabled us to increase the depth of our coal-mines, 
and augment that store of fuel without which its power 
would have been but limited. Extending the number 
of our trades and manufactures, and widening the area 
of our commerce, it has yielded the power which, in 
the untiring steam-engine, the rapid railway locomo- 
tive, and the powerful steamship, has enabled us best to 



STEAM CULTURE. 185 

conduct those processes^ and quickest to convey its mer- 
chandise. But for long it seemed as if all the power of 
this potent agent was to be applied only to the increase 
of the manufacture, and the extension of our com- 
merce; and that agriculture, the mother of all the 
sciences, was destined to go on unnoticed and unknown. 
*' She was left/^ as we have elsewhere remarked [Journal 
of Agriculture, 1858), '* to languish in her half-neglected 
fields ; and to the eye of the superficial observer, gave 
no sign that she was stirred to nevr life and more vigo- 
rous action by the power that inspired other callings, 
and led them quickly on in the paths of progress. But 
though slowly, not less surely, was the new power 
influencing agriculture. The very nature of her opera- 
tions necessitates slow progress in her improvement. 
In other callings experiments can be made from day to 
day ; the faults and omissions of to-day obviated and 
repaired to-morrow ; but in many of the operations of 
agriculture, trial-time comes but once a year, and then 
not seldom in very inauspicious guise. Far-seeing men, 
interested in her progress, looked forward to the time 
when the power of steam would bring about wonders 
in connection with agriculture, as striking and as bene- 
ficial in its results as it had done in connection with 
manufactures and commerce. In their endeavour to 
carry out the projects which had the realisation of this 
aid in view, men began to work quietly and steadily ; 
and though to many of them the field of labour was a 
fruitless one, yet nevertheless they worked on in the 
fulness of faith, and the power of patience and perse- 
verance. Nor ' did they cast their bread upon the 
waters ^ vainly. In process of time it returned in good 
measure — if not to them, to their neighbours, at least. 
Interest began to be excited in what the new power 



186 FARMING AND FAEMINO ECONOMY. 

could effect for agriculture. Evidences of its might 
began to multiply in remote districts, and at quiet 
farm -steadings. Engines filled with their portly pre- 
sence the yards of agricultural shows, and took positions 
as things useful in everyday life, and not merely as 
'schemes^ of Utopian dreamers. With every step in 
advance, and every addition to the evidence as to how 
much it could do, the idea bulked more largely in the 
progressive mind that it could do more; and as it 
showed its powers and capabilities in the steading, at 
the threshing-mill, the straw or the turnip-cutter, so 
might it — and so could it, said many, albeit then sneered 
at — be as powerful and capable of work in the field, and 
amongst the corn. This idea grew apace, and thrived 
wonderfully, till men began to see it as a not unlikely 
things that it would soon be realised in practice. 

< The saying that the world mast end in smoke, 
Seems true in these last days of steam and coke. 
When the loud engine on the iron rails, 
O'er ancient ties and sympathies prevails.** 

'^ If this be true, men will wake some of these fine days 
to find it no less true, that over as ancient ties and 
powerful sympathies, steam, in connection with agri- 
culture, will prevail too. Already have the stolid 
indifference of the *slow^ farmer, satisfied with the 
present, and having no hope in the future, and the 
soft sentimentality of the Cit, received their death-blow. 
Even now, in some fields, we hear the snort of the 
steam-engine dragging the plough, ere long to be 
multiplied, till over a hundred fields shall hang the 
smoke or the steam-cloud, and the scream of the steam- 
whistle drown the song of the lark, or the cry of the 
com-crake.^^ 

♦ From the German of " Ludwig L, King of Bavaria." By J. Gostick. 



8TBAM CULTUBB. 187 

The last few years has witnessed '^ the inauguration 
of a new era, bright with the hopes of difficulties 
encountered but to be overcome; of a time fast 
approaching when the desert shall be made glad — when 
dull places, sad and sterile now, shall be bright with the 
trophies of peaceful and lightened labour — when great 
tracts shall be wrested from ocean's hands, and instead 
of waving seaweed or marshy plant, be made to yield to 
the sounding scythe, or the rapid reaper, shocks of the 
smiling com — ^when the marsh shall be freed from its 
stagnant waters, and the black moss made green with 
verdure — when the valleys on the hill-sides shall bear 
their burden for the food of man, and the very hill-tops, 
as prophesied in Holy Writ, shall be covered with 
a golden diadem, waving to the winds that sweep their 
sides/' 

Although steam cultivation is a thing now practically 
accomplished, its realisation has long been the dream 
of inventors. So early, indeed, as the year 1618, a 
patent was taken out by a David Ramsey and a Thomas 
Wildgoose, for ^^ Newe, apte, or compendious formes or 
kindes of engines or instrumentes, and other p'fitable 
invencons, wayes, and meanes, for the good of our 
Commonwealth, as well as to ploughe grounde without 
horses or oxen, and to enrich and make better and more 
fertill, as well barren peate, salte, and sea sande, as 
inland and upland grounde, within our Kingdomes of 
England and Ireland, and our Domynyon of Wales ; as 
alsoe * * 5ie * to make boates for the carryage of burthens 
and passengers runn vpon the water as swife in calmes, 
and more saflf in stormes, then boates full sayled in 
great wynes/' 

In 1630 and 1634, David Ramsey took out other 
patents, embracing the same objects; and further aiming. 



188 PARMINO AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

as is probable^ at the deposition of seed and manure. 
'* Whatever," says Mr. James Howard, of Bedford, in 
his able paper on " Steam Cultivation : its Rise and Pro- 
gress," read before the London Central Farmers^ Club, 
'^ may now be thought of steam ploughing, the wags of 
those days doubtless indulged in facetious remarks at 
the ominous fact, that such an extravagant scheme as 
that of ploughing without horses, and by some mysterious 
agency, should be associated with a name so near to 
that of ' Wildgoose.' " 

In 1634 a patent was taken out by William, John, 
and Andrew Parham, and a T. Domaxy, for ^' a certaine 
newe and readie way for the good of our Commonwealth, 
for the earinge and plowinge of land of what kinde 
soever, without the vse or helpe of horses or oxen, by 
means of an engine, by them newly invented and framed, 
and not formerly practized or vsed within our Kingdome 
of England or Dominion of Wales, by the labour and 
strength of two men onlie to drive or enforce the saide 
engine, and of one other p^son to hould or guide the plowe 
or suUowe to be drawne with the same engine, whereby 
greate benefitt and comodytie may arise to our lovinge 
subiectes." 

Towards the close of the seventeenth century a still 
more sanguine inventor, of the name of Francis Moore, 
took out a patent for a machine which was to go 
without horses, and to be applicable to ploughing and 
harrowing, and to all branches of husbandry. With 
the characteristic enthusiasm of inventors, Mr. Moore 
was so confident of the value of his invention, and of 
the effect on practical farming, that he not only sold 
his own horses, but what was more marvellous, his 
notions so influenced his friends that they sold theirs 
also, as likely to be useless on their farms. Happy 



STBAM CULTURB. 189 

• 

inventor, to have such believing friends I In our more 
prosaic days, Mends of inventors are more apt to carp 
and quibble than to praise and trust. 

It is needless to follow out the list of patents taken 
out for steam cultivating apparatus; the reader inte- 
rested in the matter may refer to the volume of 
*' Abridgment of Patents relating to Steam Culture," 
published at the Office of Patents, Chancery Lane, 
London ; or he may consult an abstract of this, prepared 
by the author of the present treatise, in the Journal 6f 
Agriculture for January, 1859. From this paper we 
quote the foUowing descriptions of those patents which 
contained the germs, so to speak, of the systems now 
in use. The first of these was the patent granted to 
Major Pratt in 1810, which may be said to be the 
origin of the ^^ balance beam plough," a distinguishing 
feature of Mr. Fowler's system, now so widely used. 
The claim in the patent is for ^^ three or four-wheeled 
carriages, which travel along the field parallel to each 
other, with two endless chains extended between them, 
and passing round a single horizontal chain- wheel on 
the outer carriages, and around a double chain- wheel, 
driven by mechanical power, in the centre carriage. 
Bidge-ploughs being attached to the chains, two ridges 
will be ploughed at the same time between the centre 
carriage and each outer carriage." 

The eighth claim of the patent was for a ^^ plough 
which appears like two ploughs fixed back to back 
(as in some kinds of turn-wrist ploughs), and is drawn 
alternately in opposite directions by a chain and wheel, 
like those used in Baker's patent mangle." This 
plough frame may be said to be the germ of Fowler's 
and other ploughs now used in steam culture. 

The next patent we notice was that taken out by 



190 FARMING AND FABMING ECONOMY. 

• 

Mr. Heathcote, in 1832. This apparatus is worthy of 
special notice in the history of steam culture, inasmuch 
as it was the first which was practically tried on a large 
scale, near Dumfries, on the occasion of the meeting 
there of the Highland Agricultural Society in 1837. 
It competed for the prize — if the term may be used 
where it was the only apparatus entered for trial — of 
£500, which the directors of the above society, with 
commendable spirit, offered for the most "successful 
application of steam-power to the cultivation of the 
soil.^^ According to the high authority we have already 
quoted, Mr. Heathcote's plans were "more practical, 
and his notions sounder, than any of the schemes pro- 
pounded previous to his time, and, I may add, to the 
majority of those since brought before the pubUc." 
The following is a brief description of the principal 
features of the plan, which '^ was the use of wheels of 
large diameter, carrying an endless flexible floor or 
railroad, within and upon which the carriage travelled 
by the power of the steam-engine employed, and 
which, with the necessary gearing, was supported by 
the carriage. The other feature was the employment 
of ^auxiliary carriages,^ placed on each side of the 
principal carriage, at some distance from and parallel 
with it. Actuated by the steam machinery in the 
principal carriage, a series of ropes or chains were led 
out to wheels, pulleys, or barrels on the auxiliary 
carriage, to which motion was thus imparted. To 
these carriages the ploughs and other implements 
were attached, and which were caused to move along 
the field at a corresponding rate with the principal 
carriage.^' 

Alexander McRae^s was the next patent taken out 
(1839) possessing practically available features. It was 



STBAM CULTUR]^ 191 

designed for the cultivation of the fields of British 
Guiana^ which are very flat, and intersected by navi- 
gable canals, paridlel to and distant from each other 
some two or three hundred feet. ^' The arrangements 
proposed are as follows: — Punts are moored in two 
adjacent canals, the land to be cultivated being placed 
between them ; one punt carries a steam engine and a 
winding drum, the other punt simply carries a pulley. 
To a four-wheeled carriage is attached the ploughing 
or tilling implements. From this carriage a chain or 
rope is led to and passed round the winding drum ; it 
is then led across the field, supported by several rollers 
attached to the under side of the carriage, and finally 
passed round the pulley in the second punt. The engine 
turns the winding drum in opposite directions alter- 
nately, so as to draw the carriage and its tilling imple- 
ments to and fro across the field. The punts are 
simultaneously moved to a new position on the plough 
carriage completing its traverse. Two sets of ploughs 
are attached to the carriage — one to work while it 
is traversing in one direction, the other set while 
traversing in the opposite direction.^' 

The patent granted to John Tulloch Osbom, in 1846, 
is remarkable as being the first which proposed the 
system of cultivating the land lying between the two 
'^headlands,'^ with one engine placed at each headland — 
the spaces usually left unploughed, or rather ploughed 
in a direction contrary to the general direction of 
ploughing in the rest of the field, and which are formed 
by the part left in turning the plough at each end of its 
traverse. The following is a description of the patent : — 
*' Two sets of temporary rails are laid down at right 
angles to the direction in which the furrows are to run, 
the distance between the two sets of rails being from 



192 FARMING AND FARMING EGONOMT. 

100 to 200 yards. On these rails two locomotive 
engines travel, each engine carrying two drums, these 
being placed on the side of the engine nearest the other 
engine. To these drums chains or ropes are attached, 
and connected with two four-wheeled carriages, which 
carry the ploughs; these carriages, by the action of the 
drums, are dragged across the fields, simultaneously, in 
opposite directions, each carriage pulling after it the 
rope by which it is to be dragged back again in its 
return journey. By this arrangement, while one drum 
is hauling in a carriage, the other drum is paying out 
its rope or chain for the return traverse. When one 
traverse of the ploughs is completed, the engines are 
moved along the lines of rails by means of a chain for 
the return traverse. When one traverse of the plouglis 
is completed, the engines are moved along the lines of 
rails by means of a chain attached at one end to an 
anchor laid out a»head, and the other end of which is 
wound round a drum connected with the crank shaft of 
the engine.^' 

In 1846, a patent was granted to Mr. Boydell, for a 
form of apparatus which is now so well known as the 
endless railway. This has been adopted on an exten- 
sive scale more as a traction-engine, for the hauling of 
waggons, &c., than for the purposes of cultivating land ; 
although it has been used in this way repeatedly, and 
with considerable success. The invention consists of 
" a mode of applying movable detached parts of a rail- 
way to the wheels of carriages, whereby each part is 
successively placed by its wheel on the road or land 
over which the carriage has to pass ; each piece of the 
railway, when down, allowing its wheel to roll over it ; 
and the wheel lifts the pieces of the railway successively, 
and holds each piece in such position as to deposit it 



STEAM CULTUKB. 193 

correctly when that part of the wheel which carries a 
part of the railway again comes near the earth; by 
which means a railway will be continuously formed and 
broken up as the carriage is drawn along on a road or 
over lands^ by which the power required to draw a given 
load will be reduced/^ 

The system of Osbom^s, just described, has been tried 
on a large and important scale by the Marquis of 
Tweeddale. A full description of the apparatus employed 
will be found in the " Book of Farm Implements and 
Machines/^ by James Slight and Robert Scott Burn, and 
edited by Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E. The system was also 
adopted by LordWilloughby D'Eresby, in the year 1851. 

In 1849, " Mr. H. Hannam, of Burcote, near Abing- 
don, a well-known agriculturist, in connection with 
Messrs. Barrett and Exall, constructed an apparatus for 
steam ploughing, which may be regarded as the first 
attempt to work ploughs or cultivators by the ordinary 
portable engine, and also to be the first attempt to 
plough the land by an engine stationed at one corner or 
outside the field. Again, although ropes were men- 
tioned in some of the earlier specifications, we have no 
evidence that xvire ropes were ever employed for steam 
ploughing until those supplied to Mr. Hannam by 
Messrs. Barrett and Exall. The ropes were 1,600 yards 
in length, and they were coiled and uncoiled by a 
stationary windlass having two winding barrels, in the 
same manner as those now in use. The ropes were also 
passed round pulleys at the comers of the fields, .... 
now so well known. 

'^ It appears that both the plough and the cultivator 
were worked by the apparatus ; the plough being one of 
simple construction by Messrs. Barrett and Exall— the 
latter being the well-known Ducie cultivator. 



194 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

"About sixty acres were ploughed or cultivated by 
this apparatus at the rate of about five acres per day^ 
when it appears the rope^ from deficient strength^ or 
probably from bad handling, gave way." 

In 1849, James Usher patented his well-known 
steam rotatory cultivator, which traverses the ground 
it cultivates. " The invention consists in using ploughs 
curved in form, and set in the same plane round an 
axis, so that they shall come into action in succession. 
And, secondly, in applying power to give rotatory 
motion to a series of ploughs or other instruments 
for tilling land, so that the resistance of the earth, 
as the ploughs or other instruments enter and travel 
through it, shall cause the machine to move onward. 
The machine consists of a steam carriage, the fore 
part whereof is carried by a pair of ordinary wheels, 
and the hinder part is supported by a broad roller or 
cylinder, and a pair of wheels of like diameter. The 
roller extends from one wheel to the other, and is fixed 
on the same axle, which is caused to rotate by gearing 
connected with the crank shaft of the engine, and thus 

impart a slow progressive motion to the carriage 

In the arrangement of the apparatus hereinbefore 
described it will be seen that the propelling of the 
machine along the land is Jby reason of the resistance of 
the land to the ploughs as they travel through the 
earth, and the motion communicated to the wheels or 
roller. This part of the invention is applicable where 
teeth or tines suitable for tilling the earth are applied 
about an axis, and will be found to act better than 
machines in which tines or teeth around an axis have 
had motion communicated to them from the wheels 
which run on the land." 

Of the class of rotatory steam cultivators which move 



STBAM CULTURB. 195 

over the land to be worked^ an important one is that 
patented by Mr. Bomaine^ in 1853. Large sums of 
money have been expended in bringing this apparatus 
into practice, but the expenditure has not been met 
with the success it deserves. 

In 1853, Mr. Chandos Wren Hoskyns took out a 
patent for a rotatory cultivator. As Mr. Hoskyns has 
been the most indefatigable and the ablest of the 
expositors of the rotatory principle — again in the present 
division to be more fully gone into — we give here his 
description of the means by which he proposes to carry 
it practically out. "This invention consists of a 
machine for the cultivation of the soil, more especially 
clay soils, by steam power, applied in such manner as 
to accomplish at one process the due preparation of the 
soil for a seed-bed. This result is obtained by a 
machine, which, instead of lifting in mass the stratum 
of earth under cultivation, like the plough or spade, 
is so applied to the soil as to reduce it by abrasion to 
the required tilth or fineness. This abrasion is per- 
formed by a series of discs or wheels, fixed on a rota- 
ting axis, actuated by steam power ; the periphery of 
which discs are furnished with radiating points or 
cutters. The rotary motion of the discs is commu- 
nicated from the steam-engine, from which also the 
progressive motion of the machine is derived. The 
two motions are independent of each other, and so 
arranged, that a rapid motion may be given to the 
cutters, while the progressive motion is slow, or sus- 
pended altogether, as at commencing. The gearing is 
such that the respective speeds can be varied at plea- 
sure, to suit the nature of the soil. The cutters, by 
their rotary action, first enter the soil, making a semi- 
circular trench, which during the progress of the 

K 2 



196 FARMING AND FABMING ECONOMY. 

machine^ is constantly preseired at the required deptfa^ 
and tlie soil abrased and cut down as the machine 
advances^ is thrown off tangentially behind^ and depo- 
sited in a comminuted^ inverted^ and aerated con- 
dition." The machine is moimted on two pairs of very 
broad wheels, or rollers ; the driving wheels, or rollers, 
being made with ribs across the periphery, to ensure a 
sufficient bite or hold upon the ground. 

In 1854, Mr. J. A. Williams, who has done much 
towards making steam cultivation an accomplished fact, 
took out the first of a series of patents connected with 
steam cultivating apparatus. The patent of 1858 
describes the hauling apparatus used. It consisted of 
a '^ hauling machine, fitted with a pair of windlasses, 
or winding-drums, which are driven at a slow speed by 
an agricultural or portable steam-engine. The frame 
that carries the winding mechanism is supported by 
wheels, and is firmly secured to the framing of the 
engine. The ploughs, or other implements for cul- 
tivating and working the land, are attached to a small 
carriage, giving them an independent action from the 
strain of the chain, or rope, one end of which is con- 
nected to the said carriage, whilst the other is wound 
round one of the drums ; the free end of the other rope 
or chain on the second drum, when ploughing with one- 
way ploughs, being attached to an intermediate rope, 
fitted with swivel hooks, or eyes; and this rope is 
connected at its other end to the hauling-carriage/^ 

In 1855, the Messrs. Fisken took out a patent which 
possesses many valuable features, and may be said, in 
some respects, to be the forerunner of systems now in 
use. The following is the patentees^ description of it : 
— *'The ploughs or other implements employed are 
supported in the extremities of forked levers, w^ch are 



STEAM CULTURE. 197 

connected to a slotted lever by a bell-crank and con- 
necting rod, by means of which the implements are 
alternately raised out of, or lowered into, the land, so 
that while one set is in action, the set on the opposite 
side of the bell-crank is out of work. The power from 
the steam-engine, or other prime mover, is transmitted 
to the machine by an endless rope of a sufficient length 
to suit the length of the field and the distance of the 
motive-power engine. This rope passes under a small 
guide-pulley or sheave (upon the ploughing machine), 
and over a large driving-wheel, upon the axis of which 
are keyed two toothed pinions, in one of which a less 
number of teeth is cut than in the other. These 
pinions gear into other and similar pinions, and serve 
to impart motion to a spur-wheel, upon the axis of 
which is keyed a drum, round which a strong wire 
rope or chain is partially wound; this wire rope or 
chain, after passing under two guide-pulleys (carried by 
the ploughing machine), is fastened at each end to 
anchors, constructed for the purpose, and placed at 
opposite sides of the field or piece of land to be 
ploughed or otherwise operated upon. When the end- 
less rope is set in motion, the resulting action of the 
drum against the wire rope or chain causes the machine 
with the ploughs or other implements to be drawn 
across the field. When the machine has arrived at 
one side of the land, that set of ploughs or other 
implements which has been in work is raised out of 
the ground, the machine is shifted sidewise a distance 
equal to the breadth of the set of implements, and the 
opposite set of implements is lowered into the land. 
Then, by means of reversing gear, the drum is made to 
revolve in the opposite direction, and the machine is 
thus caused to travel to the other side of the field. 



198 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

" A small flying capstan is used for taking up the 
slack of the 'endless hemp rope.' The endless rope 
passes in the following manner: — ^Around pulleys, so 
situated at one end of the field, the rope proceeds 
along the side of the field to the flying capstan secured 
at the opposite end ; after passing around a pulley or 
sheave on the capstan, it returns along the side of the 
field until it comes to a double-grooved pulley on the 
carriage of the anchor, to which one end of the wire 
rope is fastened ; from this pulley it is conducted across 
the field to the other anchor carriage, and from the 
pulley of this carriage it proceeds to the steam-engine, 
passes around a pulley or drum driven thereby, and 
thence again to the flying capstan. When the plough- 
ing machine is moored sidewise, after each traverse, a 
corresponding movement is imparted to each anchor 
carriage, by connecting the spindle of its double-grooved 
pulley, driven by the endless rope, with suitable appa- 
ratus, whereby motion is communicated to a small 
barrel, which winds up a chain fastened to a stake 
firmly secured in the ground, and thus draws along the 
carriage. The flying capstan is moved when necessary, 
in order to take up the slack of the endless rope, by 
communicating motion from the axle of its pulley to a 
winch-barrel, and thus causing the latter to wind up a 
rope, and thereby draw the capstan forward.^' 

We now come to describe the two great systems by 
which steam cultivation is chiefly, if not wholly, 
carried on in the present practice of the day. 
These are: — 1st. The system in which the engine 
travels along the headlands, and works the cultivating 
implements by means of wire ropes. 2nd. The system 
in which the engine is stationary, and which also 
works the engines with wire ropes. The historical 



STBAM CULTURB. 199 

notes connected with the introduction of these two 
systems is thus given by Mr. Howard in the paper 
before alluded to : — 

^^In 1854, Mr. Fowler exhibited at the Eoyal 
Society^s Meeting, held at Lincoln, his steam draining 
plough and apparatus. In the report of this meeting, 
published in the Journal, a diagram is given of this 
machine. The judges, in speaking of its wonderful 
performances, wind up with these remarks : ' Surely 
this power can be applied to more ffeneral purposes ; 
we earnestly commend the idea to our engineers and 
mechanists.^ 

'^ Whether those to whom the idea was commended 
took much notice of it or not we do not know, but we 
do know that the idea commended itself to a farmer, in 
the person of Mr. Smith, of Woolston, who in a pub- 
lished letter informed the public that he commenced 
his experiments after reading this report. Mr. Smith 
subsequently ordered an apparatus of Mr. Fowler, and 
with which he proposed to work, and subsequently did 
work his cultivator. I am aware that Mr. Smith has 
set up a claim to the invention of the whole apparatus, 
but in 1856, at a meeting of the Society of Arts, 
Mr. Smith admitted ' that his first windlass was con- 
structed by Messrs. Ransomes, under the direction of 
Mr. Fowler.'* 

^^I do not mention this to detract from the great 
merit due to Mr. Smith as a pioneer in steam cultiva- 
tion, but simply that the merit should be properly 
divided, or given to the right party ; and I will remark, 
in passing, that I believe Mr. Smith has done as much, 
or more, than any other man, in arousing the country 

* See page 175 in the Joi^raalof that Society. 



200 



FARMING AND FABMING ECONOMY 



to the importance of steam culture, and to the fact that 
land can be economically worked by steam power/^ 

The following, which we have elsewhere given, wiU 
explain to the reader the general arrangement of these 
two systems. The first system, in which the engine 
travels along the headlands, is that advocated and car- 
ried out by Mr. John Fowler, to whom all honour is 
due for his persevering efibrts to perfect the mechanism 
of his steam cultivating apparatus ; efibrts which have 
been highly instrumental in making the culture of land 
by the power of steam an accomplished fact. 

'^ The peculiar features of Mr, Fowler^s system are, 
1st, the ^engine and windlass/ 2nd, the ^self-adjust- 
ing anchor;* and, 3rd, the ^plough frame.*. The ar- 
rangement of these in the field, according to the most 
recent improvements, is illustrated in Fig. 1. In this 




a a represents the engine, beneath which is hung or 
suspended on a vertical axle the ' clip-drum,* so called 
from the peculiarity of its construction, hereafter to be 



STBAM CULTURE. 201 

described. The rope is passed round ' half a turn ' of 
this, that is, embraces only one half of its periphery. 
The wire rope then passes in the direction of c c, and 
passes finally over the drum of the self-adjusting 
anchor, d. The plough is attached at e. The peri- 
phery of the drum is not solid, but is made of what may 
be called an elastic or adjustable periphery, made up 
of a number of pieces. The drum is composed of two 
discs, the upper and lower. These are capable of being 
brought nearer to and taken further from each other by 
adjusting screw-bolts and nuts. To the outer periphery 
of these discs a series of projecting snugs are cast, each 
snug having a hole through it. The discs are so ad- 
justed horizontally that the snugs of the upper disc are 
exactly opposite the snugs of the lower. Between each 
pair of snugs the two clips are jointed. A pin passes 
through one aperture of the lower snug, and through 
the holes in the snugs of the upper disc. The lower 
clip is in like manner jointed to the corresponding 
snugs of the lower disc. One end of the lower clip 
falls into and rests upon a hooked part of the upper 
clip ; and this end is made so heavy, that when the two 
clips are brought together by the hand, and released, 
the ends drop down, and the two clips remain balanced. 
The result of this ingeniously arranged drum periphery 
is, that the wire rope is taken between the clips^ and, 
by its even pressure inwards, is * gripped' with a vary- 
ing intensity, according to the strain which is on the 
plough. A 'half turn^ round such a drum is now 
found to be all that is necessary, where, in the old 
arrangements, a turn and a half was required ; much 
less wear and tear of rope is therefore now the result. 
In Fig. 1, the position of the clip-drum b, below and in 
the centre of the engine a a, is seen. 

R 3 



202 FABMIKa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

'* We have now to describe the ' self-adjusting anchor/ 
This is one of the most ingenious features connected 
with Mr. Fowler's system. To understand the working 
of this, it will be necessary to refer to the following 
diagram. Fig. 2. Let a represent the position of 



y 



l^d 



t /. 

^fe ± 3^ 

Pia. 2. Diagram illustrative of Field Arrangement of Fowler's Steam 

PlougMng System, 

'engine and windlass^ (l^ig« 1)> ^^^ ^ that of 'self- 
adjusting anchor.' The distance between the engine a 
and anchor b, is the distance which the plough e takes 
at each turn or bout. But as the field is ploughed in 
the direction ot b c, a d, or across its surface, it is 
necessary to have the means of shifting the two points 
of resistance of the plough-frame rope, namely, the 
windlass of the engine a, and the drum of the anchor b 
(Fig. 2); and this shifting must be performed in 
exact proportion to the rate of ploughing. How this 
is accomplished we now explain. The self-adjusting 
anchor is moved along the field in the direction of the 
line b f Cy coincidently with the engine a (Fig. 2), in 
the direction of the line a g d. The carriage of the 
anchor is provided with three wheels, not having fiat 



STBAM OTJLTURB. 203 

peripheries, as usual, but the edges of which are sharp, 
so that the wheels are in fact cutting discs. These 
cut deeply into the soil as the anchor moves along; 
and being placed at right angles to the pull of the 
rope, afford immense resistance to it, and yet admit of 
the easy progressive motion of the anchor. This pro- 
gressive motion is effected in a simple manner. Thus, 
to the centre of the anchor-carriage a drum revolves 
horizontally in a vertical axis. Motion is given to this 
drum by the wire rope passing round it, which drags the 
plough frame. By a train of gearing motion is im- 
parted to a horizontal drum in the upper part of the 
anchor frame. Round this a wire rope is coiled, and 
led forward to a fixed anchor,'^ in a line parallel to 
the direction in which the engine moves along its 
headland. Along one headland, therefore, the engine 
is moved, and along the other, the anchor; and both 
coincidently, and in speed proportionate to the rate at 
which the land between them is ploughed. 

The plough frame used by Mr. Fowler is on the 
balance principle. Thus, let a b (Fig. 3) be the central 



$ 



beam, vibrating on an axle at c, the ends of which 
carry two wheels, on which the plough frame runs 
along the land. Four plough bodies are attached to 
the extremity a, and four to the extremity b. When the 
plough is going in the direction from e to d, the ploughs 
at the end a are in action ; but while the plough is going 
in the direction of from fftof (Fig. 4), the plougha a*. 



i 



204 



FARMIKQ AND FARMINa BOONOMY. 



the end b are in action^ while those at the end a are 
taken out. The necessity for turning the plough frame 
at each end of its journey is thus obviated. 

We now come to describe Mr. Smith's (of Woolston) 
system, which is designed to carry out the principle of 




grubbing in contradistinction to that of ploughing. 
The distinction between the two processes we have 
already described. 

The following diagram will explain the mode of 
setting out the field arrangements : — 



ilo 



A 



1^- 



I. 



.3^ 



Pig. 5. Diagram iUustraUng 8mth*8 Steam CuUivaHng 
Jpparatw in Action Btght-hand Side of Field. 



STEAM CULTURE. 205 



€< 



Let a represent the windlass, which is worked by a 
portable steam-engine, and b cd e pulleys, the frames of 
which are anchored in the soil, so as to form points of 
resistance, and which enclose a quadrilateral, Sisb cd ef. 
Let ff represent the cultivating implement. The number 
of assistants required are — first, an engine-man, to 
attend to the engine ; second, a windlass-man, to attend 
to the windlass ; third, a ploughman, to sit on and regu- 
late the action of the implement ; fourth, his assistant, 
to shift the rollers on which the wire rope b c d ef 
runs, to keep it ofi^ the ground ; fifth, an anchor-man, 
at the anchor e ; sixth, ditto at d. In addition to these 
six men, a boy will be useful/^ 

" On the extremity of the implement, represented in 
Fig. 5 by ^, a strong wrought-iron beam, or bow, is 
fixed ; to this, two wire ropes, having free play, are 
fastened. As above stated, the wire rope situated 
between the anchors b c d ef, are supported at intervals 
upon small rollers ; this prevents all unnecessary fric- 
tion from the rope dragging along the surface.^' 

^^ Suppose the implement ff is placed near the windlass 
at €, and the journey from e towards d is to be made, 
^ grubbing^ up the land as it advances, the windlass 
is made to revolve so as to drag the wire b c d e in the 
direction from c to b ; this pidls the implement ff from 
e to d, completing one of its journeys. The vrindlass, 
at the same time that it is winding up the rope b c si 
one end, is letting out, or Spaying off ^ the wire-rope 
/ e at the other. On reaching a point near the anchor 
rf, the ploughman, or his assistant, waves a signal-flag; 
on the engine-man perceiving which, he stops the 
engine. The anchor d is then removed to a new posi- 
tion to h, the distance from d to h being exactly twice 
the width which an implement works at each tta.^«c^^ 



206 FARMING AND FARMINQ EOONOMT. 

or journey. On the removal being eflfected, the signal 
is again waved^ and the engine is thereupon started^ 
winding now in a contrary direction to that in which 
it went before, so that, while it is paying oflf the slack 
from 6 to c at one end, the other barrel, or end of the 
windlass, is winding up from c to /, pulling the imple- 
ment from h towards e. The engine is then stopped, 
and the anchor e removed to i, when the implement 
is again ready for its journey. These journeys and 
movings of the anchors are repeated till the whole land 
within the quadrilateral is grubbed, or worked. The 
windlass is placed in the centre of the field to be cul- 
tivated, so that when one half of the field is finished, 
as the right in diagram. Fig. 5, the anchors are laid 
down on the left hand side, as in Fig. 6, so that the 
engine and windlass once placed are not required to be 



^«" 

















6^. 



Pig. 6. Diagram illustrating Smith's Steam Cultivating 
Apparatus in Action Lrft-hand Side of Meld, 



/ 



STEAM CULTURE. 207 

shifted till the whole field is cultivated. Mr. Smith 
finds a 12-acre field to be the most convenient size to 
set the apparatus down to^ and the best distance from 
anchor e to d, one eighth of a mile/^ 

In a previous part of this division^ while describing 
the proposed substitutes for the plough, we adverted to 
Mr. Hoskyns^ advocacy of the principle of rotatory 
cultivation. We have already, in its proper place, 
described the machine by which he proposes to carry 
out the system in practice, and now, therefore, proceed 
to glance briefly at the arguments used by Mr. 
Hoskyns : — 

^^ In every case,^' says Mr. Hoskyns, '^ where steam 
has superseded animal labour, it has required to be 
harnessed to the work in its own way ; it has rejected 
old forms and means bearing no relation to it, and has 
seized at once the shortest road to its object. . . . But 
of all its triumphs, the greatest was when the puzzling 
problem of the spinning-wlieel presented itself. Here 
was the foot, the thumb, and fingers, the directing will, 
all at work at once, and all to be imitated and super- 
seded, even to the very moisture requisite for the rolling 
and handling of the twist between the fingers. Here 
was an operation perplexing enough, yet eventually 
overcome, and even improved upon ; and why, it may 
be surely asked, should the act of inverting and crush- 
ing a clod of soil present an insurmountable or an 
unprofitable task to steam-driven machinery ? I say 
' inverting and crushing,' for in these two acts lies the 
chief mechanical task of cultivation.^' 

The application of the power of steam to the drag- 
ging of a plough to and fro over the surface of a field, 
Mr. Hoskyns considers as unphilosophical in principle, 
and wasteful in practice; because ploughing ^^ is a cluma^ 



208 FARMING AND FARMINQ ECONOMY. 

performaTice/' and the ^^ noble power of steam will 
have nothing to do with it. It is a law to which the 
annals of invention have given proof, that late discovered 
powers of nature will not gear on to those means or 
appliances which they have antiquated. They refuse 
to waste themselves. It is not the inapplicability of 
steam power, but the incongruity of the plough (an 
instrument employed for the purpose of applying animal 
traction to the act of cultivation, and belonging only to 
that secondary class of powers), that forbids the union. 
The plough does not cultivate. It must be followed by 
the harrow, the scuffler, the roller, the scarifier, to 
complete, by many and repeated processes, the work 
which, after all, is not so well done as it is accom« 
plished in one good digging by the spade. '^ 

But infinitely superior as the cultivating action of 
the spade is to that of the plough, Mr. Hoskyns con- 
ceives that the spade must in time give place to an 
improved system as the rotatory, ^^ for objections not 
less obvious in practice.'' So close is the bearing of 
Mr. Hoskyns' remarks on the whole question of cul- 
tivation, what it is, and how it should be done — one 
of the most important questions agitating the agricul- 
tural community — that we do the reader a service by 
reproducing them here. 

'^ All judgment is comparative,'' he remarks ; '^ and 
though there may exist no implement holding the same 
relative advantage over the spade which that does over 
the plough, yet the same course of analysis which 
showed the latter to be limited to the capacities of the 
horse, proves the spade to bear a corresponding relation 
to manual labour when the attempt is made to sub- 
stitute its action by steam power. If its inversion of 
the soil was found to be superior to that of the plough^ 



STEAM CULTURE. 209 

yet its after movements^ in breaking or cutting the 
inverted slice, are observed to be as distinctly supple- 
mentary and separate a process to all mecbanical pur- 
poses, as that of the various implements that succeed 
the work of the plough. In both cases, the first is that 
of inversion in mass, the second that of comminution 
efiected upon the freshly exposed surface/' '' The pro- 
minent advantage of the spade/' he continues to 
remark, '^ lies in the almost contemporaneous accom- 
plishment of this second process by the same instru- 
ment, without the after trenching of the soil ; yet it is 
not the less a secondary and independent act, and 
when compared with the corresponding operations that 
follow the plough, betrays the complication of the task 
that awaits the steam-engine, owing to the twofold 
mechanical nature of that act which, when performed 
by whatever means, we recognise as cultivation/' 
'^ Whatever the incidental peculiarities of the two 
modes of culture performed respectively by hand and 
horse power, both agree in one practical result, presented 
to the eye more or less efficiently accomplished, namely, 
a certain portion of surface-soil turned over or inverted, 
and upon this inverted side a seed-bed of comminuted 
texture of a certain depth." 

The following is Mr. Howard's statement as to what 
has already been achieved in steam cultivation : — 

^' Some four or five hundred farmers have purchased 
steam cultivating apparatuses, of one kind or other. 
From the Britannia Iron Works, Bedford, alone, about 
two hundred steam cultivators have been sent out. 

" The experience and the opinions of a large majority 
of the purchasers have been published, and all, or nearly 
all, have testified to their approval and appreciation of 
steam power. From these reports, and other opportu- 



210 FABMINa AKD FARBdNG BCONOMT 

nities I have had of gaining information^ I gatlier that 
the results are as follows: — 

*' 1. That although not entirely a substitute for horse 
power in tillage^ steam is a valuable auxiliary. 

'* 2. That for the hard work of the farm, steam is a 
cheaper power than horse power. 

^'3. That deeper and more eflBcient cultivation is 
obtained. 

'^ 4. That it enables the farmer to perform his tillage 
operations at the best season of the year. 

^' 5. That better crops with less manure can be ob- 
tained, especially on clays and loams. 

'^6. That the drainage of the soil, owing to the 
loosening of the subsoil, is rendered more efficient, and 
that no furrows are required, even on the strongest 
land. 

'' 7. That not only a considerable diminution in the 
number of horses can be effected, but that the horses 
that are still necessary can be kept at less expense. 

'^ As to the future of steam tillage I shall say but 
little. What effect the general adoption of steam 
power on our farms will have upon the country no one 
can foresee. To expect that steam will do as much for 
agriculture as it has done for manufactures and com- 
merce would be idle ; but that it will enormously in- 
crease the productiveness of the country no one who 
has paid the least attention to the subject can for a 
moment doubt. Whether it will increase correspond- 
ingly the profits of the farmer we must wait to see ; 
but it is worthy of remark that the most highly remu- 
nerative amongst the manufacturing trades of this 
country have been those which require a large plant in 
the shape of steam-driven machinery.^' 

But, closely influencing the future of steam cultiva- 



STEAM CULTURB 211 

tion, is another consideration^ which we have thus 
described in a recent article contributed to the ^'Journal 
of the Bath and West of England Society/^ and en- 
titled, ^^ The Lessons of the Machinery Department of 
the International Exhibition of 1862 :''— 

'' It is very clearly established that before steam cul- 
tivation — using the latter term in its widest acceptation 
— can be made much more widely available than it has 
been yet made, a very complete change in the mode of 
setting out our fields and in preparing them is abso- 
lutely necessary. It is only in a comparatively few 
cases that our steam cultivating apparatuses have had 
fair play; and they cannot be expected to be made 
applicable to the wide variety of fields, till those fields 
be arranged and prepared, so as to afford the fullest 
facilities for their working. The importance of this 
previous preparation of the land for the working of a 
steam cultivating system is working more and more 
largely in the public mind. The writer has advocated 
it for years ; and it is most gratifying how his opinions 
on the subject have been supported by a gradually in- 
creasing and influential body of practical farmers. It 
is an established axiom in manufacturing mechanics that 
to make an expensive machine pay, it must be kept at 
work as constantly as possible — frequent stoppages are 
but frequent losses. We see no reason to believe that 
agricultural mechanics should not have this axiom also ; 
on the contrary, we see every reason to believe that 
they should ; for where fields are small, their boundaries 
crooked and skirted by large fences — the harbours for 
the seeds of weeds and of hosts of vermin — the steam 
cultivating apparatus cannot be worked with advantage 
or economy. Indeed, the most advanced of our agri- 
cultural mechanics maintain that while they have their 



212 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

different duties to perform^ the landlords and tlie 
farmers have theirs also; and these consist in so arrang- 
ing their fields and preparing their land^ that every 
facility be given to the working of the steam-dragged 
plough or cultivator. ' If the fields/ as we have else- 
where remarked J 'are cramped in dimensions by hedge- 
rows or ditches, the one must be remorselessly pulled 
down — the other unhesitatingly filled up ; if hillocks 
or hollows impede the progress of the machine, the re- 
dundancy of the one must be cut down to afford mate- 
rial to fill up the vacancy of the other ; if huge boulders 
threaten to stop, or if not to stop, to injure or damage 
the mechanism of the implement, these, at whatever 
cost of time or trouble, must be exterminated. Every 
obstacle, in short, must be removed, which can tend to 
impede, and every facility be granted which can tend to 
aid, the progress of the steam- worked cultural imple- 
ment.' Steam cultivation has done much of late, but 
before it can do more, or rather before it can do what 
it is capable of doing, a vast deal has to be done by 
way of preparing the land for its rapid and economic 
working; a new system must be inaugurated, and 
mutual adaptation of the land to the implement, and of 
the implement to the land, must form a characteristic 
of that steam cultivating system which is designed to 
do as much for agriculture as the steam-engine and the 
power-loom have done for the manufactures.^' 

The only system which has in view a thorough and 
complete adaptation of the land to the action of a 
steam cultivating apparatus, is that patented in 1855 by 
Mr. P. A. Halkett, and which, under the name of the 
Guideway System, has attracted much attention and 
given rise to much discussion. The following diagram 
will explain the principal feature of this system. Let 



STEAM CULTURE. 



218 



be d efy Fig. 7> be parallel lines of rails laid down on 
le field to be cultivated^ at distances of fifty feet apart, 
'n these r^s a wide platform^ represented by the 
lick line g h, runs^ supported by a series of wheels, 
he platform carries two steam-engines^ one at each 
de, which give motion to driving-wheels. The plat- 
irm is thus propelled along the rails. The cultivating 
aplements^ as ploughs^ harrows^ &c.^ are connected to 
le under side of the frame or platform^ and as the frame 



m 




h 



d 



f 



I 



Fia.7. 



. moved along the rails, the implements work, as shown 
y the dotted lines. Suppose the frame to have travelled 



214 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

on the rails a b, ia the direction from i to J, and to 
have arrived at the point J, the frame is therefore re- 
quired to be removed to the rails be, so as to cultivate 
the space between these^ and to move in the direction 
of j to f. To shift the frame or platform g h, to the 
rails b c, it is moved on to a large frame which runs 
along the subsidiary rails placed along the headlands^ 
as k I ; and this frame is moved along in the direction 
from / to k, till the frame g h is opposite the lines of 
rails be; to which it is moved on. Cultivating the 
land between b c, it moves up from j to t, and is then 
removed to the frame running on the second set of 
subsidiary rails, m n, along which it is run till opposite 
the lines of rails c d, and so on. The great advantage 
of this system is the unvarying precision of its work- 
ing, so that one operation can succeed another with im- 
deviating regularity. Thus, drilling com may succeed 
the ploughing, and hoeing the com plants succeed the 
sowing or drilling of the seed, &c. Correct in theory, 
as we deem this system to be, obviating all the defects 
of the horse-dragged plough, and securing regularity 
and economy in working, still we fear the great outlay 
which it requires will prevent its adoption in practice. 



DIVISION THIRD. 

HISTORICAL OUTLINES CONNECTED WITH IMPROVEMENTS 
IN THE BREEDS OF OUR FARM STOCK. — CATTLE. — SHEEP. 

For a description of the various breeds of cattle and 
sheep, the reader is referred to the undernoted work of 
the series; * our object at present is to give briefly a 

♦"Outlines of Modern Farming," Vol. H, "Fann Stock, Cattle, 
Horses and Sheep : their Breeding, Bearing, and Feeding." 



CATTLR 215 

notice of tlie principal improvements effected in our 
stocky and by whom these improvements were intro- 
duced. 

Section I, — Cattle. 

To Robert Bakewell, of Dishley, belongs the honour 
of first introducing a systematic attempt to improve 
the breed of cattle. Previous to his career^ the leading 
societies of the period — as the London Society of Arts, 
the Bath and West of England Society, and the Royal 
Society of Dublin— offered premiums in connection with 
the stock of the farm ; but these had reference more 
to the encouragement of those farmers who kept the 
greatest number rather than the best quality of stock. 
But when Robert Bakewell took up the subject, he 
rapidly raised the breeding and the feeding of stock to 
the dignity of an art. He was, however, more cele- 
brated for his success as a breeder of sheep — of which 
more presently — than of cattle. Indeed> he failed in 
his attempts to improve the race of the Long-homed 
cattle of the midland counties, which was that which 
he took in hand to improve ; but as a race, this was in 
many respects defective, and was not, therefore, capable 
of that degree of improvement which we see displayed 
in the Short-horn or Durham breed, and to which we 
shall presently allude. Bakewell, in carrying out his 
system of improvement, "chose the animals of the 
form and temperament which showed signs of pro- 
ducing most fat and muscle,^' declaring that in an ox 
" all was useless that was not beef /^ that he sought, "by 
pairing the best specimens, to make the shoulders com- 
paratively little, the hind quarters large ^^ ; to produce a 
body " truly circular, with as short legs as possible, upon 
the plain principle that the' value lies in the barrel and 



216 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

not in the legs ;'' and to secure a '' small head^ small 
neck^ and small bones/^ As few things escaped his acute 
eye, he remarked that quick fattening depended much 
upon amiability of disposition, and he brought his 
bulls, by gentleness, to be as docile as lambs. In 
direct opposition to the opinions of the graziers of the 
time, who held that the animals with large-boned and 
huge skeletons were the best for the butcher, Bake- 
well maintained that small-boned animals were the best 
adapted for fattening ; that the object of the breeder was 
not to raise a " bag o^ bones,^^ but abundance of beef. 
Every one, nearly, has, now-a-days, heard of the 
Short-horn or Durham breed: the former being the 
name by which the breed is best known in this country ; 
the latter that by which it is usually distinguished by 
the agriculturists of the continent — ^by the enlightened 
of whom it is held in as high esteem as it is by the 
farmers of this country. It originated in the valley 
of the Tees, and seems to have been the result of a 
cross between a Dutch red cow and the native white 
bull. At the period of Bakewell's advocacy of his 
improved principles of breeding, the Durham or Short- 
horn was even then celebrated for its disposition to 
fatten, and for its good milking properties. It is to 
the brothers Ceilings, of Darlington, that the honour is 
due of having first conceived the notion, and carried 
it out with remarkable skill and success, of applying 
BakewelFs principle of " selection ^^ to the improve- 
ment of the breed, and the further development of its 
fattening and milking properties. This was about the 
year 1755, and so rapidly did success follow upon their 
efforts, that on the sale of their herd in 1810, the 
enormous sum of seven thousand pounds was obtained 
for forty-seven animals. 



SHBEP. 217 

Next in importance to the Short-horn breed are the 
Hereford and Devon breeds. To Tomkins is due the 
merit of having taken up the improvement of the 
Herefords — to Quartley that of the Devons. " All the 
other races of Great Britain/^ says M. de Lunvergne, 
in his most interesting work, '* The Rural Economy of 
England, Scotland, and Ireland ^^ (Blackwood and 
Sons), ^^ without having reached precisely the same 
degree of perfection, have been improved in the same 
way. Scotland produces several which have a great 
reputation. A large number of Scotch cattle leave 
their mountains at about three years old, to be fattened 
in England. Of such are those called Galloways ; the 
black race, without horns, from Angus;* and that 
excellent breed from the Western Highlands — one of 
the most wonderful creatures of man: it lives without 
shelter upon the wildest mountains of the north, and, 
notwithstanding the barrenness of the soil and severity 
of the climate, reaches an extraordinary average weight. 
The value of this animal is further increased by the 
excellent quality of its meat.'' 



Section n.--SHBBP. 

We have already alluded to the improved principle 
of breeding introduced by Bakewell, of Dishley, 
Leicestershire, and to the fact that this principle was 
at first applied to the improvement of the sheep of his 
district. ^' Before the day of Bakewell,^' says the graphic 
writer we have but just quoted, ^Hhe English sheep 

♦ To the well-known Hugh Watson, of Keillor, is the honour due of 
having introduced improvements in this breed. While on the subject of 
Scotch breeders, it would be unpardonable to omit notice of such 
eminent breeders as Mr. Douglas, of Athelstaneford ; Mr. McCombie, 
of TUlyfour, &c., &c. 

L 



218 FARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

was not fit for the butcher till the age at which ours 
are now slaughtered ; that is to say, about four or five 
years old. Bakewell thought, very justly, that if it 
were possible to bring sheep to their full development 
before that age — to make them fit for being killed at 
two years old, for example — ^the produce of the flocks 
by this single means would be doubled. With that 
perseverance which characterises his nation, he suc- 
cessfully carried out this idea at his farm of Dishley 
Grange, in Leicestershire, after many years of labour 
and expense. 

" The breed thus obtained by Bakewell is called the 
New Leicester, from the county, or Dishley, from the 
name of the farm where it took its rise. This extra- 
ordinary breed, unrivalled in the world for precocity, 
produces animals which may be fattened as early as 
one year old, and in every case have reached their full 
growth before the end of the second year. To this in- 
valuable quality is added a perfection of shape which 
renders them more fleshy and heavier for their size 
than any known breed. They give, on an average, 
100 lbs. of meat, nett, and sometimes more. 

^^ The means adopted by Bakewell for obtaining such 
a marvellous result, is known to all breeders by the 
name of selection. It consists in choosing individuals 
of a breed exhibiting in the greatest degree the 
qualities desired to be perpetuated, and to make use of 
such only for reproducing. At the end of a certain 
number of generations, following always the same 
principle, the points selected in all the reproducers, 
both male and female, become permanent, and thus the 
breed is established. This mode of proceeding appears 
extremely simple ; but what is less so, is the choice of 
those qualities to be reproduced, in order to arrive at 



SHEEP. 219 

the best result. Many breeders mistake these, and in 
a measure work contrary to their desired object. 

'^ Before BakewelPs time, the farmers on the rich 
plains of Leicestershire, in their desire to produce the 
greatest possible quantity of meat, sought, above all, 
great size in their sheep. One of the merits of the illus- 
trious farmer of Dishley Grange, was his apprehension 
of more certain methods for increasing the yield of 
butcher meat ; and that precocity for fattening on the 
one hand, and roundness of form on the other, were of 
greater importance than excessive development of bone. 
The New Leicesters are not bigger than those they 
have replaced ; but the breeder can now send three to 
market in the same space of time that it formerly took 
him to prepare one ; and if they are not taller, they 
are broader, rounder, and have a greater development 
in those parts which give most flesh* Of bone they 
have absolutely no greater amount than is necessary to 
support them, and almost all their weight is pure meat. 

^' England was astonished when the results announced 
by Bakewell were definitively attained. The originator 
of the new breed, who, like all good Englishmen, 
looked especially to profit, reaped great advantage from 
the emulation excited by his discovery. As everybody 
wished to have Dishley blood, it occurred to Bakewell 
to let out his rams in place of selling them. The first 
he let, returned him only twenty-two francs {ISs.) a 
head. This was in 1760, when his breed had not 
reached its perfection; but in proportion as he con- 
tinued to make progress, and the reputation of his flock 
increased, his prices rose rapidly; and, in 1789, a 
society having been formed for the propagation of his 
breed, he let his rams to it for one season at the enor- 
mous price of 6,000 guineas (more than 150,000 francs). 

l2 



220 FARMTNG AND FARMINa ECONOMY. 

It has been estimated that^ in the following years^ the 
farmers of the midland counties spent as much as 
£100,000 a year (2,500,000 firancs) in the hire of 
rams. In spite of all his endeavours to keep the 
monopoly, Bakewell was not the only one who let 
rams. This business spread around him, and many 
flocks were formed after the model of his own.'^ 

Next in importance to the Leicester breed of sheep, 
are those now so universally known as the Southdown, 
and the Cheviot. The Southdown owe their intro- 
duction to John Ellmann, who, in 1780, applied the 
principles of Bakewell to the improvement of the breed. 
The Cheviot belongs to, and takes its name from, the 
range of mountains on the northern borders of England, 
just as the Southdown takes its name from the Sussex 
Downs, which stretch along the coast of England oppo- 
site to that of France. The Southdown breed, although 
originated and greatly improved by John Ellmann, 
owes its modern reputation, which is of the highest, to 
the well-known agriculturist, Jonas Webb, whose recent 
death has thrown, while we write, no small gloom over 
that portion — and it was a wide one — of the agricul- 
tural community who had the pleasure and privilege 
of his acquaintance. The idea of breeding Southdowns 
had, from a very early period of Mr. WebVs career, 
taken possession of his mind. 

'^ His grandfather was a breeder of Norfolk rams, and 
it was the amusement of the old gentleman at his annual 
sales to set his grandson to ride on his tups, holding 
fast by their huge horns. It was during the races on 
these sharp-backed animals that Jonas determined, as 
soon as he was a man, to breed sheep with better 
saddles of mutton! 'A lean, hurdle-backed, black- 
faced Norfolk ram,' says the Reviewer, ' and the sym- 



SUEEP. 221 

metrical firkin-bellied Southdown, for which Mr. Webb 
refused 500 guineas at the Paris Exhibition of 1856, 
are two extremes, two mutton marks of agricultural 
progress, between the boyhood and manhood of the 
same individual/ ' His first flock,' says a writer in the 
Mark Lane Eospress, ' came, of course, from Sussex ; 
but he very early displayed a superiority in the art of 
pairing and breeding, which, as we have already ob- 
served, is the gift of great breeders, and which cannot 
be acquired/ ' On nait rdtisseur* says Brillat Savarin; 
and the proverb is as true of the breeder of the Down 
haunch as of the roaster. 

" Mr. John EUmann was approaching the term of 
his labours as a breeder when Jonas Webb commenced 
his career. His flock was sold and dispersed in 1829, 
during a period of bitter agricultural depression. He 
had sold a pair of rams to the Duke of Bedford and the 
Emperor of Russia, at 300 guineas ; but at his sale the 
highest priced ram fetched only 65 guineas ; and the 
average of the sale of thirty rams was under 25 guineas. 
But before this sale, Mr. Webb's reputation as a ram 
breeder had reached Sussex, and a Sussex farmer, who 
had travelled all the way from the south coast to the 
Babraham ram letting, and brought back some speci- 
mens of the Cambridgeshire tribes, told us the other 
day that, on his return, at a Sussex market-table, he 
was set down by those who not unnaturally believed in 
the monopoly of Sussex, as ' a poor silly young man.' 
More fortunate than some followers of reformers, he 
has lived to be considered a prophet in his own country. 
Undoubtedly to John Ellmann is due the honour of 
having discovered the merits and cultivated the admi- 
rable qualities of the Southdown breed; but Jonas 
Webb took it up where he left it, and by an art peculiar 



222 FAKlflNa AND FABMINa ECONOMY. 

to himself^ combined size and symmetry^ quality and 
constitution^ in a manner previously unknown^ and by 
this combination extended its use in and out of Great 
Britain/'* 

As having an important bearing upon the rearing 
and fattening of stocky it were worth while here to note 
the fact, that the system of supplementing and improving 
the natural sources of food for stock — as the pastures^ 
hay^ and roots of the farm — ^by the use of artificial foods^ 
was introduced in 1824^ at the suggestion of Blaikie, 
the steward of Mr. Coke, of Holkham^ by Mr. John 
Hudson, now so well known as the able agriculturist of 
Castle Acre. This system was the use of sliced turnips 
and oil-cake. ^' Such was the success of this experi- 
ment,'' says the graphic writer of the article, " The Pro- 
gress of English Agriculture," in the (Quarterly Review, 
" that, to Mr. Coke's astonishment, when he asked to 
see the produce of his tup, he found they had been sent 
to market, twelve months before the usual time I Yet 
all John Hudson's neighbours, including his father, 
a man of agricultural progress, prophesied his ruin 
from his extravagance in buying food for sheep, which 
was regarded in much the same light in farming as for 
a young spendthrift to go for money to the Jews. At 
the present day, the purchase of linseed-cake, or meal, 
or foreign pulse, is one of the regular means by which 
an increased quantity of meat is manufactured."t 

* A description of the varions breeds of sheep will be found in the com- 
panion volume, " Outlines of Modem Farming," Vol. IL, ** Farm Stock." 

t For notices of all the modern kinds of cattle food used, and modes of 
using them, see the second volume of " Outlines of Modem Farming — 
Farm Stock." 



THB AGRICULTURAL LABOURBR. 223 



BOOK IV. 

THE LABOUR QUESTION.— AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS, 
SOCIETIES, AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 



DIVISION FIRST. 

THE AGRICULTURAL LABOURER: PAST HISTORY; PRESENT 
POSITION. — COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. — WAGES. — 
HIRING MARKETS.— RECREATIONS. — ^ALLOTMENTR 

Op the various questions which affect and are affected 
by agriculture, there is none which has been so widely 
and freely discussed of late years, and none which has 
called forth such a remarkable diversity of opinion, as 
that of the agricultural labourer, his position and 
prospects. For long, but more particularly during a 
painfully gloomy period which many of our readers 
will doubtless remember, the labourer was almost in 
every sense of the term '^ left to himself.^^ In the re- 
ceipt of scanty wages, and almost totally deprived of 
that hope of better days coming, which cheers the 
longest and weariest days of burdened existence, he 
was left to struggle as best he could with adverse cir- 
cumstances of a physical and moral kind, which had a 
powerful tendency to debase and degrade him, and the 
results of which are painfully obvious, now that efforts 
are being pretty widely made to raise him in the social 
scale. Men are always apt to run into extremes, and 
from a condition of affairs in which we were content to 



224 FARMIKO AND FA&IIDTO £CONOMY. 

do nothing, we are now rapidly approacliing tliat — if, 
indeed, we have not attained it — ^in which we are 
attempting to do too mnch for the labourer. If so, of 
course the reaction must next come, and then the true 
progress of the labour question will not only be re- 
tarded, but, perhaps, altogether stopped for a time, 
thus bringing about a result the very opposite of that 
for which we are so earnestly wishing and labouring. 
The truth is, that while the employer or the landlord 
should aid the labourer in getting rid of circumstances 
which act prejudicially upon his physical and moral 
organisation, so to speak, of which he cannot possibly 
rid himself, their active interference should stop at this 
point, and their energies be directed — if directed fur- 
ther — ^to the cultivation of those habits of self-denial, 
prudence, and self-control which alone will enable the 
labourer to raise himself in the social scale. It will 
not do to lead the labourer perpetually in leading- 
strings, as if he were totally bereft of all those qualities 
which enable him to direct his own way rightly along 
the path of life. The more those qualities are brought 
into play, the better for the labourer, and the more 
sure and speedy will be his elevation socially, in- 
tellectually, and morally. The men who have risen 
from the lowest ranks to the ease which well-earned 
opulence brings them — *' self-made men,^^ as the 
popular phrase now is— are not those who have been 
coddled up and dandled in the arms of help. They 
have helped themselves. And one of the most im- 
portant points in connection with the labour question, 
we take it, is the indoctrinating of our labourers with 
this grand truth, that they can help themselves if they 
wilL But this they can only do by the cultivation of 
those habits of prudence and self-control which have 



THB AGRICULTUBAL LABOURER. 225 

been before exercised by men of the same class as 
that to which they belongs and which have, in great 
measure^ been the means of raising them — God help- 
ing — to a far higher point in the social scale than even 
in their wildest fancies they could have imagined. 

The whole subject has^ indeed^ been discussed as if 
all the evils connected with the condition of the agri- 
cultural labourer were dependent on, or caused by, the 
classes above him — as his employer or the landowner — 
and as if the work of amelioration could alone be 
carried on by these. This may appear to be the truth 
of the case by men who make an outside or far-off 
examination of the subject only ; but that it is not the 
truth, nay, that it is, indeed, anything but that," those 
who are acquainted with the peculiarities of peasant 
life know fiill well. There are, indeed, some things 
which the labourer cannot do for himself; but we 
insist that there are many things which he, and he 
alone, can do. The more fully the whole bearings of 
the question are investigated, the more decidedly will 
the conviction be forced upon the inquirer, that the 
reform of the social condition of the labourer will be a 
much slower process than we all wish for, if the work 
in connection with it is to be done only by one class, 
the farmer or the landowner, unaided by the labourer 
himself ; and we conceive he is the truest friend of the 
labourer, as well as the kindest, who, while not failing 
to denounce the sins and shortcomings of the master, 
is no less decided in denouncing those of the servant. 
We hear much of the lack of sympathy between master 
and man, and we deplore it as heartily as any one, 
looking upon it aa antagonistic at once to the benevo- 
lence which we admire, and the dictates of Christianity 
we profess to believe ; but we protest against the view 

L 3 



226 FARMINa AND FARMING EOONOMT. 

which is too often now taken^ that the out-flowing of 
sympathy from the master to the man is what is only 
wanted-ignoring the truth, that there is as often a 
failure of the stream of sympathy in the contrary 
direction, from the man to the master. 

The work of amelioration, if it is to be done well, 
must be mutually carried out. No matter how much 
is done by the master ; if he is not aided, and aided 
persistently, by the servant, no real or lasting progress 
will be made. 

In rightly discussing this most important question, 
and placing it upon a proper basis, a wide variety of 
facts in connection with the actual condition of the 
labourer in the various districts of the country, is 
absolutely essential. It is because we have had, in 
reality, so few of them, and so much of assumption 
and conjecture, that we find a wide difference of 
opinion exists as to what should be done, when, if 
matters were properly arranged, unanimity might alone 
exist. We may theorise till doomsday with little or no 
practical effect ; it is not so much with what should, or 
what we think should exist, with which we have to do, 
as what in reality does already exist. "Facts, sir, 
facts — give me facts,^^ exclaimed an irate philosopher of 
the inductive school, when receiving a perfect flood 
of theories and suppositions from a wild enthusiast; 
''facts are what we have to do with here.'' ''Facts,'' 
as Bums says, " are stubborn chiels, and winna' be dis- 
puted." Such a collection of facts we now purpose 
placing before the reader. The major portion of 
these, with the accompanying comments, are now 
collected from a paper read by the author of the 
present treatise before the London Central Farmer's 
Club, entitled the "Condition of the Labourer in 



THB AGRICULTURAL LABOURER. 227 

England and Scotland^ and his state on the Con- 
tinent/' 

Before entering into the subject of the present con- 
dition of the English agricultural labourer, it will be 
interesting to glance briefly at his condition in the 
middle ages. To do this will be suggestive as well as 
interesting ; it will, when taken in contrast with what 
we shall hereafter give on the present position of the 
labourer, show how, on the one hand, we have reason 
to congratulate ourselves that the English peasant 
occupies, in some respects, an infinitely higher position 
in the social scale than he did centuries ago ; while 
it will, on the other, depress any very exulting thoughts 
on account of this, by proving that in other respects 
his position is not so much improved, but that ample 
room is still given for the exercise of those modes of 
treatment which will further ameliorate his condition, 
and place him in that position which, as an important 
worker for the weal of the State, he deserves to occupy. 

To commence at the earliest period in the history of 
our agricultural peasantry, we must go back to the 
days of the Heptarchy, when the Teutonic tribes 
existed in the fulness of their ferocity— when society 
was divided into two classes, masters and slaves ; to 
which latter class belonged all those engaged in the 
actual cultivation of the fields, or in tending the flocks 
and herds which formed the chief wealth of their 
masters. If it is somewhat displeasing to our notions 
as to the ^^ fitness of things,^' that our agricultural 
peasantry should be descended, as undoubtedly is the 
case, from slaves ; it is, on the other hand, no small 
source of gratification to reflect that from this condi- 
tion they have, by fighting manftdly, yet unosten- 
tatiously, against the circumstances which so long 



228 FARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

oppressed them^ raised themselves to a position not 
wanting in the worth which the dignity of labour 
confers. This fact should weigh with us in considering 
the difficulties and the wants of their present condition. 
Not long after the departure of the Romans from 
our island^ it was overrun with hordes of Angles and 
Saxons^ who brought with them their serfs ; and these^ 
intermixing with the people who had been in the service 
of the Romans^ doubtless gave rise to the race from 
whom our peasantry are descended. Under the Anglo- 
Saxons the serf was called a theow — the females were 
named vrylors. The lord had the absolute right of life 
and death over the theow, who could, certainly, if he 
liked, acquire property; but upon a very uncertain 
tenure was this held — the lord having so far the right 
to take it &om him, that if he did, some slight ecclesi- 
astical censure or fine was all the penalty the lord had 
to pay. In nothing, perhaps, is the hopeless condition 
of the serfs at the period now under consideration so 
well and so painfully displayed, as in the power which 
the masters had over the female serfs — no right guaran- 
teeing them against whatever outrages the masters 
might choose to commit. One gleam of comfort had the 
serfs at this time — at least, the serfs of Wessex possessed 
it — for if a lord ordered a theow to work on a Sunday, 
he became free, the lord losing all right over him. 
From this we may rest satisfied that the Sunday^s rest, 
at all events, was secured to the miserable serf. Work- 
ing without the lord^s consent on a Sunday, the theow 
was flogged. The numbers of the theows was constantly 
changing — some being freed by their lords ; some free- 
men being condemned to theowdom for certain offences ; 
and some voluntarily offering themselves as theows, in 
times of distress ; work and a living, such as it was. 



THB AGRICULTURAL LABOURER. 229 

being thus secured to them. The manumission of the 
theows was encouraged by the clergy, as a highly meri- 
torious action on the part of lay lords. 

In the " Coloquium ^^ of Alfric, published in the 
eleventh century, we find some interesting notes re- 
specting the position and labour of a ploughman of the 
period we have been considering. A ploughman is 
asked how he performs his work, and answers thus : 
" My lord, I labour excessively. I go out at dawn of 
day, driving my oxen to the field, and yoke them to my 
plough. There is no weather so severe that I dare rest 
at home, for fear of my lord j but having yoked my 
oxen, and fastened the share and coulter to the plough, 
every day I must plough a whole field or more.^^ Again, 
he is asked, '^ Hast thou any companion V '' I have a 
boy, who urges the oxen with a goad, and who is now 
hoarse with cold and shouting.'^ Again, the question 
is put, " What more doest thou in the day V^ and the 
answer is as sad-hearted as before. " Truly,'^ he says, 
'^ truly still, I do more ; I must fill the mangers of the 
oxen with hay, and water them, and carry out their 
dung. Oh ! oh 1 it is a great tribulation V^ and to 
crown all, the piteous plaint is wrung from him, ^' Yea, 
it is a great tribulation, because I am not free ! ^^ The 
above is peculiarly suggestive at the present time, when 
so much is being written and said as to the condition 
of the farm labourer — for although no longer groaning 
under the grievous load of legal bondage, and therefore, 
in this sense, free enough, it is worthy of note that the 
condition of matters given above, descriptive of the 
daily life of a farm labourer in the middle ages, is, to a 
great extent, remarkably true of the farm Jabourer of 
the present day, so far as his daily work is concerned. 
We say that it is, to a great extent, true ; it is for tkosys^ 



230 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMT. 

of our readers who are practically acquainted with the 
subject to say whether it is, or is not, an exact description 
of the daily life of a farm labourer of the present day. 
Possibly, the evidence we have yet to give may tend 
somewhat to elucidate this point. But to return to our 
historical notes. Wretched as was the condition of the 
theows under the Anglo-Saxons, their treatment of them 
was mild and merciful compared to that which they 
experienced from the Normans who came over with 
William the Conqueror. They enforced with the utmost 
severity the laws which favoured the masters^ rights, 
while they allowed to fall into disuse those which 
favoured those of the theow. The term villani was in- 
troduced by them to designate the theows \ from whence 
comes our word villain — bearing now, doubtless, a dif- 
ferent meaning, but which proves, however, the estima- 
tion in which the serfs were held, and the abjectness of 
their condition, when their name became a synonym 
for all that is degrading and vile. The Archaeological 
Society has done good service in publishing papers 
which threw considerable light upon the condition of 
the peasantry in the middle ages. It is, indeed, almost 
impossible, in reading these veritable chronicles, to 
conceive the depth of degradation and misery to which 
the villains were reduced by the fearful oppressions of 
their lords ; truly, it was well said of them by a con- 
temporary chronicler, '^ They pass their days in tribu- 
lation, with great pain and labour.^^ In the fullest 
sense of the term, the villains were slaves ; they were 
debarred from bringing an action in a court of law, 
nor, indeed, could they give evidence in it. We have, 
in very recant times, heard grave objections made to 
the education of the agricultural labourer, on the 
ground that it has a tendency to raise them above their 



THB AGRICULTURAL LABOURER. 231 

station. It is worthy of note that this objection is of very 
ancient origin^ and has, if it has nothing else^ the merit 
of great antiquity therefore to recommend it. It would 
be amusing, if it were not painful, to read the absurd 
reasons given by old chroniclers why the villains should 
not be educated. Such, indeed, was the estimation in 
which they were held by the lords, that one gravely but 
boldly states that they were only fit to go forth naked 
to the meadows and " eat grass with the horned oxen ;^' 
and on a level with the oxen were they placed, or rather 
beneath it, for of the exercise even of gratitude they 
were declared incapable. 

But as time wore on, and civilisation improved, their 
condition began to be ameliorated ; and an immense 
impulse was given to the impovement of their position 
by the decline of the feudal system. Henry II. passed 
a law making it illegal for villains to be sold in payment 
of their lord's debts. But some notion may be con- 
veyed of their still miserable state, when we mention 
that one of the articles in the Magna Charta enacted 
that when fines were imposed on villains, their tools 
were not to be taken from them in payment of the 
same. It was not, however, till the lapse of many 
weary years that the villains were freed from the bonds 
of servitude, and at liberty to go where and to serve 
what masters they pleased. With freedom, however, 
in many cases, came want, for, no longer claiming or 
having a right to claim maintenance from their lords, 
they were thrown upon their own resources. Work 
being scarce, want resulted — the only relief for which 
was met at the monasteries and religious establishments, 
the inmates of which dispensed their charities with a 
liberal hand. But with the spoliation of these estab- 
lishments, in the reign of Henry VIII., this source of 



232 FARMINa AND FARBOKG ECONOMT. 

relief vanished ; so that in the reign of Edward VI. 
legislation endeavoured to mitigate the evils of the 
labouring population^ by enacting a law which had for 
aim the stimulating of industry and the prevention 
of idleness. This, as may be supposed, introduced 
some shocking abuses. Towards the end of the reign 
of Edward VI. it was repealed, and collectors were 
appointed in each parish to receive funds and dole them 
out for the relief of the starving labourers. The law 
regulating this was replaced by another passed in the 
reign of Elizabeth, which regulated various points con- 
nected with the employment of labourers. These 
formed the basis of the old poor-law, which, in process 
of time, gave way to the system now in force. 

In Chambers^ ''Book of Days,^^ the following 
interesting note is given, showing the duties of the day 
of a ploughman in the seventeenth century : — 

'' Gervase Markham gives an account of these in his 
' Farewell to Husbandry,^ 1653 ; and he starts with an 
allusion to the popular festival now under notice. 'We 
will,^ says he, ' suppose it to be after Christmas, or about 
Plough Day (which is the first setting out of the plough), 
and at what time men either begin to fallow, or to break 
up pease-earth, which is to lie to bait, according to the 
custom of the country. At this time the ploughman 
shall rise before four o^clock in the morning, and after 
thanks given to God for his rest, and the success of his 
labours, he shall go into his stable or beast-house, and 
first, he shall fodder his cattle, then clean the house, 
and make the booths [stalls?] clean; rub down the 
cattle, and cleanse their skins from all filth. Then he 
shall curry his horses, rub them with cloths and wisps, 
and make both them and the stable as clean as may be. 
Then he shall water both his oxen and horses, and. 



THB AGRICULTURAL LABOURER. 233 

housing them again^ give them more fodder^ and to his 
horse, by all means, provender, as chaff and dry pease 
or beans, or oat-hulls, or clean garbage (which is the 
hinder ends of any grain but rye), with the straw 
chopped small amongst it, according as the ability of 
the husbandman is. 

'' • And while they are eating their meat, he shall make 
ready his collars, hames, treats, halters, mullers, and 
plough-gears, seeing everything fit and in its due place, 
and to these labours I will also allow two hours ; that 
is, from four of the clock till six. Then he shall come 
in to breakfast, and to that I allow him half-an-hour, 
and then another half hour to the yoking and gearing of 
his cattle, so that at seven he may set forth to his 
labours ; and then he shall plough from seven o^clock in 
the morning till betwixt two and three in the afternoon. 
Then he shall unyoke and bring home his cattle, and 
having rubbed them, dressed them, and cleansed them 
from all dirt and filth, he shall fodder them and give 
them meat. Then shall the servants go in to their 
dinner, which allowed half-an-hour, it will then be 
towards four of the clock ; at what time he shall go to 
his cattle again, and rubbing them down and cleansing 
their stalls, give them more fodder; which done, he 
shall go into the barns, and provide and make ready 
fodder of all kinds for the next day 

'^ ' This being done, and carried into the stable, ox- 
house, or other convenient place, he shall then go water 
his cattle, and give them more meat, and to his horse 
provender; and by this time it will draw past six 
o^clock ; at what time he shall come in to supper, and 
after supper he shall either sit by the fireside, mend 
shoes both for himself and the family, or beat and 
knock hemp or flax, or pick and stamp apples or crabs 



234 FARMIHa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

for cider or vinegar, or else grind malt on the querns, 
pick candle rushes, or do some husbandry oflBce till it 
be fully eight o'clock. Then shall he take his lanthom 
and candle, and go see his cattle, and having cleansed 
his stalls and planks, litter them down, look that they 
are safely tied, and then fodder and give them meat for 
all night. Then, giving God thanks for benefits received 
that day, let him and the whole household go to their 
rest till the next morning.^ 

'' It is rather surprising to find the quern — the hand- 
mill of Scripture — continuing in use in England so late 
as the time of the Commonwealth, though only for the 
grinding of malt. It is now obsolete even in the High- 
lands, but is still used in the Faroe Islands. The stone 
mill of Bible times appears to have been driven by two 
women; but in Western Europe it was fashioned to be 
driven by one only, sometimes by a fixed handle, and 
sometimes by a movable stick inserted in a hole in the 

circumference.^' 

The change in the condition of the agricultural 
labourer in England has been very gradual, presenting 
few salient points which the historian can take advantage 
of so as to present its features as completely as could be 
desired. But while the change in their condition has 
been in many ways for the better, there are still many 
evils of a grave character connected with it requiring 
immediate and complete removal. How best to do this it 
is diflBcult to decide, for it is certainly one of the most 
remarkable circumstances connected with the discussion 
of the condition of the agricultural labourer, that while 
there is a singular unanimity as regards the fact that 
evils, great in number and appalling in results, are 
connected with this condition, there is just as singular 
a diversity of opinion as to how these evils can best 



THB AGRIOULTURAL LABOURBIU 235 

and quickest be remedied. But^ in the eagerness 
with which one brings forward one scheme which is 
alone to redeem the labourer from the evils of his posi- 
tion, and another another scheme, we see evidences of 
the existence of an evil which is certainly productive of 
much delay in setting the question on its proper basis 
— namely, that there is one panacea for the evils, and 
one cure for the disease. But it should never be for- 
gotten, that as the evils connected with the condition 
of the agricultural labourer have arisen from a com- 
plexity of causes, good cottages, for instance, vrith 
decent accommodation, will not alone obviate the evils; 
for vice can be, and is, perpetrated in the palace as well 
as in the hovel, and disease and death reap their harvest 
of pain and woe as well from the one as from the other. 
Education — the three R^s, ^' reading, ^riting, and 
Arithmetic," as they have been called — will not alone 
raise the position of the labourer ; for we know well, 
that along with the finest condition of the intellect 
a depraved heart and a vicious life are too often 
united. High wages and cheap food will not do all 
that is required, for, along with them we often find a 
reckless expenditure of the one, and a wanton waste of 
the other. Some discuss the subject from a purely 
philanthropic point of view, forgetful of the fact that 
there are circumstances which materially modify the 
operation of laws, or which affect considerably the high 
standard which they may set up. On the other hand, 
some take a purely practical view of the subject, refer- 
ring all the points to the decision of expediency, or 
asking themselves perpetually, will it pay to do this, or 
to undo that? In this, as in other matters, the middle 
course is perhaps the safest one to follow, and likely to 
lead more rapidly to the end. For the philanthropist 



236 FABMING AND FARMING ECONOliY 

is not entitled to ignore the peculiar circumstances of 
the position in which the farmer may be placed, which 
may absolutely put it out of his power for the time 
being to obey the high behests of a rigid right; just as 
much as the practical man is not entitled to sneer at 
what he may call the high-flown notions of the philan- 
thropist, or to forget that in so far as they are founded 
upon the principles of ''right/^ " justice/^ and ''mercy/^ 
so must they be the standard to which all should aim 
at arriving, and by which all matters must ultimately 
be decided. 

Let us now take up the consideration of the various 
departments of the subject ; and, first, as to the cottage 
accommodation of the agricultural labourer. 

In the first part of the present division we adverted 
to the position — which is more generally held now than 
it was some years ago, when it was the fashion to insist 
upon all the work of amelioration to be done by the 
landlord — that danger was incurred by doing too much 
for the labourer ; by treating him, in fact, more as if 
he were a mere boy who had to be guided in everything, 
than as a man who should simply be advised how to 
guide himself. While it is impossible to over-estimate 
the importance of imparting to the labourer the value 
of this principle of self-guidance, and while clearly 
insisting he should help himself in every way in which 
self-help is available, we no less clearly insist upon the 
recognition of those points which rest with the land- 
lords and employers, and of the work which they, and 
they alone, can do. 

And of this work, first in importance stands the 
building of new, and ''the improving old cottages.^' 
This work must of necessity be done by the landlord. 
As well almost ask the labourer to form a railway or 



COTTAGB ACCOMMODATION. 237 

cut a canal at his own expense^ as to build his own 
cottage. So much has been written and said on this 
subject of cottage improvement, that few, we think, 
are now to be met with who deny its importance j few 
but hold that good cottage accommodation is absolutely 
essential where the social and moral improvement of 
the labourer is wished fiar. Exaggerated notions, how- 
ever, have been put forth as to the importance of this 
subject, and talk has been indulged in as if all that was 
necessary to be done for the labourer was to lodge him 
well; that all the virtues would flourish as soon as 
separate bed-rooms for the sexes were given ; that pru- 
dence would be promoted by a store-closet, and the 
horrors of the slattern vanish before the soap-suds of a 
scullery. Questionless, these exaggerated views contain 
much truth ; for it certainly seems reasonable to sup- 
pose that domestic virtue cannot well flourish under 
circumstances where everything exists calculated to 
crush out all its vitality, or dwarf its fair and just 
proportions ; and that cleanliness cannot exist where it 
is impossible — ^no matter the degree of care given — that 
it can be well attended to. We point to these things, 
not with a view to imderrate the importance of the 
cottage question, but rather to show the danger arising 
from giving any one point imdue prominence over 
another, and that something else is required than 
merely good cottages. But stripping the question of 
all its exaggerations does not get rid of, but rather 
throws into greater relief, its full importance. Exag- 
gerated views do great injustice to it, and retard more 
than they help its rapid realisation. The truth, we 
take it, will be more widely accepted if it is simply 
claimed for improved cottages, thut they help the 
labourer to live more virtuously and prudently, rather 



288 FARMINa AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

than that they make him do so. But it is scarcely 
possible^ however, to over estimate the vrorth of this 
help j and hence it is that the more it is inquired into, 
the more largely does it bulk in the public estimation. 
And there is no doubt of this, that much as has been 
already done, an immense deal is yet to be done in 
granting this help to our labourers. So much public 
attention has been drawn to the sanitary condition of 
the mural, that that of the rural population has been 
greatly overlooked. The horrors of our St. Giles's, and 
of the wretched population harboured within their filthy 
dens, have taken such hold of the public mind, and so 
ready are we to associate all that is charming and beau- 
tiful with rural life, that we can scarcely bring our- 
selves to believe that the horrors of the towns and the 
vices of their worst inhabitants are repeated in the 
country. But so it is ; and in place of being a dif- 
ficult, it is unfortunately too easy a matter to find, in 
numerous districts throughout the country, localities 
where cottages, not only isolated but congregated in 
numbers, display nearly all the vileness of the city den, 
this rendered all the more wretched through contrast 
with the bright sky which overhangs, or the green 
fields which surround them. Dens with their reeking 
filth seem not quite so much out of place in the city 
street or confined alley, but wretched hovels mar most 
miserably the beauty of rural scenes, and bring out a 
painful contrast which no picturesqueness of tumbling 
wall or decaying roof-trees can ever compensate for. 
Cottages, ill-ventilated, ill-lighted, and miserably con- 
structed, axe met with in too many instances, in the 
rooms of which the sexes are crowded together in 
spaces all too inadequate for the number which they 
are forced to contain. These are lessening in number 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 239 

every day we cheerfully admits but much is yet to be 
done ere the fair face of our country is freed from these 
blots, which so mar its beauty. And much, moreover, 
has yet to be done in convincing many that this state 
of matters exercises a close and immediate influence 
upon the welfare of the labourer, and, of course, reacts 
upon that of his employer. For it is but to repeat a 
truism which has been dinned often enough into the 
ears of us all of late, to say that ^' as the houses, so the 
men ^^ — that neither health of body nor strength of mind 
can be cultivated and maintained under circumstances 
every detail of which is so well calculated to depress 
the one and stunt the other. And the lifting of the 
labourer out of the imfortunate condition into which 
a variety of circumstances has conspired to place him, 
cannot be his own work, but must be that of those 
placed over him. Pools of healing, so to speak, we may 
have j but now, as in the days of yore, the maimed and 
the lame must be lifted into them to receive the benefit 
of their life-giving waters. Waiting wearily now are 
many for the help to come to them. 

The best interests of agriculture demand that the 
servants who are engaged in carrying out its various 
processes shall be housed in conformity with those prin- 
ciples which shall best and surest develop that health 
of body and soundness of mind which alone can make 
them thoroughly useful. The development of men, in a 
moral as well as a physical sense, is undoubtedly greatly 
dependent upon the condition in which be is housed. 
No more can physical health be secured to the man 
lodged in a hovel, the arrangement and construction of 
which is so well calculated to create discomfort and to 
cause disease, than to the animal who is put up in a 
filthy ill-ventilated stable. And if it is worth the 



240 FARMING AND FARMINa BOONOMT. 

labour involved in the better bousing of our farm stock, 
it is surely worth the labour to house well the workmen 
who look after them — ^worth in a double sense ; for the 
labourer has a higher organisation, which requires to be 
nurtured, and this cannot be done where everything 
surrounding the man is calculated to disgust and to 
degrade. By simply taking care of out-door education, 
if indeed we do that, and ignoring altogether that of the 
hearth and home— for the child's most effective training, 
whether that be good or bad, is the work of the home 
— ^no satisfactory intellectual and moral elevation can 
result. In a Christian land it is imperative that our 
labourers should have a house fitted to be a Christian's 
home. It is pitiable to have to say, in this nineteenth 
century highly-boasted-of time of ours, that a vast deal 
has yet to be done before this can be realised. 

It is from considerations such as these that the ques- 
tion of improved cottage accommodation for rural dis- 
tricts is considered an all-important one — ^important in 
the sense that it is essential to get healthy labourers, 
capable of doing able work, as well as in the higher 
sense, that it is essential both for their and our sakes 
that they be morally and intellectually strong as well. 
We received, in connection with the paper before 
alluded to, a number of communications from various 
parts of the country, on the subject of cottage 
accommodation, and the testimony from all was nearly 
complete, that as a general rule it is in anything but an 
advanced condition. We here give extracts from a few 
of these, which wiU help to convey some notion of the 
condition of the house accommodation for labourers in 
Scotland and England.^^ In Shetland — for we shall com- 
mence with the extremest north — '^ the house accommo- 
dation consists generally of a but and a ben^^ (two rooms 



OOTTAGB ACCOMMODATION 241 

en suite, the ''but ^' answering to the kitchen or living- 
room in the cottages of England ; the '' ben/' to the 
best^ or bed- room), " with sometimes an attic, built of 
limestone; earthen floors, thatched roof, and fire in 
centre of kitchen or ' but ' end, but chimney in better 
or ' ben' end. Very little furniture, seldom a table, in 
kitchen; but uniformly a settle, or wooden sofa, on 
which a man might stretch himself ; one or two wooden 
arm-chairs and semi-stools ; a number of sea-chests, 
arranged as a platform; around the walls a pot or two; 
a tea-kettle; and the tea-pot almost uniformly and 
constantly at the fire. ' Ben' end : table, chairs, &c., 
all wooden ; beds with drawing lids, bound. Beds in 
kitchen often one above the other, like ships' berths. 
Bed-clothes good. A handsomely wrought, heavy bed- 
cover, in fancy wools, is the requisite providing of a 
female at marriage. In my district, the United parish, 
the dwellings are improving fast, and chimneys and 
floored ' ben ^ ends are put into most of the newly- 
erected houses.'^ The exterior of such houses is, as we 
can state from our own experience, anything but in- 
viting. The walls are rough, the windows small, the 
roof of thatch being held down (for winds blow fiercely 
in that wild part of her Majesty's dominions) by straw 
ropes, with dangling ends, weighted by heavy stones. 
Interior cleanliness is not much thought of apparently ; 
for we have seen the hens perching on the edge of the 
berth-beds, and the pig lying by the hearth. Indeed, a 
general griminess pervades everything, from the want 
of a chimney, the smoke rarely leaving the vent, or 
aperture in the roof, without curling in the interior of 
the house. Upon the whole, however, the house accom- 
modation of the poor Shetlander compares pretty favour- 
ably vdth that of some of our southern and more 

M 



242 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY 

favoured districts. Of the cottages in the remote dis- 
tricts of the Highlands, as in the neighbourhood of 
Glencoe, a correspondent furnishes the following de- 
scription : — " The humblest style of cottages, or rather 
huts, are constructed of a rough framework of timber, 
with heather or gorse interwoven, about two or three 
feet in thickness. The walls, if they may be so called, 
are not generally higher than about six feet ; the roof 
thatched, with poles laid crosswise, and bound, to pre- 
vent its being torn up by the wind. In addition to 
this, ropes constructed of twigs are suspended, and 
attached to large stones, to give additional security; 
but the wind is so strong that, in exposed situations, 
such as the moor at Corpach, my friend has seen the 
cottagers holding on by the ropes themselves. I 
believe, for these places, with a little croft attached, the 
rent is merely nominal. These cottages are built of 
stone ; in some cases of slate, as in the neighbourhood 
of Ballachulish. These are laid sometimes in regular 
fashion. Others are of rough stones of all shapes, 
something like a stone wall laid without mortar, and 
afterwards plastered in a rough way ; others of river or 
rounded stones. The height of wall is not more than 
six feet ; thatched roof; chimney constructed of a light 
framework of sticks, with turf laid against it. There 
are never more than two rooms ; no ceiling ; very often 
no fire-grate, but when there is, it is of the rudest de- 
scription. The floors are generally bare earth, with 
perhaps a hearthstone or so. These have generally a 
little croft, in which they grow potatoes, oats, &c.* For 
these they pay about £4 a-year. Some of these cot- 
tages are anything but water-tight : I have seen some 
of them, during heavy rain, almost flooded, owing to 
the thatch having been neglected." As regards house 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 243 

accommodation in Aberdeenshire, an esteemed corre- 
spondent writes me : — ^* House accommodation, in this 
county, is both far too limited in quantity and bad in 
quality It is the bounden duty of all pro- 
prietors to furnish a full equipment of substantial cot- 
tages, combining the requisites for comfort and decency, 
on all farms. Withheld, they stop the onward progress 
of social order, and hold out a premium to vice and 
degradation.^^ In Perthsliire, another correspondent 
informs me, "the house accommodation is gradually 
improving. Still, there is much improvement every- 
where required, as many are still compelled to live in 
wretched hovels. Unfortimately, when long neglect 
and inattention have allowed the cottages of a county 
to fall into decay, it often happens that the extreme 
the other way is run into, when new houses are built ; 
and many instances, of late years, have sprung up, 
where the accommodation given is far beyond the wants 
or requirements of the class.^^ In Inverness, a corre- 
spondent informs us that the " house accommodation is 
still deficient, in many cases consisting of one or two 
rooms only, for a married man and his family. But 
almost all new cottages now built contain three or 
four rooms, thus giving the requisite number of rooms 
for a proper division of the family.^' Another corre- 
spondent in Inverness-shire writes me as follows : " The 
houses of farm-servants are not generally very good. 
Great improvement has taken place of late years in 
this department, and is still going on. Wherever new 
buildings are erected, attention is given to this ; and I 
have little doubt that, by-and-by, servants will, on the 

whole, be comfortably provided for Cottages 

for married men consist generally of a room and one 
or two small closets (bed-rooms), with a^wooden floor» 

M 2 



244 FARMING AND FARMING BC0N0M7. 

and neatly plastered. No doubt there are still a good 
many old houses^ very inferior indeed, in the district; 
but a great change is going on ; and soon, I trust, it 
"will be comfortably housed/^ In Forfarshire, " house 
accommodation,^' as a correspondent informs me, " is 
generally indiflferent, and very insufficient for the re- 
quirements of the country. A family is generally 
huddled into two apartments, often to the injury of 
health, and repugnant to modesty. Every intelligent 
farmer, and many proprietors, are now alive to the 
necessity of providing better cottage accommodation. 
Much has been done of late years, but little as to what 
is required.'' In Dingwall, "the house accommoda- 
tion for servants is, in some instances, very bad ; in 
others, needlessly good. The subject is now exciting a 
good deal of interest, and a great improvement has been 
eflfected within the last few years." In Dumfriesshire, 
" Of nearly the whole, although now tolerably com- 
fortable in fitting-up, certainly too limited. On an 
average two apartments only." As regards the house 
accommodation in the Lothians, a distinguished agri- 
culturist of that high-class-farmed district, writes me 
as follows : — " Within the last few years a great many 
new cottages have been built, containing ample accom- 
modation for a family; but a large proportion still 
exist quite unfit for that purpose. However, landlords 
and farmers are now alive to the fact that unless better 
accommodation is speedily provided they cannot hope 
to retain the best servants." In Berwickshire, " for- 
merly the cottages were of the rudest construction — 
little better than hovels — ^with earthen floors, often 
damp, and no division in the apartment except what 
was furnished by the bo2t-beds of the cottager. Recently, 
however, a great improvement has taken place. During 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 245 

the last fifteen years fully two-thirds of the cottages in 
this county have been erected anew, and, in general, 
they are now in a very comfortable condition. The 
walls are higher, they have more than one window, and 
of proper size ; they are in two or more apartments, 
with brick or earthenware pavement floors ; also garrets 
with deal floors, which are available for many useful 
purposes, and can be made comfortable sleeping apart- 
ments when required. The old class of cottages are 
now an exception in Berwickshire ; also, I believe, in 
Roxburghshire.^^ 

But a description of the house accommodation for 
farm servants in Scotland would be incomplete were a 
notice of the " bothy'' omitted. This peculiar feature 
exists only in certain districts ; and the evils, or assumed 
evils, connected with it have called forth an extraordi- 
nary diversity of opinion ; and hence elicited very warm 
discussions — so much so, that I could present you with 
information in connection with these, the relating of 
which would absorb all the time allotted me. In 
place, however, of giving a resumi of my own of all 
that has been said on both sides of the question, I 
prefer to place before you extracts from correspondents 
who have favoured me with their opinions on the sub- 
ject. A gentleman in Perthshire, in which county the 
bothy system is greatly developed, thus writes me : — 
'^ The ^ bothy' is a house set apart for the men to sit in 
and cook their victuals, with a sleeping apartment or 
apartments adjoining. ... In many cases the bothy 
is badly kept, and the sleeping apartments dirty and 
untidy ; but there is no necessity for this, and it is not 
inherent in the system. On the Home Farm at Windsor 
Castle there is a model bothy, and I know some in 
Perthshire kept in a similar manner, and when this is 



246 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

the case the men' are extremely comfortable ; and, 
where the men are unmarried, I should prefer the bothy 
system, under proper regulations, to that of giving the 
men their food in the kitchen (of the farmhouse). . . . 
Where there is a bothy the men get their food, and 
keep by themselves ; and when a woman arrived at the 
years of discretion is appointed to keep their bed-rooms 
in proper order, and the bothy clean, they are far from 
uncomfortable, and prefer it to going into the house 
for their food. As regards married men, the system is 
radically wrong. A married man should live in his 
own house, preside at his own table, and be the head 
of his family .^^ A Morayshire correspondent writes : 
— "The bothy system, which is much abused, in a 
moral point of view, consists in giving a room or rooms, 
fire and light, with a certain amount of meal, milk, and 
potatoes, or an equivalent in money, besides the regular 
money wages. Where these bothies are well conducted 
there is nothing objectionable against them — at least, 
nothing more so than being fed in the farmer^s kitchen. 
In a well-conducted bothy the master allows a female 
to keep the place clean, light the fires, bake the bread, 
and at the same time cleaning out the apartments and 
making the beds. You will, therefore, often find in 
these bothies every mark of cleanliness and tidiness, and 
at the same time furnished with books and periodicals. 
Such places as these the men like, and remain for 
years at the same place. On the other hand, there 
are other bothies where neither cleanliness nor order 
exist, and these places cannot be too much condemned. 
Farmers, however, are every day making arrangements 
with their landlords to build cottages for married 
couples ; this is now the favourite system, and much to 
be commended.'^ A Forfarshire correspondent thus 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 247 

writes : — ^^ Ploughmen are lodged in bothies, and fur- 
nished by the farmer with beds, bedding, &c. The 
accommodation has been deteriorating since the com- 
mencement of the last century, till it was reduced to a 
miserable pitch, the men being much worse lodged 
than the animals. Within the last five years a great 
change has taken place. Comfortable bothies are 
erected in many places, and new ones are constantly 
going up; and in a few years it is trusted that all 
ploughmen will be comfortably lodged.'^ Where the 
bothy is used in Inverness-shire, ^' it is a clean-floored 
and neat room, of considerable size, with the beds in 
the side, or frequently in an adjoining room.^' But the 
testimony given on the subject is not generally so favour- 
able to the bothy system ; indeed, the weight of evidence 
is altogether against it, as productive of an immense 
amount of social evil. A correspondent in Caithness — 
a county in Scotland in which the bothy system can 
be examined in all its phases — sends me the following, 
part of a report which he drew up on the subject : — 
^^ A common arrangement of some bothies is as follows: 
the male and the female servants sit and eat and 
pass their evenings in the place where the lads sleep, 
and the females^ sleeping-place is in some off-closet, 
entering from it, or in a separate but adjacent apart- 
ment. Sometimes the sexes have separate apartments 
to dwell in, having different outer doors. These apart- 
ments may be placed on opposite sides of the farm 
conrtyard. Not always, however, is there such accom- 
modation. There are instances in which the males and 
the females sit, eat, and sleep in the same miserable 
place. Abundance of peats is allowed by. the masters 
to the bothies, but there is neither lamp nor candle. We 
speak of the general practice ; but we never heard of an 



248 FARMING AND FARMING EOONOMY. 

exception. There is consequently no reading in our long 
winter evenings, and the darkness of the bothies en- 
courages and facilitates deeds of darkness. This is the 
description of a bothy given by one of my reverend 
correspondents: — ^A lad and a big boy and a single 
woman live in one room, which is badly furnished. 
There are two benches or forms, which supply the 
place of stools or chairs, but there is no table ; the 
inmates make use of a chest lid as a substitute. There 
are two beds of coarse unplained deals, and the interior 
is altogether uncomfortable.' The preceding descrip- 
tion is, I have reason to believe, applicable, as to the 
fitting up, to numbers of our bothies. Their furnishing 
is for the most part wretched. All the sheets and 
blankets must be provided by the lads themselves, and 
all the bowls, plates, and spoons — all the dishes indeed, 
except the pot. Their food consists of milk, when it 
can be got, and oatmeal. Beef, mutton, pork, or fish, 
or flesh of any kind, they very rarely taste. The bothy 
may not be cleaned out or whitewashed for years, and 
their bedding is washed but seldom. In our bothies 
there is all but a universal sluttish and a slovenly dis- 
regard of cleanliness, order, and neatness.^' 

" In Scotland,^' says Professor Low, '' two very dis- 
tinct races of peasants exist : the one of mixed lineage, 
but chiefly of Teutonic blood, inhabiting the lowland 
countries — and the other, of Celtic descent, possessing 
the countries of the higher mountains. The lowland 
peasants are generally labourers employed upon the 
farms. In the southern counties, as well as in the north- 
eastern parts of England, the principal servants of the 
farm are married persons, who engage their services 
for a specified time, almost always twelve months, and 
who receive wages, partly in money, but chiefly in the 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 249 

produce of the farm, together with the use of cottages, 
small gardens, cows kept upon the farm, and other 
conveniences. The persons thus treated form the best 
class of farm labourers in the British islands. They 
are hard- worked from an early age, but they have all 
been educated, thoroughly understand the duties of 
their condition, and lead a life more tranquil and con- 
tented than the same class of labourers in any other 
part of the country. To the establishment of this 
admirable system of farm economy is due that practice 
of steady and regular labour by which the works of the 
farm are conducted with order throughout the year. 
The system prevails more or less throughout all the 
lowlands of Scotland, although with far less regularity 
in the northern than in the southern counties, where it 
has been the established practice of the farmers time 
out of mind. But the existence of the system has led 
to certain peculiarities and great defects with respect to 
the construction of the dwellings possessed by the 
labourers. For carrying it into eflfect, it has suflSced 
that the cottagers should receive merely a rude room, 
sometimes with, but oftener without, a loft above. The 
labourers themselves possess a simple kind of furniture, 
which they call ^ plenishing,^ consisting of large box-beds 
with sliding doors, chests for clothes, and shelves for 
plates and dishes. This furniture, with the common 
utensils of the household, and blankets and coarse linen, 
constitute, together with the cow which is to supply 
the family with a great part of their food, the little 
stock or capital of the inmates. Until this can be 
obtained the young peasant is not regarded as in a con- 
dition to enter into the state of matrimony and begin 
housekeeping ; and this simple check, itself an induce- 
ment to habits of frugality, does more to prevent reck- 

M 3 



250 FARMINO AND FARlCDia ECONOMY. 

less unions than many moral lessons could effect. By 
the possession of their homely furniture^ the married 
pair are enabled to fit up their rude room in a manner 
more consistent with humble comfort and decency than 
could be imagined. The closed box-beds are so large 
that they serve in part for dressing and wardrobe. 
They are usually disposed in such a manner across the 
room, that it can be divided into two, and in this 
manner the separation of the members of the family is 
better promoted than, from the smallness of the apart- 
ments, would seem to be attainable. Yet, the houses 
are exceedingly mean, ill-fitted up, and comfortless. 
The floor is generally unpaved, consisting of an im- 
perfect composition, or often merely of earth rammed 
hard. The fire is for the most part on the hearth, 
underneath a large chimney, too wide for allowing the 
apartment to be warmed or even for carrying up the 
smoke. The windows are ill-constructed, either for 
ventilation or warmth ; and the doors are hung in such 
a manner as to allow the cold winds to penetrate the 
little chamber ; and often the roofs are so ill-formed or 
decayed as to admit the rain.'' 

The above may be taken as faithfully descriptive of 
the class of old cottages of the best-farmed districts of 
the lowlands of Scotland. It is gratifying to be able 
to state that immense improvements have been effected, 
within the last twenty years more especially — improve- 
ments still going on, but not always, we are bound to 
say, in the most judicious of directions. With some pro- 
prietors it seems to be enough that the cottages are new 
to be entitled to be considered as improved — a conse- 
quence by no means following in all cases. These new 
cottages are in many instances, then, new so far as mate- 
rials are concerned only ; the same indifference to the 



COTTAGE ACCOMMODATION. 251 

health and economical household requirements of the 
inhabitants being observable as in the construction of 
the old ones. We say the same in kind — it only diflfers 
in degree. To point out, for instance, two directions in 
which the builders of new cottages in certain districts 
of Scotland are as blameworthy as their predecessors : 
first, perpetuating the wretchedly small windows of the 
old in the new cottages ; and second, building them squat 
upon the ground, so that the floor is not at all raised up 
from it. These two points not being attended to, bring 
about evils worthy of attention. First, the house not 
being suflSciently lighted (a dark house is almost sure 
to be a dirty one — untidiness of house flies before light), 
it loves the dark, and revels wildly in it. Further, a dark 
house is an unhealthy one ; it depresses thcf spirits, and 
induces peculiar and painful diseases. Then again, the 
habit of not raising the floors of the rooms at least the 
height of two steps above the ground, bring almost in- 
variably damp into the walls ; and we all know that 
damp and disease go always together. 

We have thus given pictures, so to speak, drawn by 
artists on the spot, of the houses of the agricultural 
labourers in Scotland ; we now proceed to glance at 
those of England. This part of the subject is so wide 
and important, that it is obviously impossible to do 
more than give a few sketches furnished by esteemed 
correspondents. 

In Dorsetshire, ^^ as to house accommodation,^' says 
a correspondent, '^ I believe it is nowhere worse than 
in this county. The cottages are the greater part mud- 
built, and very small, and contain but few conveniences; 
and there are many instances where a whole family, 
sometimes quite a large one, have to put up with a 
solitary sleeping apartment, where the father and the 



252 FARMING AND PARMINO ECONOMY. 

mother^ the boys and the girls, herd together, to the 
total destruction of common decency, and, conse- 
quently, to the detriment of morality." A correspon- 
dent in South Lincolnshire says, ^^ The poor are pretty 
well provided as regards home accommodation, though 
generally their houses are too small ; and where a family 
is at all a large one, that leads to a sad state of immo- 
raUty, from boys and girls, young and old, all being 
crowded together; and yet any increase of rent at 
once stops the labourers from attempting to lessen that 
seriously improper state of things." ^^ In Essex," says 
a correspondent, ^^ cottage accommodation has been 
sadly neglected, but farmers are beginning to see that 
it is as necessary to have their labourers close at hand, 
as it is to have their horses on the farm. The union of 
parishes has done away with the practice of pulling 
down cottages, or not erecting new ones, for fear the 
aged, sick, or infirm labourers should in their distress 
become chargeable to the parish which has had the 
benefit of their labours when capable of exertion. 
Landlords and tenants are too apt, even now, to look 
for profit from the housing of the labourer. This is a 
great mistake ; for, by huddling together the males and 
females in indecent propinquity, their health and morals 
become tainted, ard re-act fearfully in various ways on 
the interest of both landlord and tenant. A suitable 
proportion of cottage accommodation should be attached 
to every farm, and at least one-eighth of an acre of 
garden-ground will tend much to the comfort and 
morality of the labourer and his family." " One of 
the great existing evils," says a correspondent, refer- 
ring to the state of matters in West Sufiblk, " with the 
poor man, is a want of proper cottage accommodation; 
the miserable home, with but one bed-room and the 



COTTAGB ACOOMMODATIOK. 258 

sitting-room, is most prevalent; and you may travel 
through parish after parish', and scarcely find a cottage 
possessing three bed-rooms ; and so long as that is the 
case, however desirable the father of a family may be, 
or however much he may educate, we shall never find 
any moral or material diflference. Wages may increase, 
means of comfort may increase, but so long as whole 
families herd together, there can be no benefit morally. 
This brings me to the conviction, that in the attempt 
to raise the condition of the labourer a wrong start has 
been made ; and if as much pains had been taken with 
the cottage home as has been taken to provide school 
accommodation, much greater good would have been 
effected/^ ^' Generally,^' says a Northumberland cor- 
respondent, ^' a great improvement has taken place in 
their cottages/' ^^ The home accommodation,^' writes 
a Bedford correspondent, " is greatly improved in this 
county through the enlightened policy of our great 
landowner, the Duke of Bedford, who has built some 
hundreds of model cottages. Some landlords have fol- 
lowed his example, whilst others allow the rural popu- 
lation to live in hovels fit only for swine, and in which 
the moral senses of the young must become blunted.'' 
'^ The house accommodation," says a Wiltshire corre- 
spondent, '^ of the labourers of this county is far from 
what it should be. Of course (as in all agricultural 
districts) many of the cottages are old and ill-con- 
structed, having insufficient sleeping apartments for a 
proper division of the sexes ; whole families are huddled 
together, to the destruction of all moral and virtuous 
feeling. It is generally on small properties, and where 
cottages belong to individuals whose only source of 
income is derived from the cottages, that we find the 
worst accommodation; still, on some of the larger 



254 PARMINO AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

domains^ there are cottages that disgrace this fair land ; 
hut, on the other hand, I hear willing testimony to a 
much better state of things. I could name many in- 
fluential landed proprietors who have expended large 
sums of money in erecting cottages on their estates, 
where good and ample sleeping accommodation, and 
every convenient requisite for a cottage is to be found, 
and let to the labourers at very moderate rents. I may 
state, that there is usually a tolerably good garden 
attached to the labourer's cottage, and the allotment 
system is universal.'^ 

It would be an easy matter to add to these 
sketches, but enough has been given to show that 
throughout England and Scotland the condition of 
the labourer's house accommodation may be de- 
scribed in one sentence : " Improvement is going on, 
but going slowly; badly arranged and constructed 
cottages, with deficient accommodation, are too fre- 
quently, good cottages too seldom, met with.'' But 
before leaving this department of the subject, we advert 
briefly to two points in connection with it. The first 
of these is the system — having its origin in what are 
called " close parishes,'' where cottage building, from 
the action of the " law of settlement," has not been 
carried out — of having the cottages of the labourers at 
a distance from their work. This evil is likely, how- 
ever, to be obviated in course of time ; recent legis- 
lation shows that our legislators are becoming alive to 
the folly of so arranging matters that the law of settle- 
ment should have the absurd and pernicious effect above 
alluded to. The second point we would direct the 
attention of the reader to is, the value of tl>e system of 
improving and re-arranging old cottages, as well as 
building new ones. Indeed, the greatest amount of 



labourers' wages. 255 

good will be the most quickly performed, if this im- 
proving of old cottages is more attended to than the 
building of new. ^^ It is/^ and we here quote, in con- 
clusion, from some suggestive remarks in a late number 
of the Quarterly Review, "at times a much greater 
kindness, and far more economical, to add to or repair 
an old house than to set up a bran new one. The 
special convenience of tenants can thus be much better 
met ; and we should not find, as is the case sometimes 
in model cottages, some poor old body moaning over 
the uselessness of a large cold room, or the desolation 
of unoccupied bed-chambers. Every sort of accom- 
modation, from one room to six, is needed for a village 
population. No one could be expected to erect new 
buildings to meet all these contingencies, but a consi- 
derate attention would easily find means of satisfying 
all reasonable requirements by repairing and altering 
existing houses.^' 

We now come to the subject of wages — their average 
amount in various districts, and mode of paying them. 
On this subject Mr. John Chalmers Morton has some 
exceedingly just and suggestive remarks, which we give 
here : — 

"Wages may be paid (1) in money solely; it may 
be (2) partly in board and lodging in the house ; it may 
be (3) partly in money, along with an immense variety 
of perquisites. These three include, I believe, all the 
various systems of payment adopted. 

"For all these various customs of payment there 
must of course be the general assent of the labourer, 
and the concurrence both of master and servant, in 
order to their establishment and maintenance ; and so 
long as a labourer agrees to take certain wages, there is 
not the shadow of a place for interference by any other 



256 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

person between him and his master. The fitness of 
customs, however, whether in the interests of agricul- 
turists who find that labourers are more difficult to 
hire, or in the interests of labourers themselves, may 
very properly be discussed, even by those who have no 
greater interest in the subject than that which they 
hold in the well-being of any other class of their fellow 
countrymen. 

'^ It is plain, on a very short acquaintance with the 
subject, that every system which has been, and I will 
say, can be devised, is liable to abuse. And this, more- 
over, is also true — that each is liable just in proportion 
to its excellence in the hands of a well-disposed man. 
The direct payment <3f a stipulated sum of money for 
stipulated services to be rendered, is, of any plan of 
wages, the least liable to abuse ; but it is at the same 
time that which famishes the least scope of any for 
the establishment of friendly relations between masters 
and men. 

" Then, on the other hand, that system which gives 
food, and fiiel, and accommodation, is the best of all, 
when administered with kindness; for the extras are 
worth to the labourer much more than the sum at 
which they would be valued to him in a money pay- 
ment ; but there can be no doubt that it is more liable 
to abuse than the simple money payment. The abuse 
of the money payment, it is plain, does not aflfect the 
relation of labourer and employer at all ; it lies in the 
scope afforded by it for the utter ignoring of the man 
in any other than this relation. The abuse in the case 
of payments of food, &c., does aflfect the due reward of 
labour; for, notwithstanding the agreement on this 
score, the quality of all these articles cannot be defined 
so exactly as their quantity. The payment, too, of all 



labourers' wages. 257 

this household stuflF as wages is a thing which affects 
householders only, and the young men who are leaving 
us are those whom we want to keep. To do so, then, 
as Mr. Mein, a large employer of agricultural labour, 
tells us, we must just offer wages which will keep them. 
That is the simple truth.^' 

The following, from the pages of the Agricultural 
Gazette, will convey some idea of the amount and mode 
of paying the services of agricultural labourers through- 
out the principal districts of England and Scotland : — 

'^Taking the counties of Scotland, given in the 
return, we find the rate of wages as follows : — Inver- 
ness, £13 yearly, with free house. Aberdeen, £22 
yearly, with board and lodging. Elgin, 7^. 6rf. weekly, 
with food; and £13 10^. yearly, with three bolls of 
meal, house, fire, and light free. Forfar, 8^. weekly, 
with perquisites equal to 7s, 6d, weekly ; also 12^. per 
week. Fife, 11^. 6d, weekly. Stirling, 13^. to 15^. 
weekly. East Lothian, 12*. 6d. weekly, paid in grain 
and cow-keep. Mid-Lothian, £21 yearly, with l,0501bs. 
of oatmeal, and 96 lbs. of potatoes, coals carted, four 
weeks of food at harvest, and house free; also 13s, 
weekly. Ayr, I2s. weekly. Roxburgh, ditto. Ber- 
vidck, 11^.; and Wigtown, 14*. weekly. Taking, in 
similar manner, the counties of England given in the 
return, we find the wages of able-bodied ploughmen to 
be as follows: — Northumberland, 15^. weekly, with 
perquisites worth 3^. 6rf. a-day extra in harvest, with 
a few presents at Christmas; also lo^. weekly, with 
2 bushels of wheat, 2 bushels of barley, 30 stones of 
potatoes, house free, and coals carried. Cumberland, 
£18 yearly ; also £21 yearly, with food and cottage. 
Durham, 15^. and 12^. with four tons of coal. York- 
shire, 14*. weekly ; £17 yearly, with meal. Lancashire, 



258 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

15*. weekly. Derbyshire, 14*. weekly. Notts, 10*. 
weekly, with rations. Cheshire, 12*. to 14*. weekly. 
Lincolnshire, 10*. to 17*. weekly. Shropshire, 11*. 
weekly, with 2 quarts of beer a day, and fuel hauled. 
Warwickshire, 12*. 6d. weekly, with 1 quart of beer 
per day; also 11*., with house and garden free, potato 
ground free, beer and double wages in harvest. Rut- 
landshire, 12*. 3d. weekly, with 1 quart of beer a-day. 
Leicestershire, 12*. weekly, with cottage free, coal 
hauled, and sometimes 2 bushels of malt. StaflPbrd- 
shire, 10*. weekly. Northamptonshire, 12*. weekly, 
with beer, and 6d. for every 10 quarters of corn de- 
livered. Worcestershire, 11*. to 12*. weekly, with 
2 quarts of beer a-day, and 20*. extra at harvest. 
Herefordshire, 10*. weekly, with cottage and garden 
worth 2*. 6rf., and cider daily, worth 20*., and in 
harvest 3*. 6rf. a- week; also 10*. weekly, cottage, 
garden, cider, and potato ground, worth 4*. a-week. 
Monmouth, 10*. weekly, with cider and ground equal 
to 2*. extra. Gloucestershire, 11*. weekly, with cot- 
tage 1*., beer 1*., and 20*. harvest. Oxfordshire, 12*.- 
to 15*. weekly. Berkshire, 10*. weekly, and 20*. at 
Michaelmas ; 9*. weekly, with house and garden free, 
potato ground free, beer and double wages in harvest. 
Bucks, 11*. to 14*. weekly. Herts, 12*. weekly. Cam- 
bridgeshire, 10*. to 11*. weekly. Norfolk, 10*. 6rf. 
weekly. SuflPolk, 10*. weekly, with perquisites. Essex, 
12*. weekly, house free; also 11*. and 12*. weekly, 
with beer at certain times. Sussex, 13*. weekly, beer 
when carting, and £1 at harvest. Hants, 10*. to 12#. 
weekly. Dorset, 8*. weekly, house and garden, potato 
land ploughed, furze faggots, carriage of fuel, 20*. for 
harvest, and beer, 1*. journey with team, beer at hay- 
making, and wheat at 5*. per bushel; also 9*., with 



labourers' wages. 259 

perquisites. Somerset^ 10^. weekly. Wilts, 9^. to 10*. 
weekly, with cottage and garden free, 4 bushels of malt, 
and 1^. per 10 quarters of com delivered ; 9*. weekly, 
with harvest money, 65^. Devon, 11*. to 14«. weekly. 
Cornwall and Carmarthen, 12^. weekly .^^ 

Parliamentary returns are now given as to the rate 
of wages paid in England, Scotland, and Ireland. The 
following — from the Journal of Agriculture — is an 
abstract of the most recent returns : — 

^^ England. — In the south-eastern district of England 
— including the extra metropolitan portions of Surrey 
and Kent, Sussex, Southampton, and Berkshire — the 
wages for men range from 6^. 4rf. to 13^. 6rf. per week, 
both the highest and lowest sum being given in Kent. 
The 6*. 4td, is set down as the weekly wage of men in 
Faversham, but we doubt its accuracy, Kent being 
notably one of the highest paying rural districts in 
England. In Surrey, the weekly wages are from 12*. 
to 12^. 9rf. ; Sussex, 11^. to 12^. ; and Southampton 
and Berkshire, 10^. to 11 «. In general, in these 
counties, men employed by the piece, two or three 
shillings per week more than those paid by time. 
Women, in the counties we have named, receive from 
3^. 6rf. to Qs, per week, the highest price being paid in 
Kent, and the lowest in Berkshire. Children earn 
from 3«. to 5*. 6rf. In Kent, wages are declared to be 
higher, in reference to the price of com, than the re- 
porter ever knew them to be before. In some of the 
parishes in Berkshire, and also in Southampton, carters 
receive, in addition to the wages mentioned, three pints 
of beer daily — the liquor, of course, not being of a very 
potent character. In the east midland district, com- 
prising the counties of Hertford, Northampton, Bed- 
ford, and Cambridge, the wages vary : for men, from 



260 FAKMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

10^. to 13^., being highest in Bedford; women, from 
1*. to 5^. — the female sex being considered least valu- 
able by the Northampton farmers, and most so by those 
of Cambridge ; though, on the whole, women do not 
appear to be much employed in out-door labour in any 
of the counties. Children under sixteen receive from 2^. 
to 5^. 6d, weekly. In most cases, it may be mentioned^ 
food is allowed in this district during the harvest month, 
but not at other times. It is usual, however, in the 
neighbourhood of Bedford, to give horse-keepers, shep- 
herds, and cattle-men their breakfast on the Sunday 
morning, and they get, also, an occasional pint of ale j 
but this is not in the bond, and should hardly be 
reckoned as wages. In the eastern district, embracing 
Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, from 10^. toll^. and 12*., 
two pints of beer daily being allowed in addition, on 
some farms, to men engaged with the threshing machine 
or in corn dressing — dry jobs, both. Women earn 
from 3*. 6d. to 4:3. 6d. ; and children about the same, 
though in one or two localities the latter receive a 
shilling more. In the south-western district, including 
Wilts, Dorset, Devon, Cornwall, and Somerset, the 
rural labourer receives worse pecuniary treatment than 
he meets with anywhere else in England. In Wilts, 
he ranges from 9*. to 10«., with a draught of table beer 
daily in some places. In Dorset, 9*. is oftener the 
wages than lOs. ; while in Devonshire, 8*. to 9*., in 
rare instances 10*., weekly, is the wage. Cider being 
plentiful in Devonshire, however, Hodge receives, in 
the more liberal quarters, his daily dose of a quart for 
nothing. In Cornwall and Somerset, the wages range 
from 9s. to 10*. weekly. As regards women and 
children, the wages in the south-western district are 
from 8s. to 48. in the case of t\ie fast, and 2*. to 8s. 6rf. 



LABOUBERS* WAGEa 261 

in the case of the second. In the west midland dis- 
trict, consisting of Gloucester, Hereford, Shropshire, 
Stafford, Worcester, and Warwick, men^s wages range 
from 9s, to 11^. and 12*., being highest in Staffordshire, 
in proximity to the great brewers of Burton. Indeed, 
it is noticeable that in purely agricultural districts the 
wages are lowest, and highest where trade and manu- 
factures compete with husbandry for manual labour. 
Women, in this district, when employed, earn from 
4*. to 5*. weekly, and children from 2*. to 6s. Beer 
is occasionally given to men in addition to the wages 
named. In the north midland district, which comprises 
Leicester, Rutland, Lincoln, Nottingham, and Derby, 
the wages rule about 12*. per week for men ; but in 
Lincoln they receive as high as 13*. 6d., and even 15s. 
Women earn from 4*. to 6s., and children from 2*. to 
4*. 6^;?. In the north-western division, Cheshire, Lanca- 
shire, and Yorkshire, men^s wages are from 10*. to 15*., 
being both highest and lowest in Lancashire. The aver- 
age wage of Cheshire appears to be 12*., and of York- 
shire, a shade higher. The demand for female labour in 
the manufacturing districts of Lancashire, enhances the 
price of those who work in the fields, and as high as 
7s. 6d. per week is paid to women in some localities. 
The average, however, is not more than 5*. in this divi- 
sion, while children earn about 4*. In the northern 
district, which embraces Durham, Northumberland, 
Cumberland, and Westmoreland, the wages of the 
agricultural labourer are high, influenced, no doubt, by 
the demand for workers in the great collieries in this 
division, and the high rate of remuneration there ob- 
tained. In Durham they have from \Zs. 6d. to 15*. ; in 
Northumberland, 125. to 15*. ; in Cumberland, mxvsJa. 
about the same; and in some paite oi ^ ^'eX^xaax^^aso^* 



262 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

as high as 16^. 6d. weekly. Women and children are 
proportionably high paid in this division, the wages 
for the former being from 5«. to 8^., while the latter, in 
some parts, receive as much as 7s. 6d. .... 

" Scotland. — The weekly wages of men range from 
12s. to 15s. inArgyle; 10^. to 16^. in Ayr; ]5«. in 
Berwick; 11^. to 12^. in Caithness; 12^. to 16s. in 
Clackmannan; 12^. in Cromarty ; 15^. in Dumbarton; 
14^. in Edinburgh; 13^. to 14«. in Elgin; 13^. to 
14*. 6d. in Fife; 135. to 15*. in Forfar; 12*. to 15*. in 
Haddington; 10*. to 16*. in Inverness ; 13*. to 14*. in 
Kincardine; 12*. in Kirkcudbright; 12*. to 14*. 6rf. 
in Lanark; 13*. in Linlithgow; 14*. in Nairn; 12*. 
in Orkney; 11*. in Boss; 14*. to 15*. in Selkirk; 12*. 
to 14*. in Stirling; 8*. in Shetland; 13*. in Peebles; 
12*. in Perth; 11*. in Sutherland; and 11*. 4^rf. in 
Wigton. Aberdeen, Baniff, Dumfries, and Boxburgh 
furnished no return, but we have reason to believe that 
the remuneration there diiOfers little from that in the 
immediately adjoining counties. Women throughout 
the whole of Scotland receive from 4*. to as high as 
7s. 6d. in Benfrewshire and Dumbarton, and as low 
as 2s. lOd. in Elgin. Children generally range from 
3*. to 5*., but in Benfrew they receive as much as 
6*. 6d 

"Ireland. — Beginning with the counties alphabeti- 
cally, we find that in Antrim the weekly wages of men 
are 8*. 3|rf. ; but then it would appear from the report 
that they receive as much as 5*. Sd. additional in food. 
We are inclined to believe, however, that the 8*. 3|rf. 
includes the value of food. One or two of the reports 
in this return are, we may here remark, utterly value- 
less to the statist, from the thoroughly Irish way in 
wiicb they axe worded. Tlius -we ^x^ \.o\4,Miider the 



labourers' wages. 268 

weekly wages column for the county Down, the men 
receive 8*. ; in the column relative to the allowance of 
food we are told they get none ; and then in the column 
for remarks we are informed that men obtain about 12s. 
A similar " Irishism ^^ vitiates the report from Louth. 
To return, however. In Armagh men get 7s. 6d,; in 
Carlow, 7s. ; Cavan, 7s. Id. ; Clare, 7*. ; Cork, 7s. to 
7s. Sd.; Donegal, 6s. lOd. ; Dublin, 8*. d^d.; Fer- 
managh, 6s.; Galway, 6s. 4rf. to 6*. 6d. ; Kerry, Ss. -id. ; 
Kildare, 8^. ; Kilkenny, 5^. 7d, — a small sum, certainly, 
for the ^ stout roving blades ' of that county ; King's 
County, 7s. 8d. ; Leitrim, 6^. 4rf. ; Limerick, 7s. ; Lon- 
donderry, 78. 6d. ; Longford, 6s. ; Mayo, 6s. ; Meath, 
7s. 9d. ; Monaghan, 7s. ; Queen's County, 6^. ; Ros- 
common, 105. 2d. ; Sligo, 65. 2^d. ; Tipperary, 6^. to 
6s. lid. ; Tyrone, 7s. 5d. ; Waterford, about 5^. to 6^.; 
Westmeath, 7s. ; Wexford, 6s. Sd. ; and Wicklow, 
7s. 6d. Women's weekly wages in Ireland vary from 
3^. to 5s., and children's from 2^. to 4s. 6d. 

" On an average, the weekly wages of men employed 
in agriculture in the three kingdoms stand thus: — 
England, ll^. 4rf. ; Scotland, 13^.; and Ireland, 7s. Id.'' 

The author of the above abstract has the following 
suggestive remarks. One thing "is very clear from 
these statistics, and that is, that in each of the three 
countries the agricultural labourer is much better oflF 
in comparison with those engaged in manufacturing 
pursuits than he was generally supposed to be before 
such means of estimating his condition were placed at 
our disposal by parliament. Such wages as farm ser- 
vants receive are not now to be earned in many branches 
of weaving, even when there is full employment, and 
that, in most districts, is rare at present. The re^gv^^sss: 
farm servant, moreover, never lia^ a \ix^eiTL ^^ •• ^^^^ 



264 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMT 

wages run on whatever the state of the markets^ or 
however unpropitious the weather. Only the other 
day we passed through a considerable village in Ayr- 
shire^ where almost every loom was standing idle, and 
a mile out from the village we found about fifty of the 
poor wretches trying to save themselves and their fami- 
lies from absolute starvation by breaking into road- 
metal the hard, round, sea-washed boulders on the 
coast. Lads just entering on manhood, and grey-headed 
sires that might be said to have one foot in the grave, 
were here hammering away for a bowlful of water- 
mixed brose ; for the sum we were told they received 
would hardly aflford anything else. When were a band 
of farm servants seen in like plight ? Never ! And 
we beg to inform town clergymen and other philan- 
thropists that there is no need whatever for the tender 
pity they profess to feel for the agricultural population. 
There is no class in the community who are better oflF, 
or whose wages have more steadily advanced with the 
improvements of the age. A century and a half ago, 
we learn from Donaldson's ^ Husbandry Anatomised,^ 
that the value of a man^s meat and wages for a year 
was £90 Scots, or about £7 \0s. At present, as we 
have seen, it averages £33 165. in Scotland. But there 
is no necessity to go so far back. Within the last 
twenty years the wages of farm servants in Scotland 
have increased more than 40 per cent. ; and in Ireland, 
owing partly to emigration, but chiefly to the spirit of 
improvement introduced by the new proprietors whom 
the operations of the Landed Estates Court brought 
in, the rise in twenty years has been as high as 57 per 
cent. In England, however, it may surprise many 
people to hear that the increase in the same period has 
not been more than 12 per cent. 



HIBIKa MARKETS 265 

^' One great lesson to be learned from the difference 
in the wages of England and Scotland^ as it appears to 
us, is this : that wherever there is intelligence and 
enterprise in the farmers, there necessarily follows 
higher wages to the operative." 

In close connection with the subject of wages is the 
mode of hiring labour open to the employer. There 
are ^' hiring markets " in Scotland, and " statute 
fairs/' or "mops," in England. These methods are 
open to grave objections, as inducing a great deal of 
immorality in consequence of the attendance of large 
numbers of both sexes, and the general looseness 
attendant upon a day of thorough idleness, which the 
holding of the market, or the mop, occasions. 

As regards the operation of the hiring market system * 
in Scotland, a distinguished Scotch agriculturist sends 
us the following : — 

" It has been most prejudicial to both masters and 
men. Servants are hired not for their character, but 
from their height and breadth of their shoulders; in 
fact, it is impossible in a market to obtain a character. 
No consideration wotdd induce me to hire a man in a 
market. You cannot be in contact with a man for 
twelve months without affecting him, or being affected 
by him, either for the better or for the worse. He will 
do something to excite your anger, or you will raise 
his wrath, without the most judicious selection. When 
I want a man, I let it be known, and as yet have 
always had the offer of service to choose from. I have 
seldom any changes, while those who go to the market 
get new servants almost every year." A Committee of 
the Highland and Agricultural Society was recently 
appointed to ^ consider and report as to tha N'a:t^sss^^ 
methods in use toi procuring tine eug^cg^emewX. ^1 l«x\si. 



266 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

labourers, male and female, and whether it may not be 
possible to dispense with hiring markets/ Taking the 
information supplied by correspondence, the committee 
reported that the methods in use for procuring the 
engagements of farm labourers appeared to be the fol- 
lowing: — 1. By private hiring, which seemed a very 
common method of hiring, and in many districts almost 
the only one. 2. By private hiring in combination 
with hiring markets, some farmers using the hiring 
markets only as a last resort. 3. By advertisement, a 
mode which was sometimes used with good eiOfect. 4, By 
private hiring along with monthly or short engage- 
ments. 5. By registers, which seemed to exist in a 
good many places, but were mostly of recent origin, 
and were not very extensively used. 6. By hiring 
markets, which is the method at present most exten- 
sively used. It seemed to be the general opinion, from 
the returns, that hiring markets are not in a very satis- 
factory state, but there was very considerable diflference 
of opinion as to what was to be done in reference to 
them. Among the suggested improvements of hiring 
markets were — ^that drinking-booths should be abo- 
lished, and refreshments provided on a large scale on 
temperance principles; that only men should be 
engaged at the markets, and the women privately; 
that the market should close early in the s^emoon ; 
that they should be retained along with registers ; and 
that farmers should employ married men as much as 
possible, as in Berwickshire and Roxburghshire. The 
committee, after having carefully considered the whole 
subject, had come to the following conclusions: — 
* 1. That while hiring markets, as at present conducted 
seem to be very generally condemned, any practical 
measures to be adopted by the Highland and Agricul- 



HIRING MAREEia 267 

Society on the subject of re-engagement of farm 
ers must be gradual work, depending to a large 
on the progress of public opinion. 2. That the 
jal measures which our committee have to recom- 
are accordingly suggested with the view, not of 
5 at present to any definite or final conclusion on 
ibject, but of keeping it before the public atten- 
br some time, so that the public may have an 
;imity of considering it fully, and in all its bear- 
ind of arriving at mature and sound conclusions. 
a.t your committee have accordingly to recom- 
to the directors and to the society, that the 
be ofiered by the society with reference to the 
ts specified. 4. That while your committee pro- 
1 this way to keep the matter under public atten- 
hey would strongly recommend Local Agricultural 
ies, Farmers' Clubs, and individual farmers, to 
sd at once to make experiments of the diflFerent 
of hiring suggested in the returns, with the view 
3rtaining for themselves, and of giving the society 
vantage of a larger and more extensive experience 
hey now possess. 5. That while your committee 
3 the above conclusions are all that the present 
lation justified them in arriving at, they think 
ire also justified in saying, that as the returns 
a very wide-spread dissatisfaction with hiring 
ts, it is incumbent on employers in their several 
IS to foster and encourage the growth of mutual 
t and regard between them and their servants, 
► take a kindly interest in the welfare, prosperity, 
lappiness of those in their employment, your 
ittee being assured that on such farms and in 
districts where such feelings largely prevail^ tha 
f society is higher, changes are\e.«>^ it^^ec^^ «»^ 

N a 



268 FARMIKa AND FABMIKG BGONOMY. 

hiring markets are less frequented/ As regards the 
' statute fairs^ and ' mops^ in England^ the same opinion 
pretty generally prevails as we have already expressed 
in connection with hiring markets in Scotland. Much 
of what can be said on both sides of this subject is 
nearly comprised in the following extracts from one or 
two letters we have received on the subject. ' There has 
been,' says one, ' a great desire to put an end to those 
hiring fairs, on the part of the clergy and otherq. They 
are no doubt the scenes of great immorality and vice, 
are attended with much evil, and tend to make servants 
unsettled in their situations. Several fairs have been 
discontinued, and registering-oflSces have been opened 
in the small villages; but the alteration has been so 
lately made, that the eiOfect can scarcely be stated at 
present.' As regards the comparative utility of these 
statutes and registers, a correspondent, who, vrhile 
denouncing statutes as ^ most serious evils,' states that 
'the hirers generally want more servants than one, 
and might not succeed at the registry-office, so prefer 
attending the statutes. Another thing is, they see the 
servants and their late master at the same time.' The 
doing away with the statutes, he further says, 'is 
mainly in the hands of the masters ; for if they refrain 
to go to hire, the servants would cease to attend them.' 
Another correspondent energetically states his opinions 
thus on the subject : — ' A great deal of bosh has been 
uttered by a lot of ... . meddling muddle-headed 
clergymen in reference to statute hiring. They had 
far better let us farmers alone. . . . No reasonable 
objection can be urged against the system. Its use 
is undeniable, its abuse to be regretted, and very easily 
reformed. The grumblers .... say young men and 
women congregating for swcii a -jiviLr^o^e must neces- 



BECREATION OF THE LABOURER. 269 

sarily lead to immorality. Any gathering of such a 
kind for any other purpose would, I presume, have the 
same effect. Here, if there were no statutes, they 
would still congregate and have their holiday ; and why 
should they not ? Many farmers in this county keep 
from ten to thirty, or even forty, yearly farm servants ; 
if there were no statute gatherings, how are they to be 
obtained? A register-office is a farce. We already 
know that such a system is the curse of the present 
scheme of getting household servants, and with plough- 
men it would be incalculably worse.^ ** 

Recreation of the Labourer, — '^ Labour, if rightly 
directed, should give to him who exercises it, not only 
wherewith to provide for the necessities, but also for 
the rest and the luxuries of life. The condition of the 
labourer is truly painful, and that of society unsound, 
where ^ the time for rest is swallowed up in labour.' 
A movement has long been in progress, and attended 
with the happiest results, among various classes of the 
working men of Great Britain, to obtain a certain 
amount of leisure time. We should like to see this 
movement inaugurated in the rural districts. We are 
aware that it has been so in some, but it is not by any 
means general. But what we should better like to see 
would be a voluntary offer on the part of the masters 
themselves to give to their servants more time for rest 
and recreation. In many districts the only holidays 
obtainable are the days of the hiring markets ; and so 
strong is the desire to have these, that we believe many 
would rather give up their situations, if that were 
necessary, than miss them. Nor is this to be won- 
dered at : the desire for excitement is strongly im- 
planted within us. ' All work and no play makes I^ds^ 
a dull boy' — a homely proveTb,WtTiO\ia^e\^'eR»^x^iJ^^«^s^ 



270 FARlilNa AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

and suggestive. But in giving time for recreation^ it 
behoves us to see that the recreation be sound and 
healthy. It is, in truth,, a bitter satire upon all our 
fine talk at raising the condition of the labourer, to 
reflect that, too often — shall we say that it is the 
general rule, and the reverse the exception ? we think 
we might with safety do so — the beer-shop is the only 
place of attraction in which the ordinary, and that of 
the hiring market, statute fair, or harvest-homes, the 
extraordinary, recreation of the labourer can be carried 
out. It is, however, gratifying to be able to state that 
things are rapidly improving in this respect. The 
garden and cottage allotment systems, the reading- 
rooms, the itinerant libraries, the play-grounds, fee., 
which are rapidly becoming common throughout the 
country, will, in time, oiOfer to the labourer recreation 
of a high order, and do much to rouse his ambition, 
and stimulate him to occupy a higher position in society, 
till at last the realisation of the poet^s wish may be 
brought about, that 

** A virtuous populace may rise the while, 
And stand, a wall of fire, around 
Their much-loved isle." 

The Harvest Home is one of the time-honoured modes 
by which amusement and recreation are given to the 
agricultural labourer. From a very early period in the 
history of the art, the carrying home of the last sheaf 
has always been an opportunity for rejoicing ; this, at 
one time, taking place more as a religious festival, but 
latterly more in the way of a feast, as given by the 
farmer to his labourers. This, in primitive times and 
in primitive districts, was all very well, and was emi- 
nently calculated to promote the kindly feeling between 
master and man, so rarely met mt\v, but so highly 



RECREATION OF THE LABOURER. 271 

valuable. But in many districts it is impossible for 
this to be done, not only from the altered modes in 
which harvest work is done — through the employment 
of extra hands, who come from no one knows where, 
to go no one knows how, and who are in no way 
exactly the manner of men the farmer wishes to enter- 
tain at his board, and mix with his regular servants. 
As substitutes for ^^ harvest homes^^ many plans have 
been proposed ; extra wages — small sums of money to 
enable them to have a feast at home. In some districts 
the farmers, in place of their own isolated efforts, club 
the sums they would otherwise give away, and give a 
general holiday entertainment to all the labourers of 
the district. This entertainment varies in its fea- 
tures in various districts. One plan, to which con- 
siderable prominence has been given as having been 
very successful, not merely " on the day itself, but in 
putting a stop to the drunken scenes by day and night 
which still prevail elsewhere, as a rule, for a week or 
more after harvest is concluded,^* is that introduced 
by the Rev. W. T. Tracey, of Buxton, near Norwich : — 
— " Tickets are issued by a committee, at 2*. 6d. for 
men, 1*. 6d, for women and lads under fourteen, and 
1*. for children. These are purchased by the farmers 
and given to their workpeople. There is a dinner, at 
which as much meat and plum-pudding as each person 
wants is provided, and small beer only is given at 
dinner. Only those who live or work in the parish 
are eligible to receive these tickets. Like meat, small 
beer is given without stint. ' Our great and only dif- 
ficulty has been in the quality and distribution of the 
beer during the afternoon.^ This is probably the main 
difficulty in the way of harvest suppers, and has led to 
their disuse. There will always be ^otsl^ ts^^-^ ^^\\si^ 



872 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

when excited, become so greedy for beer, that scenes 
occur which offend the giver of the feast, and he declares 
each one shall be the last. Mr. Tracey allows the 
men this year two quarts of sixpenny ale or porter, 
instead of three pints allowed last year ; lads from four- 
teen to eighteen, two pints ; and women and children, 
one pint each. To insure that each person has his or 
her own share and no more, a somewhat elaborate plan 
of bookkeeping and checking has been adopted by the 
committee for the distribution of the beer, with which 
it is scarcely necessary to trouble our readers. This, 
it is hoped, ^ will stop the only cause of dissatisfaction/ 
Each person sends his own mug, plate, knife and fork, 
with his name on the basket containing it, by eight in 
the morning, to the tent wherein the dinner takes 
place. Then the day commences 'with the party 
meeting at 10 a.m., half a mile from the church, 
and walking with banners in procession to the ser- 
vice at 11 a.m.* There a mission sermon is preached 
and a collection made, not usually a very large one. 
Dinner at 1.30 p.m.; then 'the afternoon is spent in 
various games, races, &c., for which prizes of spades, or 
scythes, or waistcoats, or gowns for the wives of married 
men, &c., besides a Bible or Prayer-book to the two 
oldest persons present, are given. At 6 p.m. each 
man is to have a harvest cake, and each woman a cake 
and tea. The day^s festivities conclude with a display 
of fireworks.* There were 400 at the dinner, and the 
expense was £43 17s, Id, Visitors were not admitted 
during dinner, the workpeople, naturally enough, ob- 
jecting to it ; but after dinner, admission is open at 
Is, 6d. each. Such of the cost as was not met by the 
sale of tickets was defrayed by the subscriptions of 
landowners and farmers.** 



ALLOTMBNTa 273 

Like every other question connected with the labourer, 
this of harvest homes is surrounded with doubt and 
difference of opinion; no matter what may be the method 
adopted for giving a treat to the farm servants at this most 
interesting period of the year, certainly some one will 
have grave reasons to state why that is the worst thing to 
be done. Each district must really find out the way best 
calculated to please its labourers, and do this without 
tempting them to exceed. The above plan seems to us 
a very fair way of meeting the difficulties of the case. 
Men and women are always the better by being brought 
together in large companies, where the fullest liberty 
is given, without a shade of license. A little supervision, 
in nowise painful to the labourer, will always secure 
this. Possibly, if the feast or gathering was left in all 
the details of its management and its carrying out to 
the labourers alone, who would appoint a committee to 
look after these, the plan would succeed all the better. 
It is a good thing to trust men, and to let them know 
that you really do trust them. In such a case they will 
much more likely try to behave well, and will likely 
succeed. Moreover, the labourers would feel far more 
comfortable by themselves; it may, perhaps, minister 
to their pride to have the gentry amongst them, but it 
certainly does not do so to their comfort. It is but 
human nature to like best to do with our own ^^ set,^^ 
and seeing that it is so, why not learn the lesson it 
offers to teach us ? 

The real difficulty, however, which besets the ^' re- 
creation^^ question, is the employment of the spare 
time of the labourers after their work is done. Of 
all the plans proposed, we know of none at all likely to 
give the same benefits as the " allotment '' or ^^ amaXL 

N 3 



274 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

garden '^ system. It can be easily carried out, for the 
rent of a shilling a rod per annum will bring in £S per 
acre, so that it is no loss for any one to let out land for 
this purpose. Sixteen men can have each a garden 
50 feet square out of each acre, and will gladly give 
20*. a-year for it. As to the benefits resulting from the 
scheme, the following from Mr. Glenny, who has had 
large practical experience of the working of the system, 
will be suggestive : — 

'^ It has been said, and may be truly said in some 
cases, that there is no good without its share of evil. 
Surely the allotment system is an exception. What 
evil can arise from it ? So far as we can see — and we 
have seen it working in many parts of the country — 
good must result from it; harm cannot. We have 
urged its adoption many times, and sometimes with 
effect. We have even seen the best effects when it has 
been carried out on waste land that has been poor and 
hungry, and wanted more labour and dressing to bring 
a crop than the crop was worth; but the men were 
proud of their produce, and reckoned their labour 
nothing. Many a prize have we had to award among 
them for productions that would not discredit a firsts 
rate gardener. At all the shows we have attended as 
judge (and they have been very numerous), the cotta- 
gers' and allotment holders^ produce equalled, and often 
surpassed, those of the gentlemen gardeners ; and when 
men once take to gardening they appear to us to become 
more enthusiastic and more successful every year. 
Parochial oflScers, then, should take land on purpose to 
let out in small gardens, and allow men to take more 
or less quantity according t6 the extent of their families. 
The officers should also supply tools and seeds, to be 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS. 275 

paid for by instalments^ that a man may begin his 
gardening with proper implements and materials. The 
parish would soon feel the benefit^ in improved morals 
and diminished rates.^' 



DIVISION SECOND. 

AGRICULTURAL STATISTICa 

None, perhaps, of the various questions of farming 
economics is so much discussed, and in connection with 
which so little is decided, either as to what should be 
done, or how it should be done, as that of agricultural 
statistics. 

Not here to enter into any discussion of the vexed 
question, as to the propriety or otherwise of collecting 
statistics, it may, however, be permitted us to say that, 
when contrasted with the honourable attention paid to 
the interests of other callings, as those connected with 
the iron, the cotton, and the various branches of 
national industry, the dignity of agriculture appears to 
suffer not a little at the hands of the nation. Yielding 
to none in importance, underlying and over-influencing 
every branch of industry, acknowledged frankly enough 
in set terms and on set occasions, after-dinner hours 
and the like, to be without dispute the ^^ art which 
nourishes all other arts ''-. — arti artium nutrici ; agricul- 
ture, nevertheless, holds, or at all events held up to a 
very recent period, a remarkably low place in public 
estimation. Why this should be so, and why with a 
strange indifference farmers allow it to be so, appears 
to us somewhat astonishing. While the fullest infor- 
mation is obtained as to our exi^oxl^ ^xA yck^^-^^.^^*^^ 



276 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

statistics of our shipping, our railways, and our fac- 
tories, nothing comparatively is known about our farms, 
what crops their fields produce, or the stock sheltered 
in their folds. Agricultural progress is now beyond all 
doubt remarkable, but nothing guides us to an accurate 
knowledge of the direction in which that progress is 
making the most rapid strides, the actual position in 
which it now is, and what that is likely to be in the 
future. On almost every point connected with agricul- 
ture we are left to form the vaguest conjectures, and 
frame estimates which may be as wide as the poles 
from the truth. 

As a general rule, when the importance of statistics 
is insisted upon by agriculturists, they limit what is 
required chiefly to live stock and crops, which would 
doubtless be specially useful in comparing the food with 
the stock which is to consume it. But a properly 
arranged system of agricultural statistics should em- 
brace, in the opinion of many, a wider range of subjects. 
The machinery required to work out one set of facts 
will, at a very slightly increased cost, work out many 
sets. What these sets should be, however, it is some- 
what diflScult to define. 

They should embrace, we think, returns as to the 
number of labourers employed in agriculture, the wages 
they obtain, and how these are paid, in money or kind; 
the number of cottages, and their aggregate room 
accommodation. Such returns in connection with the 
labourers would enable us to arrive at a pretty accurate 
estimate of their numbers, how they are paid, work, 
and live; and enable us to test the degree of over- 
crowding, if any, in their cottages. With reference to 
the land and its cultivation, it would be interesting to 
know the peculiarities of the soils of our various dis- 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS. 277 

tricts, the extent to which lands are drained^ and upon 
what principle this drainage is effected ; the number of 
acres under irrigation, and the system adopted, the 
extent to which town sewage is used, and the condition 
of " arterial drainage '' and of the " outfalls/' To 
these might be added returns as to the extent of waste 
land in the kingdom ; and how much is in process of 
reclamation, and also the acreage under timber. In 
regard to the crops, not only would returns be valuable 
as to the acreage under each specific crop, but also as 
to the rotation adopted, and the kinds and quantities 
of manures employed, artificial as well as farm-yard. 
Returns as to the number and kinds of implements 
and machines, and the extent of steam and water power 
employed, might also be interesting and valuable. 

Although many engaged in farming are most reso- 
lutely opposed to the collection of agricultural statistics, 
still, as the editor of an ably conducted journal says, — 
*' We remark with pleasure a growing solicitude among 
the farmers to learn what the facts of the case really 
are. It is hard that they should be at such pains to 
obtain guidance so scanty and so doubtful; and all 
testimony goes to assure us that the great body of 
tenant farmers in England would be abundantly thank- 
ful for a good system of statistics such as manufacturers 
of other products than food have the benefit of. Those 
who write for farmers' reading inquire in all directions 
for facts about the agricultural production of the 
country, its acreage under different crops, its stores, 
&c. Those who meet farmers at clubs and market 
tables know how to make themselves acceptable by 
agricultural news, gathered from far and near. Letters 
circulate, reports are handed about ; and everywhere 
there is a fishing for tidings whidci ou^^^a^i^^^'nS^xsi. 



278 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

every man^s reach, in a better form and of a higher 
quality. Our agricultural interest unsupplied with 
agricultural statistics is like what some departments of 
the kingdom would be without the post-office. Suppose 
Yorkshire, or the eastern counties, or the south coast, 
in such a case. Fancy the toil and delay of running 
letter-carriers, and the spread of news in the absence 
of newspapers ; every family living isolated, and all 
society groping after its destinies, for want of knowing 
what is doing and happening elsewhere. So are oiw 
farmers waiting, and wasting time and effort, and 
groping and bungling, and falling behind other manu- 
facturers and merchants, however advancing in their 
own class, and failing in that to prosper equally with 
equal desert, because they have not the same guidance 
of facts to proceed upon. Will the manufacturer of 
food wait for more bad seasons before he asks for the 
advantage which is worth so much to the manufacturer 
of clothing ? '' 

Objections are freely made as to the value of agri- 
cultural statistics, but no objection could be made as to 
the interest attached to such returns as we have here 
indicated. We believe that their publication would 
open up new points of view, and give a wonderful im- 
pulse to the progress of agriculture ; nor would they 
be useless in explaining many anomalies which at pre- 
sent puzzle inquirers, and in getting rid of many 
popular fallacies respecting agriculture which tend to 
keep her in that ill-defined position, as one of the great 
branches of national industry, which she has so long 
and so patiently occupied. 

The difficulty of obtaining these returns is not 

ignored here; neither is the fact lost sight of, that 

partisans of peculiar opinions les^^ctm^ a^icultural 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS. 279 

economics would wrest from them one-sided fallacious 
arguments in support of their views. But connected 
with agriculture, we are left to form the vaguest con- 
jectures, and frame estimates which may be as wide as 
the poles from the truth. We can predicate nothing 
Ynth. certainty regarding it. 

Not simply valuable to the trades or branches of 
commerce depending upon agriculture, but as influenc- 
ing in a higher sense the welfare of the art, and 
drawing closer to it the sympathies and the interests 
of the nation at large; and as showing, moreover, 
how it influences and is correspondingly influenced by 
the wide variety of other arts and sciences, would we 
advocate the system of agricultural statistics forming 
part of our national statistics. And although the sub- 
ject is happily gaining ground daily in the estimation 
of the farming public, it has taken, after all, so little 
practical hold of those able to influence its adoption, 
that we have just allowed to pass unheeded and unused 
an opportunity of easily procuring information in con- 
nection with many, if not all, of the points bearing upon 
the position and prospects of agriculture. This oppor- 
tunity being unfortunately lost, it is useless now^ and as 
foolish as it is useless, to deplore past mistakes, to sit 
down and allow matters to go on as they list, making 
no efifort to get what we wish, and know to be so desir- 
able. Let us from past failures gather future fruit, 
and act henceforth unitedly, with vigour and determina- 
tion, in getting that reliable information which will 
enable agriculturists truly to define their position — 
what is doing, and what is likely to be done, in connec- 
tion with it. 

The diflSculties can soon be overcome, and the falla 
cies would easily be refuted. It \» yck^o^^Wl^ V^ ^-^^^t- 



280 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

estimate the value of a wide array of ''facts" in 
connection with the economy of any art, and that of 
agriculture is no exception to the rule. And it is 
no argument — as some seem to think it is — against 
the value of such facts, that the giving of them will be 
steadily and sturdily refused by many, and that they 
will be used when obtained for partisan purposes. We 
have reason to know that there is a widespread desire 
now existing amongst the agricultural community, and 
this is daily extending, to have the fullest information 
on all points connected with their calling. Many who, 
years ago, were dead against all returns, now take 
higher and broader views on the subject, and see a high 
value in an inquiry which at one time they denounced 
as inquisitorial in its character as they deemed it un- 
necessary in practice. As we have seen, farmers* clubs 
are taking up the subject, and many things around us 
tell us of the growing interest attaching itself to the 
question, and of the likelihood that ere long the inazy 
mists of uncertainty which envelop the subject and 
give a false idea of our agricultural position will be 
dispelled, and give place to the clear light of truth. 
The aim of the collection of agricultural statistics is to 
exchange — in the words of Mr. C. W. Hoskyns, its 
most able advocate — "doubt for certainty, guesswork 
for fact, error for truth ; and in so doing, hold up a 
mirror that can neither flatter nor distort, exhibiting 
to British agriculture a sight which it has little cause 
to fear, in a comparative review of the station that it 
holds in the industry of the world." 

It will not take up much space to give the historical 

details connected with the subject. In England the 

attempt made to collect the statistics, under the auspices 

and hy the officers of the Poot Law Board and the 



AGRICUliTURAL STATISTICS. 281 

Board of Guardians, was a complete failure. Nothing, 
in point of feet, could have been better than the machi- 
nery which could thus have been set at work — the 
Board of Guardians, a " shrewd statistical committee,'^ 
as they have been termed by Mr. Hoskyns, " rich in 
local knowledge, its able arithmetical clerk as classifier, 
its relieving officer as enumerator, to deliver and re- 
turn the schedules of the occupiers.^^ But the method 
thus proposed for collecting the facts was so unpopular 
with the tenant farmers, that it completely failed. A 
still more recent attempt to employ the county police 
as collectors also failed, on account of the strong preju- 
dices the measure raised in the minds of the farmers. 
In Ireland, the agricultural statistics are carefully re- 
turned and registered through the agency of the rural 
police, and these returns form the only ones obtainable 
in the kingdom. In Scotland a system of obtaining 
statistics was brought out under the auspices of the 
Board of Trade and the Highland and Agricultural 
Society, and conducted with admirable skill and judg- 
ment hj their secretary, Mr. Hall Maxwell. The 
system was in operation three years, from 1854 to 
1-857, but an unfortunate dispute between the Board of 
Trade and Mr. Maxwell — in which it was the almost 
universal opinion that Mr. Maxwell was right — brought 
an end to it ; not before, however, it had fairly and fully 
established the fact that most trustworthy statistics 
could be easily collected, not only with the concurrence, 
but with the important and readily offered help, of the 
farmers themselves. It should also be noted that very 
valuable returns are obtained at the present time through 
private sources, and by the media of the agricultural 
journals. Thus merchants, as Messrs. Sanders and 
Hodgson, of Liverpool, obtain "pretty acicva^x.^ ^^^<3^?is^^ 



282 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

by sending individuals into different parts of the 
country whilst the grain is yet in the ear, to cut out a 
square yard and see what it would produce in the dif- 
ferent kinds of land — clay lands, sandy lands, &c/' 
Again, the influential agricultural journals, as the Mark 
Lane Express and Agricultural Gazette, obtain, by 
means of numerous correspondents throughout the 
country, very important statistics as to the value of the 
crops, &c. 

It is absolutely impossible to give here anything like 
a full glance at those statistics which have been col- 
lected, or those estimates and calculations which have 
been made. We can but at best throw together a few 
statements which may be of service and interest to 
the reader. The following we take from the AffrictU- 
tural Gazette J with reference to the land under arable 
culture : — 

From the statistics of England and Wales, published 
by the Poor Law Commissioners, we find that out of the 
87,344,915 acres, there were in 1854 — 

Acres. Qcutrten. 
3,807,019 of wheat, which I estimate at 3 qrs. 

per acre 11,424,057 

2,767,776 of barley, which at 4 qrs 10,671,104 

1,302,782 of oats, which at 5 qrs 6,513,910 

73,731 of rye, which at 3 qrs 224,103 

7,851,308 
There were 7,379,541 producing turnips, beans, peas, and 

clover, as food for stock. 

So that 15,230,849 are under arable cultivation in Eng- 
land and Wales, and the produce 

was 28,830,264 

From the agricultural statistics of Scotland, published 
by Mr. Hall Maxwell, in 1857, we have the following 
return : — 



AaBICTII.TirRAL SIATISIIC& 



283 



Acres. 

223,152 in wheat, and . . . 
225,983 in barley, and . . 
938,613 in oats, and the crop 



Quarters. 
769,373 
939,525 

4,083,843 



So that 1,387,748 yielded 5,792,741 

There were 2,025,555 acres producing turnips, potatoes, peas, and 

beans, and clover as food for stock. 

There were 3,413,303 acres ander arable cultivation in Scotland, and its 

produce. 

In the agricultural statistics of Ireland, published by 
Mr. Donelly, in 1857, we have the following return : — 



Acres. 


Quarters. 


551,386 in wheat, the return is . . . 


. . 1,662,957 


207,489 of barley, the return is . . . 


. . 956,588 


1,976,929 of oats, the return is . . . 


. . 8,895,347 



So that 2,735,804 acres produce 11,514,892 

There are 3,067,194 acres producing potatoes, turnips, roots, and 

clover. 



There are 5,802,998 acres under arable cultivation in Ireland, and its 

produce. 

From the foregoing statements we have the amount 
of land under arable cultivation, and its produce of food 
for man. 



Recapitulation. 



England . 
Scotland . 
Ireland . 


Acres under 
cultivation. 


Wheat and 
rye. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


15,230,849 
3,413,303 
5,802,998 


Quarters. 
11,645,250 
769,373 
1,662,957 


Quarters. 
10,671,104 
904,526 
956,588 


Quarters. 
6,513,910 
4,093,645 
8,895,347 


14,077,580 1 12,532,218 


19,502,902 
12,532,218 
14,077,580 


So that 24,447,150 
quarters of grain. But t 
9,000,000 quarters, so ths 
to maintain our populatio 


acres produce 
ve have had oi 
It we required . 
n. 


' late years to 
55,000,000 qua 


46,012,700 
import nearly 
rters of grain 



284 



FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 



Now as this is really the quantity of grain which our 
present inhabitants require for their maintenance, and 
if the population continue to increase at the rate of 1^ 
per cent, per annum, how can this rapid increase of 
the population be supplied with the food which they 
require ? This is the question which it is necessary to 
consider. 

Mr. Spackman, in the statistics of the United King- 
dom of Great Britain, has given us the following table 
of the quantity of land : — 



' 



England . 
Wales 
Scotland . 
Ireland 
British 
Isles 






Acres 
onltivated. 



25,632,000 
3,117,000 
5,265,000 

12,125,280 

383,690 



Acres 
nnoultivated. 



3,454,000 

530,000 

6,950,000 

4,900,000 

166,000 



Acres 
unprofitAble. 



3,256,400 
1,105,000 
8,523,930 
2,416,664 

569,469 



Total. 



32,342,400 

4,752,000 

19,738,930 

19,441,944 

1,119,159 



46,522,970 15,000,000 15,871,463 77,394,433 

Bj deducting from the 46,225,970 acres of cultivated land, 
and from the 15,000,000 acres of uncultivated 



land, together 
the . . . 



61,522,970 acres, 

24,447,150 acres of land under 



cultivation, we have 37,075,820 acres, which we may 
bring under arable cultivation. 



Mr. Burnett, in a valuable paper on Agricultural 
Statistics in the last number (vol. x., part 2) of the 
" Journal of the Bath and West of England Society," 
gives the following most interesting tables; showing, 
1st, the proportions of the cultivated soil of England 
under the principal kinds of crops ; 2ndly, the estimated 
yearly grain produce of the km^dom. 



AGRICULTUBAL STATISTICa 



285 



TaBLB 1. — AORBAGB UNDER DIFFBBBNT CbOPS. 



Crops. 


Acreage. 


Acreage. 


Under crops not directly used as 
human food — ^ 
Meadows and pasttires . . . 

Tilled grass 

Fallows and fallow crops . . 
Beans and peas . . . . 

Under— ^ 

Wheat 

Barley 

Oats and rye 

Total under com ....... 


13,332,000 

2,000,000 

3,350,000 

700,000 


19^82,000 
6,500,000 


3,500,000 
1,500,000 
1,600,000 




Total acreage of England under 
cultivation 




25,882,000 







Tablb 2. — Fboducb. 



Grafu. 



Gross produce of wheat at 1 
3 J quarters per acre . J 

Deduct consumed by our ^ 
agricultural population 
without being brought 
to market, say 1^ mil- 
lions of inhabitants at 
6 bushels per head . . 
Used as seed, say l-7th 



Gross produce of barley at 

4^ quarters per acre . , 

Deduct consumed by the 

agricultural population 

at 1 bushel per head . 

Used as seed, say l-7th 



Carried forward 



Quarters. 



1,125,000 



4,875,000 



Quarters. 



13,125,000 



185,000 
964,285 



6,000,000 



Net produce 

brought to 

market. 



6,750,000 



1,149,285 



7,125,000 



5,600,715 



12,72.5,1V^ 



V 



$286 



FARMING AKD FARMING ECONOMY. 



Tablb S. — Pboduob {continued). 



Grain. 


Qoarters. 


Quarters. 


Net produce 

brought to 

market. 


£roufirht forward 






12,725,715 

3,737,762 
1,318,523 


Gross produce of oats and '\ 
rye at 4^ quarters per v 

acre J 

Deduct consumed by the ] 

agricultural population 

at 1 bushel per head . 

Used as seed, say l-7th 

Consumed by the 

horses and other live 

stock of the farm 

Gross produce of beans 
and peas at 3f quarters 
per acre 

Deduct used as seed . . 
Consumed by horses . 


• • • • 

185,000 

964,285 

1,862,953 


6,750, 00 


3,012,238 


• • • • 

375,000 
931,477 


2,625,000 
1,306,477 






17,782,000 



The following, from the same article, shows the 
comparative values of the chief agricultural produce, 
reduced to a uniform standard quantity of 112 lbs. each. 



Class I.—Cobn and Potatoes. 



Wheat, at 7«. 9d. per bushel of 62 lbs. 
Barley, at 48. Ad. „ 55 

Oats, at 28. 1 Id. „ 42 

Potatoes, at £3 14«. per ton . 






Class 2. — Foddeb Hoots. 

Hay, at 89. 2d. per load of 36 trusses 
Straw, at £\ 8«. y, n • • 

Moots, at £1 „ . . 



Price per 


owt. 


£ s. 


d. 


12 


4 


. 8 


4 


. 7 


5 


. 3 


8 


4 


6 


. 1 


6 


. 1 






AQRICULTUBAL STATISTICS. 287 

Class 3. — ^Butcobb's Meat. 

£ f. d. 

Beef, at 3«. 7d, per stone of 8 lbs. . . . . 2 10 3 

Mutton, at 49. 1^ „ .... 2 17 9 

Fork, at is. 2d, „ .... 2 18 4 

Class 4. — ^Dairt Produoe. 

Batter 537 

Cheese . 3 9 4 

Class 5. 
Wool, at l9. per lb 5 11 I 

The following, from an admirable paper, read by 
Mr. Alderman Mechi before the London Central 
Farmers* Club, on "The Capital of British Agricul- 
ture, its Application and Remuneration,** -will be read 
with interest : — 

" In the extensive inquiries I have found it neces- 
sary to make upon this question, nothing can be more 
wide and discrepant than the answers I obtain. They 
vary from over £20 per acre to £2 lO^. Sensible 
accurate calculators, occupying friable arable stock 
farms, that require neither drainage, chalking, nor 
other heavy expenses necessary on the stiff clays, seem 
quite surprised when I mention the two extremes that 
I have quoted. But when I tell them that I am 
dealing with the whole map of Great Britain — that 
nearly two-thirds of it is grass land, much of it very 
poor, unimproved, and exhausted, and that our acre- 
able estimate must include, as landlords* measure, 
roads, waste, green lanes, great trees, and fences, game 
farm^, &c., the most intelligent farmers come to a very 
approximate conclusion, and agree with me that some- 
thing about £4 per acre is the full average of the 
British farmer*8 capital. 

" I know of a farmer who consideixefii ^"aJt^V^i^raL^ 



288 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

four horses and some ploughs, that would be suflScient 
capital for all the land he could take, he himself being 
one of the ploughmen. Of course, such extreme 
opinions are to be met with, but they do not influence 
the general average. 

'^In endeavouring to arrive at correct conclusions, 
I have consulted Spackman, M'CuUoch, Porter, the 
twenty Journals of the Boyal Agricultural Society, 
'Morton on Soils,^ Morton^s ^Encyclopaedia of Agri- 
culture,^ St«phen^s 'Book of the Farm,* 'Bacon on 
the Agriculture of Norfolk,' ' Caird's Reports,* ' Low on 
Scottish Farming,' and many other works, besides 
making very numerous personal inquiries and observa- 
tions ; but, after all, I find the most comprehensive, wid 
by far the most accurate, estimates of our agricultural 
pecuniary condition in the work of Monsieur Leonce 
de Lavergne (' Rural Economy of Great Britain and 
Ireland'), who visited this country in 1854, and whose 
work has been ably translated into English by a 
Scottish farmer, very much to his credit. It is pub- 
lished by Blackwood and Co. I have the pleasure of 
M. Lavergne's acquaintance, and know that in Prance, 
of which he is a native, he is looked upon as their very 
best agronomic statistician — a man of keen observation 
and close comparison. 

"The following is his estimate of our agricultural 
condition : — M. Lavergne's estimate of rent : England 
24*., Lowlands of Scotland and Wales 12^., Highlands 
of Scotland 1^., three-fourths of Ireland 16«., north- 
west of Ireland 6^. 6d, ; general average of the United 
Kingdom, 16^. M. Lavergne estimates the produce 
per acre as . follows : — ^England, £3 7$. ; Lowlands of 
Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, £1 19s, ; Highlands of 
Scotland, 8^. 4rf. He estimates the farmers' capital in 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS. 289 

England proper (not Great Britain) at £3 78. per acre, 
or not quite three rents. The farmer^s profits he esti- 
mates at half the rent, or 10 per cent, on th^ capital 
invested, to which he ought to add 1^ per cent, for 
house rent, which the farmer has free. lie estimates 
the acreable capital, produce, and profit of French 
farmers at only half that of Great Britain, although 
he assures us that, on the whole, the soil and climate 
of Prance are quite equal, or even somewhat superior, 
to ours. My estimate of English produce is £3 12*. 
per acre, leaving out Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, 
which must produce considerably less. Some of our 
own statistical authorities are most astonishingly wide 
of the mark. Spackman has, according to my cal- 
culations, over-rated our farm capital by at least 
£800,000,000. He makes it £500,000,000, or about 
j610 per acre (see the synoptical table at the end of his 
work) ; whilst I estimate it at less than £4 per acre, or 
under £200,000,000. - 1 think his estimate of the land- 
lords^ capital of the United Kingdom tolerably correct, 
say £1,500,000,000, or rather more than six times the 
amount of what I estimate to be the tenants^ capital. 
It must be borne in mind that many permanent im- 
provements made by tenants' capital fall into the hands 
of the landlord on a change of occupation, and add 
to the value of his land, very often to the injury of 
the farmer or his family. I have no hesitation in 
saying that, as a general rule, the landlord's investment 
would in many cases bear doubling as well as the 
tenant's.'' .... 

'^ In estimating the applicationof the working capital 
of the farm, I will not drag you through the details. 
They may be obtained by the examination of a few 
catalogues from the auctioneers of each district, whether 

o 



290 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

arable^ pasture, or mixed soils. Their valuations of 
tillages, &c., on a change of occupation, may be also 
easily obtained. Looking at agriculture as a whole, 
one is struck with the pastoral character it still bears. 
Mr. Caird, whose table I annex, gives : — 

Acres In Acres la 
grass. tillage. 

Midland and Western counties of England 

(not the United Kingdom) .... 8,666,000 4,333,000 

Eastern division 4,666,000 7,334,000 



13,332,000 11,667,000 

Frodnce in wheat, barley, oats, beans, and peas (deducting seed), 

29,723,187 quarters. 

*' Taking the whole kingdom, with its mountain, 
wood, and waste, at 11 millions of acres, we have 
probably only some 23 millions of arable (see Porter, 
M^Culloch, and Spackman). Now, I should not object 
to much of the kingdom being in grass if its quality 
were rich, or if it were rendered productive by ample 
supplies of town sewage, or by other means; but, 
unfortunately for the country at large, a vast breadth 
of exhausted or naturally poor grass land employs 
neither capital nor labour, produces no food, except 
in the most limited degree. ^Tis this that reduces the 
agricultural capital so low. Needy farmers, selling 
away the very heart and substance of their land in the 
shape of cheese and lean stock, and omitting to com- 
pensate for the exhaustion by artificial manures or food, 
reduce themselves, their land, and landlords to the 
minimum scale of rural pastorality. How such farms 
may be converted into rich corn-growing and meat- 
producing acres, is proved by my departed acquaintance, 
Mr. Frank Woodward, who (see Royal Agricultural 
Society's Journal), by investing £15 per acre in trench- 
ingj Jevelling, and dramm^, a\. ouce obtained a pro- 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS. 291 

fitable return^ and established a permanent pecuniary 
advantage. Mr. Morton did the same (see his work 
on soils). There is plenty of poor grass land that could 
not keep a single Short-horn cow in proper condition on 
six acres. It takes three acres of good land in the 
Vale of Aylesbury (see Caird) to keep a cow winter 
and summer in proper condition. Farm horses in 
Essex consume four to five acres per head per annum, 
landlords' measure^ on average lands^ if kept up in full 
working condition. With sewage irrigation half the 
quantity would keep them. 

^^ I come now to the consideration of the remunera- 
tion or farmers^ profit. This is like treading on dan- 
gerous ground, and is a very delicate question; but 
I will endeavour to handle it honestly and justly. It 
is a subject on which there must be necessarily a very 
great diflerence of opinion, according to the circum- 
stances and practice of each individual.^^ .... 

'^ Assuming as near the truth that £4i per acre is 
more than the average of farming capital- of Great 
Britain, I must estimate its profits or gains at 10 per 
cent., with the comfort or profit of a house to live in, 
rent free, which is, perhaps, equal to 1 or 1 J per cent, 
more. I don^t mean to say that every farmer gets 
10 per cent. — many get much less, many much more ; 
but I speak of the average on capital. It is very easy 
to understand that a man who so regulates the size 
of his holding that he can command £10 capital to 
the acre, must make a much better per centage than he 
who diffuses the same sum over two or three acres; 
for, in the latter case, there are two or three extra 
rents, tithes, horse labour, manual labour, and seed, 
to pay for, independent of other disadvantages; and, 
of course, the capital being so thinly sijte^d^tWx^ ^^^a. 

a 



292 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

be little to spare for either live stocky purchased food, 
artificial manures^ improved machinery, draining, or 
liming, without which, in these improving times, a 
farmer can have but slight hope of success ; and yet it 
is evident that, as there are a great many farmers who 
do invest very large sums per acre, the average capital 
of £4 binds us to the painful conviction that there 
must be an immense tract of country unprofitably 
farmed and insufficiently capitalled. 

*' The same remark applies in some degree to 
landlords, as noted in another portion of this paper. 
The crazy tenements of non-improving landlords suc- 
cumb to the stormy blast, and form heavy periodical 
deductions from their rents. The real money-makers 
in agriculture are certain men whose extraordinary 
aptitude for business and general powers enable them 
to buy cheaper and sell dearer than the ordinary run 
of people. By superior vigilance and forethought they 
make or save money in various ways ; and thus, being 
sought for by landlords as dependable men, they get 
the pick of farms at very moderate hirings. Gentlemen 
farmers, or men ot business from towns, who have 
realised independence, and have a natural desire for 
farming, sometimes ^ burn their fingers,^ and retire 
from the pursuit in disgust. Now, if such persons 
would throw their capital into associated agricultural 
companies, worked by a mixed direction, including 
practical and wealthy farmers, under the Limited 
Liability Act, for purposes I have elsewhere mentioned, 
they might gratify their agricultural propensities with 
a reasonable prospect of success. Farming is as much 
a business as shoemaking, or any other art. People 
who wish to succeed by farming must understand it as 
a business, personally, or by a dependable deputy. 



agriohltural statistkb. 293 

'' The following is the needful application of capital 
by landlords of heavy lands : — Drainage^ £6 ; covered 
yards and farm buildings, £7; farmhouse, £S; im- 
proved roads, £l ; irrigation with town sewage, £1 to 
£S per acre. A considerable sum per acre must be 
expended by somebody, either landlord or tenant, in 
steam-power, bam machinery, millstones, &c., and in 
liming or chalking/' 

The following, gleaned from various tables, will be 
interesting in connection with the subject of agricul- 
tural statistics. The census of 1851 showed that 
the village and country population of Great Britain 
was 10,556,288, of which England absorbed 8,990,809, 
Scotland 1,457,079, and Ireland 68,400. Of these there 
were 275,576 (male) and 28,044 (female) farmers; 
3,036 (male) and 11 (female) graziers. Of the 278,712 
farmers and graziers, 201,736 were married, and had 
137,446 sons, and 137,124 daughters. Of farm bailiffs 
there were 12,805 ; out-door labourers 1,006,728 males, 
and 70,899 females; of in-door labourers there were 
235^943 males, and 128,251 females; of shepherds 
there were 19,075; 225,318 farmers employed 665,651 
labourers, 91,698 of these farmers doing all the work 
themselves, having nq labourers employed; 33,564 
employed one each ; 27,949 farmers had two labourers ; 
14,109 had four; 6,449 had six; 3,806 had eight; 
8,632 had ten ; 3,221 employed fifteen ; 2,073 employed 
twenty; 850 twenty-five; 721 thirty; 256 had thirty- 
five; 275 forty; 106 forty-five; 132 fifty; 65 fifty- 
five ; and only 170 farmers employed as many as sixty, 
and upwards. 

As regards the size of farms, the following table, 
from Mr. J. C. Morton^s New Farmer's Almanack, will 
be interesting : — 



294 



FARMINa AMD FARUOTO BCOKOMY. 



Size of FMrmi. 


Irdand, 1858. 


England and 
Wales. 


Scotland. 


6 acres. 

16 „ 

30 „ 

50 „ 

100 „ 

200 „ 
300 „ ) 
400 „ } • 
600 „ ) 
600 „ 
1,000 „ 
Above 1,000 


121,447 

181,267 

139,618 

71,791 

63,544 


45,752 
18,401 
8.061 
3,585 
1,971 
2,372 
771 


7,009 
2,166 
^^61 
471 
272 
'442 
360 


667,637 
21,566 

8,383 
a,&92 



The following, also from the same work, gives the 
latest agricultural statistics of England^ Scotland, and 
Ireland, as regards crops and live stock: — 



Crops. 



Wheat 
Barley 
Oats . 
Beans . 
Peas . 
Turnips 
Bere . 
Rye . 
Vetches 
Mangold 
Carrots 
Potatoes 
Cabbage 
Flax . 
Hops . 
Fallow 
Clover 



} 
} 



/ 



England, 1854. 



Acres. 
3,807,846 
2,667,776 
1,302,782 

698,138 

2,267,000 

73,731 

218,551 

177,263 
12,638 

192,287 
97,334 
10,156 
18,976 

895,969 
2,820,066 



I 



15,260,713 



Scotland, 1857. 



Acres. 
223,152 
188,387 
938,613 
39,186 \ 
3,687 ) 
476,691 
21,607 \ 
5,989 / 
18,418 
2,803 
1,401 
139,819 
3,736 
1,534 

18,582 
1,459,805 



Ireland, 1862. 



Acres. 
357,816 
192,407 
1,974,737 

15,106 

377,149 

12,167 

30,776 
23,845 

1,017,317 

30,511 

150,312 

1,552,829 



3,543,410 6,749,976 



AOBICULTUBAL SOCIETIES. 



295 



Live Stock. 


England, 1854. 


Scotland, 1857. 


Ireland, 1862. 


Horses . . . 
Cattle. . . . 
Sheep .... 
Figs .... 


1,309,010 

3,422,165 

18,891,088 

2,363,724 


185,409 

974,437 

5,683,168 

146,354 


304,446 
3,250,396 
3,455,387 
1,151,787 



DIVISION THIRD. 

AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES. — AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. — 

LITERATURE. 

Section I, — Agricultural Societies. 

The objects aimed at, and the methods by which they 
are proposed to be carried out by our leading agri- 
cultural societies, have never, perhaps, been more 
laconically and tersely explained than by the Right 
Hon. Mr. Gladstone, at the dinner of the Royal Agri- 
cultural Society of England, at Chester : — " It is of 
the utmost importance that agriculture should have the 
means of recording its ascension or decline. We must 
not suppose because it' is an ancient art, and one that 
has been prosecuted in its simplest forms, it is, there- 
fore, otherwise than an art which of all others, perhaps, 
affords the most varied scope, and the largest sphere of 
development to the powers of the human mind. It is 
most essential that it should have the best and most 
efficacious means of comparing its state in one year 
with its state in another — of recording for future en- 
couragement the progress that has been achieved in 
the past.^^ 

Commenting upon this, and having special reference 
to the Royal Agricultural Society of England, of which 



296 FARMING AND FABMING BOONOMT. 

we shall presently give a notice, a public writer says : — 
'^ This function is, no doubt, to a certain extent per- 
formed by the society, partly by its journal, though 
more completely and practically by its annual congre- 
gation of agriculturists and their co-operators from sSl 
parts of the country. Commerce and manufactures, as 
Mr. Gladstone observed, naturally collect round great 
centres of industry, and produce that constant inter- 
communion which is of vital importance to their ad- 
vancement. ' But with agriculture the case is different, 
for its nature is to be gathered round local centres, 
which, under ordinary circumstances, have little or no 
connection with one another. It is in comparison an 
isolated art, and, therefore, it might follow, under given 
circumstances, that many parts of the agriculture of a 
country were languishing, simply from a want of a 
knowledge of progress which has been achieved in other 
portions of the land. This is the besetting danger and 
difficulty of agriculture.' This is largely remedied by 
the society's yearly meetings. The stock of the west 
are shown to the farmers of the east, and vice versd, 
and the best stock and the best and newest implements 
are submitted to the inspection and criticism of every 
farmer who comes to find fault with, and to profit by, 
something or other he finds displayed before him. And 
very few farmers are there who visit the yearly exhibi- 
tions without bringing away with 'them more or less of 
information they turn to useful account. Then it is a 
great fair. One machine maker said that before the 
show at Chester opened he had received business orders 
to the extent of £500, and all the implement makers 
expressed much satisfaction with the business results 
of the show. And this yearly increasing business 
shows the gradual but widespread improvement. There 



AGBICULTUBAL SOCIETIES. 297 

are more men of inquiry and cultivated minds devoting 
themselves to farming than formerly, and there is much 
more sound information amongst the mass of farmers 
than existed twenty years ago. ^ The Royal Agricultural 
Society applies to the machines which are offered the 
severe tests which science has devised, and applies to 
the manures which are to fertilise the ground a search- 
ing analysis, which enables farmers to know with what 
materials they are dealiiig^n short, enables them to 
prosecute the arduous path of improvements, guarded 
by a knowledge which no single individual man pos- 
sesses, and which the society amasses and accumulates, 
and brings to the door of every man, and places there 
at his disposal.^ Here we find most of the useful func- 
tions of the society described in appropriate terms. 
Mr. Gladstone also referred to the open manner in 
which all improvements and other matters connected 
with English husbandry are dealt with by the society 
and the country generally ; and to the general confi- 
dence accorded to the awards of the society^s judges.*^ 
The origin of our first agricultural societies dates 
back to a period more than a thousand years ago. At 
that period, as we have elsewhere remarked, ^^ such was 
the poverty of the husbandman and the wretched con- 
dition of husbandry, that it was the custom for six or 
eight individuals to club together their scanty means 
to procure a plough, and oxen wherewith to drive it, 
hedging themselves round in their social organisation 
with many quaint laws which, in the minuteness of their 
details, showed how important to them was their asso- 
ciation together, how miserably scanty their means 
when they had to contribute their mite to the purchase 
of an instrument, and this so rude, that by enactment 

3 



298 FARMING AND FARMTNG EOONOliY. 

about the same period we have alluded to^ no man was 
allowed to guide a plough imless he could first con- 
struct it, and make, moreover, the twisted willow withes 
with which his wretched oxen drew it/' Contrasting 
the farmers' clubs or societies of this period, and the 
objects for which they were introduced, with those of 
the present time ; when in their grand organisation 
they are welcomed to the towns which they periodically 
visit, with arch triumphal and banners flaunting ; with 
their thousands of members giving of their means, not 
to secure, like their brethren of old, assistance for their 
individual operations merely, but to collect information 
and the details of experience for the purpose of scatter- 
ing them broadcast over the land, that all their brethren 
might participate in the benefits of their association ; 
contrasting :the societies of the two periods, we have 
examples of ancient and modem associations. Nor in 
thus instituting the contrast, " let us in the strength 
and vigour '' — as we have in anothei: place taken occa- 
sion to observe — "of our ripe years," think slightingly 
of the humble efibrts of those who have preceded us 
in the march of civilisation. Who can tell how much 
of our life-energy we owe to the agricultural societies 
of far-off times ? or how much of that greatness and 
social security we now enjoy, to those who held their 
meetings in troublous days, with the sound, mayhap, 
of the war-shout in their ears, or the crackling of 
blazing roof-tree, and blackened house wall ? And if 
there is truth in the doctrine of him who was not wont 
to write genially or kindly^ that " he who can make 
two ears of corn or two blades of grass to grow upon a 
spot of ground where only one grew before, will deserve 
better of mankind than the whole race of politicians 



AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES. 299 

put together/' let us not arrogate to ourselves the boast 
of having done all the good in this way ; but with the 
recollection of our recent triumphs, let us with all 
humility remember the claims of the pioneers of the 
science. Nor will it read us a useless lesson if we 
recall to mind the truth, as we read, of the state of our 
science years ago, that the time may come when some 
future agriculturist may peruse with no less wonder 
accounts of what we are doing now, when he will think 
how little room there was to boast of our nineteenth 
century doings. 

From the period at which these feeble farmers' clubs, 
to which we have already alluded, originated, namely, 
from the beginning of the ninth up to that of the 
eighteenth century, history affords us no clue as to 
how far these societies extended, or for how long a 
period they continued. The first notice we have of 
the institution of an agricultural society, and which 
may be looked upon as the pioneer of the modern 
societies, is that of the institution of ^^The Society 
of Improvers on the Knowledge of Agriculture in 
Scotland,'' in the year 1723. Of this society, the 
Earl of Stair was one of the most active members. 
Its " Select Transactions" were published in 1743, the 
collection being made by Mr. Maxwell. The number 
of members amounted to 300 ; but, satisfactory as this 
was, the society only existed for a period of twenty 
years. It was evidently before its time ; at all events, 
its labours were not appreciated by the very class — 
the tenant farmers — whose interests it was so specially 
adapted to cultivate. 

The Royal Dublin Society was instituted in 1737, 
and had for one of its objects the encouragement of 



300 FARMma akd farhikg economt. 

agriculture. By the establisliment of prizes^ and 
various other modes^ a considerable impulse was given 
to the progress of agriculture in Ireland^ but the efforts 
of the society were not appreciated or seconded by the 
large body of tenant farmers. The society, however, 
still exercises an important influence on the future of 
Irish agriculture. It holds an annual cattle-show. 
Membership is obtained by the payment of two guineas 
annually. Recently, steps have been taken still farther 
to increase the extended usefulness of the society, by 
the institution of what are called Associates of Agri- 
culture. 

The Bath and West of England Society for the 
encouragement of ^^Agriculture, Arts, Manufacture, 
and Commerce,^^ was established in 1777. Its objects 
are, first, to hold meetings in the West of England, for 
the exhibition of breeding stock, agricultural imple- 
ments, and such other articles connected with agricul- 
ture, arts, manufactures, or commerce, as may be 
determined upon by the council. Secondly, to offer 
premiums for essays and reports on subjects affecting 
the agriculture of the West of England, and to publish 
a journal for circulation. At the present time (1862), 
there are 1,238 members, of whom 95 are governors, 
who are constituted by paying £20 in one sum, 49 
life members, who pay £10 in one sum, and 1,094 
members, who each pay £l per annum. Each member 
receives a copy of the Journal free of expense, and has 
certain privileges connected with the chemical depart- 
ment of the society. Yeomen and tradesmen may 
become members of the society by paying a yearly 
sum of 105. As in the other societies, so in this, one 
important feature is, the holding of annual shows^ or 



AGRJCULTUBAL 80CIBTIE8. 801 

meetings^ at wliich stock and implements^ &;c.^ are 
exhibited. The last meeting was held at Wells^ at 
which were exhibited stock to the number of 419^ made 
up thus — cattle 101^ sheep 198^ horses 62^ pigs 58. 
There were also 800 pens of poultry, and a large and 
valuable show of implements and machines. A very 
interesting department of the meeting at Wells was the 
''Arts Department/' consisting of pictures and objects 
of art. 

The Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland 
was instituted in 1783. It took its rise from the 
meeting of a few patriotic gentlemen connected with 
•the Highlands of Scotland, and had for its object the 
encouragement of the industry of the Highlands, its 
agriculture, its fisheries, and manufactures. In February, 
1784, the society was properly constituted, the Duke of 
Argyle being the first president ; and in a brief space 
,of time it numbered 100 members; and these in 1785 
had increased to 150. Nothing, indeed, in looking back 
upon the history of the society, can be more gratifying 
than to witness the readiness with which noblemen and 
gentlemen of all shades of politics came forward to 
aid the society by their personal assistance and liberal 
contribution. In 1787, the society was regularly 
incorporated by royal charter. In 1799, the " Trans- 
actions'' began to be published, and on the publication 
of the first volume the society numbered 500 members. 
As time progressed, and other societies took up for 
their special care some of the objects which the High- 
land Society originally looked after, the attention of 
its members was devoted specially " to such inventions 
as tend more immediately to facilitate the labours of 
husbandry j" and to the furtherance of the interests of 



302 FARMING AND FARMING EGONOMT. 

the agriculture of Scotland, the society devotes itself 
with great vigour and success. Large sums are given 
yearly at the annual shows for the best breeds of stock, 
and the best constructed and most economically worked 
implements and machines. By a recent regulation of 
the society, premiums for machines and implements 
are now dispensed with. Handsome premiums are 
also given annually for essays on various subjects con- 
nected with agriculture, and these are published regu- 
larly in the "Transactions.^' Connected with the 
society is the veterinary and chemical departments. 
This latter department was originally a separate society, 
instituted in 1843, under the tftle of the " Agricultural 
Chemistry Association of Scotland." This owed its 
existence to the untiring energy of Mr. Finnic, of 
Swanston, an enterprising Scottish farmer. Professor 
Johnstone, of Durham, the well-known writer on 
agricultural chemistry, was appointed the consulting 
chemist. After a spirited and useful existence of five 
years, the society was dissolved, and the furtherance of 
the objects it had in view became the business of a 
special department of the Highland and Agricultural 
Society of Scotland. The number of members is 
upwards of 3,000, membership being constituted by 
the payment of £1 Ss, 6d, annually, tenant farmers 
paying 105. 6d. 

In 1793, the National Board of Agriculture was 
established. The president was Sir John Sinclair, and 
the secretary was Arthur Young — two men who exer- 
cised a remarkable influence on the future of agricul- 
ture. The object of the board was mainly to collect 
statistical information, and draw up special surveys 
connected with the agriculture of the diflPerent counties 



AGBICULTUBAL SOCIETIES. 303 

of the kingdom. These being completed in 1813, and 
the objects of the board being thus considered to be 
accomplished, it was formally dissolved. The various 
documents published under the auspices of the board 
embody a vast number of useful details connected 
with the practice of agriculture throughout the king- 
dom. From the bulky form and expensive mode of 
publication in which they appeared, much of their 
information is almost inaccessible to the great majority 
of readers. 

The Royal Agricultural Society of England was in- 
stituted in 1838. It had its origin in a letter, addressed 
in 1837, by H. Handley, Esq., M.P., to Earl Spencer, 
at that time president of the Smithfield Club, in which 
the importance of a society, having for its object the 
stimulating of agricultural improvement, was fully 
shown and insisted upon. In the year 1838 the society 
was formally established, and announced as its objects 
the following : — 

"1st. To embody such information in agricultural 
publications and other scientific works as have been 
proved by practical experience to be useful to the cul- 
tivators of the soil. 2nd. To correspond with agricul- 
tural, horticultural, and other scientific societies, both 
at home and abroad, and to select from such corre- 
spondence all information which, according to the 
opinion of the society, may be likely to lead to prac- 
tical benefit in the cultivation of the soil. 3rd. To 
pay to any occupier of land, or other person who shall 
undertake, at the request of the society, to ascertain 
by any experiment how far such information leads to 
useful results in practice, a remuneration for any loss 
he may incur by so doing. 4th. To encourage men of 



B04 FARMING AKD FARMING ROONOMT. 

science in their attention to agricultural implementa^ 
the construction of farm buildings and cottages^ the 
application of chemistry to the general purposes of 
agriculture, the destruction of insects injurious to vege- 
table life, and the eradication of weeds. 5th. To pro- 
mote the discovery of new varieties of grain and other 
vegetables useful to man, or for the food of domestic 
animals. 6th. To collect information with regard to 
the management of woods, plantations, and fences, and 
on every subject connected with rural improvement. 
7th. To take measures for the improvement of the edu- 
cation of those who depend on the cultivation of the soil 
for their support. 8th. To take measures for improv- 
ing the veterinary art, as applied to cattle, sheep, and 
pigs. 9th. At the meeting of the society in the 
country, by the distribution of prizes and other means, 
to encourage the best mode of farm cultivation and the 
breed of live stock. lOth. To promote the comfort and 
welfare of labourers, and to encourage the improved 
management of their cottages and gardens." 

The society consists at the present time of upwards 
of 5,000 members ; membership being secured by the 
payment of £1 annually, for which the journal of the 
society is given, with admission to the annual shows, 
and certain privileges connected with the chemical 
department. In close connection with the society is 
the Royal Veterinary College. 

A very important feature of the Royal Agricultural 
Society^s operations is the annual shows. In con- 
nection with these, as exemplifying the rise and pro- 
gress of the society^s influence and usefulness in this 
department of its labours, we give the following extract 
from Bell's Weekly Messenger : — 



AGBICULTUBAI. BOOIBIIKS. 



305 



Tmt. 


LooaUty. 


Beeeifed 

for 
admistloDS. 


Entries of 
live stook. 


Entries of 
implements. 


1839 


Oxford 


£1,235 


249 


23 


1840 


Cambridge . 






3,416 


352 


36 


1841 


Liverpool • 






4,106 


319 


312 


1842 


Bristol . . 






4,202 


510 


455 


1843 


Derby . . 






1,969 


730 


565 


1844 


Soatharopton 






2,432 


716 


99 


1845 


Shrewsbury 






1,682 


527 


93 


1846 


Newcastle . 






2.168 


775 


no 


1847 


Northampton 






2,473 


580 


142 


1848 


York . • 






2,514 


866 


146 


1849 


Norwich . 






2,360 


799 


145 


1«50 


Exeter . . 






2,493 


769 


418 


1851 


Windsor . 






3,397 


1,226 


_ 


1852 


Lewes . . 






1,184 


828 


105 


1853 


Gloucester . 






2,734 


931 


128 


1854 


Lincoln 






3,378 


939 


130 


1855 


Carlisle . . 






3,2C0 


1,076 


121 


1856 


Chelmsford . 






2,988 


906 


151 


1857 


Salisbury • 






3,447 


1,462 


156 


1858 


Chester . . . 






6,187 


1,444 


197 


1859 


W^wick , . 






5,459 


1,601 


236 


1860 


Canterbary 






2,689 


891 


204 


1861 


Leeds . . 




» m 


9,855 


1,027 


358 


1862 


London . . 






9,540 


2,000 





" In explanation of this table, it should be stated 
that the years 1840, 1841, and 1842 include the receipts 
for dinner, the amount of local fund, &c., and the 
years 1841, 1842, and 1843 show the number of im- 
plements exhibited, and not the number of implement 
exhibitors/^ 

In the year 1851 the implements and machines 
formed part of the Great Exhibition display in Hyde 
Park. 

The Royal Agricultural Improvement Society of 
Ireland was established in 1841 for the carrying out of 
the following objects : — 

^' 1st. The establishment of at least one annual agri- 



306 FARMIKG AND FARMING BOONOBiT. 

cultural meeting for the show of cattle^ implements of 
husbandry, roots, seeds, &c., to be held in one of the 
four provinces, and if possible, in rotation similar to 
those which are now held by the Highland Society and 
the Eoyal Agricultural Society of England. 

" 2nd. To encourage the foundation of local or dis- 
trict agricultural societies in the different parts of the 
country, and to enter into communication with them, 
and afford them every aid and assistance, by the safest 
and most effectual means, towards improving the cul- 
ture of land and breeding of cattle in their immediate 
localities. 

" 3rd. To promote improvement in the dwellings and 
domestic condition of the agricultural population in 
Ireland. 

" 4th. The encouragement and circulation of practical 
and useful knowledge connected with husbandry and 
agriculture in all their branches, through \he medium 
of cheap and judiciously arranged periodical publi- 
cations.^' 

There are other influential societies, as the Smithfield 
Club, the Yorkshire Society, and numerous farmers' 
clubs in the various districts of the kingdom. The 
leading farmers' club is the Central Farmers' Club, 
London. 

This club was established in 1843, as a point of union 
for agriculturists, and with a view to afford to its 
members accommodation similar to that of the London 
club-houses already existing, but more comprehensive 
in its objects, and much less expensive. Arrangements 
have been made with the proprietor of the Yorit Hotel, 
Bridge Street, Blackfriars, to let to the chib a suite of 
rooms to be devoted exclusively to the use of its mem- 
bers; and to supply viands, &c., of the best quality, at 



AGRICULTURAL SOCIBTIES. 307 

a fixed rate of charge. The committee lay in their 
own wine. 

There is a reading-room, a dining room, and sitting- 
room for the use of members who have private business 
to transact. 

The reading-room is supplied with the leading daily 
papers, and all newspapers and magazines, British, 
colonial, and foreign, connected with agriculture and 
horticulture. An agricultural library is forming, to 
contain all works upon agriculture, and the sciences 
bearing upon them, such as geology, botany, chemistry, 
&c. A register is kept of bailifi« wanting places ; and 
similar references of any description will be entered, so 
that members requiring it may obtain the best and 
readiest advice upon all matters bearing upon agricul- 
ture. It is intended also, through the medium of this 
institution, to form a central point of communication 
between all the. farmers^ clubs in the kingdom, so that 
thq information to be supplied from each may be col- 
lected and communicated to the others. A book is 
kept for entering the addresses of members while 
staying in London, so that members being desirous of 
communicating with each other may be enabled so to do. 

A monthly jourial is published for the use of the 
members, fully reporting the discussion meetings, and 
other proceedings- 

The subjects discussed at the monthly meetings 
during the session are all of a thoroughly practical 
nature, and, reported in nearly every agricultural 
journal in the kingdom, they have a powerful influence 
for good. Indeed, the papers read at this club have had 
a remarkable influence in giving a prominence to many 
of the topics interesting to farmers which have been 
discussed during the last fifteen years. 



308 FARMINa AND FARMING BCONOKT. 

Mr. Plowman^ in a paper read before the Oxford 
Farmers^ Club (on the benefits resulting to the public 
in general^ and to the agriculturists in particular, from 
farmers' clubs and other agricultural associations) has the 
following with reference to the Central Farmers' Chib: — 
" So firmly rooted has this society become, so well is it 
supported, and so widely is its influence felt, that it has 
earned for itself the appellation of the ' Bridge Street 
Parliament,' on account of its having been the medium 
of making known the views and wishes of the agricul- 
tural body, not only on practical matters in connection 
with their avocation, but on those legislative measures 
which are calculated to affect their interests. This has 
been of immense importance to tenant farmers, because, 
although the landed interest is adequately represented 
in both Houses of Parliament, the tenant farmers have 
long felt that there is almost a total absence of repre- 
sentatives of their particular interest, and the London 
Farmers' Club has in some measure made up for that 
deficiency. The adjustment of the burdens on land, 
and imposts which fetter industry, tenant right, com 
returns, &c., are subjects to which the London Farmers' 
Club has directed its attention, and, through its instru- 
mentality, the wants and wishes of those engaged in the 
cultivation of the soil have been made known. Upon 
all practical subjects this club has been regarded as a 
great authority, for a question has seldom been dis- 
cussed by it without eliciting the opinions and expe- 
rience of many of the most distinguished agriculturists 
from all parts of the kingdom, to whom the society is 
rendered available. There is great reason to believe 
that the success of the London Farmers' Club, and the 
light which it has thrown on agricultural subjects 
generally, have done much towards creating and 



AGBICULTUBAL BOGIBTIBS. 309 

stimulating a desire for similar societies in the pro- 
vinces/' 

The following is a list of the leading farmers' clubs 
and societies, for which we are indebted to the AgricuU 
turcU Gleaner : — 

Clbtbijlnd Agricultural Sogiett. — Patron, the Earl of Zetland. 
President, Thomas Meynell, Esq. ; Chairman of Committee, Mr. E. G. 
Simpson; Secretary, Thomas Parriugton, Esq., Normanhy, Middles- 
borough. 

Ths Yorkshire Agricultural Society occupies a similar position 
in the North to what the Bath Society does in the West Annual sub- 
scription of members, £\, Secretary, John Hannam, Esq., Kirk 
Deighton, Wetherby. 

Suffolk Agricultural Association. — Secretary, Hobert Bond, 
Esq., Ipswich. 

The Midland Counties Cattle and Poultry Show is held at 
Birmingham, in Bingley Hall, Broad Street, early in December, and is 
on precisely the same principle as the Smithficld Club. The Poultry 
Show is the best and largest in England. Secretary, J. B. Lythall,Esq. 

Herefordshire Agricultural Society. — Secretary, J. T. Owen 
Fowler, Esq., Hereford. 

Kbighley Agricultural Society. — Show held in the month of 
September. Secretary, Robert Fawcett, Esq., Keighley. 

Halifax and Calder Vale Agricultural Association. — Show 
held in the month of August. Secretary, William Irvine, Esq., Halifax. 

BoYAL North Lancashire Agricultural Society. — Show held 
in the month of August. Secretary, George Hunt, Esq., Preston. 

Bridgnorth Agricultural Association. — Show held in the month 
of September. Secretary, R. Taylor, Esq., Bridgnorth. 

Northern Counties Fat Stock and Poultry Society. — Show 
held in December. Secretary, John Hodgson, Esq., Darlington.. 

Yeovil Agricultural Society. — Show held in December. Secre- 
tary, H. Shortland Watts, Esq., Yeovil. 

Stokesley Agricultural Society. — Show held in August Secre- 
tory, Thomas Rickinson, Esq., Stokesley. 

MiDDLESBOROUGH AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY. — Show held in Aogost 
Secretary, Thomas Parrington, Esq., Middlesborough. 

Bridgwater Fat Cattle Show. — Show held in December. Secre- 
tary^ C. Babbage, Esq., Bridgwater. 

. Leeds Fat Cattle Show.— Show held in Leeds, in December. Sec- 
retary, John Swales^ Esq., Hunslet Road, Leeds* 



310 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

YoRKsniBB Fat Cattle Snow. — Show in December. Secretaiji 
J. Watson, Esq., Lcndal Bridge, York. 

In addition to these there are several hundred provincial, county, and 
otlier societies and clubs, all instituted for similar purposes, of which we 
can only mention the following as examples — viz.: Staffordshire Agrir 
cultural Society; Secretary, W. Tomkinson, Esq., Newcastle. Esux 
Agricultural Association ; Secretary, Mr. K. Emson, Slough, Halstod 
Oxfordshire and Banbury Amalgamated Agricultural Society ; Secre- 
tary, Mr. J. Plowman, Oxford. Norfolk Agricultural Association i 
Secretary, Mr. E. C. Bailey, Oxford Street, Norwich. JRyedaleand 
Pickering Lythe Agricultural Society; Secretary, Mr. J. H. Phillips, 
Beadham Grange, Helmsley. Driffield and East Biding Agricultural 
Society; Secretary, Mr. 11. Kirby, Driffield. Northamptonshire Agri' 
cultural Society ,• Secretary, Mr. P. M. Gue, Bothwell, Kettering. Bed- 
fordshire Agricultural Society; Secretary, Mr. T,W. Tumdey, Bedford. 
Worcestershire Agricultural Society ; Secretary, E. Lakin, Esq., Mal- 
vern. Gloucestershire Agricultural Society ; Secretary, Edward Trinder, 
Esq., Cirencester. 

Some of our readers may not be aware that, in addi- 
tion to what we do not hesitate to call the legitimate 
function of agricultural associations, — namely, encoura- 
ging by prizes and other means the extension of good 
modes of culture of crops or of rearing of cattle, — many 
of them assume the office of what has been called the 
'^ rewarders of rural virtue and economy.'^ To Giles 
Scroggins, for example, they award a prize for thirty 
or forty years' (as the case may be) honest, diligent, 
and faithful service ; so much to John Jones for being 
an excellent father of a family, and to Widow So-and-so 
for having brought up a " large family of small chil- 
dren^' without the aid of parish relief. All this — as 
associating the higher virtues, which no prize should 
prompt, with considerations of mere value, as that of 
the fattest ox or the biggest turnip — is of very doubtful 
utility. No money can be a reward for virtue. Good 
service can be, and it ought to be, best rewarded by the 
employer who is benefited by it. The following is 
what the leading journalist of the day has upon the 
subject. As may be conceived, however, a great dif- 
ference of opinion exists on tlcv^ ^ub^ect \ and like all 



AGRIOX}LTURAL SOCIETIES. 311 

Others^ it may be said of it, " that much may be said 
on both sides :'' — 

^' Our advice to these agricultural associations, then, 
would be to confine themselves more within the proper 
limits of the task which belongs to them. They are 
not, and nothing can make them, courts for the reward 
of moral virtue. They are useful institutions for the 
encouragement of agricultural skill and the creation of 
a serviceable emulation in an agricultural arena. So 
far as they promote that object they, no doubt, do a 
great service to the community ; but they are in their 
proper nature business institutions, and not philan- 
thropic ones. Let them not pretend to this character. 
In spite of the high-sounding title and lofty pretensions 
of agricultural associations, we must confess a decided 
preference for the good old Saxon custom of ' harvest 
homes,' where there was a less display of arrogance 
and more of good cheer — where rich and poor met 
together, not to confer and receive degrading compli- 
ments, but to do homage in common to the Giver of 
all good, whose bounty they in common enjoyed. It 
is one of the worst features of the agricultural associa- 
tions that the poor are not admitted to their feasts. 
To them, indeed, may be applied the words in which 
Virgil describes the hardworking oxen whose labours 
the storm had spoiled — 

'^Quid labor aut benefacta juvant ? quid vomere ten'as 
Invertisse graves ? Atqui non Massica Bacchi 
Munera, non illis epulee nocuere repostas.' 

The 'harvest home,' that brings all, rich and poor, 
landlord and tenant, farmer and labourer, together 
round one festive board, is a truly social and family 
scene; but these associations, where they do not 
acknowledge any real communion ^itla. \Xi^ ^o^ot^^ oSas^^^ 



312 FABIONG AKD FARMING SOONOICT. 

but where^ after packing off in the morning the yirtnoiu 
labourers with their £5, £S, and SOs. rewards^ the 
squires^ farmers^ and clergy dine snngly by themselves 
in the afternoon to drink their own healths — and^ if 
they like it^ which does not always happen, the bishop's 
too— ought not to pretend to too much of the odour 
of philanthropy/' 

Notwithstanding the supineness and indifference of 
some of the farmers' clubs and agricultural associa- 
tions, and of a desire on the part of others to devote 
their attention to other than the most important sub- 
jects bearing upon the true welfare of agriculture, 
still a knowledge of what has been done by them in 
this way, and of the valuable discoveries which they 
have opened up and carried on, illustrates '' the fact,'' 
to quote the words of a recent writer, " as we believe 
it to be, that the farmers' clubs of this country are 
after all the most influential agricultural organisation 
we possess, and that whatever the splendour, and we 
might almost say the clamour, of the annual show and 
utterance of our great national society, it does not 
exert the perpetual, uniform, and general influence for 
good which we owe to humbler local organisation." 



[SeOTZON n.— AgRICULTUKAL EDIKJATIORi. 

No subject, perhaps, connected with the economy 
of farming, has given rise to such keen discussion, and 
to such a variety of contrary opinions, as that of the 
education best fitted for those likely to be engaged in 
agricultural pursuits, as either employers or labourers, 
and how best that education should be imparted. The 
subject naturally divides itself into two very important 
parts — first, the education o5 tha farmer, and those 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 818 

having a direct interest in the welfare of agriculture ; 
and, secondly, the education of the farm labourer. 

It says marvellously little for the public interest 
taken in the progress of an art second to none in 
importance, that, while the State takes cognizance of 
almost every other branch of art in some form or 
another, more or less marked, agriculture is entirely 
left to itself. But we need not wonder at this, if we 
Consider the supineness and indifference with wliich 
the whole subject has been treated by farmers them- 
selves, and in justice to them we are bound to add, 
landowners also. While farmers have, as a body, for 
too long a time been characterised by their indifference 
to change, and their opposition to all so-called or real 
improvements in farm practice, landowners have not 
the less been characterised by a singular ignorance of 
their real connection with agriculture. ^^ Instead of 
the farm,^^ says Mr. Stephens, '^the camp and the bar 
seem to be the favourite arenas for the young scions of 
the gentry to pursue their youthful career.^' But a 
change for the better in these matters is, fortunately, 
taking place, and, with the stimulus of a rapid improve- 
ment in the practice of agriculture, has arisen a desire 
to introduce a systematic course of education adapted for 
all classes of agriculturists. The difficulties, doubtless, 
in the way of inaugurating a proper system, capable 
of being carried out in all districts, are certainly very 
great j but we doubt not that, in process of time, by 
energy and perseverance, they will be overcome. The 
objects to be aimed at in giving a suitable educa- 
tion to [the farmer, or to the gentlemen interested in 
farming, are well stated in a pamphlet by Mr. T. D. 
Acland, a gentleman who, closely connected with the 
Bath and West of England Society, ha» doxia TKxxs3cL\Rk 

P 



314 FARMING AND FARMINa ECONOMY. 

forward the interests of agriculture, both in that and 
in other districts, and from which the following is a 
brief extract : — 

*'If we consider on what powers of nature human 
food depends, it is surprising how many departments 
of knowledge may contribute something to the result. 
How plants grow, and how animals feed, why some 
thrive and others are stunted, are questions as yet 
imperfectly answered ; but they are the subject-matter 
of the science of physiology — a science, the compre- 
hension of which implies an accurate knowledge of 
chemistry, and of the general principles of natural 
philosophy. The constitution of the soil, the varieties 
of strata, are taught by mineralogy and geology. Drain- 
ing, in its present advanced state, depends on the laws 
of hydrostatics. The economy of farm-labour requires 
the skilful application of the laws of mechaiiics. Tliese 
are all matters of fact, plain, broad, and palpable, 
entering into the simplest arrangements of a well- 
conducted farm. But if we go on to more delicate 
subjects, how much is the produce of the farm affected 
by the principles of heat and light, perhaps of elec- 
tricity, by the complicated agencies of climate included 
in the province of meteorology ! To the subjects 
already named must be added the diseases of vegetables 
and animals, and the intricate questions involved in 
the art of high breeding. In addition to what belongs 
to agriculture as a food-producing art, the farmer 
requires knowledge of the principles which affect the 
rates of wages, profits, rents-principles taught by 
political economy, but having a most important bearing 
on the question, * Will it pay ?^ '' * 

* ''The Education of the'FaniLeY viewed in connection with thatot 
the Middle Clashes in general: its 0\>iecls, "Ptrntv^Xea, wAC^sL" 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 315 

When we name the Royal Agricultural College at 
Cirencester, and the Agricultural Schools of Ireland 
established by government, we exhaust the list of the 
means by which a practically useful agricultural educa- 
tion can be obtained in this country. The theory 
of agriculture, and an explanation, viva voce, of its 
practice, can be obtained by attendance at the Agri- 
cultural Class in the Universities of London and 
Edinburgh, and* the Queen's Colleges in Ireland ; and 
diplomas, testifying of the fitness of parties to pursue 
farming scientifically and practically, may be obtained 
by passing the examination of the Board of Examiners 
of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland. 

The Chair of Agriculture in the University of Edin- 
burgh was instituted by Sir William Pulteney, in 1791. 
Dr. Coventry, the first professor who occupied the 
chair, held it from 1791 to 1831. Professor D. Low 
succeeded him, and the chair is now occupied by Pro- 
fessor John Wilson. The Agricultural College at 
Cirencester was founded in 1839, and is now in a 
flourishing condition as regards its capabilities to aflford 
to its students a first-rate practical and theoretical 
knowledge of agriculture. The professors are eminent 
for their- attainments, and a large farm of some hun- 
dreds of acres gives ample opportunities for experiments 
upon an extended scale to be carried out. 

In 1821, an agricultural school was founded in 
Ireland, at Bannow, Wexford, but it was. not perma- 
nently successful, continuing in existence only seven 
years. Since agricultural training schools have been 
made to form part of the system of education carried 
out in Ireland^ under the auspices of the Commissioners 
of National Education^ they have been very successful. 
The principal training school is at GlasvxssvcLj ^1 "^\sv€ck. 

pa 



816 FARMING AND FARMING BOONOMT. 

Dr. Kirkpatrick is the principal. Mr. Baldwin^ Lec- 
turer on Practical Agriculture in this institution^ has 
written a very interesting account of it, its rise, pro- 
gress, and present position. On reviewing this, a writer 
in the Agricultural Oazette has the following : — 

'^ Summarising Mr. Baldwin's statistics we find — 
1st, that since the introduction of agricultural instruc- 
tion into the national schools of Ireland, there have been 
instructed in the leading scientific and practical facts 
of modem husbandry 50,000 boys, besides 2,000 young 
men, who, as agricultural boarding pupils, have under- 
gone a regular apprenticeship to agriculture on the larger 
school farms. Assuming that as many as 50 per cent, 
of them are now employed as land factors, land stewards, 
or farmers in Ireland, he would give an average of forty 
of them to each county in Ireland. The teaching and 
example of these men must have conduced very con- 
siderably to the progress of Irish agriculture. 

"2nd. The cost of agricultural instruction in the 
Irish ordinary national schools is about 3*. 4d, per boy 
per annum. In our English agricultural and other 
industrial schools, the Committee of Council on Educa- 
tion allow 5*. for each industrial scholar when a special 
industrial instructor is employed, and 2«. 6rf. when the 
ordinary teacher conducts the industrial department. 
In addition, the Committee of Council makes grants to 
industrial schools equal to half the rent of the premises 
specially hired for the purpose, and one-third the cost 
of tools or raw materials for labour. 

" So far the comparison is favourable to the Irish 
system on the score of economy. In Ireland, however, 
the larger schools cost considerably more, but of these 
Mr. Baldwin does not supply us with the figures. 

^^Tbe principal point on Tiv\i\c\i "we are just now 



AaRICULTtJRAL EDUCATION. 817 

anxious to fix attention is^ that a large amount of most 
useful agricultural instruction is afforded in many of 
the rural national schools of Ireland, at a very small 
cost to the State ; and that what has been thus accom- 
plished may be found equally beneficial in this country. 
The success of the Irish agricultural school system is 
due to those statesmen and public men who, viewing 
Ireland without prejudice, and the Irish people without 
distrust, have sought every opportunity of raising the 
standard of intelligence, social and industrial, of the 
people, and who, to use the words of the present premier, 
considered ' there could not by possibility be a better 
application of money in Ireland than in teaching the 
people how best to cultivate their land/^^ 

And if this saying is true of Ireland, it is not less so 
of England and Scotland. 

The present position of the education question, so 
far as the agricultural labourer is concerned, is one of 
much interest. The following remarks, on it we gave 
in the paper, read before the Central Farmers^ Club, 
to which we have already alluded. In going over the 
returns obtained from various districts of the kingdom, 
the *^ testimony is so far complete, that the ordinary 
branches of education, reading and writing, are gene- 
rally within the easy reach of farm labourers^ children ; 
more especially in Scotland, where the excellent and 
vrell-known parochial school system gives great facili- 
ties to all classes. Evidence, however, is not the less 
convincing, that an unfortunate eagerness exists 
amongst the parents to take their children from school 
as soon as they can obtain work, no matter of how 
trivial a nature. The result of this is, that the children 
are only partially educated — in some cases so partially, 
that the lessons they receive are so evaaesicew^ \sl\3wqx. 



318 FARMma AND FARMING SCONOMT. 

nature that they shortly escape altogether from the 
memory. The truth then seems to be^ not that educa- 
tion is so difficult to be attained — although we do not 
ignore the fact that a vast deal is yet to be done 
nationally before education can be obtained by ail- 
but that the time to allow of the education to be com- 
pleted^ or at least carried on to a useful stage^ cannot 
be obtained, or, what is worse, will not be given. 
Hence, a movement has recently been commenced, 
having for its aim the establishment of the ^ half-time 
system ^ in rural districts. This idea is borrowed from 
the manufacturing districts of Lancashire, where, by 
Act of Parliament, not only are boys prevented from 
working in a mill under thirteen years of age, but by 
which also they arc allowed so many hours a day for 
the purpose of attending school and having recreation. 
We see much in favour of and little against this plan. 
If education is worth having at all, it is worth while to 
make such arrangements as will enable it to be had in 
a proper way. And it certainly is a melancholy fact, 
that agricultural labourer* value education so little, as 
to prevent their children possessing themselves of its 
advantages. The consideration of the expediency of 
legislative interference in such matters of social polity 
is not within the scope of this paper,; but if the advan- 
tages of the half-^time system are really established in 
the manufacturing districts, it is hard to see why 
similar benefits could not be obtained from it by its 
establishment, legislatively or voluntarily, in the rural 
districts. Masters have an immense power in their 
hands of influencing agricultural labourers to ^pre- 
ciate the advantages of education. Let them make it 
distinctly understood, that a youth must be able to read 
and write before he will get employment, and that in 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 819 

the case of adults the best work will be given to the 
best educated^ and the labourer will soon learn to 
appreciate the value of education — such appreciation 
beings we regret to say, not by any means general 
amongst them. The system of education — such as it 
is — obtainable by the agricultural labourer, is not as 
yet generally adapted to give him that distinct and 
peculiar species of knowledge useful to him in his daily 
avocation. Agricultural education, strictly so called, 
is, in point of fact, rarely given ; hence a general igno- 
rance amongst labourers of the very first principles of 
the art which gives them subsistence. It is here, we 
think, quite unnecessary to point out the advantages 
derivable from a knowledge of the principles of agri- 
cultural science ; one point only may be adverted to, 
and that is, the interest which this knowledge would 
create. The farmer would find in his servant a readier 
help in carrying out improved modes of culture or farm 
processes, instead of the prejudiced sneer, or the help- 
less, hopeless indifierence, which meets him too often 
now, when he is introducing new things. Knowledge 
gives a man a quickening interest in the processes in 
which he is engaged, and an interested man will make a 
better servant than an indifierent one. In proportion 
as we find a man elevated in his ideas, just in propor- 
tion are his services rendered of the higher value. We 
find this to hold true in other callings ; why should it 
not in that of agriculture ? At the same time, we must 
not conceal what, we find, is the opinion of a consider- 
able number of' our correspondents, and which we know 
also to be held by many farmers throughout the country 
— namely, that this superior education of the labourer 
is not required. On the contrary, it is in no way to be 
desired, inasmuch as it seems, so they think, to unfit 



820 FARMINa AND FARMJOrQ EOQNOMT. 

him for his work — raise him above it^ in point of fact. 
If^ then^ this is the case^ and that a cultiyated intellect 
and the routine of farm labour are incompatible^ let us 
hope for the rapid realisation of the period when much 
of its mechauical drudgery shall be done by the aid of 
improved modes of working — ^in which the workof human 
sinews shall be done by the untiring aid of the steam- 
engine^ and the uufettering of the body of the labourer 
from dull and dreary work shall leave him free to carry 
on processes demanding more of skilly and a wider exer- 
cise of his intellect^ than is now the case. But what* 
ever education is, it should not, we conceive, be that 
which has reference to the cultivation of the intellec- 
tual powers only. We do think that the present ten- 
dency of education is too much in the wrong direction- 
getting up the polish, the pith of the man and woman is 
neglected. The heart requires proper training, as well 
as the head ; and in this direction, the lessons of the 
school may be ably supplemented by the precepts and 
examples of the hearth — the labours of the teacher 
in the school aided by the authority of the parents at 
home. To this end, the parent must become himself a 
ready and willing scholar in the school of self-discipline, 
self-control, and self-denial. Ever aiming at self- 
improvement, he will best be able to improve his 
children; and, ever learning, he will make all the 
better teacher. But, to complete the education of the 
labourer, another thing will still be wanting — namely, 
the teaching of example, this being carried out by the 
master. We have, assuredly, a strong conviction that 
an immense amount of good will be eflfected by raising 
the social condition of the labourer, by the persistent, 
every-day displayed example of masters whose daily life 
proves that they themselves are actuated by the highest 



AQRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 321 

of motives and the purest of principles. The whole gist 
of the matter in this direction is pithily put by a corre- 
spondent^ himself one of the ornaments of the agricul- 
tural world, who says that ^the master is the true 
educator of the servant, and that in the long run, and 
on a large scale, the master will be served just as he 
deserves/ .... As indicative of what practical men 
think of the question of education, we give here an 
extract or two from the communications of my corre- 
spondents: 'There can be no doubt,' says a corre- 
spondent, ' but the labourers are much better educated 
in the agricultural districts now than formerly. Schools 
have been built, within the last few years, in almost 
every village, either under the inspection of the Govern- 
ment oflScials, or by the clergy or some influential 
landowner ; but in many of these schools it has been 
found, from experience, the children have been taught 
much that proves but of little advantage to them in 
after-life, and the more useful knowledge has been sadly 
omitted. This applies more particularly to females. 
It has also been found that, .since a higher-class educa- 
tion has been imparted to the labourers, the less are 
they inclined for the mere labourers' work of the farm ; 
and, up to the present time, I do not find they are more 
able to undertake skilled labour than they were years 
since, except in some instances, when they get the 
advantage of the alteration of masters able to give them 
lessons in the several branches of such labour.' Another 
correspondent states : ' As regards education, I do not 
think the lower classes appreciate the efforts that are 
being made throughout the country for their advantage. 
Many might send their young children to school ; but 
they neglect to do so. I do not advocate a boy being 
kept at school after he is eleven yeara of a;gi,^'Wi«^\.^2^^ 

P 8 



322 FARMINa AND FARMING EC0K0M7. 

Sunday-school, or perhaps twice in the week at evening- 
school, if he is to earn his living by field-work. It is 
only those who go to work young that make good 
labourers. A highly-educated boy of fourteen would 
not like the A B C of farm-work/ Another says: 'I 
am not quite sure that the education going on at 
present is a step in the right direction. So far as 
teaching reading and writing, but one opinion can exist 
— ^that it is right ; but here they are taught, especially 
girls, every kind of tom-foolery that can be thought of— 
crochet, fancy needlework, geography, use of the globes, 
and much ^Ise which is not useful.^ Another says that 
his experience goes to prove ' that the system of educa- 
tion adopted, more especially at the national schools, is 
set too high above the general minds of the pupils; and 
that while eflforts are made to bring out the .talents of 
the quick, the slow pupils are left behind. Thus the 
masses :are anything but well educated.^ Another 
correspondent states : ' I think I may say nearly every 
parish has its good school accommodation — in many 
instances in superfluity; for I call all beyond reading 
well and moral training superfluous to the pauper 
scholar — firstly, that it unfits him for his calling in life ; 
and secondly, and chiefly, that ratepayers, to a very 
considerable extent, are unable to educate their own 
children to the extent that they are called upon to con- 
tribute to the education of children in the class beneath 
them. Yet, with the facilities offered, a very great 
number of children (of course through the neglect of 
their parents) receive no instruction.^ '' 

On the important point as to how best to impart a 
knowledge of the principles of agriculture likely to be 
of practical service to the farm labourer in his daily 
avocations, we give the following extract from a report 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 323 

of a valuable paper, read by Mr. J. C. Morton, a well- 
known authority on the subject : — 

^^ The case of a teacher in a country district was sup- 
posed, and his means, both for self-instruction and for 
communicating instruction, were enumerated. He had 
friends among the farmers, he had the school-garden, he 
tad a few simple pieces of apparatus, he had the aspects 
of nature all around him, varying with season, soil, and 
skill ; and, lastly, he had his books. The works named 
were Johnston^s ^ Agricultural Chemistry and Geology,' 
Law's ' Elements of Practical Agriculture,' Stephens' 
' Book of the Farm,' access to which might be had in 
some neighbouring library. And then for class-books, 
there were ^ The Farmer,' by G. NichoUs ; Richard- 
son's * Shilling Rural Handbooks,' Blacker on ^ Small 
Farms,' &c. The instruction of the teachers was, of 
course, the main difl&culty. This must be done by 
properly qualified instructors in our Normal schools, as 
is being done in the Normal schools at Edinburgh and 
Glasgow, where men, trained at Glasnevin College, 
are employed. Letters were read on this subject from 
Dr. Kirkpatrick, of Glasnevin, D. Milne Horn, Esq., 
of Coldstream, and J. Gordon, Esq., Secretary to the 
Committee on Education to the General Assembly of 
the Church of Scotland. Then, supposing a qualified 
teacher, the means of instructing others at his com- 
mand were discussed. Specimen lessons were recited 
in the main truths of agricultural chemistry, showing 
how doctrines in the theory and facts in the practice of 
agriculture were capable of satisfactory, simple, and 
even amusing illustration, without the employment of 
a scientific nomenclature, or the use of any other than 
commonplace and familiar instances and terms. The 
uses of the garden in agricultural instruction were 



324 JXVJaSQ A5D WABMESB lOOSOKT. 

proved both bj testimony and experience. Dr. Dau- 
beny's illustrations of the exhausting power of plants, 
in his lecture before the Royal Agricultural Society of 
England^ were taken from garden plots. Tull's aigu- 
ment was built originally upon obserration of garden 
rows and single plants. The most complete and satis- 
factory inquiry into the relative values of our grasses 
was conducted by Sinclair^ in the Wobum gardens. 
One of the most perfect inquiries into the relative value 
of our wheats, is reported in the first volume of the 
' Journal of the English Agricultural Society/ as having 
been carried out in a garden in Gloucestershire. Ex- 
periments on manures in gardens are perfectly satisfac- 
tory. What can be more so than the valuable annual 
report of a garden experience, given for many years in 
the Agricultural Gazette, by the Hon. and Rev. L. W. 
H arcourt ? Modes of culture, the methods of manuring, 
rotations of cropping, and the merits of the various 
crops— all these particulars, which, among them^ pretty 
nearly complete the circle of the mere cultivator's 
experience, are capable of perfect illustration in a 
garden. And how perfectly the rationale of many an 
operation can be thus presented to both mind and eye 
can be easily imagined. You may talk to a boy by the 
hour on the advantage of stirring the soil and of deep 
cultivation, inasmuch as it admits the air more per- 
fectly throughout the substance of the soil, and thereby 
facilitates the chemical processes by which the soil and 
its contents are fitted as the food of plants ; but no 
quantity of merely verbal instruction will equal in its 
force, either upon the understanding or memory, the 
lesson oti that subject which that same boy would 
receive if, after having dug a hole in the hardened 
ground, he were told to pwt into \t all the earth he had 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 325 

just taken out of it. The heap remaining over, which 
he could not return to its place, would represent more 
distinctly to him the bulk of additional air thus intro- 
duced into the soil by its disturbance, than any argu- 
ment, unsupported by thiis simple illustration, could do.^^ 

The uses of the garden in furnishing practice in the 
use of tools were proved by the experience of schools, 
in the Highlands, and in Ireland. Its uses, in adding 
to the means of the school, or the emoluments of the 
teacher, were proved by reference to the experience of 
Mrs. D. Gilbert^s school, in Sussex ; by the experience 
of Mr. Botson, late of Kynaston House, in Hereford- 
shire, who lodged, maintained, and instructed boys 
upon his farm, being repaid by their labour; and by 
the experience of reformatory schools — the one espe- 
cially referred to being that at Hardwicke, near Glou- 
cester, now for several years maintained in operation 
by the wise and painstaking benevolence of Mr. 
Bengough and Mr. Baker, two magistrates of Glou- 
cestershire. 

Lastly, the fact that agricultural instruction can be 
given without endangering the efficiency of the ordi- 
nary literary instruction, was proved by the testimony 
of such men as Dr. Kirkpatrick and Mr. Gordon. The 
policy of giving the latter an agricultural turn, by the 
use of agricultural reading-books, and agricultural 
arithmetic-books, in our rural schools, was adverted to. 

The value of evening schools for adults, as meeting 
the deficiencies arising from a too early removal of 
children to work, and as, in some degree, a successful 
rival to the public-house, was insisted on; and Mr. 
Morton concluded by quoting a saying of the Dean 
of Hereford: ^^I am perfectly convinced that many 
well-meaning efforts in the education of clL\ldx<£v>L \^^^^ 



326 FAKMING AND FARMIKa ECONOMY. 

not been attended with the success expected from them^ 
entirely owing to their leaviDg out all instruction re- 
lating to the occupations by which they are in after 
life to earn their bread.'' 



DIVISION FIFTH. 

AORICULTURAL LITERATURB. 

It is impossible within the limits of the space now left 
us to do justice to this interesting department. We 
can at best glance, and that briefly, at the principal 
writers who have in former and more recent times con- 
tributed to it. Up to the beginning of the sixteenth 
century, what notices of the condition of agriculture, 
and of the labour of the field and the fold, met 
with, can only be gathered from a number of isolated 
sources, mixed up with other and ordinary historical 
records or social facts. An exception to this, however, 
is probably met with in a curious tract which is sup- 
posed, but not positively known, to have been published 
in 1500. It treats exclusively of agriculture, and is 
apparently a translation of a French work treating of 
planting and grafting. The translator seems to have 
been the Bishop of Lyncolne, one " Mayster Groshelle.'' 
The beginning of the sixteenth century saw the estab- 
lishment of what may be called the agricultural litera- 
ture of Great Britain, in the publishing of the ^^Booke of 
Husbandry,'' written in 1539 by Fitzherbert, a judge of 
the Common Pleas in the reign of King Henry VIII. 
This book is not only interesting now, as containing 
many quaint explanations of customs then in vogue, but 
js actually practically valuable, «a eit^Y^mm"^ modes of 



AGRICULTURAL LITERATURB. 327 

operation vhich are still practised. It further shows that 
many of the prejudices still existent amongst a certain 
class of farmers have a decided claim to antiquity, for they 
were in full possession of many farmers^ minds in the 
days of good Anthony Fitzherbert. In 15G2, Tusser^s 
'^ Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry^^ was pub- 
lished. It is written in rude doggrcl, and treats of 
many subjects; but, amidst a deal of useless cumber- 
some matter, useful hints and interesting details may 
now and then be picked up. In 1578, " The whole Art 
of Husbandry,'^ by Barnaby Googe, appeared. This 
work contains little of importance bearing on the con- 
dition or labour of agriculture as then practised in 
England, being made up of remarks on German agri- 
culture, and transcripts of ancient practice from classical 
authors. In 1645, Sir Richard Weston published his 
'^ Discourse on the Husbandry of Brabant and Flan- 
ders,^^ in which he describes the mode of cultivating 
clover, which important crop he had the honour to intro- 
duce from Flemish into English practice. The work is 
particularly valuable, as forming a mark of that period 
when British agriculture began to feel the beneficial 
influence of practical contact with that of Flanders 
— ^long and still celebrated as the finest and most 
carefully cultivated country in Europe. 

The publication of Blyth^s " Improver Improved,^^ in 
1649 (1st edit.), and in 1662 (3rd edit.), is noteworthy, 
as containing descriptions of the turnip as applicable to 
the purposes of the farm, and having a notice — the first 
met with in published records — of what is called the 
alternate husbandry. As noticed in the division on 
Draining in this work, Blyth gave some valuable 
remarks on drainage. 

In 1650, HartleVs '^ Legacy^^ was ijMbl\sJ2L<^^> ^^^ 



328 FABMING AND VABMINa EOONOMT. 

contains a singular mixture of what an excellent and 
recent writer calls '^rash speculations'' and ''judicious 
directions/^ 

In 1681 appeared '' Houghton's Collections on Hus- 
bandry and Trade/* chiefly noteworthy as giving the 
first notice of the practice of sheep feeding by turnips. 
Mortimer, in 1706, published his ''Whole Art of Hus- 
bandry/* in which the subject is treated in a regular 
manner, and in which may be found evidence that much 
of the present practice of farming is marked by the 
same characteristics as then were observable. 

In 1731 was published a work which explained a 
system of culture which has had, perhaps, more than 
any other, the most marked and decided influence upon 
the progress of agriculture. This was Jethro Tull's 
" Horse Hoeing Husbandry.** 

We now come to notice what may be called the 
periodical literature of agriculture. The forerunner of 
all those able journals, which now do such admirable 
service in disseminating agricultural knowledge, may 
be said to be the " Select Transactions** of the Society 
of Improvers in the Knowledge of Agriculture in Scot- 
land. Although these were not continued, still they 
may be looked upon as the first of the journals of agri- 
cultural societies. 

In 1800, i]ie' Farmers' Magazine was commenced, 
under the editorship of Robert Brown, author of "Rural 
Afikirs.*' In 1828, the Journal of Agriculture (quarterly) 
was commenced, and, in conjunction with it, the " Tran- 
sactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society of 
Scotland.** The " Journal of the Bath and West of 
England Society,** established in 1777, and that of 
the Royal Agricultural Society of England, in 1838, 
are media, in which have ap^je^ocei, «u^d in which are 



AGRICULTURAL LITBRATURE. 329 

Btill appearing^ a large proportion of the most valuable 
contributions to practical and theoretical agriculture. 
The agricultural public are kept in full knowledge 
of all improvements in, and discussion connected 
with agriculture, its practice or principles, by a number 
of ably conducted periodicals, amongst which may 
be named here, The ^^ Mark Lane Express and Agri- 
cultural Journal/' " The Agricultural Gazette,^' " Bell's 
Weekly Messenger/' " The Farmers* Magazine/' ^^ The 
North British Agriculturist/' " The Scottish Farmer/' 
'' The Irish Farmers' Gazette/' and the (Irish) " Agri- 
cultural Review," As containing a resume of the 
leading facts published, and of recent progress made 
during each year, we may be permitted to name '* The 
Year-Book of Agricultural Facts,'^ commenced in 1859. 
In what may be called standard agricultural literature, 
we name, of the exhaustive encyclopaedic treatises, 
Stephens^ "Book of the Farm; ^' Morton's "Cyclopaedia 
of Agriculture; " Morton's " Farm Calendar,'' Loudon's 
"Encyclopaedia of Agriculture;" Low's "Practical Agri- 
culture;" Wilson's "Farmers' Dictionary;" Youatt's 
"Complete Grazier;" Johnston and Anderson's "Agri- 
cultural Chemistry;" Slight and Scott Bum's "Farm 
Implements and Machines;" and Stephens and Scott 
Bum's "Farm Buildings." Of many of the works 
alluded to in this rapid resumi, the reader will find 
more special notice in the body of this work. It 
is matter of regret to the author that he cannot find 
space to notice more fully, and to give extracts from, 
the most interesting of the works of the early writers 
on agriculture. They abound in much that is inte- 
resting and valuable, in lessons of reproof and warning, 
so far as showing how deeply prejudices are rooted in 
the minds, and how much they influence the ij^ractice^c^^ 



330 FARMING AND FARMINa £00N0M7. 

farmers even of the present day. Lessons of encourage- 
ment^ however, they also give us, as showing how, in 
many departments of agriculture, we have wonderfully 
progressed, and how much, by the persistent and en- 
lightened efforts of its most able practicians, the art. 
has ministered to the material wants of .the nation. 



DIVISION SIXTH- 
ANCIENT ROMAN AGRICULTURE. 

It is impossible within the limits of the present work 
to do full justice to this interesting department of agri« 
cultural history. We can, at best, give but outlines of 
its leading features ; and these, we regret to add, must 
be of the briefest character. We can, however, refer * 
the reader interested in the details of Roman agricul- 
ture to other works where they are fully given — such 
as Mr. C. W. Hoskyn's admirable treatise on the '^ His- 
tory of Agriculture;" Professor Daubeny's "Lectures 
on Roman Husbandry;" Dickson's "Ancient Hus- 
bandry;" and Smith's " Dictionary of Antiquities." 

Roman farming, in the early times of the Republic, 
was miserable enough in its details, and seemed to have 
more of the characteristics of what is now called amateur 
farming than those of farming conducted as a business 
for profit. This may be gathered from the fact that 
the extent of land under individual cultivation was very 
small — from four to eight acres — the smaller quantity 
being that most general. Generally the cultivation was 
carried on under the immediate inspection of the pro- 
prietor; and in many instances — especially in early 
Roman times — ^the proprietor himself guided the plough, 



ANCIENT ROMAN AGRICULTURE. 331 

or, what is more likely, handled the spade. In later 
times the size of farms increased ; and many members 
of the patrician and equestrian orders held farms of 
considerable extent — from fifty up to four and five 
hundred acres. When such farms were let, the pro- 
prietor not wishing to undertake the management ot 
the land him:self, he entrusted it to parties termed ^^ poli- 
tores,^' or ^^ partuarii," These performed all the labour 
of the farm, and received for their reward a proportion 
of the produce — varjang from one-ninth to one-fifth of 
the yield. All implements, stock, and slaves, were 
found by the proprietor. 

Where the management of the farm was undertaken 
by the proprietor himself, the actual labours were 
undertaken by slaves, or by free labourers, overlooked 
by grieves or bailifis. In still later times, slave labour 
began to supersede free labour almost entirely, and 
was the means of bringing about the rapid ruin ot 
Roman agriculture. Of the opinions of Roman writers 
on the practice of having large farms, and employing 
slave labour thereon, the following will be interesting : — 

Cato the Censor thus writes — "Our ancestors regarded 
it as a .grand point in husbandry not to have too much 
land in one farm ; for they considered that more profit 
came by holding little, and cultivating it well.^^ And 
Virgil declares that large farms "have long been the 
baue of Italy and the provinces, too, in late times ;^' 
and adds, " I hold it the worst thing that can be to set 
slaves and felons, in their chains and fetters, about the 
tilling of a farm ; for I like not anything done by such 
forlorn and hopeless labour; and, in truth, nothing 
thrives under its hand.^^ 

The crops cultivated by the Romans were very nume- 
rous. Wheat, as with us, was the most important. 



332 FARMIKa AKD FARMING ECONOMT. 

Barley and oats were also cultivated; and a grain 
called ^' far/* of which all knowledge is now lost. Beans^ 
lucerne, and flax, were also grown. 

"The Roman systems of rotation are interesting. 
Upon their best land they were fond of a four-course 
shift, viz., millet, dunged; 2, radishes; 3, barley; 4, barley 
again, or wheat. Another rotation was similar to the 
one still used on very strong land in England — beans, 
and, for time about, manuring probably for the beans. 
Pliny even notices a still more scourging system — first 
millet, and then two crops of far. In land considered 
good, but not equal to the fore-mentioned, they took — 
1, corn ; 2, beans ; 3, some kind of pulse — manuring, 
apparently, for the beans. On still inferior land they 
had a fallow every five years ; on yet worse, they fal- 
lowed every third year ; and on the worst of all, every 
alternate one; and this last seems to have been the 
plan most generally followed.*' 

That the cultivation of the Roman farms was not 
what we now consider first-class, may be inferred from 
the statements of the produce they yielded. An acre of 
the best land yielded about 4, and ordinary land, 2| 
quarters of wheat. Columella, writing in the time of 
the Emperor Clodius; states that no land produced a 
four-fold yield. The Romans were expert at hay- 
making, and fine crops were obtained by them. Open 
drainage was practised ; and in later times fields were 
carefully enclosed. The advantages of careful ploughing, 
and a liberal use of manure, were well understood. The 
agricultural literature of the Romans was particularly 
rich, and its teachings are even at this day practically 
valuable. In place of taking up space by remarks of 
our own on the characteristics of this Roman agricul- 
tural literature, we shall, we think, best serve the 



ANCIENT ROMAN AGKICULTURB. 333 

interests of the reader, and show what these cha- 
racteristics were, by giving brief extracts from various 
authors. '' Wherein/^ asks Cato, " does a good system 
of agriculture consist ? In the first place, in thorough 
ploughiug j in the second place, in thorough ploughing ; 
and, in the third place, in manuring." 

'^ Inasmuch," says Columella, ^^ as it is much more 
advantageous to use the provender grown on the field 
for home consumption, than to sell it ; and as manuring 
mainly contributes to make a field fertile, and cattle are 
principally kept for the production of manure, there- 
fore, everybody who owns a farm must not only possess 
a knowledge of agriculture, but also of pasturage and 
of the process of stall feeding." 

'^A soil," says Virgil, "to be fertile, must, above all 
things, be light and friable, and this condition we seek 
to bring about by the operation of ploughing." 

By the intermixture of soils, says Pliny, " an infi- 
nite variety is produced. A stifl' clay soil may be 
improved by the addition of sand or marl ; a sandy soil 
by the addition of clay." 

'^Take care," says Cato, "to have your com weeded 
twice with the hoe, and also by the hand." 

Columella tells us that "there are three kinds of 
manure. The best is the excrement of birds; then 
comes that of man; and, lastly, that of cattle. The 
last also varies in quality." . . . And the same author 
says that " agriculturists ought to know that a field 
will, indeed, lose its productive power when left alto- 
gether unmanured ; but that, on the other hand, over- 
manuring is also very prejudicial. Let farmers, there- 
fore, manure their fields often, rather than overmuch 
at a time. I have here one more remark to add, 
namely, that manure is best suited for the field when it 



334 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

IS a year old. In summer it ought to be turned up, and 
always kept moist, in order that the seeds of noxious 
weeds in it be rotted, and be not returned again to the 
land.'^ Cato gave utterance to many pithy, pointed 
sentences, of which the following are examples: — "A 
good husbandman ought to be a seller rather than a 
buyer.^^ His reply to the question as to what was the 
source of the most assured profit from land will please 
many of our readers. " To feed stock well/' And his 
answer to the question as to what was the source of 
the next profit is most suggestive in these days of over 
fattening. " To feed with moderation.'* He further, 
on a very important point, gives counsel ^^ that a man 
should stock his ground early and well, but take long 
time and leisure before he be a builder.'' 

We close our brief remarks on ancient Roman agri- 
culture by the following remark of Mr. Hoskyn's with 
reference to sentences such as we have given : — ^' It is 
curious," says this graphic writer, ''to read such pas- 
sages as these, and to find the very same subjects still 
handled, week after week, in fresh and eager contro- 
versy, in the agricultural writings and periodicals of the 
present day—eighteen centuries after these opinions 
were written." 



DIVISION SEVENTH. 

CONTINENTAL (fLEMISH). AGRICULTURE. 

Scattered here and there throughout the pages of our 
first and of the present volume, the reader will find 
notices of crops, and remarks on modes of culture, which 
will indicate to him how deeply indebted British is to 



CONTINENTAL (FLEMISH) AGRICULTURE. 335 

Flemish agriculture ; that portion of Continental Agri- 
culture which our limited space only permits us to* 
notice^ and that in briefest, scantiest fashion. The 
salient features of Flemish husbandry may be stated to 
be, first, the '^ absence of fallows ; ^' the deep and careful 
culture of the soil; the perpetual warfare kept up 
against the weeds; the complete system of rotation, 
and the saving treatment, and mode of application of 
manure, more especially liquid; and lastly, the wide 
variety of crops cultivated. On a few of these points 
we have given in the pages of the Agricultural Gazette 
some remarks, which we reproduce here : — 

'' A very noticeable feature in Flemish husbandry is 
the absence of the fallow in the routine of culture. 
For upwards of 200 years the Flemish have abolished 
fallows ; finding in the introduction of crops which are 
capable of being repeatedly worked at various stages, and 
of a carefully carried out system of rotation, together 
with the use of manures of a special character, the 
means of retaining, nay increasing, the fertility of the 
soil. But more than this, the same land which gives 
alternate crops of cereal and green crops gives often 
two crops in the same year. No sooner is one crop 
taken oflF the land than it is worked for another crop, 
which is sowed and harvested before the year has 
expired. There is thus literally no rest either for the 
land or the labourer; both are fully employed, and 
each is saved from exhaustion by a change in the degree 
and kind of work to be performed. The whole gist 
of the matter is so well put by a native writer on the 
agriculture of Flanders, and in a medium but little 
known, if not now altogether out of circulation, that we 
here freely translate his remarks :— 

^ The system of farming is what in other countries 



€t 



336 FARMING AND FARMINQ ECONOHT. 

is the perfection of fanning. Indeed^ the first maxim 
of all farming is to draw from the land the greatest 
possible amount in cereals with the least exhaustion of 
the soil. To obtain this desideratum the School of Agri- 
culture gives as its maxim : ' Put half of the land in 
cereal^ and the other half in pasture and in roots ; yon 
will have thus^ to be sure^ less soil under cereal^ but it 
will produce more on account of the change of crop, 
and the increase of manure/ On the other hand^ the 
Flemings say : ' Put three-fifths of your laud under 
cereals, in place only of the half; secure the change of 
cropping necessary, not only in the exclusive cultivation 
of fodder plants, but in the variety of produce, such as 
flax, hemp, colza, chicory, poppies, cumeline, and farina 
of various kinds. But, besides the crops already named, 
we can produce roots and pasture plants upon the same 
soil and in the same year.^* We have thus as much 
nourishment for our cattle as in the new system of agri- 
culture — the alternate cropping — without reducing the 
extent of land under cereals, and without renouncing 
our textile and oleaginous plants.^ '' 

On the subject of spade culture and weeding as prac- 
tised on the Flemish farms, we have also given in the 
pages of the Agricultural Gazette the following : — 

*^ Although much used throughout Flanders, it is an 
erroneous impression, which is somewhat prevalent, that 
the spade is the only implement of cultivation employed. 
The plough is nearly always used, although the spade is 
often used immediately after the plough, still further to 
create a fine tilth. The furrows are all trimmed up by 
the spade, and the superfluous earth thrown up on the 
adjoining stetches. But although the plough is chiefly 
used, it is by no means the only implement employed ; 

• Ciover and carrots, for inslwice, V\iXi ^lmlv \jQrm!5» «kftfir rye. 



CONTINENTAL (fLEMISH) AaRICULTURE. 337 

as said above^ the spade is used along with it. The hoe 
also is in frequent use; indeed, long after the plough 
has done its work, the farmers are seen busy either with 
the spade or the latter implement reducing the clods 
and eradicating the weeds. It is in the district of the 
Pays de Waes, in East Flanders, that spade husbandly, 
strictly so called, is carried out. When we passed 
through this district at a time when all were busy 
preparing the land for seed, we travelled miles without 
seeing a plough at work ; but numerous labourers were 
busy with the spade. In some districts the land is dug 
every three years ; in others they dig all soil intended 
to be laid under cereals ; so that the whole farm is dug 
every two years. The plough is sometimes used in 
conjunction with the spade, men placed at intervals 
taking up the earth and placing the spadefuls on the 
ploughed part ; the land thus prepared is left all winter 
to atmospheric influences, and harrowed carefully in 
the spring.^^ 

The earth is laid out in narrow stetches about two 
yards broad ; " a deep ditch separates these, and, as 
before mentioned, the edges of these are trimmed up 
with the spade till they look as even and satisfactory as 
if they had been executed by steady-going machinery. 
These ditches, some 30 centimetres in breadth, are 
taken in the following year to form part of the stetch, 
while a breadth is borrowed from the neighbouring 
stetch to form a new ditch or furrow. By this arrange- 
ment the ditches are not permanent, but form, in the 
regular course, part of the cultivated soil ; and thus the 
whole of the land has been under ditches and stetches 
alternately. As the ditches or furrows are very deep, 
from three to four times the depth of the average seed- 
bed obtained in English ploughing, it will be seen ha^ ^ 

Q 



338 FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMY. 

by this method of working, a fine tilth of unusual depth 
is soon obtained; and as manuring is carefully prac- 
tised, and in such a way as to secure a uniform enrich- 
ment throughout its whole depth, a soil is obtained 
which, in its character, more nearly resembles that of 
a well-cultivated garden than that which we are accus- 
tomed to look upon as good farm land. The almost 
total absence of weeds in the Flemish farms keeps up 
this garden-like appearance of the lands more markedly. 
It is impossible to praise too highly the continued 
efforts of the farmers of Flanders to keep down all 
weeds, and one not the least valuable of the results 
obtained is that the very toil of the task is mitigated by 
the never-ceasing attention paid to it. Where weeds are 
allowed to cumber the land year after year, the task of 
their eradication, if once it is begun, is all the more 
diflScult to be performed ; whereas by always endeavour- 
ing to get rid of them the perpetual disturbance 
prevents their perpetuation, and makes their removal 
more easy. It is pleasing to the eye of the educated 
farmer, as he strolls along the Flemish roads, to witness 
the number of people employed in the operation of 
weeding. The weeds taken up are not foolishly thrown 
aside, but are carefully collected and brought off the 
field to add to the manure or the compost heap. 

'^ In the preparation of some qualities of land not too 
tenacious, a custom is sometimes adopted of a man 
following the plough with a spade ; as each furrow is 
opened up, he deepens the soil with the spade, and in 
the part already ploughed throws up the soil obtained. 
Exposed thus to the action of the atmospheric influences, 
the clods are disintegrated, and a considerable addition 
to the fertility of the soil obtained — equal, in the 
opinion of many farmers, to a good manuring.^ 



>f 



CONTINENTAL (fLEMISU) AGRICULTURE. 339 

On the subject of Flemish modes of collecting and 
using manureSy a writer in the Mark Lane Express has 
the following : — 

^' The grand secret of growing the numerous green 
crops they have abroad, occupying the ground but so 
short a time, is the heavy coats of manure they put on 
for them. We are not nearly so careful as we ought to 
be, to economise every sort of offal which can possibly 
be turned to advantage as manure. We never, I 
expect, can use the liquid manure of towns as they do ; 
it is contrary to our ideas of delicacy or health, as we 
are only anxious for our town drainage to run off as 
quickly as possible; whereas they allow the most 
offensive to remain in the house cesspools till they are 
full, when men come round with large butts on wheels, 
and purchase it. They have a long leather hose and a 
small patent pump, and quickly, and without much 
offence to the olfactories, empty the cesspools into these 
butts. In the large towns this is done by dealers, who, 
after adulterating it with water, sell it to the farmers, 
who carry it sometimes as back-carriage in casks, with 
large bung-holes stopped with straw. They cart it into 
the fields, and at certain intervals empty each cask into 
a tub, and from that tub spread it by means of a small 
bucket at the end of a long pole. Thus the whole field 
is gone over as equally as possible ; and they generally 
give two such dressings to each green crop. Farm-yard 
liquid they use in the same way, which has less rain- 
water admixed with it than in our farm-yards, because 
their buildings are smaller, and shorter in the roofs ; 
consequently they have not those heavy flows of rain- 
water which we have from our so frequently unspouted 
eaves, and also there is not so much rain falling there 
as with us." 

Q 2 



3K) FARMING AND FARMING ECONOMT. 

From the few remarks our space has enabled us to 
give, the reader will perceive how carefully the land is 
cultivated by the Flemish farmer, and how numerous 
arc the crops he takes under his care. For several 
crops they are specially celebrated, as for their clover, 
their beet-root, flax, and the oleaginous plants, as colza. 
From Flemish practice the English agriculturist may 
derive much that is valuable, more especially as to the 
advantages of deep culture of the soil, its careful 
cleaning from weeds, in an extension of the number of 
his crops, and in the manures applied to them. 

In concluding this brief sketch of Flemish agriculture, 
we may, perhaps, be permitted to refer the reader 
desirous to obtain fuller information as to its details to 
our '^Agricultural Tour in Belgium, Holland, and on 
the Rhine." 



INDEX. 



Aberdeenshire, cottage accommoda- 
tion in, 243 

Acreage under different crops in 
England, 285 

Acts, drainage, 161 

Agricultural labourer, various 
questions connected with, 223 — ^275 

Agricultural chemistry, rise and pro- 
gress of, 48 — 54 

Agricultural education, 313 

Agricultural knowledge, how to im- 
part in schools, Mr. J. C. Morton's 
views on, 323 

Agricultural schools in Ireland, 315 

Agricultural societies, 295 

Agricultural statistics, 275 

Agricultural literature, 326 

Agricultural writers, Roman, 333 

Agriculture, Anglo-Saxon, 20 

Agriculture before the Roman In- 
vasion, 16 

Agriculture, British, early history of, 
16—34 

Agriculture, Chair of, in the 
University of Edinburgh, 315 

Agriculture from the fifteenth to the 
seventeenth century, 27 

Agriculture, National Board of, 302 

Agriculture, Norman, 25 

Agriculture, Belgian or Flemish, 334 

Agriculturists, Roman, in Great 
Britain, 17 

Albuminous matters in various foods, 
132 

Alternate husbandry, introduction 
of, 29 

AnaljTsis of cereal crops, 59 

Analysis of clover as catde-food, 131 

Analysis of grains as food, 128 

Analysis of leguminous seeds and 
straws as cattie-f ood, 128 

Analysis of leguminous crops, 59 

Analysis of roots as cattle-food, 129 



Analysis of root crops, 61 
Analysis of straws as cattle-food, 

128 
Analysis of straw, 59 
Anglo-Saxons, condition of agri- 
culture under, 20 
Artificial manures, 81 
Bailey Denton's view of the drainage 

features of Great Britain, 162 
Belgian or Flemish agriculture, 334 
Berwickshire, cottage accommodation 

in, 245 
Board of Agriculture, National, 302 
Bothy S3rstem in Scotland, 245 
Boussingault's researches into food of 

plants, 116 
British agriculture, early history of, 

16—33 
Capital, farm, of Great Britain, 289 
Cattle food, chemistry of, 121—154 
Cattle, historical notices connected 

with. 214 
Central Farmers' Club, 307 
Cereal crops, analysis of, 59 
Chemistry, agricultural, rise and pro- 
gress 01, 48 — 54 
Chemistry of cattle food, 121 — 154 
Chemistry of manures, 80 — 121 
Chemistry of soils, 61 — 74 
Cirencester, Royid Agricultural 

College at, 315 
Clovers, hay, and artificial grasses as 

food, analvsis of, 131 
Clubs, farmers', 306 
College, Royal Agricultural, at Ciren- 
cester, 315 
Condimental food for cattle, views 

on, 147—154 
Condition in the Middle Ages of the 

agricultural labourer, 227 
Constituents of plants, 55—60 
Cottage accommodation of the agri- 
cultural labourer, 236 



342 



INDBX. 



Crops, acreap^ under different, in 
England, 285 

Crops, analysis of cereal, 59 

Crops and stock in Great Britain, 294 

Crops, farm, historical notices of 
35—47 

Culture, deep, of the soil, 177 

Culture, steam, 184—214 

Culture, steam, historical notices con- 
nected with, 187—196 

Culture, steam. Fowler's system, 197 

Culture, steam. Smith's, of Woolston, 
system of, 204 

Culture, steam, present position of, 
209 

Culture, steam, future of, 210 

Culture, steam, Guideway system of, 
213 

Deep and shallow draining, opinions 
on, 166 

Deep culture of the soil, 177 

Drainage acts, 161 

Drainage, Elkington's system of, 156 

Drainage, Essex s}'stem of, ir)7 

Drainage features of Great J^ritain, 
Bailey Denton's view of, IGJ 

Drainage, Keythorpe system of, 169 

Drainage, Roman, 156 

Drainage, Smith's, of Deanston, 
system of, 157 

Drainage, various modes of, introduc- 
tion of, 155 -170 

Drainage-water, composition of, 118 

Draining, opinions on deep and 
shallow, 166 

Dumfriesshire, cottage accommoda- 
tion in, 244 

Early history of British agriculture, 
16—35 

Education, agricultural, 313 

Elkington's system of drainage, 156 

English labourers, cottage accommo- 
dation of, 251 

England, labourers' wages in, 259 • 

England, Royal Agricultural Society 
of, 303 

Essex system of drainage, 157 

Fairs, statute, and hiring markets, 265 

Farm capital in Great Britain, 289 

Farm crops, historical notices of, 
35—47 

Farm profits in Great Britain, 291 

Farm-yard manure, 80 

Farming, number of persons engaged 
in Great Britain in, 293 

Farms, size of, in Great Britain, 294 

Food, cattle, chemistry of, 121 — 154 



Food, condimental, for cattle, views 

on, 147—154 
Food of plants, sources of, 113 
Food substances, classification of, 126 
Forfarshire, cottage accommodation 

in. 244 
Fowler's system of steam culture, 197 
Future of steam culture, 210 
Glencoe, cottage accommodation in, 

242 
Grain, analysis of, 128 
Grasses, analysis of, 131 
Guano, introduction of, 85 
Guano, consumption of, 86 
Guideway system of steam culture, 

213 
Harvest Homes, 270 
Hay, analysis of, as cattle-food, 131 
Hiring markets and statute fairs, 265 
History, early, of British agriculture, 

16—33 
Historical notices connected with 

cattle, 214 
Historical notices connected with 

sheep, 217 
Historical, notices connected with 

steam culture, 187 — 196 
Historical notices of farm crops, 

35—47 
Hoskyns' system of steam culture, 207 
Humic theory, 95 

Implements and machines, 171 — ^214 
Inverness-shire, cottage accommoda- 
tion in, 243 
Ireland, agricultural schools in, 315 
Ireland, labourers' wages in, 262 
Ireland, Royal Agricultural Improve- 
ment Society of, 305 
Ireland, statistics of crops in, 281 
Labourer, agricultural, various 

questions connected with, 223 — 275 
Labourer, condition in the Middle 

Ages of the agricultural, 227 
Labourer, cottage accommodation of, 

236 
Labourer, recreation of, 269 
Labourers' wages, rates of, 257 
Labourers, wages of, how paid, 255 
Lawes' theory of manuring, 99 
Leguminous crops, analysis of, 59 
Leguminous seeds and straws as 

cattle-food, analysis of, 128 
Liebig's theory of nutrition, 122 
Liebig's theory of manuring, 95 
Literature, agricultural, 326 
Lois-Weedon system, 109 
Machines and implements, 171 — 214 



INDEX. 



343 



Macvicar*8 theory of manuring, 106 
Manure, farm-yard, 80 
Manures, artificial, 81 
Manures, chemistry of, 80 — 121 
Manures, rotation of, 120 
Manuring, theories of, 92 — 109 
Markets, hiring, and statute fairs, 

265 
Mechi on agricultural statistics, 287 
Meetings of the Royal Agricultural 

Society, 305 
Morton's, J. C, "views on agricultural 

education in schools, 823 
Nitric acid, formation of in the air, 

112 
Norman agriculture, 25 
Norman Conquest, condition of agri- 
culture at the, 22 
Nutrition, Liebig's theory of, 122 
Oil-cakes as catde-f ood, analysis of, 

132 
Oily matters in various foods, 133 
Ozone, 112 
t^ersons, number of, engaged in 

farming in Great Britain, 293 
Physiological views of the food 

question, 135 — 164 
Plants, constituents of, 55 — 60 
Plants, sources of the food of, 113 
Plough, as an implement of culture 

discussed, 174 
Plough, discussion on forms of, 173 
Position, present, of steam culture, 

209 
Profits, farm, in Great Britain, 291 
Rain-water, fertilising properties in, 

110 
Recreation of the labourer, 269 
Refuse of grains and seeds as food, 

analysis of, 129 
Rents in Great Britain, 288 
Roman agricultural writers, 333 
Roman agriculturists in Great 

Britain, 17 
Roman drainage, 156 
Roman invasion, agriculture before 

the, 16 
Root crops, analysis of, 60 
Roots as cattle-food, analysis of, 129 
Rotation of manures, 120 
Rotations, various theories of, 75 — 80 
Rotatory culture, 178 



Schools, agricultural, education in, 

Mr. J. C. Morton's views on, 323 
Schools, agricultural, in Ireland, 315 
Scotland, collection of statistics in 

281 
Scotland, Highland and Agricultural 

Society of, 301 
Scotland, labourers' wages in, 262 
Scotch agricultural labourers, 248 
Shallow and deep draining, opinions 

of, 166 
Sheep, historical notices connected 

with, 217 
Shetland, cottage accommodation in 

240 
Size of farms in Great Britain, 294 
Smith's, of Deanston, system of 

drainage, 157 
Smith's, of Woolston, svstem of steam 

culture, 204 
Society, Bath and West of England, 

300 
Society, Royal, Dublin, 299 
Society of Improvers in Agricultural 

Knowledge, 299 
Societies, agricultural, 295 
Societies, list of agricultural, 309 
Soils, chemistry or, 61 — 74 
Statistics, agricultural, 275 
Statistics of crops in Ireland, 281 
Statistics in Scotland, collection of, 

281 
Statute fairs and hiring markets, 

265 
Steam culture, 184—214 
Steam culture, historical notices con- 
nected with, 187—196 
Steam culture, Hoskyns' system of, 

207 
Stock and crops in Great Britain, 294 
Straw, analysis of, 59 
Straws as cattle-food, analysis of, 128 
Theories of manuring, 92—109 
Theories, various, of rotations, 75 — 

80 
Tull's theory of manuring, 93 
Universitv of Edinburgh, Chair of 

Agriculture in the, 315 
Veterinary, Royal College, 304 
Wages, labourers', rates of, 257 
Wages of labourers, how paid, 255 
Water, composition of drainage, 118 



James 8. Virtue, Printer, City Bead, London. 



LE PAGE'S COMPLETE COURSE OF INSTRUCTION 

IN THK 

FRENCH LANGUAGE. 

Obviating entirely all necessity for leaving England to learn French, 
NEW FRENCH SCHOOL, BY M. LE PAGE, 

PR07ESS0R OF FRENCH IN LONDON. 

The sale of many tbonsands, and the almost universal adoption of these olever 
little books by M. Lk Paob, safficiently prove the public approbation of his plan 
of teaching French, which Lb in accordance with the natural operation of a child learning 
its native language. 



In One Vohime, 12mo. cloth, 

PETIT LECTEUB DE8 COLLEGES; 

OR, THE FRENCH READER FOR BEGINNERS AND ELDER CLASSES. 

A Sequel to ** L'Echo de Paris." 

CoDsisting of Short Selections of various kinds. 

With the Pronunciation, the meaning of the Words and Idioms which may 

not he yet familiar to a young reader, and occasional Questions 

adapted for Practice in French Conversation. 

By MoNS. Le Paob. 



Thirty-fourth Edition, with Additions and numerous Woodcuts, in 12mo., 

neatly bound in cloth, price 3s. 6d., 

LE PAOFS FREirCH SCHOOL-PABT L 

LE PAaE*S L*ECHO DE PARIS. 

Being a Selection of Familiar Phrases which a Person would hear daily if 
living in France. With a vocabulary of the Words and Idioms. 



•* Mons. Le Page's excellent work has, 
we are happy to perceive, ran throogh 
several editions with all the celerity it 
deserved. His l>ook is decidedly the beat 
we have seen for aiding the instniotlon of 



English children in the nidiments of the 
French language; inasmnch as it ap- 
proaches nearest to that best of all pos- 
sible methods, &miliar conversation."— 
Morning Fott, 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



Le Page's Works (jsontinved). 



Sixteenth Edition, with Additions, 12mo., neatly bonnd in cloth, 28. 6d., 

L£ PAOE*S FBENCH SCHOOL -PART U. 

LE PAGE'S GIFT OF FLUENCT IN FRENCH CONVERSATION. 

A Set of Exercises for the learner of the French Language, calculated to 
enable him, by means of practice, to express himself flaently on the 
ordinary topics of life. liVith Notes. 



ct 



Mom. L« Page's Elementary works 
are already well known and highly appre- 
ciated; no books are better adapted to 
gi?e the papil a complete command of 



words and phrases, and a correct know- 
ledge of the langoage ; the arrangement 
is natoral and judioloaa.'*— ii(ta«. 



Eighth Edition, 12mo., neatly bonnd in cloth, price 28. 6d., 

LE PAGE'S FEENCH SCHOOL - PART HI. 

LE PAGE'S LAST STEP TO FRENCH; 

Or, the Principles of French Grammar displayed in a series of short lessons, 
each of which is followed by questions and exercises : 

WITH THE VERSIFICATION. 



"To schools and private teachers these 
volumes must be invaluable." — MonMy 

" M. Le Page*s tabalation of the verbs 
is as complete as it is good ; his syntax is 



lacld and soholarllke, and his Exercises 
are well graduated, and likely to exercise 
the stadent*s mind with his memory.*'— 
G»fU:» Mag, 



MONS. LE PAGE HAS ALSO PUBLISHED, FOR THE USE OF 

JUNIOR CLASSES, 

Royal 18mo. neatly bound, price 28. 6d>, 

LE PAGE'S FBENCH MASTEE FOE BEOINITEBS ; 

Ob, EASY LESSONS IN FRENCH. 
New and Improyed Edition, with additions. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



Lb Page's Works (continued). 



New and Improred Edition, price Is. 6d., 

LE PAGE'S PETIT CATTSEXTE; 

OB, 

FIRST CHATTERINGS IN FRENCH, 

BBUfG 

A KEY TO THE GIFT OF FRENCH CONVERSATION. 

The Key gives the correct ^nslation of the French, thereby showing whicji 
is the proper expression for every topic of life. 



Price Is., 

IE PAGE'S SET TO "L'ECHO DE FASIS." 

BBINO 

Finishing Exercises in French Conversation. 



Second Edition, price 3s., 

LE PAGE'S JTTVENILE TEEASUET OF FEENCH 

CONVEESATION ; 

With the English before the French. 
** We do not know a better book for the Javenile student than this.*'— 2lm«. 



Price Sixpence, 

LE PAGE'S NICETIES of PAEISIAN PEONUNCIATION. 

ETRENNES AUX DAMES ANGLAISES ; 
Being a Key to French Pronunciation in all its niceties. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



Le Page's Works {eomiinued). 



Ninth Edition, in a neat pocket volome, pp. 420, price 4a.9 

L£ FAOE*S FBSVCH PBOMPTEB; 

A HANDBOOK FOB TBAVELLERS ON THE OOMTIMKNT AND STUDENTS 

IN FRENCH. 

A Complete Manual of GonTenation, arranged in alphabetical order, so aa 
to obviate all difficalty of referenoe. Each English word is followed by 
the phrases and idiomatic French in constant use, (brming a perfect 
English and French dictionary, and a sure Handbook of Conversation, 
as it gives at each word all the phrases relating to it which are heard 
daily. 

"It snpplies Travellers, FamlllM, and 
Stu'^ents with a re»Ay and complete trans- 
latinn of their thoufirhts od ail common 
occurrenc«»«.' — Economi$i. 

** From the skiliul mode in which tb« 
words and phrases are arranged, little 
diffi<'a1ty will be ezperleroed In main- 
taining a conversation.'-ifom. Adttrtiatr. 

" It will prove a service ^) the proQoient, 
and will be altogether invaluable to that 
large ola^s which modestly confesses that 
it only knows a Utile Fi ench.*'— il(A<ii«iim. 



** It is portable in form, and very com 
prehensive.**— J?d«iea<tofMil Tknet. 

** It is likely to become as popular as 
Mons. Le Page's other excellent works; 
for iuoh a mauoal will never be a useless 
companion, even when the lang^nage is 
aoquhred.**— O0fKlemaii*« Magaskte. 

**The book is intended fur people who 
have some knowledge of the language. 
To such it is likely to be very useful, as 
being a dictionary and conversation-guide 
in otM***—Bpe(taUir, 



Third Edition, in 12mo., neatly bonnd in doth, price Bs. dd., 

LE PAGE'S BEADY OXJIDE TO FBEISTCH COKPOSIHOV. 

FRENCH GRAMMAR BY EXAMPLES. 
Giving Models as Leading- Strings thronghout Accidence and Syntax, 

Presenting a comparative view of the English and French idioms in their 

principal differences. 



" We should not think of describing an 
object to mcAe it known, when we can 
show it at once. Why should we think of 
teaching by precepts and rules when a 
model can be set forth f '* 

*' This work will be found a ready guide 
to French composition ; each model in the 



accidence is followed by questions and 
exercises, the object of which is to bring a 
young learner to shape a rule hioiself and 
practise it. We can conscientiously re- 
commend it to general adoption.** — Bimda^ 
Tima. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



In I 'vol, pofi 8^0., cloth ^ gilt topy price 12^.9 



SHAKESPERE'S HOME 



AT 



A History of New Place, from its Original Erection by 
Sir Hugh Clopton, 1490, to its Destruction in 1759 5 
together with an Account of the "Great Garden}" 
accompanied with Illustrations, Copies of Fines, Inden- 
tures, &c., Pedigrees of the Shakespere and Clopton 
Families, a Ground Plan of the Estates at New Place, 
and Plan of Excavations lately made. 

By the Rev. J. C. M. BELLEW. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 



" Here is a good hope of getting 
at the real trath oonoerolng Shake- 
spere at last.'*— i2ea(2er. 

"Mr. Bellew's object In his pre- 
sent volame is to bring to light a 
naa:l)er of facts relating to the private 
life and history of the man, which 
haye not yet been made pablic, and 
to show, ft-om what is Icnown of 
him, that erroneoas views liave been 
formed respecting matters of grave 
import.**— Obterver. 

" A devoted and true Shakesperian 
scholar, the auhor of this volame 
has well acquitted himself in the 
performance of a work — evidently a 
labour of love — which will be perused 
with attention and pleasure by every 
admirer of the bard of Avon.'*— 
Morning Advertiser. 

*'The elaborate pedigrees of the 
Cluptons and others must have cost 
Mr. Bellew much labour, and they 
exhibit a patience in research highly 
creditable to him, an earnestness in a 
dreary occupation we should iiardly 
tjkve anticipated from a writer whose 
attention hia heretofore been devoted 



to a widely different branch of litera- 
ture.** — Athenaum. 

** Mr. Rellew has shown a good deal 
of ingenuity in traclntr the story of 
this volume. It is a curious subject, 
worthy of further investigation.** — 
Mhenaum. 

•* Mr. Bellew*s work is of perma- 
nent value, from the great industry 
and re«earoh with which he has ool- 
lected what he calls * dry legal papers, 
unearthed from the oharnel-h«juse of 
history;* but which, nevertheless, 
form a precious body of authentic 
documents, illustrative of all that is 
traceable in the life of Shakespere. 
He has brought forward strong evi- 
dence in vindication of Shake" pere*8 
cliaraoter as ' a s'>ber, cleanly-living, 
ttirifcy man.* Mr. Bellew*s book is 
an important contribution to our 
knowledge of Shakespere's life and 
character. It is the fruit of much 
labour and personal investigation, 
and its very minuteness of detail de- 
monstrates the ardour with which he 
eniraged in Ills undertaking.** — Morn- 
ing Post, 



LONDON: 
VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., i, AMEN CORNER. 



Jufi ready yfcp, 8vo., antique cloth^ ^ce 2*» 6^/., 

PATTI E D URANT: 

^ Salt ai 1662. 
By " C Y C L a." 

jiutkor of ^^Aunt Dorothft mil,"' " Paffing Cloudsi' « Warfare 

and fTorkJ" 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 



** A very neatly told story in the 
sntlqae style, illustratiTe of the state 
of the religious belief among the 
people of England during the periods 
immediately preceding and following 
the Act of Uniformity."— Z>ai/y Vews. 

** One of tlie charms of this hand- 
somely got-ap little volume is the 
simvtlioity of style in which it is 
written. We question much if larger 
works on the Act of Uniformity will 
be read with greater pleasure and 
profit than the excellent and artless 
contents of Pattie Durant's diary. 
As a drawing-room table book, the 
tale of Pattie Durant is eminently 
worthy of commendation." — Morning- 
Adfitrtiser. 

** Pattie, the heroine, is throughout 
charmingly drawn ; cheerful, loving, 
devoting herself to the good of others, 
Pattie's piety is such as we could wish 
for all tlie daughters of our English 
homes. It is more than a healthy 
book— it is a truly worthy and valu- 
able book, and we hope it will find 
its way to many parlours and draw- 
ing-rooms."— i*a/rto<. 

** We have had more than onoe» In 
these columns, to commend to oar 
readers the productions of * Cycla.* 
We are glad to say, however, that, 
both for the interest of the story and 
for the skill and simplicity with which 
it is unfolded, Pattie Durant far 
excels any of its predecessors.** — 
Fteeman. 



** This is anotlier atory of the priest, 
craft and Idngoraft, and of the suffer, 
ing for conscience and the truth's 
sake, which so indelibly marked our 
Engliab histeries two centuries ago. 
.... Possesses so decided a charac- 
ter of its own, that no one need hesl- 
tateto read it firom an apprehen&ion 
that it only gives the old tale over 
again. PaUie is a very interesting 
character, and she is bat the centre of 
a groap of men and women of all 
ages, whose conversation and conduct 
present a vivid and startling picture of 
England, socially and religiously, in 
ttke never-to-be-forgotten and for-ever- 
to-be-execrated days of the Stuarts and 
tyranny.'*— CftriMion World, 

'* Pattie Durant is a fine spirited 
gill, whose character, as sketched in 
these pages, will win for her many 
friends, and, as the heroine of the 
l)Ook, will reveal sketches and inci- 
dents of history of two centuries ago 
which will instrnot the mind and win 
the sympathies of the heart of nearly 
every reader. Pattie's diary famishes 
many extracts, and the entire narra- 
tive is done with much good temper 
and ealm resolution. The religious 
tone of the book bespeaks for it a high 
character and mach favoor with the 
Christian public, to whom we most cor- 
dially commend it."— TTetleyon TitMs. 

** A beantiftil tale, mooh suited to 
instruct, brace, and benefit young 
people.**— CAruftOfi Witneu, 



LONDON: 
VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., i, AMEN CORNER. 



New and Improved Edition, with Frontispiece, 18mo., Is. Gd. 

cloth gilt, 

NTJBSEBT BHTHES. 

An Illustrated Edition, in large type, with 16 Cuts by Gilbert, 

16mo., 2s. 6d. clotli, gilt edges. 



By the same Authors, 

obighstal poeus fos isyant minds. 

New and Improved Edition, with Frontispiece, Two Vols., 18mo., 

Is. 6d. each, cloth gilt. 



Thirteenth Edition, corrected and enlarged, 18mo., 2b. 6d. cloth ; 

or ds. scarlet, gilt edges, 

SELECT POETEY FOE CHILDSEV. 

With brief Explanatory Notes, arranged for the use of Schools 

and Families. 

By JOSEPH PAYNE. 



New and Enlarged Edition, fcap. Svo., price 58. cloth, red edges, 

STUDIES IN ENGLISH POETEY; 

With short Biographical Sketches, and Notes Explanatory and 
Critical, intended as a Text-book for the higner Classes in 
Schools, and as an Introduction to the Study of English 
Literature. 

Bt JOSEPH PAYNE. 



** The work it deMirlnflr of oom- 
mendatton, as oomprebending mach 
that is ezcellent^the very flowers 
and gems of Englisli poetry— and 
nothing ezoeptionable.** 



** The plan and the ez«oution are 
equally good ; altogether it is an 
excellent reading book of poetry.**— 
Watchman. 



VTRTUB BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



Fcap. 8to., 7b. 6d., cloth, lettered, 

VAOMI; or, the Last Days of Jerusalem. 

By MBS. J. B. WEBB. 

New Edition, with Designs bj Gilbbbt, and Yiew and Plan of 

Jerusalem. 

dially ^sh it Airther saccess." — 
AtHropolUan. 

**The plot is easy, natural, and 
well sostidned. The narrative grace- 

ftUly written Seldom have we 

read a tale better adapted for its pur- 
pose.**— JtfonCMV R«9imo, 



" It is in truth an admirable little 
volume, and well worthy of a yet more 
exten&ive patronage than it has al- 
ready received.**— J^aidtfone JoumdL 

** One of the most interesting worlds 
we have read for some time. We are 
not stit-prised at the popularity it has 
attained ; it deserves it, and we cor- 



In super-royal Svo., price lOs. 6d., cloth gilt; or 21s. in morocco, 

WALKS ABOUT JEBTTSALEM AND ITS 

ENVIBONS. 

Illustrated by Twenty-four Bn^aviMs on Steel, Two Maps, and 

many superior Woodcuts. 

" We have at length in this attrao- much valuable matter, with illustra- 
tive volume the detideratum of a com tions beautifully executed." — Church 
plete picturesque guide to the topo- a/ England Magasme, 
graphy of Jerustalem.** — Patriot. ** Our impression is, that Jerusalem 

" The volume is well got up in was never before so successfully de- 
point of embellishments, and contains lineated."— j^von^'e/ical Magazine, 



In fcap. 8vo. , price 6s., cloth gilt, 

THE PEINCE OF THE HOUSE OE DAVID; 

Or, three years IN THE HOLY CITY. 

Edited by the Rev. Professor J. H. Ingbarah, Rector of St. John's 
Church, Mobile. Illustrated with Engravings. 



*' Our perusal of it has been only 
to impress us with the ability of the 
author in the use of the materials, 
and in the structure of a pleasing and 
mostaffecting tale.**— CViTtcat/ofirfki/. 

** This is the best production of its 
class that has come to our hands for a 
long time, and it is but candid and 
Just to say that it adds very much to 
the stores of knowledge already ezist- 
IngabouttheBast.**— ^rftuAStandard. 

** We hardly know what to say 
al)out this book ; it is written in beau- 



tiful style, and it conveys much valu- 
able information as to the customs 
and manners of the inhabitants of tJie 
Holy Land.**— ITegfeyaii Timea, 

**The whole is written in a semi- 
poetical style, which will prove at- 
InMJtive to religious readers.** — Luuier* 

" The volume oontaios much infor- 
mation as to Jewish manners acd 
oustoma.'*— /r<9)ftc« Magatine. 

"Professor Ingraham lias worked 
out his plan with diligence and reve- 
rence."— ^fterory Oazate. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN OOEJOIR. 



CATALOGUE 

or 

RUDIMENTARY, SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 

CLASSICAL WORKS, 

FOR COLLEGES, HIGH AND ORDINARY SCHOOLS, 

AND SELF-INSTRUCTION -, 

ALSO FOB 

MECHANICS' INSTITUTIONS, FEEE LUBEARIES, &c. &c., 

PUBLISnXD BY 

YIETXTE BBOTHEBS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER, 

PATERNOSTER ROW. 



•«» THE ENTIRE SERIES IS FREELY ILLUSTRATED ON WOOD 

AND STONE WHERE REQUISITE. 

The Puhlic are respectfully informed that the whole of 
Mb. WBAiiE's PubUcationSy contained in the present Catalogue^ 
have been Purchased hy VniTirB Bbothebs &; Co., and that all 
future Orders iviU be supplied hy them at the above address, 

*^ Several additional Volumes^ by Popular Authors^ are in 
preparation, arid toill shortly be ready for delivery. 



RUDIMENTARY SERIES. 

2. NATURAL PHILOSOPHT, by Charles TomUnson . . Is, 

3. GEOLOGY, by Major-G«n. Portlock, F.R.S., &c. . 1*. 6d, 
6. MECHANICS, by Charles Tomlinson , ... Is, 

12. PNEUMATICS, by Charles Tomlinson . ... Is. 
20, 21. PERSPECTIVE, by George Pyne, 2 vols, in 1 . .25. 
27, 28. PAINTING, The Art of ; or, A GRAMMAR OP 

COLOURING, by George Field, 2 vols, in 1 . .2*. 

36, 37, 38, 39. DICTIONARY of the TECHNICAL TERMS 

used by Architects, Builders, Engineers, Surveyors, &c., 

4 vols, in 1 . . . . . . • • . 4^. 

In cloth boards, 5s. ; half morocco, 8t. 

40. GLASS STAINING, by Dr. M. A. Oessert, With an 

Appendix on the Art of Enamelling • • . .Is. 



S SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL WOBKS. 

41. FAINTINa ON GLASS, from the Gorman of Emanuel 

O. Fromberg 1«. 

69, 70. MUSIC, a Practical Treatise, by 0. C. Spencer, Doctor 

of Muaio, 2 toIa. in 1 2s, 

71. THE PIANOFORTE, Instructions for Playing, by 0. O. 

Spencer, Doctor of Music Is, 

72 to 75*. RECENT FOSSIL SHELLS (A Manual of the 
Mollusca), by Samuel P. Woodward, 4 toIs. in 1, and 
Supplement 5s. ^, 

In cloth boordB, 6«. 6d. ; half morocco, Is. ti, 

83. Book-keeping, by Jamos Haddon, M.A. . . .Is, 

84. ARITHMETIC, with numerous Examples, by Professor 

J. R. Young Is. 6J. 

84» KEY TO THE PRECEDING VOLUME, by Professor 

J. R. Young Is.^. 

96. ASTRONOMY, POPULAR, by tiie Rev. Robert Main, 

MJLA.S \s, 

101» WEIGHTS AND MEASURES OF ALL NATIONS- 
Weights of Coius, and Divisions of Time; with the 
Principles which determine the Rate of Exchange^ by 
Mr. Woolhouse, F.R.A.S !«. (x2. 

103. INTEGRAL CALCULUS, Examples of, by Prof. J. Hann Is, 

112. DOMESTIC MEDICINE, for the Preservation of Health, 

byM. Raspail Is.Qd, 

131. MILLER'S, FARMER'S, AND MERCHANT'S READY- 
RECKONER, showing the Value of any Quantity of 
Com, with the Approximate Value of Mill-stones and 
M^UWork \s. 

{In Preparation.) 

PHOTOGRAPHY. A New Manual. 



PHYSICAL SCIENCE. 



1. CHEMISTRY, by Professor Pownes, F.R.S., including 

Agricultural Chemistry, for the use of Farmers . . Is, 

4, 5. MINERALOGY, with a Treatise on Mineral Rocks or 

Aggregates, by James Dana, A.M., 2 vols, in 1 . , 2s, 

7. ELECTRICITY, an Exposition of the General Prmciplos of 

the Science, by Sir William Snow Harris, FJLS. 1*. Qd, 

7*. GALVANISM, ANIMAL A2HD VOLTAIC ELECTRI- 
CITY; A Treatise on the G^eral Principles of Gal- 
vanic Science, by Sir William Snow Harris, F.R.S. Is. 6d, 

8, 9, 10. MAGNETISM, Concise Exposition of the General 

Principles -of Magnetical Science and the Purposes to 
which it has been Applied, by tlbe same, 3 vols, in 1 35. Qd, 

VIRTVE BROTHEllS & CO., 1, KNl^^ CQ^Sk^^ 



SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL WORKS. a 

11, 11# ELECTEIC TELEGEAPH, History of, by E. High- 
ton, C.B 2s. 

133. METALLURaY OF COPPER, by E. H. Lambom . 28. 

134. METALLURGY OF SILVER AND LEAD, by Dr. 

R. H. Lamborn 2s. 

135. ELECTRO-METALLURGY, by Alex. Watt, F.R.S.S.A. Is.Qd. 
138. HANDBOOK OP THE TELEGRAPH, by R. Bond . I*. 
143. EXPERIMENTAL ESSAYS— On the Motion of Cam- 
phor, and Modem Theory of Dew, by C. Tomlinson . 1^. 



BUILDING AND ARCHITECTURE. 

IG. ORDERS OP ARCHITECTURE, and their .Esthetic 

Principles, by W. H. Leeds 1*. 

17. STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE, by T. Bury . . Is, Gd. 

18, 19. ARCHITECTURE, Principles of Design in, by E. L. 

Garbett, 2 vols in 1 2s. 

22. BUILDING, the Art of, in Five Sections, by Edward 

Dobson, C.E 1*. 

23, 24. BRICK AND TILE MAKING, by E. Dobson, C.E., 

2 vols, in 1 2s. 

25, 20. MASONRY AND STONE-CUTTING, with the Prin- 
ciples of Masonic Projection Concisely Explained, by 
E. Dobson, CJE., 2 vols, in 1 29. 

SO. DRAINING and SEWAGE OF TOWNS and BUILD- 
INGS, Suggestive of Sanatory Regulations, by G. D. 

Dcmpsey, C.E 1^. Gd. 

(With No. 29, Drainage op Land, 2 vols, in 1, 2s. 6i.) 

35. BLASTING EOCKS, QUAEEYING, AND THE QUA- 
LITIES OP STONE, by Lieut.-Gen. Sir J. Burgoyne, 
Bart, G.C.B.,E.E U, Gd. 

42. COTTAGE BUILDING, or Hints for Improving the 

Dwellings of the Labouring Classes . . . . 1*. 

44. FOUNDATIONS AND CONCEETE WOEKS, A Treatise 

on, by E. Dobson, C JS 1*. 

45. LIMES, CEMENTS, MOETAES, CONCEETE, MAS- 

TICS, &c., by G. E. Biirnell, C.E Is 

67, 58. WAEMING AND VENTILATION, by Charles Tom- 
linson, 2 vols, in 1 2s. 

1 1 1 AECHES, PIEES, AND BUTTEESSES, the Principles 

of their Construction, by William Bland . . Is. Gd. 

1 IG. ACOUSTICS ; Distribution of Sound, by T. Roger Smith, 

Architect Is. Gd. 

123. CAEPENTEY AND JOINEEY, a Treatise founded on 

Dr. Eobison*s W^ork 1*. Gd. 

123*. ILLUSTEATIVE PLATES to the preceding . . 4s. G<£. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & co.,\, kisi^^ ecs^:^^^. 



4 SCIENTIFIC JLSD MECHANICAL WORKS. 



M«^^ 



124. ROOFS FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BUILDINGS, 

founded on Dr. Robieon's Work . . . • If. 6c2. 

124*. IRON ROOFS of Recent Construction — a Series of 

Desoriptiye Plates 49. 6<2. 

127. ARCniTECTURAL MODELLING, Practioal Inatoio- 

tions in the Art Is.Qd. 

128, 129. VITRUATUS ON CIVIL, MILITARY, AND 

NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, translated by Joseph GwUt, 
Architect, with Illastrative Plates, bj me Author and 
Joseph Gandj, 2 vols, in 1 5f. 

130. GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE, Principles of Beauty in, 

hy the Earl of Aberdeen Is, 

132. ERECTION OF DWELLING-HOUSES, with Specifica- 
tions, Quantities of Matenals, &o., by S. H. JBrooks, 
27 Plates 28, 6d, 



MACHINERY AND ENQINEERINQ. 

33. CRANES AND MACHINERY FOR LIFTING HEAVY 

WEIGHTS, the Art of Constructing, by Joseph Glynn, 
CJL U, 

34. STEAM ENGINE, by Dr. Lardner U 

43. TUBULAR AND OTHER IRON GIRDER BRIDGES, 
including the Britannia and Conway Bridges, by G. D. 
Dempsey Is, 

47, 48, 49. LIGHTHOUSES, their Construction and Illumina- 
tion, by Allan Stevenson, C.E., 3 toIs. in 1 . . , Ss, 

bO. STEAM BOILERS, their Construction and Management, 

by R. Armstrong, C.E. Is, 

^2. RAILWAYS, Principles of Construction, by Sir E. Stephen- 
son Is.Gd, 

^2*. RAILWAY WORKING IN GREAT BRITAIN AND 
IRELAND, Statistics, Revenue, Accounts, &o., by E. D. 

Chattaway 1*. 

(Vols. 62 and 62* bound in 1, 2s. 6(Z.) 

67, 68. CLOCK AND WATCH MAKING, including Church 
Clocks and Bells, by Edmimd Beckett Donison, M.A., 
with an Appendix, 2 toIs. in 1 . . . , 3s: 6d, 

78, 79. STEAM AND LOCOMOTION, on the Principle of 
connecting Science with Practice, by John Sewell, L.E. 
2 vols, in 1 2s, 

78*. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES, a Treatise on, by G. Drysdale 

Dempsey, C.E Is, (yd, 

T9* ILLUSTRATIONS TO THE ABOVE . . . 4.s.ed, 

VIRTUE BROTHERS k CO., \, K^VES CiOlSS^^v, 



SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL WORKS. 5 

114. MACHINERY, its Construction and Working, by C. D. 

Abel,CJ: Is.ed. 

115. ILLUSTRATIVE PLATES TO THE ABOVE, 4to. 7«. 6rf. 
139. THEORY OF THE STEAM ENGINE, by T. Baker, C J!. 1 . 



CIVIL ENGINEERING, &c. 

13, 14, 15, 15*. CIVIL ENGINEERING, by Henry Law, 

3 vols. ; with Supplement by G. R. Bumell, 4 vols, in 1 4s. Qd, 

29. DRAINING DISTRICTS AND LANDS, the Art of, by 

G. D. Dempsey, C.E 1*. 

(With No. 30, Drainage and Sbwaoe op Towns, 2 vols, in 1, 2^. Qd.) 

31. WELL-SINKING AND BORING, by John G. SwindeU, 

revised by G. R. Burnell, C.E Is, 

46. ROAD-MAKING, the Construction and Repair, by S. C. 
Hughes and H. Law, C.E., and Gen. Sir J. Burgoyne, 
Bart., G.C.B.', R.E. . ' . . . . . Is. Qd, 

60, 61. LAND AND ENGINEERING SURVEYING, by T. 

Baker, CJS., 2 vols, in 1 2s. 

63, 64, 65. AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS, FIELD EN- 
GINES, MACHINERY, and IMPLEMENTS, by G. H. 
Andrews, 3 vols, in 1 3^. 

66. CLAY LANDS AND LOAMY SOILS, by Professor Do- 
naldson, A.E. . . . . • • . 1^. 

77*. ECONOMY OF FUEL, by T. S. Prideaux . . .Is. 

80», 81*. EMBANKING LANDS FROM THE SEA, with 
Examples of actual Embankments and Sea Walls, by 
John Wiggins, F.G.S., 2 vols, in 1 . . . . 2«. 

82, 82*. POWER OF WATER, as applied to the Driving of 
Mills, and Giving Motion to Turbines, and other Hy- 
drostatic Machines, by Joseph Glynn, F.R.S., C.E. . 2$. 

82**, 83*, 83 bis. COAL GAS, its Manufacture and Distribu- 
tion, by Samuel Hughes, C.E 3^. 

82***. WATER-WORKS FOR THE SUPPLY OF CITIES 

AND TOWNS, by Samuel Hughes, C.E. ... 3*. 

117. SUBTERRANEOUS SURVEYING, & RANGING THE 

LINE without the Magnet, by T. Fenwick, Coal Viewer, 
with Improvements and Additions by T. Baker, C.E. 2s. (jd. 

118, 119. CIVIL ENGINEERING IN NORTH AMERICA, 

by D. Stevenson, C.E., 2 vols, in 1 . . . , 3s. 

120. HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING, by G.R. Bumell, C.E., 

2 vols, in 1 . . • Ss. 

121, 122. RIVERS AND TORRENTS, from the ItaUan of 

Paul Frisi, and a Treatise on NAVIGABLE CANALS, 
AND RIVERS THAT CARRY SAND AND MUD 2*. C<£. 



viHTiTE BROTHERS & CO., 1, kiA^ix ecs^;^:^:^* 



6 SCIENTIFIC AXD MECHANICAL WORKS. 

125, 126. COMBUSTION OP COAL, AND THE PREVEN- 
TION OP SMOKE, by Charles Wye WilliamB, M.LC.B. Zs, 

140. OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING, by R. Scott Bum. 

Vol. I. — Soils, Manures, and Crops . . . , 2s. 

141. Vol. n. Panning 

Economy, Scientific and Practical 2s, 



SHIP-BUILDINQ AND NAVIGATION. 

51, 52, 53. NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, Principles of the 

Science, by J. Peake, N.A., 3 toIs. in 1 • . . , 3s. 
63*. SHIPS AND BOATS POR OCEAN AND RTVER 

SERVICE, the Principles of Construction, by Captain 

H. Al. Sommerfeldt ....... 1^. 

63**. ATLAS OP 14 PLATES TO THE PRECEDING, 

Drawn to a Scale for Practice . . . . 7«. 6d, 
54. MASTING, MAST-MAKING, and RIGGING OP SHIPS, 

by R. Kipping, N.A. Is, ^, 

54*. IRON SHIP-BUILDING, by John Grantham, C.E. 28. 6rf. 
64**. ATLAS OP 24 PLATES to the preceding Volume 225. ed. 
80, 81. MARINE ENGINES AND THE SCREW, by R. 

Murray, CJB., 2 vols, in 1 2s. 6d. 

83 bis. SHIPS AND BOATS, the Principles of Construction, 

by W. Bland, of Hartlip 1*. 

106. SHIPS' ANCHORS POR ALL SERVICES, by George 

Cotsell, NjI Is.Qd. 



ARITHMETIC AND MATHEMATICS. 

32. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, AND THEIR ' ' 
USE, by J. P. Heather, MjI Is. 

55, 56. NAVIGATION ; the Sailor's Sea Book: How to Keep 
the Log and Work it off, &c. ; Law of Storms, and Expla^ 
nation of Terms 2s. 

61*. READY RECKONER for the Measurement of Land, its 
Valuation, and the Price of Labour, by A. Arman, 
Schoolmaster 1^. 6<2. 

76, 77. GEOMETRY, DESCRIPTIVE, with a Theory of Sha- 
dows and Perspective, and a Description of the Principles j 
and Practice of Isometrical Projection, by J. P. Heather, 
M.A., 2 vols, in 1 25. 

85. EQUATIONAL ARITHMETIC: Questions of Interest, 

Annuities, &c., by W. Hipsley 1*. 

85*. EQUATIONAL ARITHMETIC: TablesfortheCalculation 
of Simple Interest, with Logrithms for Compound Inte- 
rest, and Annuities, by W. Hipsley . . . .Is. 

VIBTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN -CORNER. 



SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL WORKS. 7 

86, 87. ALGEBRA, by James Haddon, M-A., 2 vols, in 1 , 2s, 

86*, 87*. ELEMENTS OF ALGEBRA, Key to tibe, by Prof. 

Young Is, Qd, 

^, 89. GEOMETRY, Principles of, by Henry Law, C.E., 

2 vols, in 1 2s. 

90. GEOMETRY, ANALYTICAL, by James Hann . . Is, 

91, 92. PLANE AND SPHERICAL TRIGONOMETRY, by 

Prof. James Hann, 2 vols, in 1 {The two divisions sepa- 
rately, \s, each) 2s, 

m, MENSURATION, by T. Baker, C.E I*. 

94, 95. LOGARITHMS, Tables of ; with Tables of Natural 

Sines, Co-sines, and Tangents, by H. Law, C.E.,2yols.inl 2^.6^. 

97. STATICS AND DYNAMICS, by T. Baker, C.E. . . 1*. 

99, 100. NAVIGATION AND NAUTICAL ASTRONOMY, 

by Professor Young, 2 vols, in 1 2s, 

100*. NAVIGATION TABLES, compiled for Practical Use 

with the preceding volume \s. 6^. 

101. DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS, by Mr. Woolhou8e,F.Rjl.S. 1*. 

102. INTEGRAL CALCULUS, by H. Cox, M.A. . . , Is, 

104. DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS, Examples of, by J. 

Haddon, M.A \s, 

105. ALGEBRA, GEOMETRY, and TRIGONOMETRY, First 

Mnemonical Lessons in, by the Rev. T. P. Kirkman, M.A. l^. 6^. 

136. RUDIMENTARY ARITHMETIC, by James Haddon, 

M.A., with Additions by A. Annan . . . 1^. 6^. 

137. KEY TO THE ABOVE, contaming Answers to all the 

Questions in that Work, by A. Arman . , \s. 6<?. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

50. LAW OF CONTRACTS FOR WORKS AND SERVICES, 

by David Gibbons, S.P. \s, 

107. METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS ACT, and THE ME- 

TROPOLITAN ACT FOR REGULATING THE 
SUPPLY OF GAS, with Notes .... 25. M, 

108. METROPOLITAN LOCAL MANAGEMENT ACTS Is, M, 
108*. METROPOLIS LOCAL MANAGEMENT AMEND- 

MENT ACT, 1862 ; with Notes and Index . . , \s, 

109. NUISANCES REMOVAL AND DISEASE PREVEN- 

TION ACT ....... 1* 

1 10. RECENT LEGISLATIVE ACTS applying to Contractors, 

Merchants, and Tradesmen 1^. 

83**. CONSTRUCTION OF DOOR LOCKS . . 1*. 6rf. 
113. USE OF FIELD ARTILLERY ON SERVICE, by 

Lieut.-Col. Hamilton Maxwell, B.A. , , , \s, Gd, 
113*. MEMOIR ON SWORDS, by the same . . , Is, 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER 



KEW 8EBIE8 OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS. 



[7^ Series is kept in three styles of binding — the prices of each 
are given in columns at the end of the lines.'] 



HISTOBIES; OBAMMABS; AND DICTIONABISS. 



I, 2, 3, 4. CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF 

Bnglaod, by W. D. Hamilton . 
5, 6. OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF 

G^reeoe, by E. Leyien, M JL., 2 toIs. in 1 . 
7, 8. OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF 

Rome, by the same, 2 yols. in 1 
9, 10. CHRONOLOGY OF CIVIL AND 

Ecclesiastical History, Literature, Art, and 

Ciyilisation, from the earliest period to the 

present, 2 yols. in 1 . 

II. GRAMMAR OF THE ENGLISH LAN- 

ouAOK, by Hyde Clarke, D.CX. . . 

11* HAND-BOOK OF COMPARATIVE 
Philology, by the same .... 
12, 13. DIClffONARY OF THE ENGLISH 
Language. — ^A new Dictionary of the Eng- 
lish Tongue, as spoken and written ; aboye 
100,000 words, or 50,000 more than in any 
existing yrork, by the same, 3 yols. in 1 

, with the Grammar 

14. GRAMMAR OF THE GREEK LAN- 
GUAGE, by H. C. Hamilton 
15, 16. DICTIONARY OF THE GREEK AND 
English Languages, by H. R. Hamilton, 

2 yols. in 1 

17, 18. DICTIONARY or the ENGLISH and 
^ Greek Languages, by the same, 2 yols. in 1 

GREEK AND ENGLISH 

and English and Greek, 4 yols. in 1 . 
-, with the Greek Grammar 



19. GRAMMAR op THE LATIN LANGUAGE, 

by the Rey. T. Goodwin, A.B. . 

20, 21. DICTIONARY OF THE LATIN AND 

English Languages, by the same. Vol. I. 

22, 23. DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH 

and Latin Languagres, by the same. Vol. II. 

, 2 yoU. inl • • . .. 

-, with the Latin Grammar 



24. GRAMMAR OF THE FRENCH LAN- 
GUAGE, by the Lecturer at Be8an9on . 



1 


s.d. 


40 


26 


26 


26 


1 


1 


36 


1 


• 

20 


20 


1 


20 


1 6 


1 



f 

5, 



£ 

o 



s, 
5 
3 
3 



d. 

6 
6 






3 6 



6 



6 
6 



5 
6 








4 
5 



6 
6 



s, d^ 
5& 
40 
40 

40 



5 
60 



5 ^ 

6 6 



6 O 
6 



VIBTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNEB. 



NEW SERIES OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS. 



lUSTOniES, GEAMMABS, AND DICTIONABIES. 



a 
3 






"I 



25. DICTIONAEY OF THE FRENCH AND 

English Languages, by A. Elwes. Vol. L 

26. DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH AND 

French Languages, by the same. Vol. II. 

f 2 vols, in 1 . 

, "witii the French Grammar . 

27. GRAMMAR OF THE ITALIAN LAJ^- 

GUAGE, by the same 

28. 29. DICTIONAEY OF THE ITALLAN, 

English, and French Languages, by the 
same. Vol. I 

30, 31. DICTIONAEY OF THE ENGLISH, 
Italian, and French Languages, by the 
same. Vol. II. 

32, 33. DICTIONARY OF THE FRENCH, 
Italian, and English Languages, by the 

same. Vol. Ill 

, 3 vols, in 1 . 

, -with the Italian Grammar . 

34. GRAMMAR OF THE SPANISH LAN- 

QUAGE, by the same 

35, 36, 37, 38. DICTIONAEY OF THE 

Spanish and English languages, by the 

same, 4 vols, in 1 

, with the Spanish Grammar . 

39. GRAMMAR OF THE GERMAN Lan- 

guage, by the Lecturer at Besancon . 

40. CLASSICAL GERMAN READER, from 

the best authors, by the same . 
41,42,43. DICTIONARIES OP THE ENGLISH, 

German, and French Languages, byl^. E. 

Hamilton, 3 vols., separately 1^. each 

, with the German Grammar . 

44, 45. DICTIONARY OF THE HEBREW 

and English Languages, containing the 

Biblical and Ram)imcal words, 2 vols. 

(together with the Grammar, which may 

be had separately for Is,) by Dr. Bresslau, 

HebroT^ Professor 

46. DICTIONARY OF THE BNGLISH'aND 

Hebrew Languages. Vol. HI. to complete, 

> by the same 

, 3 vols, as 2 . 

47. FRENCH AND ENGLISH PHRASE 

Book 



8. d, 

1 
1 6 

1 
20 
20 
20 

1 

40 

1 
1 

30 



70 
30 
1 



s» d. 



36 
46 



76 

86 



50 
60 



40 
50 



12 
1 6 



s,d. 



40 
50 



8« 
96 



56 
66 



46 
56 



14 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



GREEK AND LATIN CLASSICS. 



Now in the course of Publication, 

GREEK AND LATIN CLASSICS. 

A Series of Volumes containing the principal Greek and Latin AnOion, aoooiD* 
penied by Explanatory Notes in English, principally selected from the best and 
most recent German Commentators, and comprising all those Works that axe 
essential for the Scholar and the Pupil, and applicaUe for the Universities d 
Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, and Dublin; the Colleges at 
Belttet, Cork, Galway, Winchester, and Eton ; and the great Schools at Haircw» 
Rugby, &c— also for Private Tuition and Instruction, and for the Library. 



LATIN SERIES. 

1. A New LATIN DELECTUS, Extracts from Classioal 

Authors, with Vocabularies and Explanatory Notes • 1^. 

2. CESAR'S COMMENTABIES on the GALLIC WAR; 

with Ghrammatical and Explanatory Notes in English, 
and a G^graphical Index 29» 

8. CORNELIUS NEPOS; with English Notes, &c. . . U, 

4. VIRGIL. The Georgics, Bucolics, and doubtful Works ; 

with English Notes I^. 

6. VIRGIL'S -aENEID (on the same plan as the preceding) . 2s, 

6. HORACE. Odes and Epodes ; with English Notes, and 

Analysis and Explanation of the Metres . . . I^. 

7. HORACE. Satires and Epistles ; with English Notes, &c. Is, Qd, 

8. SALLUST. Conspiracy of Catiline, Jugurthine War . Is. 6<?. 

9. TERENCE. Andrea and Heautontimorumenos . Is, 6c?. 

10. TERENCE. Phormio, Adelphi, and Hecyra ... 2s. 

14. CICERO. De Amicitia, de Senectute, and Brutus . . 2s. 

16. LIVY. Books i. to v. in two parts 3s. 

17. LIVY. Books xxi. and xxii Is. 

19. Selections from TIBULLUS, OVID, and PROPERTIUS . 2s. 

20. Selections from SUETONIUS and the later Latin Writers . 2s. 

'' JPreparinff for Press, 

11. CICERO. Orations against Catiline, for Sulla, for Archias, 

and for the Manilian Law. 

12. CICERO. First and Second Philippics ; Orations for Milo, 

for Maroellus, &c, 

13. CICERO. De Officiis. 

15. JUVENAL and PERSIUS. (The indelicate passages ex- 

punged.) 

18. TACITUS. Agricola ; Gcrmania ; and Annals, Book i. 



VIRTUE BnOTllEUS & CO., 1, AMEN CORXE!:. 



GKEEK AyU LATIX CLASSICS. 



11 



1. 



:3. 

4. 

6. 

<j. 

7. 

^. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
20. 
23. 
2G. 
30. 
41. 



GREEK SERIES, 

ON A SIMILAR PLAN TO THE LATIN SERIE?. 

INTRODUCTORY GREEK READER. On the same 

plan as the Latin Reader 1.^ 

XENOPHON. Anabasis, i. ii. iii l5* 

XENOPHON. Anabasis, iv. v. vi. rii la. 

LUCIAN. Select Dialoffues Is. 

HOMER, niad, i. to vi. 1*. Gd, 

HOMER. Iliad, vii. to xii. ls,(jd, 

HOMER. Hiad, xiii. to xviii 1*. Qd, 

HOMER. Iliad, xix. to xxiv 1*. 6^. 

HOMER. Odyssey, i. to vi. 
HOMER. Odyssey, vii. to xii. . 
HOMER. Odyssey, xiii. to xviii. 
HOMER. Odyssey, xix. to xxiv. ; and Hymns 
PLATO. Apology, Crito, and Phado 

HERODOTUS, 1. ii Is.Gd. 

HERODOTUS, iii. iv Is.Gd, 

HERODOTUS, v. vi. and part of vii. . . . Is.Qd. 

HERODOTUS. Remainder of vii. viii. and ix. . . U, Gd. 

SOPHOCLES ; CEdipus Rex 1*. 

SOPHOCLES; Antigone 2s, 

24. EURIPIDES ; Hecuba and Medea . . . Is, Qd. 

EURIPIDES; Alcestis Is. 

-«:SCHYLUS; Prometheus Vinctus Is. 

THUCYDIDES. i U. 



19. 
21. 
22. 

27. 
28. 
29. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 



ls,Gd. 
Is, Gd, 
Is.M. 

. 2s. 



Pr^aringfor Press, 

SOPHOCLES; CEdipus Colonaus. 

SOPHOCLES ; Ajax. 

SOPHOCLES; PhUoctetes. 

EURIPIDES; HippolytuB. 

EURIPIDES; Orestes. 

EURIPIDES. Extracts from the remunmg plays. 

SOP HOCL ES. Extracts from the remaining plays. 

jESCHYLUS; Persae. 

jESCHYLUS ; Septem contra Thebes. 

-SISCHYLUS; Choephoraar 

^SCHYLUS ; Eumenides. 

-AESCHYLUS ; Agamemnon. 

^SCHYLUS; SuppHces. 

PLUTARCH ; Select Lives. 

ARISTOPHANES; Clouds. 

ARISTOPHANES ; BVogs. 

ARISTOPHANES ; Selections from the remaimnff Comedies. 

THUCYDIDES, ii. 

THEOCRITUS ; Select Idyls. 

PINDAR. 

ISOCRATES. 

HESIOD. 



VIRTUE BBOTHEBS A CO., 1, AMEN CORNIER. 



12 EDUCATIONAL WORKS. 



IE PAGE'S FBENCH COTTESE. 

"The nle of many thousands, and the almost universal adoption of these 
elever little books by M. Lb Page, safficiently prove the public approbation 
of his plan of teaching French, vrhich is in accordance with the natural 
operation of a child learning its native language." 

LB PAGE'S FRENCH SCHOOL. Part I. L'ECHO DE PARTS ; 
being a Selection of Familiar Phrases which a person would hear daily 
if living in France. Price Ss. 6d. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S FRENCH SCHOOL. Part IT. THE GIFT OP FLUENCY 
IN Frknch Convebsation. With Notes. Price 29. 6d. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S FRENCH SCHOOL. PART III. THE LAST STEP 
TO French ; with the Versification. Price 2s. 6d. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S FRENCH MASTER FOR BEGINNERS ; or. Easy Lessons 
IN Fjuench. Price 2s. 6d. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S PETIT CAUSEUR; or. First Chatterings in French. 
Being a Key to the Gift of French Conversation. Price Is. 6d. 

LE PAGE'S NICETIES OF PARISIAN PRONUNCIATION. Price 6d. 

LE PAGE'S JUVENILE TREASURY OF FRENCH CONVERSATION. 
/With the English before the French. Price 3s. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S KEY TO L'ECHO DE PARIS. Price Is. 

LE PAGE'S FRENCH PROMPTER. A Handbook for Travellers 
on the Continent and Students at Home. Price 4s. cloth. 

LE PAGE'S READY GUIDE TO FRENCH COMPOSITION. French 
Grammar by Examples, giving Models as Leading-strings throughout 
Accidence and Syntax. Price Ss. 6d. cloth. 



Fifth Edition, improved and corrected, in I vol. I2mo., neatly 

bound, price 2s. 6d., 

TATE'S ELEMENTS OF COMMERCIAL ARITHMETIC ; 

Containing a Minute Investigation of the Principles of the Science, and 
their general application to Commercial Calculations, in accordance 
with the present Monetary System of the World. By William Tate, 
Principal of the City of Loudon Establishment for finishing Young 
Men for Mercantile and Banking Pursuits. 

KEY TO THE ABOVE, 12mo., bound, 8s. 6d. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



