rG" 



No^ooa.iaKr 




Boston Public Library 



■Do not write in this book or mark it with pen or 

Pert' 'es ^rr so doing are imposed by the 

r C- V Tonwe.tkh of ?■ ' Tsr'^^usetts. 



WHAT TO EAT, 



AND 



i HOW TO OOOK IT: 

s • 

r^ OVER OXE THOUSAIsD RECEIPTS, 

SYSTEMATICALLY AND PRACTICALLY AEEANGED, TO ENABLE 

THE HOUSEKEEPER TO PREPARE TflE MOST DIFFICULT 

OR SIMPLER DISHES IN THE BEST MANNER. 



BY 



PIERRE BLOT, 



TOR or THE "almanack GASTKONOJriQUE." OF PARIS, A'.'T> OTnER 
GASTRONOMICAL WORKS. 



'Feed me'withrooci conve-aient' /or me."— Bible. 



NEW YORK: 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY 

443 & 445 BROADWAY. 

LONDON: 16 LITTLE BRITAIN. 

1863. 



47^ 



/ 



>^ 



/ 



Enterea, according to Act of Confess, in the year 1SC3, by 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 

In tho Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the 

Southern District of New York, 



PREFACE. 

iMPROVEiiENTS of Gvery kind are daily introduced 
in almost every branch of labor ; why not introduce 
them in the culinary department as well, and especially 
w^hen these improvements have for their object econo- 
my, celerity, taste, and health ? 

The division of the art of cooldng, and the system 
of arranging bills of fare, contained in these pages, 
solve that great and perplexing question, especially 
for ladies, how to arrange a bill of fare for every season 
of the year, to suit any number of guests, at a greater 
or less expense, as they may desire. 

Ko matter how inexperienced some of our house- 
keeping readers may be, by carefully following our 
directions, they will be able to live as well and eco- 
nomically as possible, and also serve a dinner in as 
orderly a manner as any steward could do. 

Some think that good cooking is expensive, that 
money alone makes good dishes ; but this is not true. 
A good cook spends much less than a poor one in 
preparing the same dish, and prepares it much better. 



4 PREFACE. 

It will not only be easy to order a suitable dinner 
at all times, but also a breakfast, lunch, or supper ; and 
any housekeeper may superintend her culinary depart- 
ment and direct her cook, making proper observations 
whenever necessary, without the least trouble. 

In our directions, gastronomy is blended with econ- 
omy, and although everything prepared according to 
these receipts will be in the highest and best style, it 
will still be cheaper than if prepared in the poorest 
way, as nothing will be wasted, and the best of every- 
thing used will be had. 

This book will be found to be simpler than many, 
if not all, other cook books. It contains more re^ 
ceipts, and is in accordance with the advancements of 
the present age. 



CONTENTS 



COOKING, 
DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS, 
SOUPS, . 
SAUCES, 

FARCES AND GARNITURES, 
PUREES, 
BEEF, 
FISH, 
VEAL, 
MUTTON, 
LAMB, 
PORK, 
POULTRY, 
GAME, 
VENISON, 
SNAILS, 
VEGETABLES, 
SALADS, 
EGGS, 

OMELETS, . 
PASTRY, 

CREAM FOR ENTREMETS, 
DESSERT CREAMS, 
BILLS OF FARE, . 
NDEX, 



Page 

7 

11 

29 

45 

58 

62 

66 

80 

102 

117 

12S 

128 

134 

151 

162 

165 

169 

200 

204 

208 

212 



239 
250 



COOKING. 

After a careful study of the art of cooking in all its 
branches, we have found only ten principal parts on which 
it is based (the rest is all fancy). These ten parts are: 
Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying, Mixing, Roasting, 
Sauteing, Seasoning, Simmering, and Stewing. 

Baking is to bake bread or cakes ; to cook eggs, fish, 
fruit, meat, vegetables, etc., in an oven or furnace, or in 
any other close place heated. 

In baking, see that your oven or furnace be properly 
heated ; some dishes require more heat than others ; look 
at the object in process of baking from time to time, and 
especially at the beginning ; turn the object round if ne- 
cessary, in case the oven be heated more on one side than 
on the other, to prevent burning it. 

Boiling is to cook eggs, fish, fruit, meat, vegetables, 
etc., in boiling water or other liquid. 

When you boil anything, you must watch it carefully, 
lest it should boil too fast or too slow ; have the same heat 
all the time. In each of our receipts will be found the 
necessary and particular explanations. 

Broiling is to cook fish, meat, vegetables, etc., over 
live coals, and generally by the means of a gridiron. No 
matter what you broil, begin by greasings the bars of the 



8 CDOKING. 

gridiron ; then warm it, and afterward place wliat you wish 
to broil on it. (For the remainder, see different receipts.) 

Frying is to cook eggs, fish, meat, vegetables, etc., in 
heated fat or oil. 

When the meat, fish, etc., are prepared as directed in 
our difierent receipts, put in a deep frying pan or in a 
saucepan, grease, lard or oil enough to cover entirely the 
object you intend to fry. When you have fried fish, meat 
or vegetables, let the grease stand five minutes ; then strain 
it into a pot, let it cool and cover it. Eepeat the same pro- 
cess every time you use it ; also, add once in a while a 
little grease that has not been used before. 

Do the same with oil. 

Always fry fish in the grease or oil in which fish has 
been fried, and do the same for meat, etc. 

To ascertain with accuracy when the grease, lard o-r 
oil is warm enough to lay the things in the pan, dip a 
fork in cold water, the prongs only, so as to retain but 
one or two drops of water, which drops you let fall in the 
grease, and if it crackles, it is hot enough. 

Mixing is to prepare difierent dishes which are com- 
posed of several things, such as cakes, omelets, sauces, 
pies, etc. 

We recommend our readers to pay due attention to the 
quantities we give in our receipts ; but as everybody has 
not the same taste, it would be very easy to augment or 
diminish the quantity of salt, pepper, sugar, butter, etc., 
so as to suit one's own taste. 

Roasting is to cook fish, meat, etc., by exposing the 
object to heat, and generally done by the means of a spit, 
or in a bake-pan or the like, in an oven. When you have 
placed an object on the spit and according to our directions, 
bear in mind that you cannot baste it too often, even if 
you were attempting to imitate a waterspout. Remember 



COOKING. 9 

also that the time necessary for roasting a piece of meat, 
or anything else, depends as much upon the fire as the 
nature of the meat. 

Meat, especially, requires to be put near the fire at first, 
and then put back by degrees. 

Sauieing is to cook meat, vegetables, etc., in a pan, 
with grease or oil enough to prevent the object which is 
being cooked from scorching ; chickens, chops, cutlets, ome- 
lets, and steaks are cooked under this name. 

Saut^ing differs from frying in two ways. 1st. To 
fry any object requires grease enough to cover that object 
entirely, while to saute it requires just enough of it to 
prevent it from scorching. 2d. In frying, the object re- 
mains as it is laid in the pan, while in sauteing it has to be 
turned over several times. 

Seasoning is, we think, the most difficult part in the 
art of cooking ; to season is not difficult, but to season 
properly is quite another thing. It is not only necessary 
to know well how to stew or roast a piece of meat or any- 
thing else, but to know well how to season it ; to be able 
to judge what quantity, what kind of spices can be used 
to season such or such a dish ; to what extent all the 
spices used agree together, and what taste and flavor they 
will give to the object with which they are cooked ; for, if 
not properly used, they may just as likely destroy the 
taste and flavor of the object as improve it. 

Some dishes require high and much seasonings, others 
just the contrary. With a good fire and a good spit, it is 
not necessary to be a cook to roast a piece well, but the 
cook is indispensable to mix the gravy or sauce with the 
proper seasonings. Next comes tasting, the most difficult 
and delicate part of seasoning ; it is by tasting that we 
ascertain if we have seasoned properly. 

In this only two of the senses are engaged, and one 
1* 



10 COOKING. 

principally more than the other. A person may have a 
good feeling, hearing and sight, and for all that would not 
be fit for preparing the simplest dish ; the senses of smell- 
ing and tasting are the ones most required, and without 
which no one can be a cook. 

To taste a sauce, as well as to know if a thing is good 
to eat, we cannot trust our eyes or fingers nor our ears ; 
we then have recourse, first, to our smelling, and then 
to our tasting : so do all animals. 

We always commence by smelling, and when that 
sense is satisfied as far as it is concerned, we then apply 
our tasting qualities ; and if that last one is, in its turn, 
satisfied also, we proceed, that is, we masticate, if masti- 
cation is necessary, and then swallow. 

Simmering is to cook meat or anything else in hot 
water or other liquid ; most of the soups, sauces, etc., are 
made by simmering. 

Simmering diff'ers from boiling only in the amount of 
heat allowed under therboiler, kettle, or pan. To simmer, 
is to boil as gently and slowly as possible. 

Stewing is to cook fish, fruit, meat, vegetables, etc., 
with water or other liquid, in a tightly covered vessel ; seeth- 
ing slowly in a moderate manner, or with a simmering 
heat. 



DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

BAIX-MARIE. 

A BAIN-MARIE is a large vessel of hot water, in which 
saucepans, moulds, etc., are placed to prepare or warm food. 
There are things that are much more delicate when pre- 
pared or warmed in hot water. If you have not one made 
for that purpose, use a large boiler or kettle in its stead. 

Be careful not to allow the water to rise too much in 
bubbles, lest it should upset your saucepans, moulds, &c., 
or get into them. 

BRAISING. 

Braising, in cookery, means to cook anything with 
fire under and upon the pan, kettle, or other utensil. 

A good oven is by far more easy, and answers perfect- 
ly the purpose. An oven not only warms the under and 
upper parts of the utensil, but all around it also. 

CURRY. 

We are of opinion that curry is too strong to be used 
in this country. They use a good deal of it in Java. 

We cannot describe it better than by giving here the 
answer of a gentleman, who has lived a few years on, the 
borders of the Ganges river, to a question on the proper- 
ties and qualities of curry ; he said that he thought it 
good, and even necessary, to use some there (in Java), 



12 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

on account of the climate, but every time he had eaten 
it he thought he was swallowing boiling alcohol or live 
coals. 

DRAINING. 

To drain, is to put in a drainer anything that has 
been soaked, washed, or boiled, etc., in water or any other 
liquid, in order to dry it, or at least to let drop from it 
the water or other liquid that may be in it. 

Salads of greens, as a general thing, are drained after 
being washed, before putting them in the salad dish ; they 
must be drained as dry as possible, but without pressing 
on them, as it would wilt the leaves, and give the salad an 
unsightly appearance. 

GLAZING. 

- To glaze meat is to give it a coat by the means of a 
feather, or a small pencil, which you dip in reduced sauce, 
or coulis, and where directed. To glaze pastry is to sift 
fine white sugar on the cake, and put it back in the 
oven for a short time; that is, the time .necessary to melt 
the sugar, and give the cake a beautiful appearance. 

LARDING. 
Take good fat bacon, cut it in slices, then fillet them 
so as to make square fillets ; cut them the length you 
want, and according to the size of the piece you wish to 
lard ; then lard the piece -by the means of a larding pin. 

OSMAZOME. 

Osmazome is found in beef, mutton, venison, and 
game ; in the latter, when the bird or animal is adult. In 
soup meat, the osmazome is the soluble part of the meat 
that dissolves in boiling, and makes nutritious broth. In 
broiled or roasted pieces, it is that part which makes a 
kind of brown crust on the surface of the meat, and also 



DIBECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 13 

the brownish part of the gravy. Chicken, lamb, sucking 
pig, veal, etc., do not contain any osmazome. 

STRAIXIXG. 
To strain, is to pass sauce or anything else through a 
sieve, or through a piece of cloth, in order to have it 
freed from particles of every kind. You strain broth to 
make soup, so as to remove the small pieces of bones 
that may be in it, etc. 

WIXE IN SAUCES. 
Put at first half the quantity you are to use, and 
when nearly done put the other half in ; boil or simmer 
for a while longer, and use. 

KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

Gastronomers use, in preference to anything else, 
earthen pans, or, for want of these, tin pans. Copper re- 
quires to be examined every day, and to prevent any acci- 
dent, it is necessary to have the inside of the pans lined 
very often ; in the end, crockery or tin is as cheap, if not 
cheaper, than copper, and besides, quite harmless. 

Many indispositions are caused by food prepared in 
copper not properly lined ; even food prepared in a well 
lined pan would be dangerous if allowed to cool in it. 

TIME TO LEAVE MEAT ON OR BEFORE THE FIRE. 

The time to cook meat depends as much on the quality 
of the meat as on the fire. Some persons like meat more 
done than others ; in many cases you must consult your 
own taste or that of your guests. Beef, lamb, mutton, fowls, 
and game may be eaten rather underdone, according to 
taste ; but veal must be at least a little overdone, or else 
it is very unwholesome. 



14 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

The following table may be used as a guide : 

Bear and Buffalo, a five pound piece,.. 5 to 7 hours. 

Wild Boar and Woodchuck, Do. do. . . 3 to 4 hours. 

Beef, Do. do. ..1 hour 80 min. 

Do a ten pound piece,... 2 hrs. 30 min. 

Capon, a large one, 1 hour. 

Chicken, a middling sized one.45 min. 

Duck, a large one, 45 min. 

Do a small one, 30 min. 

Goose, a large one, 2 hours. 

Do a small one, 1 hour 30 min. 

Grouse, Heathcock, Snipe, and Woodcock,. .a fat one, 30 min. 

Do. do. do. do a lean one, 20 min. 

Guinea Fowl, a middling sized one.l hour. 

Hare, an old one, 1 hour SO min. 

Do a young one, about 1 hour. 

Lamb and Kid, a large quarter 1 hour. 

Do. do a small one, 45 min. 

Mutton, a four pound piece, . . 1 hour. 

Do a six ." " .. .1 hour 30 min. 

Partridge, Pheasant, and Prairie Hen, a middling sized one.SO to 45 min. 

Pigeon, one, 30 min. 

Pork, a two pound piece. . .1 hour 15 min. 

Do afour " " ..2hours. 

Quail, one, 20 min. 

Sucking Pig, a large one, 2 hrs. 30 min. 

Do. do a small one, 2 hours. 

Eabbit, a middling sized one.SO to 45 min. 

Eobin, Blackbird, Fig-pecker, High'holder, 
Lapwing, Meadow Lark, Plover, Eeed 
Bird, Thrush, Yellow Bird, and other 

small birds, 35 to 20 min. 

Turkey, a large one, 1 hour SO min. 

Do a small one, about 1 hour. 

Yeal, a two pound piece,.. 1 hour 15 min. 

Venison, ' afour " " .. about 1 hour. 

1 

Tbe time meats may be kept, in a cool, dry, and dark * 
place, and protected from flies or other insects is — 

In Summer. In Winter. 

Bear and Buffalo, 3 to 4 days. 10 to 15 days. 

Wild Boar and Woodchuck 3 to 4 " 8 to 10 " 

Beef and Pork, 2 to 4 " 6 to 10 " 

Capon, 2 to 3 " 4 to 8 " 

Chicken, old one, 3 to 4 " 4 to 10 " 

Do. young one, 1 to 2 " 2 to 6 " 



DIKECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 15 

In Summer. In, Winter. 
Deer, Partridge, Pheasant, Prairie Hen, Quail, 

Guinea Fowl, and Turkey, 2 to 3 days. 6 to 10 days. 

Duck and Goose, 3 to 4 '• 4 to S " 

Hare and Rabbit, 2 to 3 " 4 to 8 " 

Grouse, Heatlicock, Snipe, and Woodcock, 3 to 4 " 8 to 15 " 

Lamb, Kid, Sucking Pjg, and Veal, 2 to 3 " 8 to 6 " 

Mutton, 2 to 3 " 6 to 10 " 

Pigeons, Blackbirds, Fig-peckers, High-holders, 

Lapwings, Meadow Larks, Plovers, Eejd 

Birds, Kobins, Thrushes, Yellow Birds, and 

other small birds, 2 to 3 '• 6 to 10 

The time must be reduced one half in summer, in 
stormy or damp weather, and one third in winter, in thaw- 
ing or rainy weather. 

Fish — when cleaned and prepared as directed, place it 
in a crockery stewpan, cover it with cold water, add a 
little salt, two or three sprigs of thyme, and one or two 
bay leaves. It will keep thus for some time. 

FANCY WORDS AND EXPRESSIONS. 
As some persons might think that we have omitted 
some important receipts, because we have not made use of 
fancy expressions, we give here the meaning of some of 
those found in cook books or in bills of fare. 

Chaud-froid de poxUet, A roasted chicken served cold. 

Filet de hoeuf en Bellevue, A fillet of beef served cold the next day. 

Galantine de chasse en Bellevue,.. .Galantine of partridge served cold. 

Langue en Bellevue, A beef tongue prepared by pork butchers, 

and served cold. 
Perruque de veau d la millionnaire, Peruke of veal, served millioniare-like. 
Saumon au beurre deMontpellier,.. &a.lmon served cold. 

Ciboules, Gives, or green onions. 

Beurre noir, Brown butter. 

COFFEE. 

It is very simple to make good coffee ; but to do this 
it is necessary to take good Java, or any other good coffee, 
to have a good coffeepot, and to keep it clean (be it a French 
filter or an Old Dominion coffeepot). 



16 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

How to roast it. — Although it is very easy to roast 
coffee in an apparatus for that purpose, after having seen 
it done once or twice, still it is diflScult, if not impossible, 
to explain well the whole process ; we will, however, try 
to give some directions. 

Put coffee in your apparatus, the quantity to be accord- 
ing to the size of the cylinder ; have a slow fire at first; when 
the coffee has swollen, augment the fire, turning the cylin- 
der all the time, and take from the fire before it is roasted 
enough ; the roasting will be finished before the coffee gets 
cold, and before taking it from the cylinder ; continue 
turning the latter as if it were yet on the fire. It is well 
roasted when it evaporates a pleasing odor, and when of 
a brownish color. Take it from the apparatus then, spread 
it on a matting or on a piece of cloth, and put it in a tin 
box as soon as cold ; cover the box well, air-tight if pos- 
sible, and grind it when you want it. It might be ground 
some days before using it, if kept in an air-tight box. 

Hoio to make it. — Take a French filter, or an Old Do- 
minion coffee-pot, and put the coffee into it ; have water in 
a clean kettle and on a good fire (the water must not have 
been boiled or warmed before) ; at the first boiling, pour on 
the coffee from half to a pint of it, put back on the fire, 
and again at the first boiling pour another half or a pint 
on it, etc., till you have poured the quant: ,'""" desire. 

The quantity of coffee must be according to the strength 
you wish it, and also according to the quantity wanted. 

Four tablespoonfuls make a quart of very good coffee 
for breakfast for grown persons. It would be rather too 
strong for children. 

For coffee after dinner, it is different; some persons 
like it very strong and others weak, but eight tablespoon- 
fuls for a quart, make what may be called very strong 
coffee. For the quantity of coffee necessary, you cannot 



DIEECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 17 

be guided by anything but by your own taste or that of 
your guests. 

No matter what quantity of coffee you put in your filter, 
the liquid must be clear ; the more you use, the blacker the 
substance is, but it must never be muddy. If muddy at 
all, you may be sure that you have not used good coffee. 
One pound of good coffee to a quart of water, should 
make black but clear coffee. 

TEA. 

There are a thousand ways to make tea ; we might say 
that every one makes it in every one's way ; but, after 
many experiments and much information, we have found 
the following to be the best : 

Put good tea in your teapot (the quantity to be ac- 
cording to the strength and also to the quantity you want); 
place the teapot on the corner of the range, and when 
warm, pour boiling water on the tea, just enough to wet 
it. Leave it thus about one minute, then pour all the 
water you want, and about three minutes after it is ready 
for use. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Break the chocolate in pieces, put it in a tin stewpan, 
with milk or water (with milk it is better and more nour- 
ishing), set it on a moderate fire, stir with a wooden spoon 
till done, and rve. 

COCOA. 

Put in a tea or coffee cup, one or two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cocoa, pour boiling water or boiling milk on 
it while stirring with a spoon, and sweeten it to your liking. 
A few drops of essence of vanilla may be added, accord- 
ing to taste. 

CHOCA. 

Choca is nothing more nor less than one cup of coffee 



18 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

and milk mixed with a cup of chocolate, and for break- 
fast. Let every one try how it tastes, and let those who 
may like it use it if they choose. 

LEMONADE OR ORANGEADE. 

Put two ounces of loaf sugar in a quart of water, also 
the rind of an orange or one of lemon. Half an hour 
after strain the whole, and press into it the juice of the 
orange, and a few drops of lemon juice. If found too 
strong, add water and sugar. It is a very good drink in 
summer, or for evening parties. A little currant jelly 
may be added to make a variety. 

LEMONADE WITH BARLEY. 

To the above lemonade or orangeade you add, instead 
of water and sugar, some barley water and sugar ; it is 
very good and very refreshing. 

Barley water is made by soaking in lukewarm water a 
pint of barley, drain it two or three minutes after ; put the 
barley in a crockery pan, cover it with cold water (about 
three quarts), set it on the fire, and boil till the barley is 
perfectly cooked ; skim oflf the scum during the cooking, 
drain, let cool, and use the water. 

BARLEY SUGAR FOR CHILDREN. 

Soak a quart of barley in lukewarm water for two or 
ee minutes, and drain. Put the barley in a crockery 
stewpan, with four or five quarts of water, and set it on a 
good fire, boil till the barley is overdone, and then take 
from the fire, mash it as well as possible and strain, throw- 
ing away what- there is in the strainer, and if the remain- 
der does not make a kind of jelly when cool, the barley 
has not been boiled enough. 

Mix that jelly with sugar and fry it j it is better than 



DIRECTIONS AND E»XPLANATIONS. 19 

any other candy, barley being refreshing, and the princi- 
pal substance of it. 

PUNCH. 

Put a saltspoonful of black tea in a crockery pot, with 
one clove, a little cinnamon, and the rind of a lemon cut 
in pieces, pour on the whole half a pint of boiling water ; 
let it remain thus five minutes, and strain. Put a bottle 
of rum or brandy in a crockery vessel, with twelve ounces 
of loaf sugar, set the rum or brandy on fire, and let bum 
till it stops. Then mix tea and rum together, and it is 
ready for use. It is drunk cold or warm, according to 
taste. When wanted warm, if made previously, set it on 
a moderate fire, in a tin or crockery kettle. 

It keeps very well if carefully bottled and corked 
when cold. 

Another way to make it is to mis the rum or brandy 
with the tea without burning it. It is warmed, used, and 
kept like the above. The quantity of water may be re- 
duced or augmented, according to taste, and so also the 

sugar. 

MINT. 

Put four sprigs of mint into a quart of brandy, cork 
well, or cover air-tight if in a pot, and leave thus forty- 
eight hours ; then strain through a cloth. Put half a 
pound of loaf sugar in a stewpan, with a pint of water, 
set it on the fire, and, at the first boiling, pour it into the 
quart of brandy ; cover with a cloth, let it cool, and 
again strain the whole through a fine cloth. Bottle and 
cork carefully, and use when wanted. 

A small liquor glass of it is very good against stomach- 
ache ; it is also very good after having eaten something - 
difiicult of digestion. 

CAEAMEL. 

Set on a slow fire a tin kettle with fine white sugar 



20 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

in it, stir with a tin spoon and let boil gently till brown, 
and use where directed. It keeps very well. 

CEOUTONS. 

Cut slices of the soft part of bread, either round, 
square, oblong, star-like shape, or any other fancy shape, 
and about one quarter of an inch in thickness. Have hot 
butter in a frying pan, on a sharp fire ; place the slices 
of bread in it, turn over when fried on one side, and take 
ofi" when both sides are of a fine color ; drain them as dry 
as possible, and they are then ready for use. 

CRUMBS AND EGGS FOR FRYING. 

Have in a vessel eggs well beaten, with chopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper. Have in another vessel fine bread 
crumbs. Dip the fish, or whatever else you wish to fry, 
in the beaten eggs, and roll it over in bread crumbs, 
and lay it immediately in hot grease or oil. 

BATTER FOR FRYING. 

Put in a bowl two tablespoonfuls of fiour, with one 
beaten egg, a tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, and pepper : 
mix well together ; then add the quantity of milk neces- 
sary to make a paste thin enough to dip into it either 
fish, vegetables, or other objects, so that a thin coat only 
sticks to it. 

GREASE FOR FRYING. 

Take beef suet, the part around the kidneys, or any 
kind of fat, raw or cooked, and free of fibres, nerves, thin 
skin, or bones ; chop it fine, add to it, if you have any, 
the fat skimmed ofi" the top of meat soup ; put it in a cast 
iron or crockery kettle. Set it on a moderate fire, boil 
gently for fifteen minutes, skim it well during the process ; 
take from the fire, leave thus five minutes, and strain it ; 



DIEECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 21 

after ^Yhich, put it in pots, and keep them in a dry and 
cool place ; cover the pots well every time you use some, 
but never cover them while the grease is warm. This 
grease is as good, if not better, than any other to fry 
fish, fritters, and other similar things, which require to 
be entirely covered with grease 

LARD. 

Never buy lard ready made if you can help it, but 
take hog's fat, the part enveloping the kidneys, or the 
part called hog's caul, or leaf lard, and chop it fine ; put 
it in a cast iron or crockery kettle, with a bay leaf to 
every two pounds of fat ; set on a moderate fire, and as 
Boon as it begins to melt, take the melted part out with a 
ladle, and put it in a pot or vessel ; be careful not to 
take some pieces of fat not melted yet. Continue that 
process till it is all melted. The dry or hard part that 
remains at the bottom of the kettle when done, is not 
good, and must be thrown away. 

Lard made thus is as white as snow, and may be kept 
a long time. 

BUTTERED PAPER. 

Dip in lukewarm butter a piece of white paper of the 
size you want, and envelop the piece to broil or roast 
with it. Tie the paper around with fine white twine or 
coarse thread. 

OILED PAPER. 

The only difierence between oiled and buttered paper is 
that you dip it in sweet oil instead of lukewarm butter. 

DRIED PARSLEY, THYME, CELERY, SAGE, &C., FOR 
WINTER USE. 

Hang in the shade, under a shed, or in a garret, and 
in a clean and dry place, some small bunches of parsley, 



^2 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

celery, &c., the roots upward ; leave them thus till per- 
fectly dry, then place them in your spice box for win- 
ter use. 

The best time for drying them is at the end of Octo- 
ber or the beginning of November ; dig them up in fine 
and dry weather, so as to have them clean without 
washing. 

Soak in cold water half an hour before using. 

FRIED PARSLEY. 

Have grease enough in a pan, over a good fire, to cover 
the parsley entirely without pressing on it at all ; when 
the grease is hot enough (see direction for frying), lay the 
sprigs of parsley in, and take them off with a skimmer 
when fried, which is done at once ; drain and use. 

WHITE PARSLEY. 

Throw sprigs of parsley in boiling water, and a little 
salt ; take it out with a skimmer almost immediately and 
drain it. 

WHITE PEPPER. 

Put peppercorns in a bowl, cover with cold water, and 
leave thus till the skin is tender ; then drain. Take the 
skin off, let it dry, grind it ; place with your other spices 
and use where directed. It takes many days for the skin 
to become tender. 

TOASTS. 

Cut slices of bread about one quarter of an inch in 
thickness, dry it before the fire, or in an oven ; put in a 
dry place, and use when wanted. 

BAVAROISE WITH CHOCOLATE. 

Put in a tin pan a pint of milk, with one ounce of 
chocolate, and two of sugar ; set it over the fire, but do 



DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 23 

not allow it to boil ; stir well with a wooden spoon during 
the process, and when the whole is well mixed, serve warm 
in cups. 

It is an excellent and wholesome drink in the evening. 

The same with Coffee or Tea. — Proceed as above in 
every particular, except that you put in the pan a small cup 
of coffee or tea instead of chocolate, and a little more 
sugar. 

BICHOF. 

Put in a crockery tureen two bottles of white wine, 
with an orange and a lemon, both cut in slices ; cover, and 
place it in a warm place for about ten hours ; then strain 
into a vessel, and mix well with the liquor about a pound 
of loaf sugar, and a little grated cinnamon. 

It may be served warm or cold. 

Another way. — Melt a pound of loaf sugar in half a 
pint of cold water, and then mix with it two bottles of 
white wine, a pinch of grated cinnamon, the juice of an 
orange, and that of a lemon, and use. 

It takes only a few minutes to make it. 

If found too strong, add water and sugar. 

TO PRESERVE BIRDS^ 

Broil or roast, according to our directions, chickens, 
ducks, geese, turkeys, partridges, pheasants, prairie hens, 
quails, &c. ; then carve them ; take the bones off the 
pieces, which you place in a crockery pot, and which you 
fill with melted butter or lard, and cover well when cold. 
Place it in a cool and dry place and it will keep for 
months. 

When you wish to eat them, take out the quantity 
you want, and place it in a frying pan, with the butter or 
lard that is around ; fry till warm, and serve. 



24 DIRECTIONS AiS'D EXPLANATIONS. 

INDIGESTION. 

;^- A cup of tea and chamomile, half of each, with a few 
drops of orange flower water, and the whole well sweeten- 
ed, and taken warm, is very good after having eaten 
something difficult to digest. 

Many cases of dyspepsia may be avoided by taking it 
after dinner. 

PAP. 

French babies eat nothing else till twelve or fifteen 
months old ; after that, and till they are about three years 
of age, they eat every kind of soup, principally milk soup, 
and then they eat the same kind of food as their parents. 

Pap is very easily made. Put a little butter in a pan 
over the fire ; when melted, turn in it a thin batter of 
milk and flour ; stir with a wooden spoon, and boil gently 
from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the quantity you 
make ; then put it in a crockery vessel, add salt and 
sugar, and use. 

An egg may be mixed in the batter, when the infant 
is over three months old. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

The small green ones are the best. 

Clean them well in cold water with a brush. Put cold 
water in a vessel, with some gray salt in it ; move to dis- 
solve the salt, and soak the cucumbers in it for three 
days, after which take them out ; put them in pots with 
small onions, a few cloves of garlic, peppercorns, gray salt, 
cloves, and a bunch tied with twine, composed of bay- 
leaves, tarragon, and burnet ; pour boiling vinegar ( 
them, and enough to cover the whole ; cover the pots ai 
tight when perfectly cold. 

Look at the cucumbers every two or three days for tl 
first three weeks, and after that, only once in a whih . 



DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 25 

for, if you have not used good vinegar, it will turn white ; 
in that case, throw away vinegar and spices, put new 
spices in, cover again with boiling vinegar, and cover 
when cold as before. If you have not left them too long in 
bad vinegar, they will be just as good after that second 
process. 

The quantity of spices must depend upon the quantity 
of cucumbers. 

BACON. 

Never use smoked bacon or ham except when especial- 
ly directed. The smoky taste would spoil every dish ; 
follow the same rule with, old stale butter. 

BREAD. 

It is next to an impossibility to make good bread in a 
small family range or stove ; four times out of five the 
bread is too much or not enough baked. Good baker's 
bread, besides saving a great deal of time and labor, is as 
cheap as you can make it at home. 

BROTH. 
Broth that has been used to warm meat in it, may be 
used for the sarnie purpose another time, or for soup after 
having been strained. 

CATSUPS AXD PICKLES. 

Beware of what is sold under the names of catsups and 
pickles ; many cases of debility and consumption come 
from eating such stuff. 

DIET. {See also BreaTcfast and Supper.) 
Take a hearty but by no means heavy dinner. 
Eat and drink moderately, under any circumstances. 
2 



26 DIEECnONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

See that everytliing you eat or drink is of a good 
quality and wholesome. 

Eat slowly and masticate well, but do not bolt your 
food. 

Drink slowly also, and taste before swallowing. 

Vary your food as much as possible. 

Have at least two dishes of vegetables, and one kind 
of fi'uit for dinner, besides meat. 

FINES HERBES. 
Parsley and cives chopped fine, and used for omelets, or 
with cold meat, sauces, &c., are called thus. 

FISH. 

Avoid the contact of fish with meat, or anything else 
in the shape of edibles, in the kitchen as well as in the 
service of the table. 

GARLICS. 

No one need be afraid of using garlics in cooking. 
When cooked they have nothing left of their bad odor 
when in a raw state, and really give a fine flavor to any 
thing they are cooked with. If we were in an age or 
country of ignorance and superstition, we would not 
speak of them, but here we will tell to all the incredulous, 
try garlics and judge them afterward. 

MEAT. 
Avoid washing meat as much as you can ; i. e., never 
do it when you can wipe it clean. 

SAVORY. 

French cooks never use savory ; they are of opinic 
that it destroys instead of improving the taste of dishe; 
60 think many gastronomers we have consulted. A 



) 
j DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 27 

e eschew savory in our receipts, all dishes pre- 
paid. . ording to them will be savory dishes. 

^OUPS. 
To make good broth, and therefore good soup, you 
must have an even fire all the time ; you spoil the soup 
by boiling it fast for some time, and then setting the soup 
kettle on the corner of the range where there is not 
enough heat. 

SOUP PLATES 

Must be warmed before putting them on the table, es- 
pecially in winter. 

STIKRIXG. 

Never use any spoon but a wooden one to stir any- 
thing on the fire or in a warm state. 

QUALITY OF MEAT, FISH, VEGETABLES, AND FRUIT. 

The quality of meat depends entirely on the quality of 
food with which the animal has been fed. 

For fish, the taste or quality is according to the kind 
of water in which they have lived ; fish from a muddy 
pond smells of mud, while fish from a clear brook is de- 
licious. 

The same difference exists in vegetables and fruit ; 
their quality is according to the quality or nature of the 
ground in which they have been grown. 

Why is this book smaller than many other cook books, 
though it contains more receipts ? 

The reason is this : we could have written some forty 
or fifty pages of receipts for pies or vol-au-vent, but, since 
all pies are prepared in the same way, there is no necessity 
for doing it. With a receipt for a currant pie, you can 
prepare a blackberry pie ; the only difference is that you 
use blackberries instead of currants, <fec. 



28 DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 

In fishes, a great many having the same kini Qf fpod 
are cooked alike, and do not require different or^g^^r .""^ 
receipts. 

Ducks and geese, ducklings and goslings, wild and 
tame, are cooked alike. 

Partridges, pheasants, prairie hens, quails, &c., are 
also cooked alike, and it would be quite useless to make a 
separate receipt for each. 

We are of opinion that the shortest and simplest way- 
is as good and advantageous in cooking as in anything 
else. 

To simplify a thing is to render it more easy to be 
understood ; that has been our aim in writing this book 

BAY LEAF. 
The leaf of the sauce laurel tree ; it is used in Italy 
instead of straw or hay' for packing bottles of oil, &c., and 
is imported into this country with the oil ; it is very cheap 
and gives a very good flavor to sauces, soups, &c. 



SOUPS. 

Soups are made with meat or vegetables, and grease 
or bacon. 

Beef, mutton, veal and chicken are used to make soup 
or broth. The best pieces of beef to make soup or broth 
are the ribs, shin or knuckle, and loin ; the bones make a 
fat broth, but not as nutritious . as good lean meat. One 
pound of meat for three persons is enough. 

Always use fresh meat ; meat with a venison taste would 
spoil, if not entirely destroy the broth. 

The proportion, to make good broth, is about five pints 
of water for three pounds of meat. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

Take six pounds of fresh beef (ribs, knuckle or loin), 
which put in a crockery kettle with five quarts of cold 
water, salt, and a little pepper, set on a slow fire ; take the 
iscum off" carefully as soon as it comes to the surface ; then 
add two white onions with one clove stuck in each, a 
small parsnip, a carrot, two middling sized turnips, half 
a head of celery, two leeks or four small ones, two sprigs 
of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and 
a little caramel to color it. Simmer five or six hours; 
dish the meat with the parsnips, turnips and. leeks around, 
to be served warm after the soup, or kept for the next day. 
(See boiled beef.) Strain the broth, skim off" the fat at the 
top, put back on a gooc" fire, and at the first boiling, pour 



80 SOUPS. 

on croutons in the soup dish and serve. This broth may 
be kept till the next day, even in summer. 

CONSOMME. 

Take a chicken, at least two years old, clean and pre- 
pare it as directed, place it on the spit before a good fire 
for about ten minutes, and take it off; put it in a crockery 
kettle, with about two pounds of beef, two quarts and a 
half of cold water, salt and a little pepper ; set the kettle 
on a slow fire, and skim carefully ; season with one white 
onion and one clove stuck in it, a piece of parsnip, same 
of carrot, a small turnip, two stalks of celery, a leak, a 
sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, half a 
bay-leaf, and a little caramel to color it. Simmer gently 
from seven to eight hours, then strain the broth and serve 
it hot, either with or without croutons, according to taste. 

BROTH FOR SAUCES. 

When the sauces are to be kept a few days, or when 
you have no other broth, chop fine about half a pound of 
good fresh beef, which put in a stewpan with about one 
pint of water, a small white onion with a clove stuck in 
it, one clove of garlic, half a sprig of parsley, same of 
thyme, half a bay leaf, salt and pepper ; set on a moder- 
ate fire, skim carefully, simmer till the meat is properly 
cooked, strain and use. 

This broth may be kept eight days in winter, and four 
days in summer. 

BROTH FOR SOUP POTAGE OR PUR^E. 

Put in a crockery kettle two pounds of beef (ribs, 

knuckle or loin), three quarts of cold water, an old lean 

chicken, or an old duck, or half of a goose or turkey, or 

two partridges, prairie hens, or pheasants, either of them 



SOUPS. 31 

half roasted, also salt and pepper, set on a slow fire, skim 
it carefully ; then add a white onion with a clove stuck in 
it ; a piece of parsnip, a piece of carrot, a small turnip, 
a stalk of celery, a leek, half a sprig of parsley, same of 
thyme, a small clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, and a little 
caramel to color it. Simmer five or six hours, and finish 
and use as pot-au-feu. 

Another. — Put two pounds of beef with nearly two 
quarts of water in a crockery kettle ; add all the remains 
you may have from roasted pieces of beef, veal, mutton, 
fowls, or even game ; add also two quarts of water for three 
pounds of remains ; season, cook and serve as the preced- 
ing one. 

BEEF AND MUTTON SOUP. 

Take three pounds of beef (ribs, knuckle or loin), and 
two pounds of breast of mutton, put both pieces in a 
crockery kettle with four quarts of cold water, salt, and 
pepper, set on a slow fire ; skim carefully, then add half a 
carrot, two turnips, one parsnip, two onions with one clove 
stuck in each, two stalks of celery, two leeks, one sprig of 
parsley, same of thyme, a bay leaf, and one clove of garlic. 
Simmer four or five hours ; dish the meat with carrots, tur- 
nips, parsnips and leeks around, to be served after the soup 
if you choose ; strain the broth, skim the fat off", put back 
on the fire and use at first boiling. 

This broth is better in summer than if made with beef 
only. 

BROTH MADE QUICKLY. 

Cut about a pound of beef in small pieces, put it in a 
stewpan with half a pint of cold water, a piece of carrot, 
one onion, and a quarter of a pound of bacon, also cut in 
small pieces ; set on the fire and simmer twenty minutes, 
then add a pint of boiling water, salt, and pepper ; boil 



82 SOUPS. 

forty-five minutes, strain and use the broth. The meat is 
not very good. 

EICE SOUP. 

Soak the rice in lukewarm water, one tablespoonful for 
two persons ; put it in a stewpan with half a pint of cold 
water for every two tablespoonfuls of rice ; set on a moder- 
ate fire, stir gently with a wooden spoon till dry, then add 
as many pints of broth as you have tablespoonfuls of rice; 
simmer about two hours, stirring now and then, and serve. 

Another. — Soak the rice in lukewarm water; put 
broth in a stewpan, set on a moderate fire, and when 
boiling, throw the rice in; subdue the fire, simmer till 
thoroughly cooked, stir now and then, and serve. 

The quantities are the same as for the preceding one. 

POTAGES. 

Potage with Beans, or a la Conde. — Take half a pint 
of kidney beans, soak them in lukewarm water, put them 
in a stewpan with three small onions, cover with three pints 
of water, set on the fire, and when thoroughly cooked, 
throw away the onions, mash and strain the beans, then 
put them back in the stewpan with the water in which they 
were cooked, set again on the fire, add butter, salt, pepper, 
and a little chopped parsley ; boil a few minutes, pour on 
croutons in the soup dish, and serve. 

Potage with Carrots, or a la Crecy. — Peel, wash, cut 
in pieces and put in a stewpan, half a pint of carrots, two 
middling sized onions with a clove stuck in each, a leek, 
two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of sugar, wet 
with a quart of broth ; set on the fire, and when well cooked 
throw away the onions and leek ; then mash and strain the 
carrots, put them back on the fire, add salt, pepper, and a 
little chopped parsley ; simmer gently about fifteen min- 



SOUPS. 33 

utes, during which time skim it if necessary; pour on 
croutons in the soup dish, and serve. 

Another^ loith Carrots, Celery, and Potatoes, — Peel, 
wash, cut in pieces and put in a stewpan, half a pint of 
carrots, two heads of celery, and a quarter of a pint of 
potatoes, also two sprigs of parsley, one leek, salt, and 
pepper ; add also, but do not cut them, a bay leaf, two 
middling sized onions with a clove stuck in each ; cover 
with boiling water, set on the fire, and leave till well cooked ; 
when, take from the fire, throw away bay leaf and onions, 
mash and strain the remainder, put it back in the stewpan 
with three ounces of butter ; should it be found too thick, 
add a little boiling water, set on the fire again, simmer 
five minutes, and serve as it is or with croutons. 

Potage with Celery. — Clean, wash, drain and cut in 
small pieces about half a pint of soup celery ; throw it in 
boiling water with a little salt, boil three minutes and 
drain, then mash as well as possible, strain and put back 
in the stewpan, cover with a quart of cold water, add two 
ounces of butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
and a little chopped parsley; boil gently half an hour, 
pour on croutons in the soup dish and serve. 

Potage toith Chestnuts. — Cook in boiling water a quart 
of chestnuts, then shell them, mash and wet them with warm 
broth so as to make a thin paste, put them in a crockery 
kettle, cover with broth, simmer about one hour, add two 
table spoonfuls of fine white sugar ; simmer five minutes 
longer, stirring with a wooden spoon the while ; pour on 
croutons and serve. 

Potage with Frogs. — Take the hind legs of fifty well- 
skinned green frogs, put them in cold water and a little salt 
for half an hour — drain them ; then put them in a crockery 
kettle, with a leek, half a carrot, two stalks of celery, a 
middling sized parsnip, a turnip, two onions, one clove of 
2* 



34 SOUPS, 

garlic, two ounces of fat bacon, a little salt, and white pep- 
per ; cover the whole well with cold water, set on the fire, 
simmer gently about four hours ; strain, pour on croutons 
and serve. 

These hind legs of frogs are taken from the strainer, 
and placed on a dish and served at breakfast the next day, 
with a white sauce, or in a fricassee, as a chicken. 

Poiage ivith Lettuce. — Clean, wash, and drain dry two 
heads of cabbage lettuce, throw them in boiling water 
and a little salt for two minutes, take off and drain ; then 
tie them with thread or twine, put them in a stewpan, cover 
with broth, set on the fire, and simmer gently till well 
cooked ; then pour the broth on croutons, place the heads 
of lettuce at the top and serve. 

Potage with Macaroni. — Put three pints of broth in an 
earthen kettle, and set it on a good fire ; at the first boiling 
put some macaroni, in with a little salt and white pepper ; 
boil gently till cooked, stirring now and then with a 
wooden spoon, and serve. 

If liked, very dry cheese might be grated and put in 
the kettle a few minutes before taking from the fire. This 
adding of cheese is an Italian fashion. 

Potage a la Monaco. — Eoast till they have a pale yel- 
low color, thin slices of bread with sugar sprinkled on ; 
put them in a crockery vessel, pour boiling milk on, enough 
to cover them entirely ; have ready to pour on them also, 
and immediately after, two yolks of eggs well beaten with 
lukewarm water for every quart of milk, and serve. 

Potage Printanier. — Chop fine twelve leaves of sorrel, 
six sprigs of chervil, a cabbage lettuce, two leeks, a mid- 
dling sized parsnip, a like carrot, one turnip, a head of 
soup celery, two onions, a tablespoonful of green beans, 
same of green peas, same of tops of asparagus, and half 
a dozen small spring radishes ; throw the whole in boiling 



SOUPS. 35 

water and a little salt for one minute ; drain, put in a 
stewpan with four ounces of butter, salt, and pepper, set 
on the fire, stir now and then till about half cooked, 
when, cover with broth, simmer till well cooked and serve. 

Poiage with Pumpkins. — Peel, take away the seed and 
cut the pumpkin in small pieces ; put them in a stewpan 
with water just enough to cover them, a little salt and 
white pepper, set on the fire and take off when cooked ; 
throw away the water, mash and strain the pumpkin, put 
it back in the stewpan, cover with milk, add a little sugar, 
set it again on the fire, and take off at the first boiling ; 
pour a little of it on croutons in the soup dish, and keep 
covered in a warm place for ten minutes ; then pour also 
the remainder in, and serve. 

Another. — Prepare as above, throw the pieces in boil- 
ing water with a little salt for five minutes, mash and 
drain ; put butter in a stewpan, set it on the fire ; when 
melted put the pumpkin in, stir about five minutes ; have 
ready in your soup dish some slices of bread fried in but- 
ter, and dusted with sugar, pour on them some boiling milk, 
keep covered in a warm place two or three minutes ; then 
turn the pumpkin on, at the same time mixing the whole 
gently, and serve. 

Potage with Rice. — Soak half a pint of rice in luke- 
warm water, put it in a stewpan with two quarts of cold 
water, salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley ; set it on 
the fire, boil till cooked, stirring now and then, and take 
from the fire ; melt two ounces of butter in, stirring the 
whole ; then mix well with the whole two well beaten 
yolks of eggs, and serve. 

Another. — Soak half a pint of rice in lukewarm water, 
put it in a stewpan, with a pint of milk and a tablespoonful 
of sugar ; set it on the fire, stir till nearly dry ; then add 
two quarts of milk, simmer gently two hours, and serve. 



36 SOUPS. 

Potage icith Semoulina, — Put in a stewpan a quart 
of broth ; when boiling, sprinkle semoulina in it, little by 
little, stirring with a wooden spoon ; stop when it begins 
to thicken, add salt and a little white pepper ; take from 
the fire after twelve minutes' boilings and serve. 

Potage with Fecula. — Proceed as for semoulina in 
every particular, except that you leave it on the fire only 
ten minutes, and serve. 

Potage with Sago. — Proceed as for semoulina in 
every particular, except that you leave it on the fire about 
one hour, and serve. Being coarser, it takes a longer 
time to cook. 

Potage with -Tapioca. — Proceed as for semoulina in 
every particular, except that you leave it on the fire about 
forty-five minutes, and serve. 

All other Italian pastes are prepared in the same 
way. 

TJie same with Milk. — Semoulina, fecula, sago, tapio- 
ca, &c., may also be prepared with milk, instead of broth, 
and sugar instead of salt and pepper, and proceed as with 
broth in every other particular. 

Potage ivith Sorrel and Potatoes. — Wash, drain dry, 
and chop fine a handful of sorrel, which put in a stewpan 
with four ounces of butter and a little salt ; when cooked 
add a pint of potatoes cut in small pieces, also pepper, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a leek ; cover with 
warm water, boil gently till cooked, then strain ; pour on 
two or three croutons and serve. 

Potage ivith Tomatoes. — Soak in water, wipe dry with 
a towel, and throw in boiling water about a quart of to- 
matoes, add a little salt, and leave thus till cooked ; it 
takes about fifteen minutes ; then take from the fire, drain 
and mash the tomatoes, and strain them into a stew- 
pan, in which you have previously melted four ounces of 



SOUPS. 31 

butter ; do it as soon as the butter is well melted ; add 
also, immediately, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a bay 
leaf, and a little pepper, cover with warm broth ; boil five 
minutes, take the bay leaf out, pour on croutons, and serve. 

Potage luith Vermicelli. — Put a quart of broth in a 
crockery kettle, set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils 
put in it, little by little, and breaking it at the same time, 
two handfuls of vermicelli ; keep stirring with a wooden 
spoon, add salt and white pepper ; boil gently about half 
an hour, take from the fire and mix in it two well beaten 
yolks of eggs, turn in the soup dish, and serve. 

The same with Milk. — Put about three pints of milk in 
a crockery kettle, set it on the fire, and as soon as it be- 
gins to rise, put in it, little by little, and breaking it at 
the same time, two handfuls of vermicelli, stirring the while ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, simmer gently about 
forty minutes ; take from the fire, mix in it two yolks of 
eggs, well beaten, turn in the soup dish and serve. 

Prepare and serve any other similar paste in the same 
way. 

Potage Puree vjith Dry Beans, Lentils, or Peas. — 
Soak in lukewarm water a quart of dry beans, lentils, or 
peas, drain and put them in a crockery kettle, with two 
leeks, half a head of celery, two middling sized onions, 
one carrot, two cloves, salt, and pepper, half a pound of 
bacon, or four ounces of butter ; cover entirely with cold 
broth, set on the fire and boil gently till the whole is well 
cooked ; then take from the fire, throw away the cloves, 
put the bacon aside, mash the beans and seasonings, strain 
them, and put back in the kettle with the broth in which 
they have been cooked; in case there should not be 
enough to cover the whole, add a little to it, set again on 
the fire, stir, give one boil, pour on croutons and serve, 

Potage Puree with Green Beans, Lentils, Peas, or any 



38 SOUPS. 

other green vegetables. — Put two quarts of broth in a stew- 
pan, set it on the fire, and at the first boiling, throw in it 
a quart of green beans, peas, &c. ; add the same season- 
ings as in the preceding one, and cook and serve also in 
the same way. 

For a potage pur^e with carrots, parsnips, potatoes, 
turnips, &c., proceed as directed in the preceding receipt, 
except that you cut in small pieces carrots, parsnips, &c. 

JULIENNE. 

Chop fine a dozen leaves of sorrel, four or five sprigs 
of chervil, half a head of cabbage lettuce ; peel and cut in 
small fillets, as square as possible, not over an inch long, 
and an eighth of an inch thick, two leeks, two parsnips, 
one carrot, one turnip, a head of soup celery, and two 
middling sized onions, and, if handy, a gill of green peas 
or beans, salt and pepper. Put the whole in a stewpan, 
in which you have previously put two ounces of butter, set 
on the fire, stir now and then till half cooked, then cover 
with broth, simmer till well cooked, and serve. 

Some puree may be mixed with it just before serving. 
Another way. — When the Julienne is ready to be 
served drain it, mash all the vegetables well, then mix 
them with the broth in which they have been cooked, and 
strain the whole in a stewpan ; set on the fire again, pour 
on croutons at the first boiling, and serve. 

Another, with Rice. — When the Julienne is ready to be 
served, drain it, to separate the broth from the vegetables ; 
put the broth back in the stewpan ; soak in lukewarm wa- 
ter two or three tablespoonfuls of rice, put it in the pan 
and add about a pint of broth, boil gently till cooked ; 
stir now and then ; then put also back in the pan all the 
cooked vegetables, give one boil only, and serve. 

Another, with Eggs. — When the Julienne is ready to 



SOUPS. 39 

be served, poach in it as many eggs as there are persons 
at table, and serve. One egg is thus served to each per- 
son, with the soup. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

Put in a kettle with two quarts and a half of water a 
pound of salted pork, same of breast of mutton ; also, if 
handy, the remains of a roasted piece ; set on a slow fire, 
skim before it boils, and then boil for about an hour and 
a half; strain, to remove the small bones, if any; put 
back in the kettle broth and meat, also one middling sized 
cabbage, which you must have previously thrown in boil- 
ing water, and boiled ten minutes ; add then, two car- 
rots, one turnip, two leeks, half a head of celery, one 
onion, with a clove stuck in it, a little salt and pepper, 
and about half a pound of sausage (not smoked) ; then 
boil gently about two hours, strain the broth, pour it on 
croutons in the soup dish, and serve. 

The pork, mutton, and sausage, with the cabbage 
around, may be served on a dish after the soup at a 
family dinner, or kept for breakfast the next day. 

CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 
Clean and cut in small pieces three middling sized 
cauliflowers. Put in a stewpan two ounces of butter, and 
set it on a moderate fire ; when hot put the cauliflowers in ; 
stir now and then till it turns brown, then add a sprig of 
thyme, same of parsley, a bay leaf, one onion with a clove 
stuck in it, salt and white pepper ; simmer gently till the 
whole is well cooked, throw away the onion, clove, thyme, 
and bay leaf; mash well the cauliflowers, strain and put 
back on the fire with the broth ; give one boil, pour on 
croutons, and serve. 

SOUP WITH CHEESE. 
Put four ounces of butter in a soup kettle, with an 



40 SOUPS. 

onion chopped fine ; set on a brisk fire, stir now and then 
till it has a yellow color, then sprinkle on it half a table- 
spoonful of flour, keep stirring till it turns brown ; then 
add two quarts of water, salt, and pepper ; boil about five 
minutes. Have prepared in the soup dish the following : 
a thin layer of grated cheese (Gruyere or Parmesan), 
on it a layer of thin slices of bread, then another of 
cheese, and again another of bread, &c., three or four of 
each ; strain and pour your broth on the whole ; keep in a 
warm place five minutes, and serve. 

MILK SOUP. 

Put the quantity of milk you want in a tin kettle, and 
set it on a good fire (a quart for three persons), when on 
the point of boiling, sugar it according to taste, and at the 
first boiling pour it on roasted bread, and serve. 

Another. — Put in a tin kettle the milk you want, with 
four beaten eggs to every quart of milk ; set the kettle on 
a slow fire, simmer gently, and keep it stirred with a 
wooden spoon till it adheres to the spoon ; then pour it on 
fried croutons in the soup dish ; set it in a warm place for 
ten minutes, and serve. 

MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

Throw a piece of calf's head (upper part) in boiling 
water for five minutes, drain it ; place it in a crockery 
pot with cold water, salt, and white pepper, and set it on 
the fire ; take it off" when half cooked, cut it in dice, then 
put it back on the fire in a stewpan, with two sprigs of 
thyme, a bay leaf, a pinch of grated nutmeg, three onions 
with a clove stuck in each, butter, and a quarter of a pound 
of lean ham (not smoked), and cut in dice ; when the 
whole has taken a yellow color, take from the fire, 
then make a sauce by putting butter in a pan on the 



SOUPS. 41 

fire ; when the butter is melted, add a little flour, gradu- 
ally, stirring all the time till brown ; then put the whole 
in a crockery pot, cover with cold water, add two sprigs 
of parsley, boil about two hours and a half, when your 
broth must be rather thick ; strain it ; add, if you like it, 
a little of lemon juice, half a wine glass of Madeira wine, 
also Cayenne pepper, salt, and two yolks of eggs boiled 
hard ; serve warm in bowls. 

The whole is served except thyme, bay leaf, parsley 
and onions. 

ONION SOUP. 

Peel, cut in slices and again crosswise, so as to 
make square pieces, a dozen small onions ; throw them 
in boiling water for five minutes, drain, put them in a 
stewpan with butter, salt and pepper, cover with broth ; 
let simmer till well cooked, pour on croutons, and serve. 

The same tuith Milk. — Proceed as in the preceding one 
in every particular, except that you cover with milk in- 
stead of broth, and add sugar to your taste. 

The same luith Rice. — Prepare the onions and cook 
them in broth, as above ; then soak rice in lukcAvarm water, 
put it with the onions, boil gently two hours, and serve as 
above, with or without croutons. 

The same loith Vermicelli. — Proceed as with rice in 
every particular, except that you boil only twenty-five 
minutes after having put the vermicelli in the pan. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Cut one or two ox tails in small pieces, or at every 
other joint ; put in a crockery stewpan two ounces of but- 
ter for each tail. When the butter is melted, put the tail or 
tails in, and let the pieces take a yellow color, when, cover 
with about three pints of water for each tail, season with 
four sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, a small 



42 SOUPS. 

carrot, a turnip, four small onions, a leek, two stalks of 
celery, a clove of garlic, two cloves, salt and pepper ; set 
on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then augment the fire, 
and when on the point of boiling, skim carefully ; boil 
gently till well cooked, which you will know by seeing 
that the meat comes off the bones ; then strain the broth, 
pour it on croutons and serve. 

The meat is good, and may be served with the carrot, 
turnip and leek, and a little green parsley or horse radish, 
or both, after the soup. It may also be kept for breakfast 
the next day. 

HERB BROTH. 

Wash, drain and chop fine a handful of sorrel, a dozen 
sprigs of chervil and half a head of lettuce ; put an ounce 
of butter in a stewpan, set it on a good fire ; when melted, 
put the sorrel, chervil and lettuce in, add salt and pepper 
and cook well, then cover with lukewarm water ; boil 
three minutes, beat well three yolks of eggs, take froni 
the fire and put the eggs in while stirring ; pour immedi- 
ately on croutons, and serve. 

CHICKEN BROTH FOR THE SICK OR INVALID. 

Put a rather lean chicken in a crockery pan with three 
pints of cold water, set it on a moderate fire, add half a 
head of lettuce, a leek, a stalk of celery, four sorrel leaves, 
four sprigs of chervil, and salt ; skim before boiling ; let 
boil gently about an hour, and strain; serve on toasted 
slices of bread, or according to the physician's prescrip- 
tion. 

The chicken may be served cold the next day with an 
oil sauce. 

VEAL BROTH, ALSO FOR THE SICK OR INVALID. 
Put one pound of fillet or knuckle of veal in a crock- 



SOUPS. 43 

ery pan with three pints of cold water, set on a moderate 
fire, add half a head of lettuce, a leek, a stalk of celery, 
four sorrel leaves, four sprigs of chervil and some salt ; 
skim hefore boiling ; let boil gently about an hour, strain 
and serve either as it is or with slices of toasted bread. 

PAX ADO. 
Put in a stewpan about one pound of good wheat bread, 
the soft part only, cover with cold water, add one ounce of 
butter, salt and pepper ; let simmer about an hour, stir 
now and then, and strain. Beat three yolks of eggs with 
cream in a bowl and put it in a warm place, but not on 
the fire, as it must not boil ; let it remain thus five or six 
minutes, when, pour the eggs over the bread in the stew- 
pau, stirring and mixing the whole well with a wooden 
spoon ; take from the fire and serve. 

LAIT DE POULE. {To soothe cold or sore throat.) 
Beat one or two yolks of eggs with about a teaspoon- 
ful of fine white sugar, then pour on slowly, and stirring 
at the same time, half a glass of warm water for one yolk 
of egg, add a few drops of rose or orange water, according 
to taste, and drink warm. 

This is very good to take just before going to bed, for 
a person having a sore throat or a cold ; it cannot do any 
harm to a person in good health, and it is sufiicient for 
the supper of a person of difficult digestion. 

TURTLE BROTH. 
Cut the turtle in dice, throw it in boiling water for two 
or three minutes, and drain ; put it in a stewpan with 
onions and ham, also cut in dice ; season with thyme, pars- 
ley, bay leaf, salt, pepper, and a wine glass of Madeira 
wine or of good brandy ; wet with Espagnole sauce or 



44 SOUPS. 

with consomm6, set on a good fire, boil about half an hour. 
Ten minutes before taking from the fire, chop the eggs of 
the turtle, after having boiled them, and put them in a 
stewpan ; if the turtle has none, chop and use hard boiled 
eggs instead. When done, throw away parsley, thyme, 
and bay leaf, turn in bowls, add a little chopped chervil, 
and a quarter of a rind of lemon, also chopped ; the latter 
is enough for six persons. Serve warm. 

It may be strained before putting it in bowls, accord- 
ing to taste. 

Turtle steaks are prepared like beefsteaks. 



SAUCES. 

HOW TO MAKE A SAUCE THICKER WHEN IT IS TOO 
THIN. 

Take two fresh eggs, break them gently, and separate 
the white part from the yolk ; be careful to have the yolk 
free from any white (there is in every yolk a little white 
spot which you cannot detach without using a fork, knife, 
or spoon) ; mix well the two yolks with two or three ta- 
blespoonfuls of the sauce that is too thin, and a piece of 
butter the size of a pigeon's egg ; then take the sauce 
from the fire, pour the mixture in it, little by little, stir- 
ring all the time ; when the whole is in, put back on the 
fire for three or four minutes, but do not allow it to boil ; 
take away and use. 

ALLEMANDE. 

Chop fine and fry in butter four or five mushrooms ; 
then add four or five tablespoonfuls of broth, reduce it to 
a sauce ; put a piece of butter the size of an egg in it, 
also a sprig of white parsley chopped fine, one of thyme, 
a clove, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a little nutmeg 
grated fine, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and three 
well beaten yolks of eggs ; boil two or three minutes and 
use. If found too thick, add a little broth. 

ANCHOVY. 
Take out the bones from a dozen of anchovies, saving 



46 SAUCES. 

the juice ; put the juice and flesh in a stewpan, with half 
a pint of water, set on the fire and simmer till melted ; 
take off, pass through a hair sieve, and use. 

This sauce may be preserved, in a bottle well corked 
and in a cool place, for five or six weeks in winter and 
two or three in summer. 

ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Take out the bones from six anchovies, wash the flesh 
well, put in a mortar, pound as fine as possible, then 
strain through a hair sieve ; after which work well with the 
same quantity of butter, in order to make a paste very 
much resembling ordinary butter. 

BREAD. 

To make this sauce take the soft part of a two-pound 
wheat loaf, crumble it into a stewpan, cover with milk, set 
on a moderate fire and let it simmer about an hour ; then 
strain into a stewpan, add salt, pepper, and a dozen of 
pepper corns ; boil two or three minutes, take from the 
fire, add also butter of the size of an egg, stir a little, and 
use after it is strained. 

BlilCHAMEL— No. 1. 

Take a piece of bacon of about four ounces (not smoked), 
with the same quantity of veal fat, a small carrot, one 
turnip, and two onions ; cut the whole in dice, put it in a 
stewpan, set on the fire, and when nearly done, cover with 
broth ; add a piece of nutmeg, two cloves, a sprig of 
thyme, and one of parsley, salt, white pepper, and a bay 
leaf; boil about an hour and take from the fire ; throw a 
few drops of cold water in and the fat will separate from 
the rest, skim it off, and strain the rest through a sieve. 
Put in another pan a piece of butter the size of a duck's 



SAUCES. 47 

eggj set it on tlie fire and let it melt ; tlien mix with it 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, little by little, stirring con- 
tinually; when turning brown, pour it in the broth 
you have strained, boil the whole about five minutes, 
and use. 

Double or triple the quantities according to your 
wants. 

This sauce will keep a few days. 

BECHAMEL— No. 2. 

Set a stewpan on the fire, with four ounces of good 
fresh butter, a little salt, and white pepper ; when melted, 
pour in it gently half a pint of good warm milk ; then 
sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, little by little, stir- 
ring the while ; do not let it boil, but keep it on a mod- 
erate fire till well mixed, and it is ready for use. 

BROWN BUTTER. 

Put about six ounces of butter in a pan, set it on the 
fire and leave it till it begins to blacken ; throw in it 
three or four sprigs of parsley, and fry two or three 
minutes. Have at the same time in another pan, on the 
fire, half a glass of vinegar, which must be w^arm but not 
boiled ; use both butter and vinegar at the same time, i. e., 
as soon as you have poured your butter and parsley on 
your fish, or anything else, pour your vinegar, and serve. 

. BUTTER MAlTRE D'HOTEL. 

Chop fine five or six sprigs of parsley, and two of tarra- 
gon ; knead them well with about half a pound of fresh 
butter ; then mix well with a little salt, pepper, and a few 
drops of lemon juice, and use. It will keep a few days, if 
kept in a cool place or on ice. 



48 SAUCES. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Set a stewpan on the fire with a quarter of a pound of 
good fresh butter in it, also salt and white pepper ; when 
the butter is melted, add a glass of warm broth (or warm 
water if more handy), a tablespoonful of flour, little by 
little, and stirring the whole ; do not let it boil, but keep 
on a moderate fire till well mixed. Have prepared and 
mixed together two teaspoonfuls of pounded capers, the 
yolk of an egg, and a teaspoonful of vinegar, which you 
mix with the sauce as ' oon as taken from the fire, and it 
is ready for use. 

COULIS OF FISH. 

Boil hard four eggs, and put the yolks in a mortar. 
Take a pike weighing about two pounds, clean, prepare, 
and broil it as directed ; split it open, take all the bones 
and skin oflf, put the flesh in the mortar with the yolks, 
and pound the whole and knead it with a little butter. 
Place a piece of butter, of the size of a walnut, in a stew- 
pan, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, fry in it till 
of a golden color, two carrots and two onions cut in slices ; 
after that add also a piece of bay leaf, two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one of thyme, a little of isinglass, the eggs and fish, 
and cover with water ; simmer gently about one hour and 
a half, and strain. 

If found too thin after it is strained, set it back on the 
fire, add a little more isinglass, and simmer fifteen minutes 
longer. 

COULIS OF YtAL. 

Place in a stewpan about one pound of veal, fillet or 
knuckle, with four ounces of bacon, not smoked, and cut 
fine ; also a carrot cut fine, a little pepper, and grated 
nutmeg ; set on a slow fire, cover well ; half an hour after 
augment the fire, and as soon as you see the meat sticking 



SAUCES. 49 

to the pan, subdue it, leave it so ten minutes, then take from 
the fire, put the bacon, veal and carrot on a dish ; put but- 
ter about the size of an egg in your stewpan ; Avhen melted, 
sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, stir with awooden'spoon, 
then put the meat back in, cover with warm broth, and put 
on a slow fire for about two hours ; take away, throw in it a 
few drops of cold water, skim the fat off, strain, and use. 

COULIS OF LOBSTER OR SHRIMPS. 

Put the lobster in a kettle (a lobster must be alive or 
else it is not good) ; cover well w«n,h cold or warm w^ater, 
set on a good fire, take off when cooked, break the joints 
a little to let the water out ; then take the flesh, mash it 
well, drain ; mix well with two tablespoonfuls of broth, 
and one of Espagnole sauce ; put an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, set it on the fire, and when melted, mix thr- 
whole together ; add a little grated nutmeg and pepper, 
leave on the fire about five minutes longecf and use. 
Follow the same process for coulis of shrimps. 

CREAM. 

Set a stewpan on the fire with a piece of butter the size 
of a duck's egg in it, also one teaspoonful of shallots, and 
one of parsley, both chopped fine, two peppercorns, salt, 
a little grated nutmeg, and about half a glass of cream, 
or a glass of very good milk ; leave about fifteen minutes, 
stirring the while, and then use. 

(Currant. 

Soak in water, drain and let dry a pint of currants, 
just as they begin to ripen, throw them in boiling water 
with a little salt, and cook them — drain ; and when cold, 
put them in an earthen pot, cover with broth, set on a gen- 
tle fire, mix with it a little fecula and essence of spinage ; 
3 



60 SAUCES. 

as soon as warm take from the fire, and use where di- 
rected. 

ESPAGNOLE. 

Spread about half a pound of butter in the bottom of 
a stewpan, lay in it lean ham and veal, partridge, wild 
rabbit, pheasant or fowl of any kind, about four ounces of 
each, a small carrot cut in dice, one onion with a clove stuck 
in it, half a turnip, and a sprig of thyme ; cover the pan 
and set it on the fire ; let it simmer till reduced to a jelly, 
then mix in it two tablespoonfuls of flour, a wine glass of 
white wine, cover with broth, add salt, pepper, a clove of 
garlic, a sprig of parsley, one clove, a bay leaf, and two 
mushrooms cut in pieces ; simmer from three to four hours, 
skim ofi" the scum as soon as it comes on the surface ; when 
done, take it from the fire, throw a few drops of cold 
water in, and skim ofi" the fat, then strain and use. 

It will keep for some time if kept air-tight in a pot or 
bottle, and in a cool dry place. 

ESSENCE OF SPINAGE OR GREEN ESSENCE. 

Soak in water, drain, dry and pound well two or three 
handfuls of spinage, put them in a coarse towel and press 
the juice out, put it in a pan on a moderate fire, and when 
nearly boiling, take it off", strain, and add to it a little fine 
crushed sugar, stir a little, and bottle when cold ; it may 
be kept for months ; use it where directed. 

CUCUMBER. 

Chop fine a handful of parsley and cives, put them in 
a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg ; when 
half fried, add half a teaspoonful of flour, little by little, 
keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and when it begins to 
become thick, add also four or five pickled cucumbers chop- 
ped fine, salt, and pepper, cover with broth, let simmer till 
done, and use. 



SAUCES. 61 

FISH. 

Boil hard two eggs, take the yolks and pound them 
well, and place them in a bowl. Have boiling water on the 
fire, and put in it cives, burnet, chervil, tarragon and pars- 
ley, four or five sprigs of each ; boil five minutes, take off, 
drain and pound them well, then strain them on the eggs, 
add two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two of French 
mustard, salt, pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, 
which you pour in, little by httle, at the same time mixing 
the whole well with a boxwood spoon, and it is ready for 

use. 

HAZELNUT BUTTER. 

Chop very fine two teaspoonfuls of cives, parsley, and 
tarragon, work them well with the same quantity of butter ; 
then shell half a dozen of good hazelnuts, pound them, and 
work again the whole into a paste, and use. 

INDIAN. 

Have a stewpan on a moderate fire, with two ounces of 
butter in it ; when melted, add a teaspoonful of pimento, 
salt, a pinch of saffron, and one of grated nutmeg, also 
one and a half tablespoonful of flour — the latter you sprinkle- 
in, little by little, stirring the while ; cover with broth, 
boil twelve minutes and strain ; afterward add two ounces 
of butter, stir a little, and use. 

ITALIAN. 

Tie together two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, and 
a bay leaf ; put them in a stewpan with two or three mush- 
rooms cut fine, one shallot, a small onion and a clove stuck 
in it, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and half a 
pint of white wine ; set on a gentle fire, and reduce it half 
then add about one tablespoonful of olive oil, and half a 
pint of broth, simmer forty minutes, strain, and use. 



52 SAUCES. 

JUICE. 

Butter the bottom of a stewpan with about a quarter 
of a pound of butter ; put on it a layer of thin slices of 
onions, then four ounces of beef suet cut fine, as much of 
bacon not smoked, the same quantity of ham also cut in 
thin slices, one carrot cut fine, a clove of garlic, a sprig 
of parsley, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, a clove, two or three 
mushrooms cut fine, wet with a glass of water, cover and 
set it on a sharp fire ; as soon as it begins to stick to the 
bottom of the pan, subdue the fire, leave it till turning 
brown, then add about a glass of warm water, skim it ofi", 
take from the fire, throw a few drops of cold water in and 
skim off the fat ; put back on the fire, and add warm water 
enough to make a sauce ; simmer till done and of a proper 
thickness, strain, and use. 

Another way is to put half a pound of butter instead 
of beef suet and bacon (if more handy.) 

MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Chop fine a teaspoonful of parsley, and half that 
quantity of cives or green onions, a little grated nutmeg, 
salt, and pepper, knead well the whole with four ounces of 
fresh butter, mix with it a teaspoonful of cider vinegar, 
and the juice of half a lemon, and use. 

If you like it warm, when you have kneaded it with 
butter, add a quarter of a pint of water, and set on a slow 
fire for about ten minutes, sprinkle in it half a teaspoonful 
of flour, stirring the while ; take from the fire, mix in it 
the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

MARINADE, OR SAUCE THAT CAN BE USED INSTEAD OF 
CATSUP. 
Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg^ 
set it on the fire, and when melted, fry in it till of a brown- 



SAUCES. 53 

ish color, one tablespoonfiil of onions cut in slices, and 
the same quantity of carrots also cut in slices ; then add 
two sprigs of parsley, and one of sweet basil, one of thyme, 
a bay leaf, three peppercorns, salt, half a pint of water, 
and a gill of cider vinegar ; simmer till well cooked, strain 
and bottle when cool, cork well, put in a cool dry place, 
and use when wanted. It may be kept for months. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Put one or two yolks of eggs in a bowl, half a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper, mix the whole well 
with a boxwood spoon, pour a tablespoonful of olive oil in 
it, drop by drop, stirring the while, and when the sauce is 
thick, add a tablespoonful of vinegar; it takes fifteen 
minutes to make a Mayonnaise sauce, but when carefully 
made it is one of the best sauces ever used ; a brisk stirring 
must be kept up, from beginning to end. In warm wea- 
ther, it is necessary to put the bowl on ice while making it. 

OIL. 
Chop fine a shallot, half a teaspoonful of chervil and 
cives, or green onion, and half a clove of garlic (this latter 
if it suits you) ; put the w^hole in a saucer, with salt, pepper, 
and mustard ; mix the whole with two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, then pour four or five tablespoonfuls of olive oil in 
it, little by little, stirring the while, and it is ready for use. 

OYSTER. 

Open two dozen of oysters and save the water, then 
throw oysters and water in boiling water ; boil about three 
minutes, take ofi' and drain ; then mix the oysters with a 
white sauce and the juice of a lemon, and use. 

PIQUANTE. 
Take a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic. 



54 SAUCES. 

one shallot, a peppercorn, about one glass of vinegar, salt, 
and pepper, and place them in a pan, set it on the fire, 
and reduce about two thirds ; then add a glass of broth, 
stir and strain, mis then with a little of Roux, and use. 
You may also add two pickled cucumbers cut in slices. 

POIYRADE. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, 
and set it on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it, little by 
little, about a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the while ; 
when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish color, take 
from the fire, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, a wine glass 
of claret wine, a glass of broth, a shallot cut in two, a 
middling sized onion also cut in two, with a clove stuck in 
each piece, a sprig of thyme, one of parsley, a bay leaf, a 
clove of garlic, a little salt, and two peppercorns ; boil 
about twenty minutes, strain and use. 

POULETTE. 

Set a stewpan on the fire wdth a piece of butter the 
size of an egg in it ; when melted, sprinkle in it a table- 
spoonful of flour, stirring the while ; pour gently in it also, 
and little by little, a glass of warm w^ater, and a wine 
glass of white wine, salt, pepper, a sprig of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay leaf, a chopped shallot, a little nutmeg, 
four small white onions, and two or three mushrooms 
(the latter cut fine and fried in butter before using them) ; 
simmer till the whole is well cooked, strain and use. 

In case it should be found too light, add when done 
and before taking from the fire, two or three yolks of eggs, 
and the juice of a lemon. 

PROVENgALE. 
Chop fine two or three mushrooms, and two shallots ; 



SAUCES. 55 

put the whole in a stewpan with a clove of garlic, and 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; set on a moderate fire, and 
leave till half fried ; then sprinkle in it half a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, stirring the while; add also half a pint of 
white wine, and as much broth, and two small onions, two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, half a bay leaf, salt, and 
pepper ; simmer about half an hour, take from the fire, 
and a few minutes after skim off the fat ; take out garlic, 
onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and it is then ready for 
immediate use. 

RAYIGOTE. 

Chop fine, and in equal proportion, two tablespoonfuls 
of chervil, tarragon, and peppergrass, also, in equal pro- 
portion, one teaspoonful of burnet and table celery ; place 
the whole in a stewpan with salt and pepper, cover with 
broth, set on the fire, and boil twenty minutes ; after 
which take from the fire, and strain. Mix two ounces of 
butter with flour enough to make a paste, put it with the 
sauce on the fire, add a tablespoonful of cider vinegar; 
simmer till of a proper thickness, and use. 

ROBERT. 

Put about four ounces of butter in a stewpan, set it on 
a moderate fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it about a table- 
spoonful of flour, stirring the while ; when of a brownish 
color, add three small onions chopped fine, salt and pepper ; 
stir, and leave on the fire till the whole is turning brown, 
then add a glass of broth, boil about thirty minutes, and 
strain ; mix well in a cup one teaspoonful of vinegar, and 
one of mustard, which mix again with the sauce, and it is 

ready to be used. 

ROUX. 

Set a stewpan on a moderate fire with a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg in it ; when melted, sprinkle in it 



56 SAUCES. 

little by little, about a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the 
while; when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish 
color, take from the fire, and use where directed. 

SUPREME. 

Make an Allemande sauce, and when done add two 
ounces of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of broth ; set it 
on a brisk fire to start it boiling at once ; take it from the 
fire as soon as it becomes thick, add then a few drops of 
lemon juice, and use. 

TARTAR OR COLD. 

Chop fine three shallots, also about half that quantity 
of chervil and tarragon, which put in a crockery tureen, 
with half a teaspoonful of mustard, salt, and pepper, also 
two or three teaspoonfuls of cider vinegar ; pour in, little 
by little, about two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, stirring the 
while, and it is done. In case it should become too thick, 
while stirring, add a little vinegar. 

TOMATO. 

Take twelve middling sized tomatoes, cut each in two 
or four pieces, and take out the seeds. Put them in a stew- 
pan with two ounces of butter, a clove of garlic, half a bay 
leaf, salt, two peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, one of pars- 
ley, and an onion ; cover with two glasses of broth, set on 
the fire, keep stirring till cooked, and strain ; then put 
again two ounces of butter in your stewpan ; when melted, 
sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the while, 
then pour in, little by little, your tomato juice, and as soon 
as well mixed, take from the fire, and it is ready for use. 

TRUFFLE. 
Chop fine one large or two middling sized truffles, two 



SAUCES. 67 

or three mushrooms, and a sprig of parsley ; put them in 
a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; set 
on the fire for about ten minutes, then add salt, pepper, 
half a pint of white wine, and as much of broth ; keep on 
a moderate fire till the whole is well cooked, then take 
from it, sprinkle in it a few drops of cold water, skim off 
the fat, and use. 

WHITE. 

Put in a stewpan about a quarter of a pound of good 
fresh butter, set it on the fire, with a little white pepper, 
and salt ; when melted, add a glass of warm broth, or 
warm water if more handy ; then sprinkle in it a table- 
spoonful of flour, little by little, stirring the while ; do 
not let it boil, but keep on a moderate fire till well mixed. 
Have prepared and mixed together the juice of half a 
lemon, the yolk of an egg, and a teaspoonful of vinegar, 
which you mix with the sauce as soon as you take it from 
the fire, and it is ready for use. 



FAECES AND GAEKITUHES. 

BREAD FARCE. 

Put in a tureen about a pound of the soft part of bread, 
and cover \Yith broth ; when it has absorbed the broth, place 
it in a stewpan, set it on a slow fire, and leave till it be- 
comes a thick paste ; stir now and then, then mix well 
with it three yolks of eggs, and it is ready for use. 

CABBAGE GARNITURE. 

Throw in boiling water, a little salt, and a middling 
sized cabbage ; boil it half an hour, take it from the kettle 
with a skimmer, and throw it in cold water, and drain it, 
pressing it a little in the drainer to force the water out ; 
cut oflf the stump, and chop the cabbage fine. Have in a 
Btewpan on the fire, three or four ounces of fresh butter ; 
put the cabbage in when the butter is half melted, sprink- 
ling on while stirring a teaspoonful of flour ; pour on it, 
little by little, some broth, stirring the while, and when 
it has a fine brownish color, wet with broth enough to 
boil it ; season with salt, a little grated nutmeg, and four 
peppercorns ; boil gently till the sauce is thick enough, 
take away the peppercorns, and use. 

CROUTONS GARNITURE. 

Cut a piece of bread, the soft part only, about two 
eighths of an inch thick, and of different forms, such as 
Btars, half moons, squares, rounds, butterflies, flowers, etc. 



FAECES AND GAENITURES. 59 

Have in a frying pan on the fire good fresh butter ; when 
melted and very warm, put your pieces of bread in it, and 
■when of a yellow or light brown color, turn them over in 
order to have the two sides alike ; take gently from the 
pan, either with a fork or skimmer, put them on a clean 
towel for two or three minutes to take some of the grease 
off, and it is ready for use. 

MATELOTE GAENITURE. 

Peel a dozen of small onions. Have on the fire in a 
Btewpan, four ounces of butter ; when melted, put the 
onions in with eight or ten mushrooms ; season with salt, 
white pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; sprinkle on it 
while stirring a tablespoonful of flour ; as soon as the 
onions and mushrooms begin to take color, cover with broth 
and white wine, half of each ; simmer till cooked ; then 
take it from the fire, mix well Avith the whole the juice of 
half a lemon, a teaspoonful of cider vinegar, three yolks 
of eggs, and use. 

MUSHROOM FARCE. 

Chop fine half a pint of fresh mushrooms, and two 
tablespoonfuls of parsley. Have in a stewpan on the fire 
two ounces of grated bacon (not smoked), and as much of 
butter ; when the butter is melted, put the mushrooms and 
parsley in, season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; let boil gently till 
reduced to a jelly. 

It may be preserved a few days in a refrigerator. 

MUSHROOM AKD EGG FARCE. 

Proceed as for mushroom farce in every particular, till 
reduced to a jelly ; mix well in it three or four yolks of 
eggs, and use. 

It may also be preserved a few days in a refrigerator. 



60 PAECES AND GAENITUKES. 

PAPILLOTTE FAKCE. 

Place in a stewpan four ounces of butter, .half a pound 
of chopped bacon, two tablespoonfuls of chopped mush- 
rooms, two teaspoonfuls of chopped shallots, and four table- 
spoonfuls of sweet oil ; set on a brisk fire for fiv^e or six 
minutes, then add salt, pepper, a little of allspice, and 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; put back on the fire 
for three minutes, and it is ready for use. 

This farce may be kept a few days on ice. 

QUENELLES. 

Chop fine half a pound of veal. Put in a stewpan 
about twelve ounces of beef suet ; set on the fire, and when 
melted, drain it. Work well together chopped veal and 
beef suet, with parsley and thyme chopped fine, salt, pep- 
per, three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and flour enough 
to make a kind of paste, which you divide and make que- 
nelles with, giving them the shape of small flat sausages. 
Have boiling broth in a pan, throw the quenelles in, and 
leave till well cooked. 

SALPICON GARNITUEE. 

Cut in dice, an equal quantity of each, and to 
weigh altogether about one pound and a half, calf sweet- 
bread, livers, or flesh of fowls, and ham — three kinds in 
all; also two mushrooms, and two truffles; all must be 
nearly cooked in water beforehand. Put them in a stew- 
pan, season with salt, pepper, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, 
an onion, a sprig of parsley, and one of thyme ; cover 
with half a pint of broth, and as much ofwhite wine ; set 
on a slow fire ; it must not boil, but simmer gently ; stir 
now and then till the whole is well cooked ; take out bay 
leaf, onion, garlic, parsley and thyme ; in case the sauce 
should not be thick enough, add a little fecula, stir, and 
leave a while longer on the fire, and it is ready for use. 



FARCES AND GAENITUKES. 61 

TRUFFLE GARNITURE. 

Dry a handful of trufHes, cut them in slices or in dice. 
Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
when melted, place your truffles in, fry fifteen minutes, 
then wet with a quarter of a pint of broth, and as much 
of white wine ; simmer till cooked, stirring now and then, 
and use. 

Another way is, when the truffles are cut, put them in a 
stewpan, cover with half a pint of broth, and as much of 
claret wine ; add a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; 
set on a slow fire, to simmer till cooked, stirring now and 
then, and it is ready for use. 

In case the garniture should not be thick enough, add 
a little fecula ten minutes before taking from the fire. 

VEGETABLE GARNITURE. 

Throw in boiling water with a little salt, six small 
onions, two cabbage-lettuces, two or three mushrooms, a 
handful of sorrel, half a handful of chervil, and a small 
turnip cut fine ; after three minutes' boiling, drain and 
chop the whole fine. Have in a stewpan on the fire, four 
ounces of butter ; when melted, put your vegetables in ; 
when these are half fried, sprinkle on them a teaspoonful 
of flour, stirring the while ; then cover with broth, season 
with a little salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of sugar ; 
let simmer till well cooked, and it is ready for use. 

Put a little fecula in it fifteen minutes before taking 
from the fire, if the garniture is not thick enough. 



PUEEES. 

OF BEANS. 

Shell a quart of large horse beans, when full grown, 
but not yet dry, throw them in boiling water with a little 
salt for fifteen minutes; drain, and throw them in cold 
water, leave ten minutes, and drain again. Have in a 
stewpan on the fire a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
mix with it a teaspoonful of flour, pepper, and salt, then 
put the beans in, and cover with broth ; add two stalks of 
cives, two sprigs of parsley ; leave on the fire till the whole 
is well cooked, mash and strain, then mix again with it 
two ounces of butter, and use. 

OF KIDNEY BEANS. 

Soak a quart of kidney beans in lukewarm water for 
ten minutes, and move them well in it, take out and drain 
them ; put them in a kettle with a pound of salted bacon 
(not smoked), cover with cold w^ater, season with a bay 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, two middling sized 
onions, with two cloves stuck in them, and a carrot cut in 
pieces ; when the whole is ell cooked, throw away thyme, 
bay leaf, onions and cloves ; mash well, and strain the 
rest except the bacon ; put back in the stewpan, add to it 
half a pint of broth, salt and pepper, and leave on a mod- 
erate fire till well done, and use with or without the bacon. 



PUREES. 63 

OF CARROTS. 
Clean well, and cut in slices, a dozen of middling sized 
carrots ; put them in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, 
and set on the fire ; when about half fried, cover with 
broth, season with half a bay leaf, a small sprig of thyme, 
one of parsley, a small onion, and a clove stuck in it ; 
when the whole is well cooked, throw away onion, clove, 
bay leaf, and thyme, mash and strain the rest, and put it 
back in the pan, with half a pint of broth ; set it on the fire 
again, simmer about three hours, and it is ready for 

use. 

OF CHESTNUTS. 

Put chestnuts in a kettle, enough to make a quart when 
shelled ; cover with cold water and set on the fire ; take 
them out when cooked, shell them, put them in a ket- 
tle, cover with broth, boil twenty minutes and drain ; then 
pound the chestnuts well, put them with the broth in a 
stewpan, add a glass of warm broth, boil gently three hours, 
take from the fire, mix in a tablespoonful of crushed sugar, 
and use. 

In case it should be found too fat, throw in a few drops 

of cold water when you take from the fire, and skim off 

the fat. 

OF CELERY. 

Clean, wash, and peel well, about a quart of soup celery, 
which cut in small pieces ; throw them in boiling water, 
with a little salt and pepper ; when well cooked, drain. 
Put in a stewpan on a moderate fire, four ounces of butter ; 
mix with it when melted, a tablespoonful of flour, then add 
the celery ; cover with broth, simmer two hours, take from 
the fire, mix in a teaspoonful of crushed sugar, and use. 

OF LEXTILS. 
Soak a quart of lentils in lukewarm water for ten min- 



64 PUREES. 

utes, and drain ; put them in a kettle, cov,or with broth, 
boil till cooked, mash and strain into a stev pan ; put back 
on the fire, add half a pint of broth, sait and pej^per, 
simmer four hours, stirring noAY and th(?n j in case it 
should become too thick, while on the fire wet with broth ; 
it is then ready for use. 

OF MUSHROOMS. 
Clean well and cut in pieces, a quart of fresh mush- 
rooms ; soak them in cold water, in which you have put the 
juice of a lemon ; drain, and chop them fine. Put a stew- 
pan on the fire, with a piece of butter the size of a duck's 
egg ; when melted, put your mushrooms in ; when half 
fried, add the juice of a lemon, finish frying, then cover 
with some roux sauce, let simmer till it becomes rather 
thick, strain and use. 

OF GREEN PEAS. 

Throw a quart of green peas and a little salt in boil- 
ing water, boil five minutes, and drain. Put two or three 
ounces of butter in a stewpan ; when melted, put the peas 
in, with salt, pepper, and a sprig of parsley ; cover with 
broth, and stir till cooked ; mash, strain, and use. 

OF CRACKED OR DRY PEAS. 
Proceed as for lentils in every particular. 

OF SORREL. 

"Wash and chop fine a peck of sorrel. Put two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, 
put the sorrel in, and leave till cooked, stirring now and 
then with a wooden spoon, and strain it, in doing which 
you must press on it in the strainer, otherwise it would not 
go through ; then put it back on the fire, wet moderately 



PUREES. 65 

with Espagnole sauce, simmer half an hour, salt, and use 
-it. 

OF POTATOES. 

Soak in water a quart of potatoes, and cook tbem in wa- 
ter with a little salt ; then peel and mash them well, place 
them in a tureen, and mix with milk ; at the same time, 
have two ounces of butter in a stewpan and on the fire^ 
and when melted, put the potatoes in ; keep stirring all 
the time, and after about twenty-five minutes, it will be 
thick enough ; take from the fire, and use. 

Another way is to mix them with broth instead of milk, 
and proceed as above in every other particular. 

OF TURNIPS. 

Wash, clean, and cut in slices a quart of turnips ; 
throw them in boiling water "for three minutes, and drain ; 
put them in a stewpan, cover with broth, season with half 
a bay leaf, a small sprig of thyme, and one of parsley, a 
small onion with a clove stuck in it ; put on the fire and 
boil gently till the whole is well cooked, then throw away 
bay leaf, thyme, onion and clove, mash and strain the rest, 
and put it back on the fire, adding then about half a pint 
of warm broth ; simmer about two hours, and use. 



BEEF. 

HOW TO SELECT. 

See if the meat is fine, of a clear red color, -with white 
yellowish fat. 

COW BEEF. 

Cow beef must also be of a clear red color, but more 
pale than other beef ; the fat is white. 

BULL BEEF. 

Bull beef is never good ; you recognize it when you 
see hard and yellow fat, the lean part is of a dirty reddish 
color. 

Beef must be put upon or before a very sharp fire, 
which you subdue after a while, i. e., after the surface of 
the piece looks nearly like well roasted meat. 

In roasting or broiling it, baste often with the gravy, 
and at first with a little lukewarm butter. 

Beef, if not tender, may be beaten for half a minute 

with a round stick before being put upon or before the 

fire. 

A LA MODE. 

Take from six to twelve pounds of rump or fillet of 
beef, and take the bones out ; lard the piece through with 
bacon (not smoked), half a pound of it for six pounds of 
beef. Put in a crockery stewpan half a calf's foot, half a 
handful of parsley and cives, a bay leaf, a clove of gar- 



BEEF. 67 

lie, a sprig of thyme, two onions, with one clove stuck in 
each, salt, pepper, half a carrot cut in pieces, a quarter of 
a pound of bacon (not smoked) cut in dice, two shallots 
chopped fine, wet with half a glass of white wine and a glass 
of water (the above quantities are for six pounds of beef) ; 
place the beef upon the whole, cover the pan as air-tight as 
possible ; set it on a moderate fire, or in a moderately heated 
oven, and simmer gently for about five hours ; then dish the 
meat, strain the sauce on it, and serve warm ; in case 
there should be too much fat, skim it off before straining. 

To eat it cold is very good ; in that case, after you have 
strained the sauce on the meat, let it cool till it looks like 
a jelly, and serve. 

i BRAISED. 

Take about six pounds of a rump piece of beef, the 
nearest to the knuckle, lard it with half a pound of bacon 
(not smoked), and tie the piece with twine. Put in a stew- 
pan two ounces of bacon cut in dice, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, two bay leaves, a clove of garlic, a sprig of 
sweet basil, two cloves, three carrots cut in pieces, salt, 
and pepper; put the piece of beef on the whole, wet 
with a glass of broth, and one of white wine (a liquor 
glass of French brandy may also be added) ; season with 
six or eight small onions ; place in a moderately heated 
oven, put paste around the cover to keep it air-tight ; sim- 
mer about six hours ; dish the meat with the onions and 
carrots around it, strain the gravy on the whole, and sjgrve. 

Almost any piece of beef may be cooked in the same 
way, and will be found good, Vvholesome, and economical. 

FILLET. 

Roiv to imiorove it. — Put the fillet in a tureen, with 
four tablespoonsfuls of sweet oil, salt, pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, four onions cut in slices, two 



68 BEEF. 

bay leaves, and the juice of half a lemon ; put half of all 
the above under the fillet, and half on it ; cover, and leave 
thus two days in winter, and about eighteen hours in 
summer. 

BROILED OR ROASTED. 

Take three pounds of fillet, cut off part of the fat and 
the thin skin on the top, lard it with about half a pound 
of bacon, improve it if you choose, envelop it with buttered 
paper, and place upon the spit before a sharp fire ; take 
the paper off five minutes before taking from the fire; 
baste often during the process, and serve with the gravy, 
to which you add salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a 
saltspoonful of chopped shallots, and two or three pickled 
cucumbers, cut in slices. 

It may also be served with a tomato sauce. 

Instead of roasting, the same may be put on a grid- 
iron, and on a sharp fire, and broiled, and served in the 
same way as above. 

If any of it is left, it may be served the next day, 
after having enveloped it in buttered paper and warmed 
it on the spit or on the gridiron, and also with the gravy. 

WITH CUCUMBERS, OR A PURINE, OR GREEN PARSLEY. 

You may improve the fillet as directed, if it suits you. 

Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of bacon, cut 
in slices, three or four sprigs of parsley, salt, pepper, two 
carrots, four onions cut in slices, and a glass of white wine, 
then three pounds of fillet on the whole ; cover with broth, 
set it in a quick oven or on a sharp fire, with live coals on 
the cover of the pan, and leave thus half an hour ; thei^ 
subdue the fire and finish the cooking ; after which put 
the meat on a dish, strain the sauce on it, and surround it 
with cucumbers cooked in water, or with green parsley. 



BEEF. 69 

It may also be surrounded with a puree or tomato 
sauce instead of cucumbers or parsley. 

The same with Mushrooms. — Cut the fillet in slicer 
half an inch thick, place them in a crockery vessel, with 
salt and pepper sprinkled on, leave them thus three or 
four hours. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, set it on a good fire, and, when warm, lay the 
meat in ; when the under side is of a golden color, turn 
over and do the same for the other side ; then sprinkle on 
it a teaspoonful of flour, and four mushrooms cut in slices, 
cover with broth, and leave thus till done ; then put the 
slices of meat on a dish ; after that, pour into the stewpan, 
where you have left the sauce, half a wine glass of good 
white wine ; simmer half an hour ; add the juice of half 
a lemon, pour the whole on the fillet, which you have kept 
in a warm place during this last process, and serve it, tak- 
ing care to have the slices of meat surrounded by the slices 
of mushrooms. 

TJie scuncy Saute. — Cut the fillet in slices nearly one 
inch in thickness, and sprinkle salt and pepper on them ; 
then put a piece of butter in a frying pan, and set it on a 
good fire ; when warm, lay the slices in, turning them over 
two or three times while cooking ; serve with fried pars- 
ley around, or with anchovy butter on them. 

FILLET THE NEXT DAY. 

In case you have a piece of fillet left, and large enough 
to be served a second time, put broth enough in a stew- 
pan to cover the slices of fillet, set it on the fire, and 
when warm, lay the slices in the stewpan ; simmer, but not 
boil, till they are warm, dish them, and on each layer of 
slices spread a little chopped parsley and butter kneade(3 
together, add a few drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

This makes a good dish for a family. 



^0 BEEF. 

The brotli that is left may be used for any other 
purpose. 

LOIN. 

A loin of beef may be improved the same as a fillet. 

Trim off the fat, the greasy end, and the thin skin ; 
envelop it with buttered paper, place on the spit and set 
before a good fire, basting often ; it takes about two hours 
to cook it ; dish the fillet and set it in a warm place, then 
put in a stewpan on the fire the gravy, four pickled cu- 
cumbers cut in slices, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, two teaspoonfuls of cider vinegar, and half a 
pint of broth ; boil the whole twenty minutes ; serve after 
it is strained into a saucer, to be used with the loin. 

A loin may also be prepared like a fillet. 

RIBS. 

How to i^e'pare. — Cut the ribs in slices of from one 
to one and a half inch in thickness ; trim off bones, nerves, 
and fibres as much as possible, beat and flatten them gen- 
tly with a chopper, and they are ready tff be cooked. 

BROILED. 

Prepare about six pounds of ribs, sprinkle salt and 
pepper on them, lay them on a gridiron and on a sharp 
fire ; spread a little butter on, turn over three or four 
times, and when done serve them with a cucumber, oil, 
piquante or poivrade sauce, or with a maitre-d'hotel 
sauce, and fried potatoes. 

ROASTED. 

Place the piece of ribs on the spit before a sharp fire, 
baste often with a little melted butter and the drippings, 
at the same time dredging some flour on it ; after ten or 
fifteen minutes remove it a little further from the fire or 



•beep. 71 

subdue it a little. When done, serve with the gravy, to 
which you add salt, pepper,/ a teaspoonful of vinegar, and 
two or three pickled cucumbers, cut in slices 

STEWED. 

Prepare five or six pounds of' ribs as directed. Put in 
a stewpan about a quarter of a pound of bacon (not 
smoked) cut in dice, lay the meat on, set on a good fire 
for fifteen minutes, and take off; place the slices of meat 
on a dish with the bacon ; then add to the juice in the 
stewpan a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; as soon as 
melted, sprinkle in, little by little, about a tablespoonful 
of flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; when of a proper 
thickness, and of a brownish color, put back in the stewpan 
meat and bacon, add half a wine glass of French brandy, 
two small carrots cut in slices, four small onions, salt, and 
a pinch of allspice ; also, tied together in a bunch, two 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, a clove of gar- 
lic, and a dozen stalks of cives ; simmer about five hours, 
take out the bunch of parsley, etc., skim off the fat, if too 
much of it, and serve. 

Eibs may also be prepared and served like braised beef, 
fillet with cucumbers, and fillet with mushrooms. 

STEAKS. 

Always put the steaks on or before a sharp fire. 

Procure a good fillet or rump of beef, cut it in slices 
about one inch thick, trim off the thin skin around, also 
the fibres as well as possible, but do not cut off the fat ; beat 
and flatten with a chopper, dip the slices in lukewarm 
butter, or spread a little butter on both sides ; lay them 
on a warmed gridiron, set it on a sharp fire (if cooked 
with a range, place before and not on the fire), turn over 
two or three times, and take off when rather underdone ; 



72 

have on a dish some butter kneaded with chopped pars- 
ley, lay the steaks on, sprinkle salt and pepper on them, 
also a few drops of lemon juice if you choose, and 
serve. 

Cooks and epicures differ about the turning over of 
steaks ; some say that they must not be turned over 
twice, others are of opinion that they must be turned over 
two or three, and even more times ; we have tried the two 
ways many times, and did not find much difference i we 
think the difference exists (if there is any at all) in the per- 
son's taste or in the cook's care. Hunters generally pre- 
fer game to butcher's meat. 

A steak or steaks look better when surrounded with 
watercress or fried potatoes; with watercress a little 
vinegar is necessary. 

Instead of butter and parsley on the dish and on the 
steaks, anchovy butter may be used. 

Another wai/, generally used in families. — Cut the 
steaks as above, and trim and flatten them. Put butter 
in a pan and set it on a sharp fire ; when hot lay the steaks 
in, sprinkle a little salt and pepper on them, and when the 
under side is cooked, turn over to cook the other, and then 
serve with watercress or fried potatoes. 

FANCY STEAK. 

Take a good piece of rump steak, about two inches 
thick, butter both sides slightly, lay it on a gridiron well 
greased and warmed, set it on a moderate fire, and broil it 
well ; in order to cook it through, you must turn it over 
many times on account of its thickness ; serve it like an- 
other steak, that is, surrounded with watercress or fried 
potatoes. 

It requires a great deal of care while cooking, but 
it is good when properly done. 



BEEP. 73 

BOILED BEEF. 

By boiled beef is understood all the pieces that have 
been used to make soup or broth ; it is very often called 
minced beef. 

Boiled beef is very seldom put on the table for a din- 
ner of ceremony, but always for a family dinner. It may 
be served in the following ways : 

AFTER THE SOUP, AND WHEN STILL WAKM. 

Place it on a dish, surrounded with sprigs of green 
parsley, or spring radishes, or horseradish well grated, or 
with fried slices of bread. The latter are prepared thus : 
cut round or square slices of bread, dip them in well beat- 
en eggs, place them in a pan on the fire with hot butter, 
and fry both sides ; then drain and use them. 

BROILED. 

Cut the boiled beef in slices one inch thick, spread a 
little butter on both sides, and lay on the gridiron ; broil 
gently both sides, and serve with an oil sauce. 

FRIED. 

Cut in dice four ounces of bacon, which put in a frying 
pan, with four ounces of sausages ; when half fried, put 
the boiled beef in, after having cut it in slices ; wet with 
about half a wine glass of broth, and two or three minutes 
before it is done add a teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve. 

IN GRA.TIN. 

Set a crockery pan on the fire, with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg in it ; when melted, sprinkle in two or 
three tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, add two or three 
mushrooms cut in slices, a teaspoonful of chopped onions, 
half a one of chopped parsley, a pinch of allspice, same of 
4 



7 4 BEEP. 

pepper and salt ; put the boiled beef, cut in slices, on tbe 
whole ; wet with half a glass of white wine, and as much of 
broth ; simmer from twenty to thirty minutes, and serve. 

IN MAITRE-D'-HOTEL, PIQUANTE, ROBERT, OR TOMATO 
SAUCE. 

Cut it in slices, place them -on a dish, spread on them 
some chopped parsley and slices of pickled cucumbers, 
and send thus to the table, with either of the above sauces 
in a saucer, to be used with it. 

IN MIROTON. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan 
(this is for about two pounds), and set it on the fire ; when 
melted, put in it four middling sized onions, cut in slices ; 
when nearly cooked, sprinkle on them a pinch of flour, 
and stir till it takes a golden color ; then add half a glass of 
white wine, and as much of broth, also, salt, pepper, and 
a little grated nutmeg ; boil until well cooked, and till 
the sauce is reduced ; then add the boiled beef, cut in 
slices, and leave it fifteen minutes ; dish it, pour on a 
few drops of vinegar, and serve. 

IN SALAD. 

Cut it in very thin and short slices, and place them on 
a dish with chopped parsley ; put in a saucer sweet oil 
and vinegar, according to the quantity of beef you have, 
two tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar, salt, pepper, 
and some mustard ; beat the whole a little, pour on the 
slices, and serve. 

OX BRAIN. 

Soak it in lukewarm water and clean well, so as to 
have it free from blood, fibres, and thin skin ; then soak it 
again in cold water for twelve hours in winter and six in 



BEEF. 75 

summer. Put in a crockery stewpan one ounce of bacon 
cut in slices, one carrot cut in pieces, two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, a clove, four small onions 
cut in slices, a teaspoonful of chopped cives, salt, pepper, 
a pint of white wine, as much of broth, and then the brain ; 
set on a moderate fire for half an hour and take it oflf ; 
dish the brain and place it in a warm place ; then strain 
the sauce, put it back on the fire with the brain in it, add 
two or three mushrooms cut in pieces, leave on the fire 
from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve it, parted in two, 
with fried parsley around. 

Another way. — When the brain is cleaned and pre- 
pared as above, cut it in eight pieces. Mix well together 
a little flour, chopped parsley and cives, also a pinch of 
allspice ; roll the pieces of brain in it, so as to allow the 
mixture to adhere to them ; have some butter in a frying 
pan on the fire, and when hot put the pieces of brain in 
it ; fry gently, and serve with fried parsley around. 

OX HEART. 

Soak it in lukewarm water for two hours, free it from 
blood and skin, drain and wipe it dry ; then stufi" it with 
minced meat, to which you have added three or four 
onions chopped fine, salt, and pepper ; put it in a rather 
quick oven, or on the spit before a good fire (if on the 
spit, envelop it with buttered paper), basting from time to 
time ; it takes about an hour and a half to cook a middling 
sized one ; serve it with an oil, piquante, poivrade, or ra- 
vigote sauce. 

It may also be fried with butter and cut in slices, but 
it is not as good as in the above way ; it generally be- 
comes hard in frying. 

OX KIDNEYS. 

First split the kidneys in two or four pieces, trim oflf 



16 BEEF. 

as carefully as possible the sinews tliat are inside, then 
cut in fillets and throw them in boiling water, with a lit- 
tle salt ; boil three minutes, and drain dry. Put a piece of 
butter in a frying pan, set it on the fire, and when melted, 
sprinkle in it two teaspoonfuls of flour, stirring the while ; 
then add a wine glass of white wine, two tablespoonfuls 
of broth, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and pep- 
per, and boil about ten minutes ; then put the fillets in, have 
a quick fire, and as soon as cooked, dish; add a few 
drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

OX LIVER. 

Cut the liver in slices a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, sprinkle on them salt and pepper, place them on a 
gridiron, and set on a sharp fire ; turn over only once and 
serve rather underdone, with butter and chopped parsley 
kneaded together and spread between the slices. 

Another way. — "When the liver is cut in slices as 
above, put a piece of butter in a frying pan on the fire, 
and when melted lay the slices in; turnover only once, 
and serve with chopped parsley on. 

OX TAIL. 

Cut the tail at the joints, so as to make as many pieces 
as there are joints ; throw the pieces in boiling water for fif- 
teen minutes, and drain them ; when cold and dry, put them 
in a stewpan with a bay leaf, two onions with a clove stuck 
in each, two sprigs of parsley and one of thyme, a clove of 
garlic, salt, pepper, half a wine glass of white wine, and a 
few thin slices of fat bacon ; cover with broth, and set on a 
moderate fire for two hours ; dish the pieces of tail, strain 
the sauce on them, and serve with a garniture of cabbage 
or with a pur6e. 



BEEF. V7 

OX TAIL THAT HAS BEEN COOKED TO MAKE SOUP. 

Dip each piece in lukewarm butter, and then roll them 
in fine dry bread crumbs, put them on the gridiron, set 
on a good fire, and when well broiled, serve them with an 
oil, piquante, poivrade, or tartar sauce, 

BEEF TONGUE. 

How to 2ore2oare. — Soak it in cold water for twenty-four 
hours in winter, and twelve in summer ; change the water 
four times, that is, every three or six hours ; take off, 
throw it in boiling water for ten minutes, take out, and 
skim it well. 

STEWED. 

Cut square fillets of bacon, which dredge in a mixture 
of chopped parsley, cives, salt, pepper, and a little allspice ; 
lard the tongue with the fillets. Put in a crockery stew- 
pan two ounces of bacon cut in dice, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, one of sweet basil, two bay leaves, a clove 
of garlic, two cloves, two carrots cut in pieces, four small 
onions, salt, and pepper ; lay the tongue on the whole, wet 
with half a glass of white wine, and a glass of broth ; set 
on a moderate fire, and simmer about five hours — keep it 
well covered ; then put the tongue on a dish, strain the 
sauce on it, and serve. It is a delicious dish. 

It may also be served with vegetables around, or with 
tomato sauce. 

Another way, — ^When prepared as above directed, put 
it on the fire with the same seasonings as the preceding 
one; simmer four hours and take from the fire ; put the 
tongue on a dish and let it cool, then place it on the spit 
before a good fire, and finish the cooking ; serve it warm 
with an oil, or piquante sauce. 

If any is left of either of the two, put in a pan the next 



78 

day, wet with a little broth, set on the fire, and when warm, 
serve it on a puree ; do not allow it to boil. 

WHEN SMOKED. 

Soak the smoked tongue in cold water for three hours, 
change the water twice during the process ; take the tripe off, 
if there is any around, then put the tongue in a crockery pan 
with two sprigs of thyme, two of dried parsley, a bay leaf, 
two cloves, six small onions, a clove of garlic, a little salt, 
and pepper ; fill the pan with cold water, and let simmer 
six hours on a slow fire. Take from the fire, let cool as it 
is, then take the tongue out, and clean it ; let dry, and 
serve it when cold with a cucumber, oil, piquante, poivrade, 
or tomato sauce. 

DOUBLE TRIPE. 

How to clean and prepare. — Scrape and wash it well 
several times in boiling water, changing the water every 
time ; then put it in very cold water for twelve hours, 
change the water two or three times, place it in a pan, 
cover it with cold water, season with cives, parsley, onions, 
one or two cloves of garlic, cloves, salt and pepper ; boil 
gently five hours, take out and drain. 

In case the water should boil away, add some. 

You may save all the trouble of cleaning and prepar- 

ring, by buying it ready prepared, as it is generally sold in 

cities. 

BROILED. 

When prepared dip it in lukewarm butter, roll each 

piece in fine dry bread crumbs, place on a gridiron, and 

set it on a moderate fire ; turn over as many times as 

is necessary to broil it well, and serve with an oil, piquante, 

or tartar sauce. 

STEWED. 

Put in a crockery stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in 



BEEF. 79 

dice, three carrots cut in slices, eight small onions, four 
cloves, two bay leaves, two cloves of garlic, a piece of nut- 
meg, four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a dozen stalks 
of cives, six peppercorns, the fourth part of an ox foot cut 
in four pieces, salt, pepper, about two ounces of ham cut in 
dice, then three pounds of double tripe on the whole ; 
spread two ounces of fat bacon cut in thin slices on the 
top ; wet with half white wine and half water, or water 
only if you choose ; put the cover on, and if not air-tight, 
put some paste around ; set in a slow oven for six hours, 
then take the tripe out, strain the sauce, skim off the fat 
when cool, then put the sauce and tripe again in your pan, 
warm well, and serve in crockery plates or bowls placed on 
chafing dishes, as it is necessary to keep it warm while 
eating it. 

It is good with water only, but better with lialf wine. 



FISH. 



HOW TO SELECT. 

To be good, fisli must "be fresh ; it is fresh when the 
eyes are clear, the fins stifif, the gills red, hard too pen, 
and without bad odor. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND PEEPARE. 

The sooner it is done the better. First you scale the 
fish well, holding it by the head or tail ; then cut the 
belly open and take the inside out ; trim off gills, fins, 
and tail ; split the head ; wash well, and wipe dry imme- 
diately with a clean towel, in and outside. 

If you do not cook it at once when cleaned, put it on 
ice. 

Turbot must be well rubbed with lemon before cook- 
ing it. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND PREPARE EELS, EEL-POUT, CONGER, 

LAMPREY, AND OTHERS OF THE SAME FAMILY 

OR KIND. 

When skinned, clean, head, and tail them. Then 
throw them in boiling water, in which you have put a lit- 
tle salt and a teaspoonful of vinegar ; leave them in it 
about five minutes, take out, and drain. 



FISH. B% 

SAME FAMILY OR KIND. 

We give only one receipt for all the fislies of the same 
family, or having the same kind of flesh, as they are 
cooked alike, and require the same spices. 

Almost every kind of fish is boiled, broiled, fried, or 
stewed. Some are better boiled than broiled, others bet- 
ter fried than stewed, &c. With few exceptions, any eat- 
able fish may be cooked in these four ways. Few are 
roasted. 

HOW TO KNOW WHEN COOKED ENOUGH. 

It is very diflncult, if not entirely impossible, to tell 
how long it takes to cook fish, as it depends as much on 
the size, kind, or quality of the fish as on the fire ; but 
as soon as the flesh comes oflf the bones easily the fish is 
cooked ; this is very easy to be ascertained with a knife. 

HOW TO STUFF. 

Soak a piece of bread in water for about an hour, and 
take it out, press the water out of it with your hands, and 
then put the bread in a bowl. Peel, chop fine, and fry in 
butter (half done only) two or three onions, and put them 
in the bowl also. Chop fine the soft roe of the fish you 
wish to stufi^, mix it well with the bread and onions, add 
salt and pepper, and then stufi" the fish with the mixture. 

Pike, shad, salmon, sturgeon, turbot, halibut, sheep's- 
head, &c., may be stuflTed in the above way. 

A LA CR^ME. 

Halibut, salmon, shad, sheep's-head, sturgeon, tunny, 
turbot, &c., if they have been broiled or roasted. 

If you have a piece of the \kbove worth serving a 
second time, put it in warm but not boiling water to 
warm it, drain and dish it ; pour on it a cream or white 



82 FISH. 

sauce, or a bechamel No. 2, with hard boiled eggs 
around. 

Fish served a second time, if boiled or stewed, should 
be warmed the next day before being served. 

BOILED. 

Clean and prepare as directed three pounds of either 
of the following fishes : — Black or blue fish, porgy, weak 
fish, black, striped, and sea bass, perch, carp, barbel, 
tench, pike, pickerel, and bream. 

Place the fish entire in a fish kettle, with three sprigs 
of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, a small carrot cut in 
four pieces, three cloves, one of garlic, four onions cut in 
slices, a wine glass of claret wine or a few drops of vin- 
egar, salt, and pepper; cover with water, boil gently till 
cooked, that is, when the flesh comes oflf the bones easily ; 
put a napkin on a dish, place the fish on it, and serve 
with green parsley around. 

It may also be served with a caper, oil, piquante, or 
tomato sauce, but in that case you omit napkin and 
parsley. 

Proceed as above for haddock, turbot, dab fish, and 
whiting, exce23t that you season with parsley, thyme, 
onions, and bay leaf only; the other seasonings do not 
agree with these kinds. 

BROILED. 

Before broiling bass, dab-fish, salmon, tunny, and tur- 
bot, they may be improved in the following way : 

After the fish is cleaned and prepared, place it in a 
crockery vessel, with parsley and onions chopped fine ; 
also salt, pepper, thyme, two bay leaves, and two or three 
tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, half under and half on it, and 
leave thus two or three hours. 



FISH. 83 

Carp and tench are improved in tlie same way, except 
that a few drops of vinegar are used instead of oil. 

For broiling, begin by kneading butter with chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper, spread it all over the fish ; then 
envelop it in buttered paper, place it on the gridiron, set 
it on a good fire, and serve when done with an anchovy, 
caper, maitre d'hotel, or white sauce. 

Carp, barbel, and tench may be cooked and served like 
the above. Dab fish, salmon, tunny, turbot, shad, halibut, 
haddock and trout are broiled in the following way : mix 
well together, chopped parsley and bay leaf, a pinch of 
allspice, and oil or butter ; put some of the mixture all 
around the fish, and envelop it with oiled paper, if you 
have used oil in your mixture, or buttered paper, if you 
have used butter ; place on a gridiron and on a good fire, 
and serve v/ith an anchovy, caper, maitre d'hotel, or white 
sauce, when done. 

They are broiled entire or in slices, about half an inch 
in thickness. 

EEL, EEL-POUT, CONGER, AND LAMPREY, BROILED. 

Clean and cut two pounds of eel, or of either of the 
others, in pieces about three inches long. Put in a stew- 
pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set it on the 
fire ; when hot, lay the eels in, fry about three minutes, 
turning them over the while ; then turn the whole in a 
crockery vessel, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
onions, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil, salt, and pepper ; set on the fire and simmer two hours ; 
take ofij roll the pieces in fine bread crumbs, place them 
on a gridiron, and on a good fire, and serve when done 
with piquante sauce. 

From the nature of their flesh, eels require to be prepared 
thus ; and when properly done, make really a very good dish. 



%4^ FISH. 

STURGEON, BROILED WHEN FRESH. 

Sturgeon is broiled in slices like salmon, except that 
the seasonings are only composed of butter, a little grated 
nutmeg, and chopped parsley kneaded together, and spread 
all over the fish ; envelop it with buttered paper, and 
serve like salmon. 

BROILED SPRATS. 

There are none in or near American waters ; they are 

imported under their French name, sardines. Fresh sprats 

are very good broiled without any grease, and without 

being cleaned and prepared like other fish ; but when on 

the plate, skin them, which is easily done, as then the 

flesh is so easily detached from the bones that the inside 

need not be touched at all ; they are eaten with salt and 

pepper only. 

FRIED. 

All small fishes are better fried than prepared in any 
other way. 

Clean the fish as directed. Put in a vessel two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one beaten egg, a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper; mix well together, then add the 
quantity of milk necessary to make a batter thin enough 
to dip the fish into, so that a thin coat only sticks to it. 
Dip the fish in the above mixture, or in flour only, accord- 
ing to taste, and lay it in hot lard, grease, butter or oil, in 
a pan, and on a sharp fire (see direction for frying) ; when 
done, serve it as it is, or with fried parsley around, and 
sprinkle a little salt on it. 

Fry as above, carp, tench, bass, perch, black fish, blue 
fish, bream, porgy, weak fish, halibut, flounder, pike, pick- 
erel, sole, herring, white fish of the lakes, whiting and 
barbel, all of them when small ; also smelts, and any kind 
of small fish. 



FISH. 85 

ROASTED. yf 

Only large sized fishes are roasted. 
The best are : eels, pike, shad, salmon, sea trout, tun- 
ny, and sturgeon. 

Improve them as for broiling. 

EELS, EEL-POUT, AND LAMPREY, ROASTED. 
Clean as directed for eels ; improve as directed ; also 
put some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper around, and 
envelop it in buttered or oiled paper ; place it upon the 
spit before a good fire, baste often with melted butter 
or oil ; have slices of roasted bread in the dripping-pan, 
take the paper off ten minutes before it is done, and 
serve it on the slices of bread^ with a ravigote sauce. 

PIKE. 

Clean, prepare, and improve the fish as directed, roll 
it in chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; 
envelop it in buttered paper, put it on the spit before a 
good fire, baste often with vinegar ; twenty minutes after 
take the paper off", finish the cooking, basting often with 
melted butter instead of vinegar, and serve with the gravy. 

SALMON, SEA TROUT, AND TUNNF. 

Prepare and improve as directed ; cut in slices about 
half an inch in thickness, envelop every slice in buttered 
paper, put on the spit and set before a good fire ; baste 
with the seasonings in which it has been improved ; take 
the paper off five minutes before it is done, and serve 
with the gravy, after you have taken out the bay leaf. 
The next day serve it cold, with an oil sauce. 

SHAD. 
Clean and improve it as directed ; spread the sea- 



86 FISH. 

sonings in which it has been improved around the fish, 
and which you envelop in oiled paper ; then place it on 
the spit before a good fire ; baste with vinegar ; twenty- 
minutes after take the paper ofi", finish the cooking, bast- 
ing often the while with the drippings, and serve with the 
gravy. 

It is a very delicate dish ; you augment or diminish 
the seasonings according to the size of the fish. 

STURGEON. 

Clean, and cut in slices half an inch thick, or leave 
entire, as it suits you ; skin it well ; lay it in a crockery 
vessel, spread over it some chopped parsley, grated nut- 
meg, salt, pepper, and two gills of white wine (this is for 
about three pounds), leave thus two hours ; then take the 
fish only, envelop it in buttered paper, fix it on the spit 
before a good fire, baste with the wine and seasonings 
from the crockery dish, and when nearly done take the 
paper ofi"; finish the cooking, basting the while, and serve 
with the drippings, to which you may add a little vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and mustard. 

If there is any left, you can serve it cold the next 
day with an oil sauce. 

STEWED. 

Clean and prepare as directed three pounds of fish, 
cut it in pieces about two inches long. Put in a fish 
kettle four ounces of butter, kneaded with a teaspoonful 
of flour, and the same of chopped parsley, add two or 
three mushrooms cut in pieces, salt and pepper, then the 
fish and a glass of claret wine, or a wine glass of vinegar ; 
cover with water, set on a good fire, boil gently till 
cooked ; dish the pieces of fish, strain the sauce on them, 
spread the pieces of mushrooms over, and serve. 



FISH. 87 

Stew as above, carp, tench, bass, percb, black fish, 
blue fish, bream, porgies, weak fish, whiting, and the 
white fish of the lakes. 

FLOUNDERS, HALIBUT, AND FLAT FISH, STEWED. 

Clean three pounds of the above fish. Put in a crock- 
ery dish four ounces of butter, set it on a good fire, and 
when melted sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring 
the while ; also, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, a 
saltspoonful of chopped parsley, two or three mushrooms, 
also chopped, then the fish ; pour on it a glass of white 
wine, and a liquor glass of French brandy; cover the 
dish, take it from the fire, and put it in a moderately 
heated oven, and serve when done just as it is, and in 
the crockery dish. 

SALMON, SHAD, STURGEON, SEA TROUT, AND TUNNY, 
STEWED. 

Clean and prepare as directed three pounds of salmon 
(fresh), or shad, &c. ; place it in a fish kettle with three 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, four small 
onions cut in slices, a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, two or 
three mushrooms cut in slices, one carrot cut in four 
pieces, cover with half claret wine and half water, and boil 
gently till cooked; then take the fish from the kettle, 
using a dipper or a skimmer, in order not to break it, and 
place it on a dish ; put two ounces of butter in the ket- 
tle, and when melted and mixed with the sauce, sprinkle 
in it a tablespoonful of flour ; stir with a wooden spoon till 
reduced to a proper thickness, strain it on the fish (which 
you have kept warm), and serve. 

If there is any left for the next day, warm it, but 
do not allow it to boil. 



88 nsH. 

SALMON IN ESCALOPS. 

Cut it in round slices, about one eighth of an inch in 
thickness ; fry them with butter, and serve. 

The pieties should be tastefully arranged on a dish, 
imitating a flight of stairs. 

" • SMELTS, STEWED. 

Spread on the bottom of a crockery dish some butter, 
sprinkle on it a pinch of grated nutmeg, then lay in gently 
the smelts, after having cleaned them ; add salt, pepper, 
and a glass of white wine, cover the dish and put it in 
the oven ; when done, serve as it is, that is in the dish in 
which they have been cooked ; the changing of the dish 
would spoil them. 

The following fishes, after being cleaned and prepared, 
may be boiled, broiled, and stewed as other fish : 

Cat fish, chelmon, coal fish, doree or dory, sea dragon, 
flying fish, gar fish, gold fish, growler, gurnard fish, great 
horned hake, hard-head, head fish, king fish, lancelot, sand- 
launce, ling, loach, sea loche, mullet, gray mullet, red mul- 
let, or surmullet, pilchard, pilot fish, remora, roach, rock- 
ling, shiner, stickleback, sucker, sucking fish, sun fish, 
sword fish, torpedo, torsk, trygon, wolf fish, wrasse, or 
rock fish. 

Crocodile, porpoise, and shark are eaten when young 
by some persons ; we have never cooked any, but they 
are of species to be boiled or broiled. 

MATELOT. 

Take bass, black fish, blue fish, barbel, carp, eels, lam- 
prey, perch, pike, pickerel, brook pike, porgies, tench, 
troutlet, weak fish, and white fish of the lakes, or eels and 
one of the others, or (if not handy) eels only, say four 



FISH. 89 

pounds ; clean and prepare as directed ; save the eggs and 
soft roe of the carp only ; then cut the fish in pieces about 
two inches long. Put in a fish kettle large enough to 
hold the fish easily, a bunch composed of §ix sprigs of 
parsley, three of thyme, two bay leaves, four cloves, and 
two cloves of garlic, tied together with twine ; also four 
ounces of butter, a dozen of small onions, half fried in 
butter, six or eight mushrooms, a pinch of allspice, salt, 
and pepper, then the fish ; cover with claret wine, and set it 
on a very brisk fire ; at the first boiling throw in it two 
gills of French brandy, light a small piece of wood and 
set the brandy and wine on fire ; do not take the kettle 
from the fire for that ; it will burn for a while ; then put 
again in the kettle about six ounces of batter, kneaded 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour; move the kettle now 
and then so as to prevent the pieces of fish from sticking 
to the pan ; when done, which will be in about half an 
hour, take the fish from the kettle by the means of a dip- 
per or skimmer, and be careful not to break the pieces ; 
lay it gently on a dish, strain the sauce on it, spread 
tastefully, and all over it, the onions and mushrooms; 
surround the dish with croutons, and serve. 

Another way. — Clean, prepare, and cut in pieces the 
same fish and the same quantity as in the above. Put in 
a fish kettle large enough to hold the fish easily, a bunch 
composed of six sprigs of parsley, three of thyme, two 
bay leaves, four cloves, and two of garlic, tied together with 
twine ; also a small carrot, cut in four pieces, four small 
onions, cut in slices, a piece of nutmeg, salt, five or six 
peppercorns, and then the fish ; cover entirely with white 
wine and broth, half of each, set on a very sharp fire in 
order to start it boiling as soon as possible, and for about 
twenty-five minutes. Put at the same time in a stewpan 
on a good fire, ten ounces of butter ; w^hen melted, add a 



00 FISH. 

dozen small onions, six or eight mushrooms, and when of a 
golden color, sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
with a wooden spoon the while ; wet with warm water, 
then add also the eggs, and soft roe of the carp if any ; 
cook the whole well. 

After twenty-five minutes' boiling, take the fish from 
the kettle by the means of a dipper or skimmer ; lay it 
gently on a dish, then strain on it the sauce in which it 
has cooked, spread with taste, on the fish and sauce, the 
dozen of small onions, and the six or eight mushrooms, 
and lastly, pour on the whole the sauce in the stewpan, 
and serve. 

Some croutons may be put around the dish as an 
ornament. 

This last is no better than the preceding one, only it is 
more sightly, and is generally used for a grand dinner. 

ANCHOVY. 

Split in two, so as to take the back bone out easily, 
wash well in and outside, throw them in hot lard in a fry- 
ing pan on a sharp fire, after having rolled them in flour ; it 
takes a few minutes to fry them ; serve hot with a little 
salt. 

Hoiu to 2^reserve them. — Split them in two, take the 
back bone out, wash well in and outside, and wipe dry with 
a clean towel immediately after washing ; salt well, and 
keep them air-tight in a pot or bottle. 

AXGEL FISH, RAY, AND SKATE. 

Clean as directed for fish, put it in a fish kettle, season 
with parsley, thyme, onions cut in slices, bay leaf, cloves, 
salt, and pepper; cover with water and half a pint of 
vinegar ; set on a good fire, boil only three or four minutes, 
take the fish out, skim and clean it, place on a dish, and 



FISH. 91 

put it in a warm place. Put a piece of "butter in a fry- 
ing pan, and on a good fire ; when melted, fry some pars- 
ley in it ; then add a teaspoonful of vinegar, give one boil, 
pour on the fish, and serve with the fried parsley around. 

The same may be served as soon as you place it on a 
dish with a caper or white sauce. 

FRESH COD, HADDOCK, AND SHEEPSHEAD. 

It must be fat and fresh to be good. 

Clean it as directed. Put in a fish kettle, on a' slow 
fire, three sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, a 
pinch of allspice, four onions cut in slices, pepper, salt, 
and then the fish (say three pounds) ; cover with water, 
simmer till cooked, drain the fish only; dish it, and 
serve warm with boiled potatoes, and melted butter in a 
saucer. 

It may also be served with a caper, oil, or piquante 
sauce, but without potatoes. 

The same^ broiled, — Envelop the fish in buttered paper, 
place it on the gridiron, and on a sharp fire ; turn over 
two or three times, and when done, take the paper ofi*, and 
serve wdth a piquante or poivrade sauce. 

The same, friedj or rather saute. — Prepare two pounds 
of it. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a frying 
pan, and on a good fire ; when hot, roll the fish in flour, 
and lay it in the pan ; add a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley when nearly done ; dish fish and parsley, and add a 
few drops of lemon juice just before putting on the table. 

SALTED COD, OR, AS IT IS SOMETIMES CALLED, STOCK 
FISH. 

How to prepare. — Soak it in cold w^ater for two days, 
changing the -tvater twice, then scale it well, and clean ; put 
it in a fish kettle, cover with cold water, set on a slow ^re 



92 FISH. 

skim off the scum, let it boil about one minute, take the 
kettle from the fire, cover it well, and leave thus ten min- 
utes ; then take off the cod, and drain it. 

In bechamel. — When prepared and cooked as above di- 
rected, put the cod in a stewpan in which you have a warm 
but not boiling bechamel No. 1 ; simmer about five min- 
utes, and serve. 

In brown butter. — When prepared as above, place it 
on a dish, and keep it in a warm place. Put four ounces 
of butter in a frying pan, and on a good fire ; wh^n turn- 
ing brown, add three sprigs of parsley, fry about two min- 
utes, pour the whole on the fish, and serve. 

You may also pour on it a hot caper sauce, and serve. 

With croutons. — Prepare and cook as directed, three 
pounds of cod ; take the bones out, break in small pieces, 
and mash with the hand as much as possible ; put it then 
in a stewpan, beat three yolks of eggs with two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, and mix with the cod ; set on a slow fire, 
and immediately pour in, little by little, stirring the while, 
about one gill of sweet oil ; simmer ten or twelve minutes, 
and serve with croutons around. 

In maitre d'hotel. — Lay three pounds of cod on a dish, 
after being cooked as directed ; keep it warm, pour a warm 
maitre d'hotel sauce on it, and serve. 

With milk. — Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, 
set it on a good fire, and when melted, sprinkle in it a 
tablespoonful of flour ; stir the while, add pepper, a little 
grated nutmeg, and two tablespoonfuls of milk ; as soon 
as mixed, lay three pounds of prepared cod in it ; simmer 
five minutes, and serve. 

With i^otatoes. — Cook and place on a dish three pounds 
of cod ; pour on it a warm piquante sauce, and serve warm 
with boiled potatoes, in another dish. 

With oil and vinegar. — When the cod is cooked as di. 



FISH. 93 

rected, place it on a dish, and serve -with oil, vinegar, 
mustard, and chopped parsley. 

It may be served thus, warm or cold. 

Salted cod the next dmj. — If you have any left, serve 
it cold the next day with an oil or poivrade sauce, or warm, 
and serve it as it is. 

EEL, CONGER, AND LAMPREY. 

Fried. — Clean as directed, then cut in pieces about 
three inches long, roll them in flour, or in paste for frying, 
lay them in hot grease or oil, serve when done, sprinkling 
salt and pepper on. 

It may be served on a tomato sauce. 

In looulette. — Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the 
size of an ^gg ; set it on a good fire, sprinkle in it a table- 
spoonful of flour, add a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper ; when hot, lay the fish in, which must be cut 
in pieces three inches long ; two minutes after, add half a 
pint of broth, same of white wine, four or five mushrooms, 
three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, three 
cloves, and four small onions ; boil half an hour, dish the 
pieces of fish, and place the dish in a warm place ; let the 
sauce remain a while on the fire, and then strain it on the 
fish ; spread the mushrooms on the whole, add a few drops 
of lemon juice, and serve. 

FROGS. 

The hind legs only are used as food ; formerly frogs, 
were eaten by the French only, but now, frog eating has 
become general, and the Americans are not behind any 
other in relishing that kind of food. 

Fried, — Skin well, and throw into boiling water with 
a little salt for five minutes, the hind legs only ; take out 
and throw them in cold water to cool and drain. Have 
hot grease in a pan on the fire (use grease for fish, see di- 



94 FISH. 

rection for frying) ; lay tlie frogs in, and serve when done 
with fried parsley around. 

Sieiued. — Skin, boil five minutes, throw in cold water, 
and drain as above. Put in a stewpan two ounces of but- 
ter (for two dozen of frogs) ; set it on the fire, and when 
melted, lay the legs in, fry two minutes, tossing now and 
then ; then sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of flour, stir with 
a wooden spoon, add two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
a bay leaf, two cloves, one of garlic, salt, w^hite pepper, 
and half a pint of white wine ; boil gently till done, dish 
the legs, reduce the sauce on the fire, strain it, mix in it 
two yolks of eggs, pour on the legs, and serve them. 

FRESH HERRING, BROILED. 

Clean as directed ; grease well a gridiron, and set it on a 
good fire ; when warm, lay the herrings on it, broil gently, 
turning them over two or three times ; place on a dish, 
sprinkle salt on them, and serve. 

A caper, maitre d'hotel, piquante or tomato sauce, may 
be spread on them before serving. This is a very good 
dish for breakfast or supper. 

SALTED HERRINGS. 

Soak them in cold water for twenty-four hours ; change 
the water twice, then scale and clean them, wash and dry 
them with a towel^ rub them with butter, set on a grid- 
iron, and on a good fire, and when done, serve them with 
a puree under. 

RED HERRINGS. 

Wipe clean, but do not wash them, cut off head and 
tail, split the back open, put them on a v/arm and greased 
gridiron, set on a slow fire, put a little ^ butter or sweet oil 
on, and as soon as it is absorbed, turn the herrings over, 



FISH. 95 

and do the same for the other side ; broil very little, and 
serve them with an oil sauce, aud some mustard. 

Another way. — Clean and split them as above, soak 
them in lukewarm water for tv/o hours ; take out, drain, 
and wipe dry Mix two or three yolks of eggs with a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little 
melted butter ; put some of the mixture around every her- 
ring, then roll them in fine bread crumbs, place them on a 
gridiron on a slow fire, and when lightly broiled, serve as 
the preceding one. 

FRESH LIACKEREL, AND SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Broiled. — Clean as directed for fish ; split the back in 
two, so as to open them ; sprinkle salt and pepper on, also 
a little chopped parsley ; then envelop the fish in buttered 
paper, place it on a gridiron, and on a good fire ; turn over 
two or three times, and w^hen done, take the paper oflj 
and serve. 

They may be served cold or warm with a caper or to- 
mato sauce. 

With butter. — When broiled as above, place them on 
a dish, fry a few sprigs of parsley in butter, turn the w^hole 
on the fish, add a few drops of lemon juice, and serve, 
having the sprigs of parsley around the fish. 

In maitre d'hote!. — Knead butter and chopped parsley 
and spread some on the bottom of a dish, then lay on 
some mackerels broiled as above ; spread again some butter 
and parsley on, put the dish in an oven for two or three 
minutes, sprinkle on them a few drops of lemon juice, and • 
serve. 

Stewed. — Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size 
of an ^gg^ set it on a good fire ; when melted, lay three 
middling sized mackerels in ; add a little grated nutmeg, 
two middling sized, onions cut in slices, two sprigs of pars- 



06 FISH. 

ley, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, half a pint of white wine, 
same of water, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil gently 
till done, place the fish on a dish, strain the sauce on it, 
and serve. 

Salted mackerel is served like salted herring. 

SALTED SALMON. 

Soak it in cold water for two days ; scale and clean it 
well, place it in a fish kettle, cover with cold water, set on 
a moderate fire, skim off the scum, boil gently about two 
minutes, take from the kettle and drain it. Put butter in 
a frying pan on the fire ; when it turns brown, add two 
sprigs of parsley ; one minute after, pour the whole on the 
fish in a dish, and serve warm. 

It may also be served with a caper, or maitre d'hotel 
sauce, or cold with an oil sauce. 

SMOKED SALMON. 

Cut it in thin slices ; have very hot butter or oil in a 
frying pan, and lay the slices in, only long enough to warm 
them ; then take out, drain them, and serve with a few 
drops of lemon juice or vinegar sprinkled on them. 

SOLE, IN MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Clean as directed for fish, and skin the back part of it 
(about three pounds). Put in a fish kettle two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, two small onions, salt, 
pepper, and then the fish ; cover with water, boil gently 
till cooked, take the fish out without breaking it, and serve 
warm with a maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Li Normande. — Take about three pounds of sole and 
clean as the above. Put in a fish kettle four ounces of but- 
ter, two sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, two small onions, a 
pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, half a pint 



FISH. 97 

of broth, same of white wine, and then the fish ; cover the 
kettle, and when done, dish the fish gently, strain the sauce 
on it, and serve. 

If the sauce is not thick enough, boil it a little after 
the fish is out of the kettle, and during thjt^ tinte kaifp^he 
fish in a warm place. ' v 

Another ivay. — When cleaned and prepared as above, 
take the back bone out, and put in its place chopped pars- 
ley and butter kneaded together, with a little salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg ; then put it in a crockery dish, add 
half a pint of white wime, same of broth ; place in a 
moderately heated oven, and when done, serve in the dish 
in which it has been cooked, and without moving the fish 
at all. 

This is a very delicate dish, and very easily made with 
a little attention and taste. 

CLAMS. 

Wash clean with a scrubbing brush and put them in a 
kettle; set on a good fire, and leave till they are wide 
open ; then take from the kettle, cut each in two or three 
pieces, put them in a stewpan with all the water they 
have disgorged in the kettle, and about four ounces of but- 
ter for fifty clams ; boil slowly about an hour, take from 
the fire, and mix with the whole two beaten eggs, and 
serve warm. 

Clams are also eaten raw with vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

CRABS. 

Soak in water and drain them. Put four ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, set it on a good fire, add four sprigs 
of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, two carrots and four 
onions cut in slices, also a pinch of allspice, two cloves, 
salt, pepper, and two cloves of garlic, with a tablespoon- 
5 



98 FISH. 

ful of vinegar, and three quarts of crabs ; boil till done, 
drain, and serve with parsley. 

Another way, — Put three quarts of crabs in a stewpan 
with butter and the same seasoning as above, and also 
some white wine, just enough to cover half of them, then 
cover the pan, set it in a hot oven, stir now and then till 
cooked, when place the crabs on a dish, strain the sauce, 
and when the crabs and sauce are cold, put them in a 
stewpan, warm, and then serve them. 

LOBSTER. 

In salad. — Select heavy ones ; never buy a dead lob- 
ster ; soak in water, and drain. Have a kettle of boiling 
water on a good fire, and place the lobster in it and alive ; 
for a five pound one, season with four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, 
two carrots and four onions cut in slices, salt, pepper, and 
a teaspoonful of vinegar ; boil about half an hour, take 
the kettle from the fire, and leave the lobster in it till cold, 
then take ofi" and drain it. Split the back open from head 
to tail, take out the yellow part, and eggs, if any ; mix 
them with two yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of mustard, 
two or three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one or two of 
vinegar, salt, and pepper ; put the whole in a bowl or sau- 
cer, beat well till mixed, and then it is ready to be used. 

Cut the flesh of the lobster in slices, and place them 
tastefully on a dish ; the claws are generally left entire ; 
put a few sprigs of parsley aroiftid, and serve either warm 
or cold, with the sauce above described. 

Another way. — When cooked and prepared as above, 
place the slices on a salad of lettuce, and serve with the 
same sauce as above. 

Three or four eggs boiled hard and cut in two, might 
be put around the dish as an ornament. * 



FISH. 99 

In omelet. — When the lobster is cooked in boiling wa- 
ter, a few thin slices of it may be put in the middle of an 
omelet, and served as another omelet. 

Slices of lobster left from the preceding day are very 
good in omelet. 

Some cooks use lobsters wdth dififerent sauces, such as 
curry, etc. ; but it is so inferior to the above ways, that we 
do not recommend them ; we think that curry is very good 
on the borders of the Ganges river, and from that very 
reason we think too that it ought to be avoided on the bor- 
ders of the Hudson and thereabout. 

MUSCLES. 

Bear in mind that muscles are not wholesome between 
April and September. 

Soak them in water, scrape if necessary, wash well, chang- 
ing the water several times, and then drain. Put them in a 
pan on a good fire, season with a little chopped parsley ; as 
soon as they are opened, take off the shell to which they are 
not attached, examining carefully at the same time if there 
are any small crabs around the muscle and in the shell, and 
drain them. Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan; 
when melted, sprinkle on it a teaspoonful of flour, same of 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; then half of the water 
which they have disgorged while on the fire ; stir a little ; 
ten minutes after put the muscles in, boil about eight min- 
utes, and take from the fire ; mix two yolks of eggs with 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, mix again with the muscles, 
and serve. 

The quantities above are for about two quarts of 
muscles. 

FRIED OR SAUT:^. 

When they are opened detach them entirely from the 
shell, lay them in hot butter in a frying pan, and on a 



c^. 



100 FISH. 

good fire, with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; fry 

about two minutes, and serve them. 

OYSTERS, RAW. 

When well washed, open them, detaching the upper 
shell, then detach them from the under shell, but leave 
them on it ; place on a dish, and leave the upper shell on^ 
every oyster, and serve thus. 

To eat them, you remove the upper shell, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice on, and eat. 

BROILED. 

When well washed, open and detach from both shells, 
save the water, and put it on a sharp fire in a kettle ; 
when it boils, throw the oysters in, boil one minute, take 
ofi" and drain them. Put each oyster on a shell, dust 
them a little with fine bread crumbs, put on each a little 
butter and chopped parsley kneaded together, and place 
them on a gridiron ; set it on a good fire, watch care- 
fully, and as soon as you see any of them beginning to 
boil, take off, and serve. 

FRIED. 

Wash, open, and boil them one minute as above ; take 
off and drain them. Put an ounce of butter for each dozen 
of oysters in a frying pan ; when the butter is hot, dip the 
oysters in milk or in paste for frying, and lay in the pan 
with a little chopped parsley ; it hardly takes one minute 
to fry them ; place them on a dish, with or without the 
shells, sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice on them, and 
ser\#" 

If you serve them with the shells, put two oysters on a 
shell ; it is a sightly as well as a good dish. 

The shells that are to be served must be the largest 
ones, and well cleaned. 



FISH. 101 

STEWED. 

Oysters to stew are generally bought opened, and by 
tbe quart. Procure two quarts of good and fresh oysters, 
put the water coming from them in a stewpan, after hav- 
ing strained it, and set it on a good fire ; at the first boil- 
ing put the oysters in and boil them one minute, take out 
and put them in cold water one minute also, and drain 
them. 

Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter, set it on a 
good fire, and when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful 
of flour, same of chopped parsley ; add half a pint of broth, 
boil the whole to a sauce, and then put the oysters in, 
with salt and pepper; place them on a dish, strain the 
sauce on them, add a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar, 
and serve. 

Do not boil them longer than one minute. 

Another way is to put the oysters in the stewpan at 
the same time as the broth, boil about one minute, dish the 
oysters, strain the sauce on them, and serve with a few 
drops of lemon juice or vinegar. 

SHRIMPS. 

Wash well, put two quarts of them in a stewpan, with 
four onions cut in slices, two sprigs of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay leaf, two cloves, salt, pepper, half a pint of 
white wine, and two ounces of butter ; cover with water, 
and set on a good fire ; when properly cooked, drain, and 
serve warm with green parsley around. 



VEAL. 

Never buy too young veal. It is very easy to know 
it ; when too young, the bones are very tender, they are 
more like nerves than like bones ; the meat is glueish, and 
has little or no taste. 

Epicureans say that if a calf is killed before it is 
two months old, it is not fit for eating. We are of that 
opinion, although, perhaps, very few are allowed so long a 
life. We will therefore recommend our readers to beware 
buying too young veal ; many diseases, especially in chil- 
dren, come from eating it. 

When you broil or roast a piece of veal, baste often. 
Veal is better when a little overdone ; it is not good, and 
operates like a physic, if underdone. 

BLANQUETTE. {Also called Poulette.) 
Take two pounds of fillet, or loin, or rump of veal, 
which cut in square pieces, two inches in size, throw them 
in boiling water, with a little salt, for five minutes, and 
drain them. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size 
of an egg^ set it on a good fire, and when melted mix in 
it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring all the time, and when 
turning yellow pour gently and slowly in the pan, a pint 
of boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 



VEAL. 103 

and green onions, salt, pepper, six small white or red 
onions, two or three mushrooms, then the meat ; "boil 
gently ahout three hours, and serve. 

BREAST, STEWED. 

Cut in dice two ounces of bacon, put it in a stewpan 
and set on a good fire ; add two ounces of butter, and two 
onions cut in slices ; when melted, lay the breast in, turn 
it over and leave till of a golden color on both sides ; add 
then two small carrots cut in pieces, one teaspoonful of 
chopped green onions, three sprigs of parsley, half a turnip, 
salt, and pepper ; moisten with half a pint of warm water ; 
leave thus about three hours on a moderate fire. Strain 
the juice in a dish, put the meat on it, and serve. 

The pieces of carrots and of bacon may be served with 
the meat, if you choose. 

The same, with green peas. — Cut the breast in square 
pieces about two inches in size. Put in a stewpan a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, and set it on the fire ; when 
melted, mix in it a teaspoonful of flour, then lay the meat 
in, and wet with half a glass of broth, same of warm wa- 
ter, also two sprigs of parsley, salt, and pepper ; stir now 
and then. One hour after add green peas, and leave on 
the fire till the whole is cooked, when skim ofi" the fat on 
the surface, and serve. 

The same, roasted. — Chop fine a tablespoonful of pars- 
ley, a teaspoonful of shallots, same of green onions, a bay 
leaf, two sprigs of thyme, two or three mushrooms ; add 
pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg ; cover the bottom of a 
tureen with half of each, put on it a breast of veal well 
larded, cover with the other half of the seasoning, then 
pour gently on the whole two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil ; 
leave it thus four hours in winter, and two in summer. 
Take the breast after that time, place it on the spit with 



104 VEAL. 

the seasoning around, whicli you fix by the means of 
sheets of buttered paper. Place before a moderate fire, 
and when cooked, take off the paper, scrape off the sea- 
soning from the paper and meat, and leave the meat five 
minutes more before the fire, basting it all the time with 
melted butter. Put the seasoning which you have scraped 
from the paper and meat in a stew^an with two ounces of 
butter, kneaded with a teaspoonful of flour, salt, and pepper, 
also a little of the juice of the meat, and a tablespoonful 
of good vinegar ; set on the fire, stir now and then, and 
when of a proper thickness, turn on a dish, lay the breast 
on it, and serve. 

Another loay. — Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, and set it on the fire ; when melted, lay a 
breast of veal in, turn over, and when of a golden color on 
both sides, add salt, pepper, half a bay leaf, half a glass of 
water, cover the pan well, subdue the fire, and leave thus 
three hours. Take off the bay leaf, and serve the whole as 
it is. 

Another way, with onions. — Take a breast of veal, 
which cut in square pieces two inches in size ; then put in 
a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an Qgg, set it on a 
good fire ; when melted lay the meat in, stir now and then 
till of a golden color, when take the meat from the pan 
which you leave on the fire, and in which you add a table- 
spoonful of flour, little by little, keep stirring about five 
minutes ; add also half a pint of broth, same of warm 
water, one onion with a clove stuck in it, a bay leaf, two sprigs 
of thyme, two of parsley, a clove of garlic, a small carrot 
cut in two or three pieces, salt, and pepper, then the meat, 
and cover the pan. Half an hour after your meat is in, 
fry in butter in a frying pan, six small onions, which you 
also put in the stewpan as soon as fried. When the whole 
is cooked, place the meat on a dish, strain the sauce on 



YEAL. 105 

it, surround the whole with the six small onions, and 
serve. 

The same in matelote. — Cut the breast in square pieces 
about two inches in size ; have in a stewpan and on a good 
fire, a piece of butter the size of an egg ; when melted, 
put the meat in, stir now and then till of a golden color ; 
then take the meat from the stewpan, which you leave on 
the fire, and in which you put half a pint of warm water, 
same of claret wine, same of broth, a bay leaf, two cloves, 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, salt, 
and pepper ; when turning brown, put the meat back in 
the pan, and fifteen minutes before it is cooked, add also 
ten small onions fried in butter beforehand, and four or five 
mushrooms ; then have a brisk fire to finish the cooking ; 
place the meat on a dish, strain the sauce on the meat, 
put the ten small onions around it, and serve. 

CUTLETS, BROILED. 

Butter the cutlets on both sides, place them on a grid- 
iron, the bars of which you have greased and warmed pre- 
viously ; set on a good fire, turn over two or three times, 
baste slightly while broiling with melted butter ; serve 
with a poivrade or piquante sauce when done, at the same 
time sprinkling some salt and pepper on them. 

Another way. — Flatten the cutlets with a chopper, dip 
them in lukewarm butter, and roll them in fine bread 
crumbs, so as to permit the crumbs to adhere to every part ; 
place them on a warm and greased gridiron, set it on a 
moderate fire, turn over and allow about fifteen minutes 
to each side for broiling ; serve, and at the same time 
sprinkle salt and pepper on them. 

The same in 2>apillotes. — Cut the cutlets rather thin ; 
chop fine one ounce of bacon, a teaspoonful of parsley, 
same of shallots, or green onions, two or three mushrooms 



106 VEAL. 

(if handy) ; knead the whole with bread crumbs, salt, and 
pepper. Spread that paste on both sides of the cutlets, 
which envelop in buttered paper ; place them on a grid- 
iron, the bars of which must be greased and warmed before, 
and on which you put a sheet of buttered paper, to prevent 
the burning of the paper surrounding the cutlets ; set on 
a slow fire for about fifty minutes, during which you turn 
them over two or three times. Serve them with the paper 
around, which paper is only taken off when on the plate, 
and by every guest. 

The same, with fines herhes. — Put in a stewpan, which 
set on a good fire, a piece of butter the size of an Qg^ ; 
when melted, add a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, and 
then the cutlets ; toss them over five minutes, sprinkling 
on, little by little, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
green onions, same of mushrooms ; keep tossing all the 
time. When cooked, take from the fire, add the juice of 
a lemon, place the cutlets on a dish, spread the sauce on 
them, and serve. 

FRICANDEAU. 

Take a good fillet of veal and lard it ; then put in a 
stewpan two ounces of bacon, cut in dice, four onions, two 
carrots cut in pieces, one sprig of thyme, two of parsley, a 
clove of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, salt, and pepper, 
then the fillet on the whole ; wet with a pint of broth, set 
on a good fire, and boil about three hours ; once in a while 
you baste the fillet with the sauce at the bottom of the 
stewpan while cooking, and in case the broth becomes too 
thick, add a little more of it. After that time take from 
the fire, place the fillet in a tureen, throw a few drops of 
cold water in the sauce, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, 
put it back in the stewpan with the meat, set on a brisk 
fire, turning over the fillet so as to have it of a nice color 



VEAL. 107 

* 

all around ; then pour the sauce on a dish with the fillet 
on it, and serve. 

The sauce may be mixed with a puree of sorrel, or 
with a tomato sauce if you choose. 

LOIX, STEWED. 

Take a good loin of veal and lard it, fasten it with twine 
or skewers. Have in a stewpan, and on a slow fire, three 
or four tablespoonfuls of sweet oil ; when hot put the loin 
in, turn it over till of a yellow color all around, then add 
a hay leaf, salt, pepper, and a pint of warm water ; simmer 
four hours, and serve with the following sauce, which you 
must have prepared at the same time. Fry in butter till 
of a golden color ten middling sized onions, then add to 
them half a glass of claret wine, two tablespoonfuls of 
broth, and two of the juice of the loin, ten mushrooms (if 
handy), simmer till cooked, and strain. Mix that sauce 
with the juice of the loin, and put it on a dish, place the 
loin upon it, and serve with the onions and mushrooms 
around the meat. 

In case the juice of the loin should be found too fat, 
throw in it (and before mixing it w^ith the sauce) a few 
drops of cold water, and skim off the fat. 

The only thing to throw away before mixing is the 
bay leaf. 

Tlie same, roasted. — Take a loin of veal, leave the kid- 
ney to it, sprinkle on it salt and pepper, roll and fix it 
with skewers so as to imitate a large sausage ; place it on 
the spit, surrounded with buttered paper, and when cooked 
take the paper ofi", leave five minutes more before the fire, 
baste with melted butter so as to give it a fine yellow 
color, and serve with an oil, poivrade, or piquante sauce. 

The same, vH(k a garniture of cabbages, — Put in a 
stewpan and set on a good fire a piece of butter the size 



108 VEAL. 

of an egg ; when melted, add four onions and two small 
carrots, cut in slices, fry them two or three minutes, then 
put the loin in, with half a bay leaf, wet with warm broth ; 
then subdue the fire, let simmer about two hours and a 
half; strain the sauce on a dish, place the meat on it, and 
serve with a garniture of cabbages around. 

ESCALOPS. 

Take a rump of veal and cut it in slices about three 
eighths of an inch in thickness, and which you cut again 
in round or square pieces ; flatten them with a chopper, 
glaze them with some yolks of eggs by the means of a 
pencil, dust them with bread crumbs, and lay them in a 
pan in which you have hot butter ; keep the pan on a good 
fire, add a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. When 
cooked, place them tastefully on a dish, so as to imi- 
tate a flight of stairs, add a few drops of lemon juice, and 
serve. 

They may also be served with a tomato sauce. 

EUMP, ROASTED. 

Lard it well, envelop it in buttered paper, and place it 
on the spit before a good fire, baste now and then with 
melted butter ; when properly cooked serve on a puree, 
or on a tomato sauce. 

SHOULDER, ROASTED. 

Butter well a shoulder of veal, place it on the spit be- 
fore a good fire, leave it about two hours, basting it once 
in a while, and serve with the gravy ; it is as good as it is 
simply done. 

Another ivay, — Take the bones from the shoulder, sprin- 
kle on it chopped parsley, grated nutmegs salt, and pepper, 
then tie it with twine, or fix it with skewers, so as to give 



VEAL. 109 

it the form of a sausage. Have in a stewpan and on a 
brisk fire a piece of butter the size of an egg, when hot 
lay the meat in, and when of a golden color all around, 
add a bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, two of parsley, a clove 
of garlic, four onions, two carrots cut in pieces, and half a 
pint of warm water ; then subdue the fire and boil gently 
about three hours ; strain the sauce on a dish, place the 
meat on it, and serve with the onions and carrots around. 

VEAL LEFT FOR THE NEXT DAY. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan 
and set on a good fire, mix in when melted two teaspoon- 
fuls of flour, stir till of a brownish color, when add a salt- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, four leaves of tarragon, salt, 
pepper, and half a pint of broth (more or less of the above 
according to the quantity of meat you have left), boil the 
whole fifteen minutes, then if what you have left is from 
an entire piece, cut it in slices, lay them in the pan, and 
serve when warm enough, as it is. 

If what you have left is in pieces or slices, you merely 
place them in the pan and serve with the sauce when 
warm. 

Another way. — All that is left from roasted pieces may 
be cut in slices and served cold with an oil or piquante 
sauce. 

CALF'S BRAIN. 

Hoio to prepare. — Soak it in lukewarm water and clean 
it well, so as to have it free from blood, fibres, and thin 
skin, then put it in cold water for twelve hours in winter 
and six in summer, and drain it. 

How to cook. — Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the 
size of two walnuts, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one 
glass of broth, half a one of white wine, set on the fire and 



110 VEAL. 

put two brains in the pan as soon as the butter is melted, 
boil gently till cooked, and serve. 

Another way. — Prepare the brain as above directed, 
then boil it gently ten or fifteen minutes in brown butter 
sauce, after which time serve it with fried parsley around. 

Atiother way. — Have butter in a stewpan and set it on 
the fire; when hot, sprinkle in and mix with a wooden 
spoon a tablespoonful of flour, add half a glass of claret 
wine, a glass of broth, salt, pepper, a little piece of nut- 
meg, eight small onions, and four or five mushrooms ; boil 
the whole an hour and ten minutes. Put two or three 
brains in the pan (after having prepared them as directed 
above), boil again ten or twelve minutes, take the brains 
off and lay them on a dish, strain the sauce in the pan on 
them, place the onions and mushrooms around, add then 
the juice of half a lemon beaten with two yolks of eggs, 
and serve. 

CALF'S EARS. 

Put them in cold water for one day in winter and 
eight hours in summer, changing the water twice ; place 
them in a stewpan and set it on the fire ; cover them with 
cold water and boil about ten minutes ; drain and clean 
them. Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in slices, 
two sprigs of parsley, a small green onion cut in slices, 
the quarter of a lemon cut in slices, two or three tarragon 
leaves, lay the ears on the whole, cover with half white 
wine and half broth, set on a good fire, boil gently nearly 
two hours ; take the ears ofi*, drain, and serve them on a 
piquante or ravigote sauce. 

CALF'S FEET. 

Throw them in boiling water for five minutes, split 
them in the middle and lengthwise after having taken off 



VEAL. Ill 

the large bone and hair, and tie them with a string. Put 
a piece of butter the size of two walnuts in a stewpan and 
set it on the fire, when melted add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and green onions, half of each, a quarter of a lemon 
cut in slices, salt, and pepper, then the feet ; wet with a 
glass of warm water ; boil gently two or three hours, take 
from the fire and when nearly cold dip them in bread 
crumbs, place them on a gridiron and set on a good fire, 
baste slightly with the juice in which they have cooked, 
and serve with fried parsley around. 

The same, in poulette. — Prepare and cook them as 
above. When you take them from the fire, instead of 
dipping them in bread crumbs, put them in a poulette 
sauce, simmer ten minutes, and serve. 

CALF'S HEAD. 

How to lorepare. — When the hair is ofi" and the whole 
head well cleaned (this is generally done by butchers, but 
if not, throw the head in boiling water for five minutes 
and scrape the hair off with a knife immediately after 
taking it from the water), put it in water for twenty-four 
hours in winter and ten in summer, changing the water 
three times ; then take the bones out, cut it in pieces about 
two inches in size, leave the ears and brain entire, clean 
well, so as to have it free from blood, hair or bones, place 
it in a stewpan, cover with cold water and set on a good 
fire, boil ten minutes, and take from the fire, throw the 
pieces in cold water for about ten minutes, and drain them. 

Hoiu to cook. — After it is cleaned and prepared as 
directed above, you put in a stewpan four ounces of lard, 
as much of bacon cut in dice, four onions, two parsnips, 
one carrot cut in pieces, three cloves, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, two cloves of garlic, two bay leaves, the 
juice of half a lemon, and set on a brisk fire. Five 



112 VEAL. 

minutes after, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, sprinkling 
it little by little and stirring continually ; when it turns . 
yellow, add also a pint of warm %vater and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar. Then rub the pieces of head with a lemon, 
tie them in a towel and put them in the stewpan ; twenty 
minutes after subdue the fire, let simmer about three 
hours, and serve on a dish with the following sauce in 
a saucer: sweet oil three or four tablespoonfuls, vinegar 
two tablespoonfuls, salt, pepper, three sprigs of chervils, 
three of parsley, and five or six leaves of tarragon, these 
last three chopped fine. 

It may also be cooked in the same way entire, after 
having taken out the jaw bones only. 

The sarne, in poulette. — When prepared and cooked as 
above directed, you cut it in pieces and put them in a 
poulette sauce and set on the fire ; simmer for ten minutes, 
and serve. 

If any is left for the next day, if in poulette, you 
merely warm and serve it ; if in another way, serve it cold 
with the sauce described above. 

CALF'S KIDXEYS. 
Cut the kidneys in fiUets after having split them in 
two and having cut ofi the nerves which are inside. Put 
a piece of butter the size of half an Qgg in a frying pan 
and set on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, stirring with a wooden spoon the while, add 
half a wine glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of broth, 
a pinch of chopped parsley, salt and pepper, boil ten 
minutes and lay the fillets in ; have a quick fire and as soon 
as cooked dish them, spread the sauce over, sprinkle on a 
few drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

CALFS LIGHTS. 
Cut them in four pieces, soak and wash them three or 



VEAL. 113 

four times in lukewarm water, changing the water each 
time ; press them with the hands to extract all the blood. 
Place the lights in a stewpan, cover them with cold water, 
and set on a good fire ; boil two minutes, take them' ofi^, 
throw them in cold water, and drain them ; cut the lights 
in dice. Have butter in a stewpan on the fire, and when 
melted, lay the lights in, fry five minutes, keeping them 
tossed the while, then sprinkle on a tablespoonful of flour, 
stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; pour on, little 
by little, about a pint of warm broth, also a saltspoonful 
of chopped parsley, a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, a bay 
leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; have a brisk fire, and when 
about half done, add four or five mushrooms, and eight 
small onions. When the whole is cooked, take ofi" bay 
leaf and thyme, then take from the fire, beat two yolks of 
eggs with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and mix with the 
whole, turn on a dish, and serve. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

How to 2orepare. — Have water, with a little salt, on the 
fire, and at the first boiling, throw the liver in for about 
five minutes, and drain it. 

How to imjorove the liver before cooTcing it. — Put in a 
tureen two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a bay leaf broken in 
four pieces, two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley chopped 
fine, a green onion also chopped fine, salt, and pepper ; lay 
the liver on the whole, and leave it from four to six hours, 
turning it over two or three times. 

How to cooTc, roasted. — Envelop the liver with but- 
tered paper, place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
often with the oil from the tureen, after having taken ofif 
bay leaf and thyme. A few minutes before it is done, 
take the paper ofi", baste continually with the drippings till 
well cooked, and serve it with the gravy. 



114 VEAL. 

It may also be served with a piquante or poivrade sauce. 

It takes from thirty-five to forty-five minutes to 
roast it. 

The same, saute. — Put two ounces of butter in a frying 
pan, and set it on a sharp fire ; when melted, add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and green onions, then the 
liver cut in slices (after having been prepared as above) ; 
sprinkle on a saltspoonful of flour, then half a wine glass 
of warm broth, same of claret wine, salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of allspice ; serve when done. 

It takes only from ten to twelve minutes for the whole 
process. 

The sajne, in the oven. — Put two ounces of butter in a 
frying pan on a sharp fire ; when hot, put the liver in 
(after having been boiled as directed above, and after having 
cut it in pieces) ; fry it five minutes, turning over once 
only ; then take from the fire, salt both sides of the slices, 
place them on a warm dish, putting on each slice a little 
butter kneaded with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; put 
two or three minutes in a warm oven, take ofi*, sprinkle on 
the whole the juice of half a lemon, and serve in the dish 
in which it has cooked. 

The same, stewed. — Boil the liver as directed above, 
and when drained and cold, lard it well. Have but- 
ter in a frying pan on a brisk fire ; when hot, put the 
liver in for about five minutes, turning it over on every 
side. Have in a stewpan four ounces of bacon cut in dice ; 
set it on a good fire, and when hot, lay the liver in ; then 
add a glass of warm broth, same of white wine, a bay leaf, 
a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, a clove of garlic, two 
cloves, and a small carrot cut in two ; cover the stewpan, 
subdue the fire, and let simmer three hours ; stir now and 
then, place the liver on a dish, strain the sauce on it, and 
serve. 



VEAL. 115 

CALF'S PLUCK. 

Put the pluck in cold water for twelve hours in winter 
and four in summer ; change the water once, drain, and 
throw it in boiling water for ten or fifteen minutes ; take 
off and throw in cold water to cool, and drain it. Cut 
the pluck in pieces, and cook it like calf's head, and 
serve with the same sauce. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water for an hour, 
changing the water once ; then throw in boiling water for 
five minutes, take off, throw it in cold water to cool, and 
then drain it. Lard and cook the sweetbreads like a fri- 
candeau, and serve it on a tomato sauce. 

Another way. — Prepare as above directed ; then, in- 
stead of larding it, you knead well together two ounces 
of butter, a teaspoonful of shallots and parsley well 
chopped, half a clove of garlic, salt, and pepper; place 
the whole in a stewpan, with the sweetbreads on it, and 
thin slices of bacon on the sweetbreads ; set the pan on a 
good fire, and add then half a glass of broth, same of 
white wine ; simmer till cooked ; dish the sweetbreads, 
throw a few drops of cold water in the sauce, skim off the 
fat, strain the sauce on the sweetbreads, and serve. 

CALF'S TAIL, WITH CABBAGE. 

Take two tails, cut each in two, throw them in boiling 
water for three minutes, and drain. Cut a cabbage in 
two, trim off the stump, throw the two halves in boiling 
water, with a little salt, for fifteen minutes, and drain it. 
Put in a tureen the tails, cabbage, six ounces of lean ba- 
con, two sprigs of parsley chopped fine, same quantity of 
green onions, two cloves, a little piece of nutmeg, a clove 



116 VEAL. 

of garlic, salt, and pepper ; cover the whole with half 
broth and half water, and boil gently till cooked. Then 
take oflf cloves, nutmeg, and garlic, turn the remainder 
on a dish, and serve. 

CALF'S TONGUE. 

Prepare, cook, and serve it as ox tongue. 



MUTTOK 

HOW TO SELECT. 

You may be sure that it is good when the flesh is rath- 
er black, and the fat white ; if the fat breaks easily it is 
young. 

The wether is much superior to the ewe. 

You will know if a leg of mutton comes from a wether, 
if there is a large and hard piece of fat on one side at the 
larger and upper end ; if from a ewe, that part is merely 
a kind of skin, with a little fat on it. 

BREAST OF MUTTON IN THE OVEN. 

Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon, cut in slices ; 
cut the breast in square pieces, two inches in size, and lay 
them over the bacon ; cover again with slices of bacon (two 
ounces) ; add a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, 
six small onions, one carrot cut in four pieces, salt, and 
pepper; wet with a glass of broth, place the pan in a 
moderately heated oven, simmer about three hours, and 
serve, after you have taken off bay leaf, thyme, and 
parsley. 

The same^ broiled. — Put the breast entire in a stew- 
pan, with a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, a bay leaf, a 
clove, salt, and pepper ; cover with water, set on the fire, 



118 MUTTON. 

and boil gently till cooked, and then drain. Put in a 
frying pan three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; when hot lay the 
breast in and fry it all around for five minutes ; then take 
it off, roll it in bread crumbs, place it on a gridiron, and 
set on a good fire for five minutes, turn it over once only, 
then serve it with a piquante, poivrade, or tomato sauce. 

It may also be served on a puree of sorrel. 

The same, roasted. — Prepare the breast as in the re- 
ceipt above ; instead of frying it, you rub it with but- 
ter all around, and place it on the spit, before a good fire ; 
baste often with lukewarm butter at first, and with the 
drippings afterward ; leave thus from ten to fifteen min- 
utes, and serve with a piquante or poivrade sauce. 

CHOPS, BROILED. 

Flatten the chops with a chopper, sprinkle salt and 
pepper on both sides, dip them in melted butter, place 
them on the gridiron, and set on a sharp fire (have the 
bars of the gridiron greased and warmed before putting 
the chops on it), turn over two or three times, and when 
done, serve them tastefully arranged on a dish. 

It takes from twelve to fifteen minutes to cook. 

Another way. — Flatten them with a chopper, sprinkle 
salt and pepper on both sides, dip in melted butter, and 
roll them in bread crumbs ; place on the gridiron, set on a 
sharp fire, turn over two or three times, and when done, 
serve them with a maitre-d'-hotel sauce, or with a little of 
melted butter and chopped parsley. 

It takes about twelve minutes to cook them. 

The same, sautees, — After you have flattened the chops 
with a chopper, put in a stewpan a piece of butter and set it 
on a slow fire ; lay the chops in as soon as it begins to melt ; 
leave them thus till cooked, turning them over two or three 



MUTTON. 119 

times. Take the chops from the pan and put them in a 
warm place. Leave in the pan only a tablespoonful of 
grease, add to it three times as much of broth, a tea- 
spoonful of parsley and green onions, two shallots, and two 
pickled cucumbers, all chopped fine, and a pinch of allspice ; 
give one boil, pour the whole on the chops, also the juice 
of half ^ lemon, and serve. 

The same, with vegetables. — Put in a frying pan a piece 
of butter the size of two walnuts for four chops, set on a 
good fire, and when hot lay the chops in, after having flat- 
tened them with a chopper, and having sprinkled salt and 
pepper on both sides ; add a clove, and a teaspoonf al of chop- 
ped parsley and green onions ; leave thus five minutes, turn 
over once or twice ; then add also half a wine glass of 
broth, same of white wine, and finish the cooking. Take 
the chops off the pan and put them in a warm place. 
Boil the sauce in the pan ten minutes, turn it on the 
chops, put a garniture of vegetables around, and serve. 

Throw away the clove just before serving. 

Another way. — Have a piece of butter the size of an 
Qgg for eight chops in a crockery vessel, and set it on a 
good fire ; when melted take from the fire, lay the chops 
in, after having flattened them ; then cover them with a 
sheet of buttered paper ; place the vessel in a rather hot 
oven, and when cooked serve them on a maitre-d'hotel, 
provengale, or tomato sauce. They may also be served on 
a puree of sorrel, or one of potatoes. 

The same, in papillote. — Cut the chops rather thin, 
beat them gently and flatten them ; then proceed as for 
veal cutlets in papillotes in every particular. 

FILLET, ROASTED. 

Lard well a good fillet of mutton, place it on the spit 
before a good fire, baste often, and when cooked, serve it 



120 MUTTON. 

on a garniture of vegetables, or one of cabbage, or on a 
puree of potatoes. 

LEG OF MUTTON". {See above how to select.) 

Hoiu to prepare and improve it. — To be tender and ex- 
quisite, keep it from four to eight days in winter, and 
from two to four in summer, according to the heat ; then 
place it in a tureen, with one saltspoonful of pepper, one 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil, the whole spread all over'; leave thus one day 
in winter, and from six to twelve hours in summer. 

This process improves it very much. 

BOILED. 

Take the leg of mutton and dust it with flour all 
around (after having been prepared as directed above, if 
you have chosen so to do), envelop it in a clean towel 
after having bent the smaller bone, throw it thus in boil- 
ing water, with a little salt, pepper, a bay leaf, two sprigs 
of thyme, two of sweet basil, and a pinch of scraped nut- 
meg ; move it gently now and then with a wooden spoon, 
and when properly cooked, serve it on a white or caper 
sauce. 

The same, roasted. — Improve it as above directed, if 
you choose. 

Place it on the spit before a sharp fire, baste often with 
sweet oil or melted butter at first, and afterward with the 
drippings, and when cooked, serve it with the gravy only, 
or with white kidney beans cooked in water, and fried five 
minutes in butter. 

It will take about one hour and a half to cook it well. 

Many persons lard the leg of mutton with fillets of 
garlic. (See what we say about garlics.) 



MUTTON. 121 

The same, stewed. — Prepare and improve it if it suits 

you. 

Take the large bone out, leaving the bone at the smaller 
end as a handle ; cut off also the bone below the knuckle, 
and fix it with skewers ; then put it in a stewpan with a 
pinch of allspice, four onions, two cloves, two carrots cut 
in four pieces each, a small bunch of parsley, two bay 
leaves, three sprigs of thyme, salt, pepper, two ounces of 
bacon cut in slices, a quarter of a pint of broth, and water 
enough just to cover it ; set on a good fire, and after one 
hour of boiling add a liquor glass of French brandy. Let 
simmer then for about five hours, in all about six hours ; 
then dish it, strain the sauce on it, and serve. 

We would advise those who have never tasted of a leg 
of mutton cooked as above, to try it. 

It may be served also with white beans cooked in wa- 
ter and fried in butter, or on fried potatoes. 

The next day. — If you have a piece left for the next 
day, cut it in thin slices after dinner, place the slices on a 
dish, with parsley under, in the middle, and above, and 
keep in a cold place. 

A while before dinner you put in a stewpan a piece of 
butter (the quantity to be according to the quantity of 
meat), and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in, 
gradually, a little flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; 
when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish color, add 
a glass of broth, salt, pepper, a few pickled cucumbers cut 
in slices, and two or three mushrooms ; boil ten minutes ; 
lay the slices of meat in, subdue the fire, simmer twenty 
minutes, and serve. 

The same, in another way. — Chop fine the slices of leg 

of mutton, put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and set it 

on the fire ; when melted, place the chopped meat in, keep 

stirring with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes ; then 

6 



122 MUTTON. 



add two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of allspice ; simmer fifteen minutes, and serve 
with fried eggs all around the dish. 

/ SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Prepare, cook, and serve the saddle in the same ways 
as the leg, only you keep it two days instead of four. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 
Proceed as for leg of mutton in every particular. 

SHEEP'S BRAIN. 
Prepare, cook, and serve as calfs brain. 

SHEEP'S FEET, BROILED. 

Throw them in boiling water for ten minutes, clean 
them and scrape off the hair, and take the large bone out. 
Put in a stewpan a bay leaf, one clove, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, a clove of garlic, two si)rigs of parsley, two green 
onions, salt, pepper, a piece of butter the size of two wal- 
nuts, half a pint of broth, then a dozen of feet on the 
whole ; set on a slow fire, simmer one hour, stir now and 
then, take from the fire and let cool. Then dip every 
foot in well beaten eggs, roll them in bread crumbs after- 
ward, place them on a gridiron, and when properly broiled 
serve them with the sauce in which they have been cooked, 
after having strained it. They may also be served on a 
piquante sauce. 

The same, in 2^oulette. — Prepare and clean as directed 
above. Put in a stewpan four ounces of lard, same of bacon 
cut in dice, salt, and white pepper ; when warm, add three 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, one clove, four 
onions,' and one carrot cut in slices, a quarter of a lemon also 
cut in slices, and free from rind and seed, two tablespoonfuls 



MT7TT0N. 123 

of flour ; this last must be added by sprinkling it little by 
little, and stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; five 
minutes after, place the feet in, cover the whole with warm 
water, and let simmer gently for five or six hours. After 
that time see if the meat can be easily detached from the 
bones, and if so, they are cooked ; if not, leave them a 
little longer, and take from the fire as soon as it is easily 
detached, but do not detach it. Put in a stewpan a piece 
of butter the size of two walnuts ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it a tablespoonful of flour, stir with a wooden spoon, 
then put the feet in, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
and green onions, a little piece of nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
and two or three mushrooms cut in slices or pieces ; wet 
with broth ; simmer half an hour, take from the fire, and 
throw away the piece of nutmeg ; mix with the whole two 
yolks of eggs well beaten with a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and serve. 

SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, BROILED. 

Split them in two, and put them in cold water for five 
minutes ; trim off* the pellicle or thin skin, run a skewer 
through, sprinkle salt and pepper on, place them on the grid- 
iron and set on a good fire ; turn over, and when broiled, 
serve them with a piece of butter and chopped parsley 
kneaded together, and placed on each kidney ; add also a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

You may also, when broiled, serve them on a maitre- 
d'hotel sauce. 

The same, in brochette. — Proceed as above in every par- 
ticular, except that you place the kidneys on the spit in- 
stead of on the gridiron. Serve them in the same way. 

The same, with champagne. — Cut the kidneys in slices, 
each in ten or twelve pieces. Put in a stewpan a piece of 
butter the size of two walnuts, and set it on the fire ; when 



124 MUTTON. 

melted, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, same of 
mushrooms, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and 
the kidneys ; keep tossing till they become stiff, then 
sprinkle on them a saltspoonful of flour, stirring ^vith a 
wooden spoon the while ; add also a wine glass of cham- 
pagne, or of good white wine ; subdue the fire, and let 
simmer till cooked ; take from the fire, add about one 
ounce of fresh butter, and the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve. 

This is a very delicate dish. 

SHEEP'S TAILS. 
Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in slices, with 
a bay leaf, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one clove, 
six small onions, one carrot cut in four pieces, then about 
six tails ; cover the whole wdth broth and white wine, half 
of each ; add salt and pepper. Place the pan in a moder- 
ately heated oven ; it will take about four hours to cook 
them. After that time, take the tails from the pan, 
and put them in a warm place, then strain the sauce in 
which they have cooked, skim off the fat if too much of 
it, put the sauce back in the pan, and set on the fire ; let 
it reduce till rather thick, place the tails on a puree, turn 
the sauce on them, and serve. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES. 

Soak the tongues in cold water for two hours in winter, 
and one in summer, and drain. Throw them in boiling 
Avater, and leave till you can easily take the skin off; then 
skin and clean well, split in two lengthwise, and let cool. 
Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in thin slices, a 
bay leaf, two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley, two cloves, 
three green onions and six small red or white ones, one car- 
rot cut in four pieces, salt and pepper, then the tongues ; 



MUTTON. 125 

add also half a pint of broth, same of water, same of white 
wine ; set in a moderately heated oven, and simmer about 
four hours ; have the stewpan covered as nearly air-tight 
as possible. Then take the tongues from the pan and drain 
them ; knead well together two ounces of fresh butter, 
with two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little salt and 
allspice ; spread some on each of the tongues as soon as 
they are cold; envelop each in oiled paper, broil them 
gently on a slow fire, and serve with the paper. 

You may also when prepared and cooked as above di- 
rected, and instead of broiling them, place a pur6e on a 
dish, and serve them on a puree, pouring on the whole the 
sauce in which they have cooked, and straining it at the 
same time. 

They are really more delicate when broiled. 



LAMB 



CHOPS. 



Prepare, cook, and serve them in tlie same ways as 
mutton chops. 

FORE QUARTER. 

According to many epicureans' opinions the fore quar- 
ter is the best part of the lamb, but, as we have said pre- 
viously, every one to his liking. 

Lard it slightly, and envelop it with buttered paper, 
place it upon the spit before a good fire ; when done take 
from the fire, and take the paper off', sprinkle on it salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley ; put back on the spit before 
a sharp fire, just long enough to allow it to take a fine 
color ; when take off", run a knife under the shoulder to 
make a small hole, pour some maitre-d'hotel sauce in it, 
and serve either as it is, with its gravy, or on a puree of 
sorrel. 

HIND QUARTER. 

Throw it in boiling water for five minutes, and drain. 
Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
set on the fire ; when melted, mix in it a tablespoonful of 
flour; after which, pour in, little by little, a pint and a 
half of boiling water, stirring with a wooden spoon all the 



LAMB. 127 

time ; then put the meat in the pan, add four onions, a 
bay leaf, two cloves, three sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, 
salt, and pepper ; about fifteen minutes before it is done, 
add two or three mushrooms cut in slices, take from the 
fire when cooked, place the meat on a dish with the mush- 
rooms and onions around, or if preferred, without either ; 
strain the sauce on the meat, and serve. 

If the sauce is not thick enough, mix the yolk of an 
egg in it just before serving. 

ROASTED ENTIRE. 

Skewer a lamb properly on the spit, envelop it with 
buttered paper, place before a good fire, baste often with 
melted butter first, and then with the drippings, and when 
nearly done take the paper off, let the lamb take a fine 
color all around, and serve it with the gravy. 

■L^fi for the next day. — If you have any left from the 
dinner, be it either from the fore quarter, hind quarter, or 
from an entire piece, cut the meat in slices, place them in 
a bechamel sauce, and in a stewpan, set on the fire, let 
simmer fifteen minutes, and serve. 

LAMB^S FEET. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like sheep's feet. 

LAMB'S HEAD. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like calf's head. 

KID. 
Prepare, cook, and serve kid like lamb. 



POEK. 

HOW TO SELECT. 

When the rind of the bacon is tender and thin, the 
pork is young ; when thick and hard, it is old. 

To be good, the meat must be soft and have a fresh 
and good appearance. 

We do not think it necessary to indicate here how to 
make black puddings, chitterlings, headcheese, Bologna, 
or other sausages. It is nearly, if not quite impossible, 
for a person having no practice in it to make them edible ; 
it is better to buy them ready made at pork butchers' shops, 
or to hire an experienced person to make them. 

CHINE. 

Take a good chine of pork, place it on the spit before 
a sharp fire, baste often with a little melted butter first, 
and then with the drippings ; when properly cooked, serve 
it with an oil, piquante, or poivrade sauce. It will take 
from two to three or four hours to roast, according to the 
size of the chine. 

HOW TO IMPROVE THE CHINE OF PORK. 
Place it in a crockery vessel, pour on it two table- 



POEK. 129 

spoonfuls of sweet oil, then sprinkle on two teaspoonfuls 
of chopped parsley, also salt and pepper, two onions 
chopped fine, four cloves, and two bay leaves ; leave thus 
twenty-four hours in winter, and ten in summer, turning 
over two or three times. The taste of the meat is much 
improved by that process. The oil may be used for bast- 
ing instead of butter. 

CUTLETS. 

Flatten the cutlets with a chopper (they may be im- 
proved in the same way as the chine), place them on the 
gridiron and set on a sharp fire ; turn over two or three 
times, and when properly done, serve them with a piquante, 
Kobert, or tomato sauce, adding to them some slices of 
pickled cucumbers just before* serving. 

The same, sautees. — Instead of broiling them, when 
prepared as above, place them in a frying pan with a little 
butter, turn over two or three times during the cooking, 
and serve as the above. 



LEG, ROASTED. 

How to improve it. — Take the skin gently off, put the 
leg in a crockery vessel, pour on it the following mixture : 
a pint of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a 
bunch of sage, salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. 
Leave it thus two days in winter and one in summer, turn- 
ing it over two or three times during the process. 

Place the leg on the spit and put before a very sharp 
fire, baste often with the mixture from the crockery vessel, 
or with melted butter, and serve when cooked, with the 
gravy strained. 

It will take about two or two and a half hours to 
roast it. 

6* 



130 PORK. 

OTHER PARTS. 

Any other piece of pork may be cooked and served like 
the chine. 

HAM. 

Hoio to prepare. — Sugar-cured are preferred to others. 
Scrape off the outside gently, soak in cold water for two 
days in winter and about one in summer, changing the water 
twice ; then take it off, and hang it in a cool and dry place, 
to allow the water in or around it to drop. 

Boiled. — Envelop the ham in a towel and sew or tie 
it ; place it in a kettle large enough to hold it without 
bending it ; add eight small onions, two carrots, four cloves, 
two bay leaves, a small bunch of thyme, two cloves of gar- 
lic, a bunch of parsley, a pint of white wine and a handful 
of hay ; cover with water, boil gently for about four or five 
hours, according to the size (pay no regard to the old 
saying that " it takes half an hour to every pound ") ; take 
the kettle from the fire, and when nearly cold take the 
ham off, and hang it for a while to allow the water to drop. 

Just before serving the ham, you skin it nicely within 
two inches of the smaller end, so as to give the fat a nice 
appearance* sift on it some fine raspings of bread, and 
serve with jelly around ; it is as wholesome as it is sightly. 

In case you would serve it warm, skin it as soon as 
cooked, and immediately after serve it on a garniture of 
vegetables or of cabbage. 

The bone at the larger end may be taken off. 

The same, roasted. — Prepare the ham as above di- 
rected, and when nearly dry, place it in a crockery vessel ; 
place on and all around it four onions chopped fine, two 
bay leaves, two sprigs of thyme, a piece of nutmeg, and 
pour on the whole a bottle of white wine ; cover the vessel 
air-tight, leave it thus twenty-four hours, turning it over two 



PORK. 131 

or three times, so as to let every side take the seasonings. 
Place the ham on the spit before a good fire, baste often 
with the seasonings from the crockery vessel, and when 
done take it off, dust it with fine raspings of bread, place 
it fifteen minutes in a slow oven, strain the drippings, boil 
them till reduced to a proper thickness, dish the ham, pour 
the drippings on it, and serve. 

SALTED POKE. 

The best and only proper way to cook salted pork, is, 
to put it in a kettle, entirely cover it with cold water, boil 
gently till cooked, and serve it with a puree or with a gar- 
niture of cabbage. Anything else that you might put 
with it would rather spoil than better it. 

PIG'S EARS. 

How to prepare. — Soak them in warm water for a few- 
minutes, then wash and clean them well, and scrape the 
hair ofi', if any. 

Boiled. — ^When prepared, you throw them in boiling 
water for two minutes and take from the fire ; add four 
onions for four ears, one carrot, salt and pepper ; leave just 
water enough to cover the whole, and when cooked, drain. 
Serve them on a puree of beans or of lentils. 

The same, broiled. — When cleaned, prepared, and 
cooked as above, just dip them in beaten eggs, roll them 
in bread crumbs, place on the gridiron and on the fire, and 
broil for about two or three minutes ; then serve them with 
a maitre-d'hotel sauce. 

PIG'S FEET. 

Split in two lengthwise and soak in lukewarm water 
for a few minutes, six feet ; envelop each in a piece of 
linen well tied or sewed, place them in a kettle or stew- 
pan, with four small onions, four sprigs of parsley, two of 



132 POEK. 

thyme, two of sweet basil, two bay leaves, two cloves of 

garlic, two cloves, two small carrots cut in pieces, salt, 

pepper, and half a pint of white wine ; cover with cold 

water, simmer about six hours, skim them properly, fill 

with boiling water so as to have them covered all the time ; 

take from the fire when cooked, and when nearly cool, 

take the feet from the kettle, untie them, throw away the 

linen, and let them cool. Dip each in melted butter or in 

sweet oil, roll in bread crumbs, and place on a gridiron 

and on a good fire ; serve them as they are, when properly 

broiled. 

PIG'S HEAD. 

Soak in water and clean it well ; take all the bones out, 
put inside of it a little fresh bacon and pork, salt, pepper, 
six chopped onions, two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, 
half a saltspoonful of allspice, two bay leaves, two sprigs 
of thyme, a little sage and the juice of half a lemon ; lay 
it in a crockery vessel for from four to six days. Envelop 
the head in a towel, place it in a kettle with eight small 
onions, two carrots cut in pieces, salt, pepper, four sprigs 
of parsley, four of thyme, four bay leaves, two cloves, and 
a pint of white wine, cover with water, set on the fire, 
and simmer from six to eight hours ; take from the fire and 
drain, take the towel off and drain again till dry and cold. 
Serve it with sprigs of green parsley around. 

The broth in which it has cooked makes a good soup. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like sheep's kidneys. 

PIG'S TAIL. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like pig's ears. 

PIG'S TONGUE, 
Prepare, cook, and serve like ox tongue. 



POEK. 133 

SUCKING PIG (also Hedgehog). 

A sucking pig, to be good, must be fat. 

When -properly cleaned, hoofs ofif, clean the inside, 
leaving the kidneys ; skewer it, put in it half a pound of 
butter kneaded with chopped parsley and green onions, 
four or five mushrooms, and two white onions with a clove 
stuck in each ; place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
often with melted butter first, and then with the drippings, 
and when done, serve on an oil sauce. 

Some truffles may be added to the seasoning if handy ; 
it gives it a good taste. 

WILD BOAR. 
Prepare, cook, and serve every part of the wild boar as 
the same parts of pork ; also the same for the ears, i, e.j 
like pig^s ears, etc. 



POULTKY. 

Chickens, ducks, and turkeys must be killed not less 
than twenty-four hours, and not more than three days, in 
summer, and not less than two days, and not more than 
six days in winter, before cooking them. 

Chickens, ducks, geese, and turkeys, when placed on 
the spit, must be put very near the fire first, and removed 
a little from it after a while. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND PREPARE. 

. When well picked, have live charcoal, or, if more handy, 
light some fine shavings or some paper under a chimney ; 
pass the bird over the flame without stopping, so as to 
burn the fine feathers or down left after being picked, and 
without burning the skin. Cut the neck off" as near the 
body as possible, leaving skin enough to cover the place 
where the neck has been cut ; after which cut a hole right 
under the rump, and large enough to run two fingers in- 
side, and with which you detach the inside, gizzard etc. 
(everything except the lungs) ; be very careful not to break 
the gall-bladder ; pull the whole out ; wash the inside with 
lukewarm water, and wipe dry with a clean towel. If there 
should be anything unclean on the outside, wipe it off with 
a towel, but do not wash it, except if very necessary, and 
trim off the ends of the wings. 



POULTET. 135 

CAPON, BOILED. 

Clean and prepare as directed above ; rub the fleshy- 
part with lemon, envelop it with slices of bacon, place it 
in a stewpan with one sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a 
bay leaf, one clove, a small carrot, two onions, salt and 
pepper ; cover with half w^ater and half broth, and set on 
a moderate fire. When cooked, take the capon off", place 
it on a dish, and set it in a warm place ; then boil the 
sauce till it is rather thick, when strain it on the capon and 
serve. 

The same, with rice. — When cleaned and prepared as 
above, you place the capon in a stewpan, cover it with 
"water, add one glass of broth, a bay leaf, one clove, a sprig 
of parsley, one of thyme, a small carrot, tw^o onions, salt, 
and pepper ; boil ten minutes, then add also about four 
ounces of rice, soaked in lukewarm water before using it, 
and let simmer for two hours. Take the capon off", and in 
case the rice should not be found to be cooked enough, 
finish the cooking of it ; then take off" clove, parsley, thyme, 
bay leaf, carrot and onions, pour the remainder on the 
capon, and serve. 

ROASTED. 




When trussed as seen above, and after you have cleaned 
and prepared it as we have directed, you envelop it with 
thin slices of bacon ; place it on the spit before a good fire, 
baste often with the drippings, and after about thirty 
minutes, take the slices of bacon off", leave five minutes 



136 POULTRY. 

longer, basting all the time, then take off and serve with 
the gravy ; you may also add a little watercr esses and 

vinegar. 

CHICKEXS. 

How to select. — Take a chicken with white flesh and 
pale yellow fat. 

You know if young : the cock by his small spurs, the 
hen by the lower part of the leg and paws, which must be 
rather soft and smooth ; these parts are rough in old ones. 

If the rump is hard and stiff, they are fresh enough, 
but if soft, it is necessary to examine the bird carefully ; 
it might be tainted. 

SPRING CHICKEXS, AND OTHERS UNDER TWO YEARS OF 

AGE. 

Broiled. — Clean and prepare as directed for poultry. 
Put in a bowl two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, two onions 
cut in slices, two sprigs of parsley chopped fine, three 
cloves, salt, pepper, and a pinch of allspice ; mix well to- 
gether, spread the whole around the chicken, and fasten 
it with buttered paper, which you fix with twine. Place 
the chicken on the gridiron, set it on a moderate fire, turn 
over so as to have every part well cooked, then take the 
paper off, also the seasoning, such as onions, cloves, etc., 
and serve it on a ravigote sauce. It takes from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes to broil properly. 

Another way. — (See directions for cleaning and pre- 
paring.) Split the back of the chicken open, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and a little chopped parsley all over ; envelop it 
with oiled paper, broil as the above, and serve with an oil, 
piquante or poivrade sauce. 

The same, in fricassee. — When cleaned and prepared as 
directed, cut each leg and wing in two, just at the joint ; 
cut the back in two, the stomach makes one piece, and all, 



POULTET. 137 

with the gizzard and neck, make thirteen pieces. Throw 
the pieces and a pinch of salt in boiling water, for one or 
two minutes, take off and drain them. Put in a stewpan 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set on the fire ; 
when melted, sprinkle in little by little, a tablespoonful 
of flour, keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and when 
of a proper thickness, and of a brownish color, add a gill 
of broth, same of water, two sprigs of parsley, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, four small onions, salt, pepper, and then 
the chicken ; half an hour after add also two or three 
mushrooms cut in pieces. It will take from one hour to 
one hour and a half to cook it. Dish the pieces in the fol- 
lowing order : the neck and gizzard with the fore part of 
the back, and the low part of the legs in the middle ; 
then one leg on each side of the dish, with one wing be- 
side each, then the stomach and hind part of the back, 
and lastly the ends of the wings at the top ; strain the sauce 
on the whole after having mixed in it two well beaten yolks 
of eggs, and a few drops of lemon juice ; spread on the 
whole the pieces of mushrooms, and serve. 

Another wai/. — After having cleaned and prepared the 
chicken, cut it in thirteen pieces as the above. Put a 
piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, and set on 
a good fire ; when melted, put the chicken in and fry it 
well ; it takes six or eight minutes ; then take the pieces 
out, sprinkle a teaspoonful of flour in the pan, stirring the 
while, and immediately add half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, two or three mushrooms cut in slices, salt, pepper ; 
two or three minutes after add also two gills of white wine ; 
then have a brisk fire, and boil till reduced ; subdue the 
fire, put the chicken back in the pan, simmer two or three 
minutes, and serve the pieces placed on the dish as in the 
above, but do not strain the sauce. 

It takes about twenty minutes for the whole process. 



138 POULTRY. 

This last way is very good for a chicken eight months 
old or less, but for one older, the first way is preferable. 

CHICKEN MARENGO. 

Clean, prepare, and cut up the chicken as for fricassee. 
Put in a stewpan five teaspoonfuls of sweet oil, and set on 
a good fire ; when hot, put the chicken in with salt and 
pepper ; turn over once in a while, till every piece is of a 
golden color, and nearly cooked ; when, add two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf and one clove tied to- 
gether with twine ; add also three or four mushrooms cut 
in slices, and if handy, three or four trufiles also cut in 
slices ; when the whole is cooked, dish the pieces of chicken 
thus : the neck and gizzard, with the fore part of the back, 
and the low part of the legs in the middle, one leg on each 
side of the dish with one wing beside each, then the 
stomach and hind part of the back, and the ends of the 
wings at the top. Have an Italian sauce ready, pour it 
on the chicken, place on the whole the pieces of mushrooms 
and truffles, also some croutons fried in butter, and serve. 

The same, roasted. — Proceed as for a roasted capon, ^ipd 
serve like it also. 

The same, saute. — When the chicken is cleaned, pre- 
pared, and cut up in thirteen pieces, as for fricassee, put 
in a frying pan a piece of butter the size of a small egg, 
and set on the fire ; when melted, put the pieces of chicken 
in, turn over till every piece is of a golden color, then 
sprinkle on a teaspoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of allspice, stirring the while ; six minutes after add a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two or three mushrooms 
cut in pieces, two gills of white wine, same of broth, same 
of warm water ; subdue the fire, simmer till done, when 
give one boil, and serve hot. 

The same, stuffed with chestmits or truffles, — Clean and 



POULTRY. 139 

prepare the chicken as directed for poultry in general. 
Eoast a pound or so of chestnuts and shell them, stuff the 
chicken with them or with about six ounces of truffles fried 
in butter, sew the chicken up, place it on the spit properly- 
enveloped in buttered paper, before a good fire, baste 
with melted, butter, and leave thus about half an hour ; 
take the paper off", leave five minutes more, basting con- 
tinually, and serve with the gravy. 

The same, in Tartar. — Prepare a chicken as directed ; 
cut the neck oflT, also the legs at the first joint, split the 
stomach in two so as to open the chicken, and flatten it with 
a chopper. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a 
small egg and set it on the fire ; when hot, add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a piece of 
allspice, then the chicken ; turn it over once in a while 
till cooked, then take it from the pan, roll it in fine bread 
crumbs, place it on a well warmed and greased gridiron, 
set it on a slow fire, turn over once or twice, so as to have 
both sides of a fine color, and serve it on a Tartar sauce. 

. CHICKENS OYER TWO YEARS OF AGE. 

With onions. — ^You prepare the chicken as directed 
for poultry, and cut it up as for fricassee. Put in a stew- 
pan a piece of butter the size of two w^alnuts, and set it on 
a moderate fire ; when melted, add two sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, a clove and a bay leaf tied together, then 
the chicken and about a dozen of small onions; after 
having fried them about five minutes in butter, turn over 
now and then with a wooden spoon, and after about ten 
minutes' time, add a pint of warm broth ; simmer till well 
cooked, take ofi* the bunch of seasonings and serve. 

The same, with peas. — Proceed as for the above with 
onions, in every particular, except that you put with it 
about a quart of peas instead of onions. 



140 POULTRY. 

How to prepare when left from the preceding day\<i 
dinner, either entire or a part of it. — If not a roasted or 
broiled chicken, or part of either, you merely warm it in 
the bain-marie if possible, or on the fire, and serve as it is. 

If roasted or broiled, it is served in blanquette, thus : 

Cut up the meat in slices, have in a stewpan and on a 
good fire, a piece of butter the size of two walnuts ; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, stirring with a 
wooden spoon the while, then pour in also, little by little, 
two gills of warm broth, same of boiling water, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and two or three 
small onions fried in butter ; boil fifteen minutes. After 
that time subdue the fire, place the slices of chicken in 
the pan, and serve as it is when well warmed. 

Instead of onions, slices of pickled cucumbers may be 
used. 

Another way. — Cut up the chicken or part of it as for 
fricassee. Put a little butter in a stewpan and set on the 
fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a little flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, same of chopped mushrooms, 
stir with a wooden spoon the while, two or three minutes 
after add also two gills of white wine, boil the whole fifteen 
minutes, then subdue the fire, put the pieces of chicken in 
the pan and serve as it is when warm. 

It may also after it is cut up be served cold, with an 
oil, piquante or poivrade sauce. 

The same, in fricassee. — An old chicken that has been 

used to make broth, either alone or with beef, when cool, 

or the next day, may be prepared just as a spring chicken 

in fricassee. 

CROQUETTES OF FOWL. 

Take the bones off" the chicken, or the part of it which 
you have left from the day before, and cut the meat in 
very small pieces. Put about four ounces of butter for a 



POULTRY. 141 

whole chicken, in a stewpan, set it on the fire, when 
melted, sprinkle in one tablespoonful of flour, stirring the 
while, add two sprigs of parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; five minutes after, add also, 
if handy, two or three mushrooms cut in pieces; after 
another five minutes, pour in a gill of warm broth, boil 
gently till rather thick, then put the meat in the pan for 
two or three minutes and take from the fire. When cool, 
work the whole in small balls, dust them with bread 
crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs and fry them with butter ; 
serve hot. 

Fried parsley or fried mushrooms may be put around. 

DUCKS AXD DUCKLIXGS— TAME AND WILD. 

How to select. — A young duck has the lower part of the 
legs soft, and the skin between the claws soft also ; you 
will also know if it is young by taking hold of it by the 
bill (the under bill only), if it breaks or bends, the duck 
is young. 

If the breast of the duck is hard and thick, it is fresh 
enough. 

To be good, a duck must be fat, be it a Canvas-back, 
Black-duck, Wood-duck, Shelldrake, Teal, or any other. 

Hoio to prepare. — A duck is cleaned and prepared as 
directed for poultry. 

Roasted. — Clean, prepare, and truss the duck as the 
chicken, to roast it. Put inside of the duck two sage 
leaves and two sprigs of thyme, and leave it thus in a cool 
place for two or three hours, then take sage and thyme off, 
stuff" the duck with cooked sausages, or with chestnuts 
previously cooked in water and properly shelled, fix with 
small skewers some thin slices of bacon on the fleshy parts, 
place it on the spit before a sharp fire, or in a quick oven, 
baste often and serve with the gravy when cooked. 

It takes from thirty to forty minutes to roast. 



f./^3,/4^.. 



142 POULTRY. 



The same, in salmis. — Take a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, knead it -with flour so as to make a paste, put 
it in a stewpan and set on a slow fire; when melted, add 
one gill of claret wine, same of broth, two shallots, salt, 
pepper, three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme and a bay 
leaf, boil half an hour, then take a roasted duck, cut all 
the flesh in fillets, place them in the stewpan, simmer five 
or ten minutes, take from the fire, throw away shallots, 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf, then dish the remainder, add 
to it the juice of half a lemon, and send to the table. 

This may be done as soon as a roasted duck is cool, 
or the following day. If a duck is old, it will be better to 
serve it in salmis than roasted. 

The same {cold) for dinner or breakfast — Take a duck 
roasted from the day before, cut up the limbs, fillet the 
stomach, and place the whole on a dish. Mix with the gra- 
vy that you have saved in roasting it two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil, salt, pepper, and the^juice of half a lemon, a 
little vinegar may be added ; serve in a saucer to b^ eaten 
with the duck. 

The same, with turnips. — Cut the duck in pieces. Put 
a piece of butter the size of two walnuts in a stewpan, and 
set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, then put in also six or eight small tur- 
nips well cleaned and washed, and when of a golden color 
take them off", then put in the duck and fry it also till of 
a golden color, and take it from the pan, put again in the 
pan a little butter, and when hot, sprinkle in it little by 
little, two teaspoonfuls of flour, stirring v/ith a wooden 
spoon the while ; when of a proper thickness and of a 
brownish color, add half a glass of broth, two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, then the 
duck and turnips, boil gently till cooked, take out parsley, 
thyme, and bay leaf, dish the remainder, and serve it. 



X 



POULTRY. 145 



An old hen has red and rough legs; the cock also, be- 
sides, has long spurs. 

The fatter they are the better ; they cannot be too fat. 
The broader the breast the better ; the skin must be 
white. 

It is fresh enough as long as the legs are not stiff. 

BOILED. 

Clean and prepare a turkey as directed for poultry. 

Put in a stewpan, large enough to hold a turkey, a 
piece of butter the si2;e of a duck's egg, also a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, same of green onions, and four or five 
mushrooms ; set it on a good fire, and as soon as the but- 
ter is hot, lay the turkey in ; turn over now and then till 
of a fine golden color, then take it from the pan, cover the 
breast with slices of bacon tied with twine, and put it 
back in the pan ; add a pinch of allspice, six small onions, 
salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and a pint of broth ; 
simmer till cooked, dish it, strain the sauce on it, and serve. 
It takes about two hours to cook a turkey of middling 
size. 

A little warm broth should be added in case the sauce 
were boiled away during the cooking. 

The samCj roasted, — Take a turkey, and if not fat, lard 
the fleshy parts, envelop it with buttered paper tied with 
twine ; place it on the spit before a sharp fire, basting often 
with the drippings. About an hour and a quarter after, 
take the paper off, leave ten or fifteen minutes longer, 
basting continually, and serve with the gravy. 

A few watercresses may be added with a little vine- 
gar. 

The samej stuffed. — Stuff the turkey with minced meat 
nearly cooked, or with roasted chestnuts, and proceed as 
for roasted turkey in every particular, except that you 
7 



146 POUIiTKY. 

leave it one hour and a half on the spit before taking the 
paper off ; serve it in thes ame way also, but without water- 
cress. 

The same, stuffed ivith truffles. — Chop fine about four 
ounces of truffles^and put them in a stewpan with a pound of 
bacon cut in dice ; set it on a moderate fire, add salt, pep- 
per, a little grated nutmeg, a bay leaf, a pinch of allspice, 
and a pinch of dried thyme ; when hot, add also a pound 
and a half or two pounds of trufiSies ; boil twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, tossing now and then, and take from the fire. 
When nearly cool, put the whole in the turkey, and sew 
it up ; leave it thus, if fresh, four days in winter, and one 
or two in summer : if not very fresh, leave it a short time. 
Envelop the turkey in buttered paper tied with twine, place 
it on the spit before a sharp fire, baste often, and two 
hours after remove the paper ; leave five or ten minutes 
longer, and serve with the gravy. 

This dish is considered exquisite by epicureans. 

The same, stewed. — An old turkey is better stewed 
T:han cooked in any other way. 

Lard all the fieshy parts of the turkey well. Put in a 
large stew-kettle half a pound of bacon cut in slices, four 
ounces of knuckle of veal, three sprigs of parsley, tv/o of 
thyme, a bay leaf, six small onions, one carrot cut in four 
pieces, three cloves, one clove of garlic, salt, pepper, and 
then the turkey ; wet with a pint of white wine, same of 
broth, cover as nearly air-tight as you can, place in a mod- 
erately heated oven or on a moderate fire, let simmer (not 
boil) about two hours and a half, then turn it over, put 
back on the fire or in the oven for another two hours and 
a half, after which, dish the turkey ; strain the sauce and 
put it back on the fire to reduce it to a jelly, which you 
spread on it and serve. 

Many connoisseurs prefer the turkey served thus when 



POULTRY. 147 

cold ; it does not cost anything to try it, and it is very 
handy for a grand dinner, as it may be prepared one or 
two days in advance, and is just as good, if kept in a 
refrigerator. 

The same, the next day. — If you have any turkey left 
from the day before worth serving again, prepare and 
serve it as chicken left for the next day. 

GALANTINE OF TURKEY. 

It is very difficult, if not impossible, for a person who 
has never seen the whole process of making a galantine, 
to make one ; we will, however, describe it as clearly as 
possible. It is cheaper to buy one ready made from a res- 
taurant, and besides, it saves a great deal of trouble. 

Chop very fine about a pound of fresh pork, same of 
bacon, two pounds of round of veal, a dozen sprigs of 
parsley, six of thyme, three or four green onions, and two 
bay leaves, the latter especially as fine as powder, and 
work the whole well together, adding salt and pepper, and 
then your mixture is ready for use. 

Take a fat turkey, and when cleaned and prepared as 
directed, cut off neck, wings at the first pinion and legs at 
the first joint ; then with a carving knife you cut the skin 
on the back, from the neck to the rump, and very care- 
fully and gingerly take the flesh off the bones, taking 
good care not to cut the skin ; then stretch out the turkey, 
minus the bones, the skin underneath, and spread on it a 
layer of the above mixture, about three quarters of an inch 
in thickness ; then place on that about a pound of bacon, 
same of boiled ham, same of round of veal, and a cooked 
beef's tongue, the whole cut in fillets about half an inch in 
thickness ; add also a few truffles cut in slices ; put again 
some of the mixture on this to fill the turkey, sew it uj), 
giving it its original form as much as possible, and then 



148 POULTET. 

envelop it tightly in a towel, which you sew or tie, and 
place in a stewpan with the bones, after having broken 
them in two or three pieces each ; season with four ounces 
of bacon cut in dice, two calf's feet split in two, one car- 
rot, four small onions, three cloves, eight sprigs of parsley, 
four of thyme, salt, pepper, two bay leaves, and two gills 
of white wine ; then cover the whole with water, and set 
on a moderate fire ; simmer about four hours. Take the 
pan from the fire, allow it to cool, and when the whole h&s 
fallen to a milk warmth, take the turkey out of it, press it 
gently, to force out any liquid that might be in it, and 
when cold, remove the towel and place the turkey on a 
dish. 

Put the stewpan with what is left in it back on the 
fire, and just before it boils, skim it well ; then take from 
the fire and strain ; when cold^ skim off" the fat. 

Put in a crockery stewpan the white of three eggs, and 
whip them well with a little water ; then pour the sauce 
in, whipping the while ; place the pan on the fire, and con- 
tinue whipping till on the point of boiling ; then take ofij 
place it on a warm, but not hot place ; put a large sheet 
iron cover on the pan, place live coals on it for three or 
four minutes, and take ofi" the pan ; then mix in it the 
juice of half a lemon, pass this sauce through a fine cloth, 
and let it cool ; decorate the turkey with it according to 
your fancy, and you have a sightly dish. 

Make galantine of capon, chicken, duck, geese, guinea 
fowl, partridge, pheasant, and of breast of lamb or veal, in 
the same way, only reducing or augmenting the quantities 
of meats and seasonings according to the size of the bird 
or breast. 



GIBLETS. 

By giblets are understood the gizzards, heads, legs, 
livers, necks, and ends of the wings of chickens, ducks, 
geese, turkeys, and other birds, tame or wild. 

You begin by cleaning them well, cut off the bills, take 
the eyes out, warming the legs on live coals, so that you 
can take off the outer skin and spurs ; place the giblets in 
a tureen, turn boiling water and a little salt on them, 
leave them thus five or six minutes, then wash well and 
drain them. 

IN FRICASSEE. 

Put a piece of butter in a stewpan (the size to be ac- 
cording to the quantity of giblets you have), set it on a 
good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it, little by little, a 
teaspoonful of flour ; stir the whole with a wooden spoon ; 
when of a proper thickness, and of a browmish color, add 
half a gill of warm broth, same of warm water, a sprig of 
parsley, a small pinch of grated nutmeg, two small onions, 
salt, and pepper ; then the giblets. About half an horn- 
after add also two mushrooms, cut in pieces. It takes 
about two hours to cook them properly. Dish the pieces, 
strain the sauce, mix in it one well beaten yolk of an 
egg, and a few drops of lemon juice ; pour it on the gib- 



150 GIBLETS. 

lets, place the pieces of mushrooms over the whole, and 
serve. 

The same, stewed. — Put the giblets in a stevvpan with 
butter, and set it on a good fire ; when they are of a fine 
yellow color, add one or two sprigs of parsley, a clove of 
garlic, a sprig of thyme, one clove, half a bay leaf, two 
mushrooms cut in pieces, two small onions, and a pinch 
of flour ; wet with broth, let simmer gently for half an 
hour, and add also two parsnips cut in slices, and pre- 
viously half fried in butter ; simmer again for about an 
hour; dish the pieces of meat, strain the sauce, put it 
back on the fire to reduce it a little, pour it on the giblets, 
place the pieces of mushrooms at the top, and serve hot. 



GAME. 

HOW TO PRESERVE GAME FOR SOME TIME. 

Open the animal or bird under the rump, just enough 
to take the inside out, comprising the stomach and gall 
bladder (be very careful, especially of the latter; if it 
bursts, it is better not to try to preserve the piece, but to 
clean, wash, and use it as soon as possible). Birds must 
be left in their feathers, and animals in their skins. 
Fill the inside with dry and clean oats, and put the piece 
in a heap or barrel of oats. It will keep thus for many 
days. 

Another way is to envelop the piece well in a towel, 
and bury it in charcoal dust in a cool or dry place. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND PREPARE. 

Clean and prepare the birds as directed for poultry in 
general. 

After having carefully skinned, take out the inside, 
and cut the legs off at the first joint of animals ; you wash 
the inside with lukewarm water, and wipe it dry with a 
clean towel immediately after ; wipe also the outside, but 
do not wash it if possible ; that is, if you can clean it 
well by wiping only. 



152 GAME. 

Wild ducks, geese, pigeons, and turkeys are cooked 
and served like tame ones. 

GROUSE OR HEATHCOCK. 

They are good as long as the legs are flexible ; if 
not, examine them carefully, they might be rotten inside. 

Lard them well, envelop each in buttered paper, and 
place on the spit before a good fire ; baste often, remove 
the paper after twenty or twenty-five minutes ; leave two 
or three minutes more, basting continually with the drip- 
pings; dish the birds; mix with the drippings a few 
drops of lemon juice, and a little salt and pepper, and 
serve with the birds. 

Grouse may also be served in salmis like a duck. 

HARE. 

IIoio to select. — When young it has rather soft paws, 
ad not much opened, and also soft ears ; but if old the 
^aws are hard and worn out, and the ears stiff and hard. 

If fresh, the body is stiff ; it is soft, and the flesh is 
nearly black, if tainted. 

Save the blood as much as possible ; it improves the 
sauce very much. 

IX CIVET. 

When the hare is cleaned as directed for game, cut it 
in pieces. Have in a stewpan and on a good fire two 
ounces of butter and one of bacon, cut in dice; when 
hot, take the bacon off', and put the pieces of hare in the 
pan ; stir with a wooden spoon now and then, and till of 
a fine golden color ; then sprinkle on it a teaspoonful of 
flour, add ten small onions, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, salt, pep- 
per, three quarters of a pint of claret wine, same of water, 



GAME. 153 

half a pint of broth, three or four mushrooms, and a little 
grated nutmeg ; boil gently till done, when dish the pieces 
of hare ; throw away parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and garlic, 
mix the blood of the hare in the sauce, boil it about ten 
minutes, turn it on the hare, and serve. 

Many epicures like a civet better when prepared one 
or two days in advance, and only warmed before servino*. 
When the civet is done, and ready to serve, place the dish 
in a cool and dry place, and when you want to eat the 
civet, place the dish in a bain-marie, or in an oven, and 
serve when warm. 

The same, roasted — Lard the hare well ; place it on 
the spit before a good fire ; baste often with the drippings, 
and when properly cooked, serve it with the following 
sauce : put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in it 
the hare's liver well pounded, then the blood, the drippings 
from the roasted hare, salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of 
white wine, same of broth, and one teaspoonful of vinegar , 
when of a proper thickness, serve with the hare. 

It takes about an hour to roast it well. 

In a small family, the hind part is roasted, and the 
fore part of the hare is dressed in civet. 

It may be roasted in an oven, if more convenient. 

The same, the next day. — If any is left from the '^ay 
before, warm it and serve, if in civet ; cut it in slices and 
serve cold, with an oil sauce, if roasted. 

LEVERET. 

Cook and serve like a hare. 

A leveret may also be saute like a chicken. 

OSTEICH AND CRANE. 

Cook and serve like a stuffed turkey. 
7* 



154 GAME. 

PARTRIDGE AND PRAIRIE HEN. 

An old partridge has a white bill and bluish legs; 
when young, the bill is of a rather dark gray color, and 
the legs are yellowish. 

As long as the rump does not turn bluish, it is fresh 
enough. 

Clean and prepare a partridge or a prairie hen as di- 
rected for poultry in general. 

Broiled. — Split the back of the partridge so as to open 
it, butter it, or grease it well with sweet oil, place it on 
the gridiron, having previously warmed and greased it, 
set on a good fire, turn over three or four times, and just 
before taking from the fire, sprinkle on it salt, pepper, a 
little allspice, and chopped parsley; serve it when done, 
on a maitre-d'hotel, oil, or poivrade sauce. 

Another way. — Split the partridge in two lengthwise 
so as to make two equal pieces. Put a piece of butter, 
the size of a small ^gg (for two partridges), in a stewpan ; 
set it on a good fire, and when hot, lay the partridges in ; 
leave them till a little more than half cooked, turning 
them over three or four times, and then take them ofi*. 
Envelop them in buttered paper, place them on the grid- 
iron, and on a good fire for about fifteen minutes, and 
serve with the following sauce : put with the butter in the 
pan in which were the partridges, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, same of chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of allspice ; sprinkle in and stir at the same time a tea- 
spoonful of flour, also a gill of white wine, same of broth ; 
boil gently till of a proper thickness, and serve the par- 
tridges on it. 

Broiled in this way, they might be served also on a 
Mayonnaise sauce. 

The same, luith cabbages. — Lard two partridges. Put 
in a stewpan half a pound of bacon cut in slices, with four 



GAME. 155 

onions, two carrots cut in pieces, a small dried or Bologna 
sausage, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, two cloves, a 
bay leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and a cabbage cut rather 
fine, and which you have previously thrown in boiling 
water and boiled ten minutes ; then the two partridges or 
prairie hens ; place over the whole four ounces of bacon 
cut in thin slices, cover with broth, set the pan on a sharp 
fire, and when it has boiled about fifteen minutes, subdue 
the fire, or put the pan in a moderately heated oven, sim- 
mer about two hours if the partridges are old, and one 
hour if they are young ; then take from the fire, place the 
partridges on a dish with the sausage cut in pieces around 
them, drain the cabbage and put it on another dish with 
the bacon, strain the sauce on both dishes, and serve. 

Another way. — They may be prepared, cooked and 
served as above, omitting the sausage and the cabbages. 
In that case, they may be served wdth a puree of lentils, 
or of green peas. 

The same, roasted. — Rub the stomach and legs of the 
birds with lemon, then envelop those parts with slices of 
bacon tied with twine, or fixed with small skewers ; after 
which envelop the whole bird in buttered paper tied with 
twine ; place them on a spit before a good fire, take the 
paper off" after twenty or thirty minutes, according to the 
age of the bird ; leave two or three minutes longer, baste 
often during the process of roasting, with the drippings ; 
dish the birds wdthout removing the slices of bacon ; mix 
in the gravy the juice of half a lemon, or half an orange, 
a little salt and pepper, and serve it with the birds. 

TJie same, in salmis. — Cook and serve partridges or 
prairie hens like ducks in salmis, except that you put a 
wine glass of champagne, or good sauterne wine, instead 
of one gill of claret. 



156 GAME. 

TJie same, in fricassee. — Proceed as for a fricassee of 
chicken in every particular. 

They may also be saute, like a chicken. 

PEACOCK, PEA HEX, AND PELICAN, OR OTHER LARGE 
BIRDS. 

Prepare, cook, and serve these birds like a stuffed 
turkey. 

PHEASANTS. 

How to select. — When young, their claws are short and 
round at the end, while they are long and sharp when old. 

They are not fresh when the rump is of a bluish color, 
but some amateurs like them then ; they say that they 
have a venison taste. 

They are very seldom or never cooked when very fresh, 
as they have not as delicate a taste as when rather tainted. 

Pheasants are cooked and served like partridges in 
every way. 

QUAILS. 

You know if quails are young and fresh by the same 
signs as the partridges. 

Boasted. — Quails are just the contrary of pheasants ; 
they must be cooked as fresh as possible. Envelop each 
with grape vine leaves if handy, or in buttered paper ; 
then again envelop in very thin slices of bacon, tie the 
whole with twine, place them on the spit, and before a 
moderate fire ; have slices of roasted bread in the dripping 
pan, baste often with the drippings, and when done, serve 
them on the slices of bread, and you have one of the most 
recherches dishes. 

The liver may be pounded and mixed with the drip- 
pings while basting. 



GAME. 157 

The same, with callages. — Quails may also be prepared 
like partridges, with cabbages, but they are not so much 
praised as when roasted. 

KABBIT. 

What we have said of the hare may be applied to the 
rabbit, to know if young and fresh. 

Tame rabbits are very seldom fit to eat ; we would not 
advise any one to eat them, unless they have been kept in 
a large place, free from any manure or dirt, and having 
also plenty room to burrow, and in a dry soil. 

In gilelotte. — Clean the rabbit as directed for game, 
and cut it up. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, with one ounce of bacon cut in dice ; set 
it on a good fire, and when hot^ take the bacon from the 
pan, sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the 
while ; then lay the pieces of rabbit in, w ith also a pint of 
broth, same of white wine, salt, pepper, ten small onions, 
four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay leaf, a little 
grated nutmeg, and three or four mushrooms cut in pieces, 
then the pieces of bacon ; boil gently till cooked. Throw 
away parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, and serve the rest hot. 

The same, with green peas. — Proceed as above as far as 
putting the pieces of rabbit in the pan, then have ready a 
quart of green peas, which you have boiled five minutes 
in water, and a little salt, before, and put them in the pan 
also ; stir a little, and ten minutes after, add as above, broth, 
wine, etc., and cook and serve as above also. 

The same, roasted. — Eoast and serve a rabbit as a 
roasted hare. 

The same, stewed, or in civet. — Proceed as for hare in 
civet, in every particular. 

A rabbit may also be served in fricandeau, the same as 
a piece of veal. 



158 GAME. 

ROBINS, BLACKBIRDS, FIGPECKERS, HIGH-HOLDERS, 

LAPWINGS, MEADOW LARKS, PLOVERS, REED BIRDS, 

THRUSHES, YELLOW BIRDS, AND ANY AND EVERY 

OTHER SMALL BIRD. 

All these birds, and any others of the same size, or 
smaller — the fatter they are the better. 

When young, there is no stiffness in the legs. To be 
good they must be fresh ; if the rump is hard, they are 
fresh and good ; if soft, they may be tainted and not good. 

Pick, clean, and prepare them as directed for poultry. 

Envelop each in grapevine leaves if handy, or if not, 
in buttered paper ; then envelop again in thin slices of 
bacon, and tie the whole with twine ; fix then on the spit 
by means of skewers, and set before a rather slow fire ; 
baste often with the drippings. It takes from ten to fifteen 
minutes to roast, according to the size of the birds. Have 
ready and warm, as many slices of bread fried in butter 
as you have birds, place them on a dish, and a bird on 
each slice ; mix a few drops of lemon juice with the gravy, 
and pour it over the whole, and serve as hot as possible. 
Do not remove leaves, or paper, or bacon, before serving. 

This is a very delicate dish, and is as delightful for 
the eye, as for the palate and stomach. 

The livers of the birds may be pounded and mixed with 
the gravy while basting, according to taste. 

Another ivay. — Put butter in a stewpan, a piece the 
size of a walnut for two robins, and set it on a moderate 
fire ; when hot, fry the birds in it till they are of a fine 
yellow color, and take them off; sprinkle in the pan a 
pinch of flour w^hile stirring, and when of a brownish color, 
add salt, pepper, a pinch of allspice, a pinch of chopped 
parsley, a gill of white wine, then the birds ; simmer 
gently till cooked, and serve hot. 



GAME. 159 

You augment the quantity of the seasoning according 
to the quantity of birds you have. 

SNIPE. 

Snipes are like pheasants ; they are not as good when 
very fresh as they are when they have been killed four days 
or more, according to the temperature. 

They are good as long as the legs are flexible, but 
when stifle, you must examine them carefully, as they might 
be tainted. Some persons like them when rather tainted ; 
but every one to his color and taste. 

Pound well the liver, heart and lights, with about the 
same quantity of bacon ; then add to that a teaspoonful 
of parsley chopped very fine, and the yolk of an egg to every 
four snipes ; make a paste with the whole, stuff the snipes 
with it, and sew them up ; line the bottom of a stewpan 
with slices of bacon, and lay the birds on them ; set on a 
slow fire for ten minutes, add then two gills of white wine, 
same of broth ; simmer till cooked, dish the birds, strain 
the gravy on them after having mixed in it a few drops 
of lemon juice, and serve. 

Snipes may also be prepared as robins. 

WOODCOCKS. 
Cook and serve them as snipes. 

OPOSSUM, OTTER, RACCOON, SKUNK, WOODCHUCK, FOX, 
ETC, 

We cannot say that we have had much experience in 
cooking the above, but all these animals are eaten by many 
persons in different parts of this and other countries. We 
have eaten of all of them except the raccoon, and we must 
say that we found them good. 

It is well known that when our soldiers retook posses- 



160 GAME. 

sion of Ship Island, they found plenty of raccoons on it, 
and ate all they could catch. One day we happened to 
meet a sub-oflficer who was there at the time, and enquired 
of him about it. He said he had never eaten any raccoons 
before, and did not know that they were eatable ; but now 
he would eat them as readily as rabbits, as they were quite 
as good. 

The best time to eat either of the animals enumerated 
above is from Christmas to the 15th of February; squir- 
rels also are not good in warm weather. 

How to prepare them. — As soon as the animal is killed 
skin it, take the inside out, save the liver and heart, and 
wash well with lukewarm water, and a little salt, in and 
outside ; then wipe dry with a towel, put inside of it a 
few leaves of sage, bay leaves, mint and thyme, and sew 
it up. Hang it outside in a place sheltered from the sun, 
such as the northern side of a building ; leave it thus five 
or six days, then take ofi* and cook. 

HOW TO SKIN A SKUXK. 

We were hunting one day in New Jersey, northwest of 
Paterson, with a friend and two farmers living there, when 
one of them shot a skunk. We asked him how much he 
could get for the skin. He said it was not worth while to 
take it to town, but that he would eat the animal, as it 
was very good. 

We thought at first that he was joking ; but putting his 
gun and game bag to the ground, he looked at us earnestly 
and said, " Gentlemen, you seem to doubt ; I will show you 
how it is done. We soon saw that we had been mistaken. 

He made a fire, took hold of the skunk by the head 
vath one hand, and with a stick in the other, held the 
skunk over the fire. He burnt off" nearly all the hair, 
taking care to avoid burning the skin, commencing at the 



GAME. 161 

hind legs ; then, with his hunting knife, he carefully cut 
off the bag containing the fetid matter, and skinned and 
cleaned it. 

We then examined the skunk, and although it had not 
been washed, we could not find any part of it with a bad 
smell, and if we had not seen the whole operation, we 
certainly would not have thought that it was a skunk, the 
very name of which is repulsive. 

The following week we dined with the farmer, ate 
some of that identical skunk, and found it very good. 

HOW TO COOK AX OPOSSUM, AN OTTER, RACCOOX, ETC. 

Take out the leaves of sage, etc., which you put in the 
animal before exposing it to the weather. Pound well the 
liver and heart with about the same quantity of bacon, 
then mix that with two or three teaspoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper ; stuff 
the animal with that mixture, and also with six small onions 
fried in butter, and a bunch of seasoning composed of four 
sprigs of parsley, three of thyme, twa cloves, two cloves 
of garlic, and two bay leaves, and sew it up again. But- 
ter it well all over, place it on a spit before a very sharp 
fire ; put three or four sage leaves in the dripping pan, and 
baste often with the drippings. Serve it when cooked with 
the gravy, throwing away the sage leaves. 

It may also be served with a Mayonnaise or ravigote 
sauce. 



VENISON. 

If young, the hoof is not much ojDened, and the fat is 
thick and clear ; when old, the hoofs are wide open. 

To know if it is fresh enough, run a knife through the 
leg, or through the shoulder, and if it does not smell had 
and stale, it is good. It is not as delicate when fresh as 
when it has been killed for five or six days. Many per- 
sons like it with a venison taste. 

If fresh when you buy it, keep it from three to eight 
days before cooking it. 

To improve a haunch of venison : after it is larded, 
place it in a crockery vessel for four days, with six onions 
cut in slices, a gill of sweet oil, same of claret wine, a salt- 
spoonful of allspice, four cloves, two sprigs of thyme, and 
a clove of garlic ; spread the whole over it, basting twice 
a day with the same, and turning it over once a day ; after 
which time you drain it, and it is ready to cook. 

The same may be done for the shoulder or saddle, 
except that it must not be kept more than two days in the 
seasonings, and for cutlets, not more than twenty-four 
hours. 

CUTLETS. 

Take six cutlets, lard them well and put them in a 
stewpan, with salt, pepper, eight small onions, two carrots, 



♦ VENISON. 163 

four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves, a bay 

leaf, a gill of broth, and same of water ; set it on a good 

fire, and boil gently till cooked. Dish the cutlets so that 

every small end or bone rests on the large end of another, 

and serve with the sauce strained on them, or with a 

poivrade sauce. 

HAUNCH. 

Take off the thin skin around it and lard it well. 
Envelop it in buttered paper, two sheets in thickness, and 
tied with twine ; place it on the spit before a sharp fire, 
and baste often with the drippings. Twenty minutes 
after, subdue the fire, or set farther from it ; it takes about 
three hours to roast. Remove the paper about ten or 
fifteen minutes before taking from the fire, and place the 
haunch nearer it to make it take a fine color ; then serve 
it with a poivrade sauce. 

SHOULDER, OR SADDLE. 

Cut the shoulder in fillets and lard them slightly. 
Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter and set it on a 
brisk fire ; when hot, lay the fillets in, and when of a 
golden color, add the seasonings in which you have im- 
proved the saddle, or the same ones if you have not done 
it; then subdue the fire, wet with a little warm broth, 
simmer till cooked, dish the fillets, strain the sauce on 
them, and serve. 

It may also be dressed entire, with the bones ofif; but 
it is more generally done in fillets. 

It is very good served with an oil, or piquante sauce. 

The same, stewed. — Gut the meat in square pieces, 
about two inches in size. Have in a stewpan, and on a 
good fire, a piece of butter the size of a duck's Qgg ; when 
melted, sprinkle in, little by little, a tablespoonful of flour, 
stirring the while with a wooden spoon; when getting 



164 VENISON. • 

rather thick, add two ounces of bacon cut in dice, also 
half a pint of claret wine, same of warm water, salt, pep- 
per, a pinch of allspice, two shallots chopped fine, or two 
green onions, four or five mushrooms, two cloves of garlic, 
and six onions ; then lay the meat on the whole, and boil 
gently till cooked. Dish the meat, boil the sauce till of 
a brownish color, skim off the fat if there is too much of it, 
take out the cloves of garlic, turn the sauce on the meat, 
and serve hot. 

When you have some left for the next day, warm it 
before serving it, if from a stew ; but if from a roasted 
haunch, cut in slices and serve cold, with an oil sauce. 

BEAR MEAT AND BUFFALO. 

The meat of all large animals is better roasted than 
dressed in any other way. 

Prepare, cook, and serve bear meat and buffalo meat 
like venison, or like a la mode beef. 



SNAILS. 

A GOOD many are now imported from Europe. 

How to clean and prepare. — Throw them in boiling 
water, in which you have put some wood ashes; leave 
them in till they have thrown their cover wide open, which 
will take about fifteen minutes ; then take them ofi*, pull 
them out of the shell by the means of a fork, place them 
in lukewarm water, and leave two hours ; next, rub them 
in your hands, and then soak in cold water; rub them 
again with your hands, in cold water, two or three times, 
changing the water each time, so as to take away most of 
their sliminess. Wash the shells in lukewarm water with 
a scrubbing brush, and drain them when clean. 

Broiled. — Knead together and make a paste of a suffi- 
cient quantity of butter, parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg; say about two ounces of butter, a 
tablespoonful of parsley, a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of 
pepper, and the same of nutmeg (for two dozen). Put a 
piece of the above paste, the size of a kidney bean, in each 
shell, then the snails, and at the top again the same quan- 
tity of paste ; lay them one by one, close together, in a 
crockery or cast iron kettle, the mouth of the snails up, 
and not one upon another ; cover the kettle well, set it on 
a moderate fire, or in a moderately heated oven, and leave 
thus till cooked, which is easily seen by the parsley begin- 



166 SNAILS. 

ning to turn black, or as if fried. Lay them on a dish in 
the same order, and if there is any gravy in the kettle, 
put a part of it in each shell, and serve hot. 

In eating them, be careful after having taken off the 
snail and swallowed it to turn down the shell, for there is 
some juice in the bottom of it which is delicious ; the best 
way is to drink it as if from the bottom of a glass. 

They could be broiled on a gridiron, but they are not 
as good as in a kettle ; some of the juice is lost, and also 
the flavor. 

Stewed. — Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter for 
fifty snails, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring awhile ; then add a tea- 
spoonful of parsley chopped fine, two sprigs of thyme, a bay 
leaf, a pint of white wine, and then the snails, which you 
have previously put back into their shells ; cover the whole 
with warm broth, boil gently till the sauce is reduced and 
the snails are cooked, and serve them mouth upward, and 
filled with the sauce. 



ASPIC OF MEAT. 

Cut four middling sized onions in slices, lay them in a 
stewpan ^vith a quarter of a pound of bacon (not smoked) ; 
then add about a quarter of a pound of each of the following 
meats; chicken, game (any kind), mutton and beef, also 
a calf's foot split in two, two ounces of rind of bacon, two 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a clove of garlic, two 
carrots cut in two, one clove, and four small onions ; wet 
with half a pint of water, and set on a brisk fire ; cover 
the pan well. When nearly cooked, take the grease off 
witli a ladle ; add then boiling w^ater enough just to cover 
the whole, and finish the cooking. Strain the juice, skim 
off the fat, if any, and let it cool ; if it is not found clear 
enough when strained, beat well two whites of eggs, 
put them in the stev.'pan with the juice, set it on a sharp 
fire for about ten minutes, stirring the while, and take 
from the fire ; add to it a few drops of lemon juice, and 
strain again. 

Put in a mould some of the above juice, about two 
eighths of an inch in depth ; place the mould on ice, and 
leave till the juice has turned into a jelly. Lay on that 
jelly some of the following meats, free from bones, and not 
allowing the pieces to touch the sides of the mould: 
chicken, game, tongues of beef, calf and sheep, of all or of 



168 ASPIC OP MEAT. 

eitlier of them (the meats must be cooked beforehand). 
Cover the whole with the remainder of the juice, so as to 
have about the same thickness at the top as at the bottom. 
Place the mould in a refrigerator to cool, and turn into a 
jelly ; then dip the mould in very warm water, turn over 
on a dish, remove the mould, and you have a fine entree. 

SANDWICHES. 
We think this dish (if it can be called a dish), too 
well known to require any direction. 



VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables especially mast look fresh and have 
nothing rotten about them, or else they are not good. 

When yon cook vegetables, if green, put them in the 
water at the first boiling ; if dry, such as beans, peas, etc., 
put them in cold water (it must be soft water), after 
having been soaked in lukewarm water for a few min- 
utes. 

Sauce for raio vegetables. — Some persons like to eat 
raw vegetables ; the following sauce may be used in eat- 
ing them ; it certainly improves the taste : 

Boil an egg hard, take the yolk and pound it, mix it 
well with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one of vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; a 
little mustard may be added. 

ARTICHOKES. 

The artichoke we refer to here is the plant somewhat 
resembling a thistle, having' a large, scaly head, like the 
cone of the pine tree ; the lower part of the leaves compos- 
ing that head, with the broad receptacle underneath, is the 
eatable part. 

Hoio to eat them raiv. — Quarter them, take off the 
8 



170 VEGETABLES. 

outer leaves and choke, and serve with oil, vinegar, mus- 
tard, salt, and pepper. 

How to cook. — Clean them and take off the outer 
leaves, throw them in boiling water, with parsley, salt, 
and pepper ; they are cooked when the leaves come off 
easily ; then take from the fire and drain, taking care to 
put them upside down. 

The same, fried. — When cooked as above, cut the 
upper part of the leaves, and then cut them in eight 
pieces, take the choke off, dip each piece in a thin paste 
made of flour, sweet oil, beaten eg^, vinegar, salt, and 
pepper, and fry them with a little butter. Serve them 
with sprigs of fried parsley around. 

The same, stewed. — When cooked as directed above, 
cut them in four pieces, and trim off the upper part of the 
leaves, take off the choke, and lay them in a stewpan ; 
cover them with broth and set on a moderate fire ; add 
then one ounce of butter for six artichokes, one sprig of 
parsley, and two mushrooms cut in slices ; boil ten minutes, 
take the parsley off, and serve the artichokes with the 
mushrooms around ; pour the sauce on the whole. 

The same, with an oil sauce, or with a white sauce. — 
When cooked and cold, take off the choke, and serve with 
an oil sauce. 

They may also be served with a white sauce, but they 
must be warm. 

The Jerusalem artichokes are dressed like potatoes. 

ASPARAGUS. 

How to prepare and cook it. 

Cut off most of the white part, so as to have the whole 
of one length if possible ; then scrape the white end a little, 
soak them in v^ater, and drain. Tie them in small 
bunches of about half a dozen; throw them in boiling water, 



VEGETABLES. 171 

with a little sa^t, and drain when cooked. Serve with an 
oil sauce. 

Fried. — When cooked, make a thin paste with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two beaten eggs, and water ; dip 
them in that paste, and lay them in a frying pan in which 
you have hot butter, and on a sharp fire ; toss them gently, 
and serve, when you see the paste around them well fried. 

The same, with milk. — For a bunch of asparagus, put 
two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; when melted, add a 
pint of fresh milk, salt, and white pepper. Cut the eatable 
part of the asparagus in pieces about half an inch in 
length, and as soon as the milk boils, throw them into it, 
and serve when cooked. 

They may be boiled in water before, according to taste. 

The same, with sugar. — After they are cooked as above 
directed, put in a stewpan two ounces of butter, and set it 
on a moderate fire ; cut the eatable part of the asparagus 
in pieces about half an inch in length, and put them in 
the pan when the butter is melted ; season with two sprigs 
of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, salt and pepper ; stir 
all the time with a wooden spoon ; put in just enough warm 
water to wet them ; simmer thus ten minutes ; then 
sprinkle into it two tablespoonfuls of crushed white sugar, 
and immediately mix in it two beaten yolks of eggs, and 
serve. 

It takes about fifteen minutes for the whole process. 

BEANS. 

Green or string beans, dwarf or snap beans, French 
haricots, pole beans, kidney beans, horse beans, lima 
beans, etc. 

How to ^prepare and cook when green. — Take the Slan- 
ders off by breaking one end and pulling lengthwise ; re- 
peat the same for the other side, cut them in pieces half 



172 VEGETABLES. 

an inch long, soak them in cold water, and throw them in 
boiling water with a little salt. Boil them till cooked, 
which you will know by pressing one between your fingers 
to see if tender ; take them from the fire, throw them in 
cold water to cool, and drain them. 

Hoio to serve them with broth. — Cook a quart of beans. 
Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it on the 
fire ; when melted, put the beans in with a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley ; stir five minutes ; then add a gill of 
broth, salt, and pepper ; simmer twenty minutes, and just 
ill taking from the fire, mix in it two well beaten yolks of 
eggs, with the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

The saine, with butter. — Put in a stewpan two ounces 
of butter, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in 
it a quart of beans cooked in water, with a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley ; keep stirring continually, boil ten 
minutes, take from the fire, mix in it two beaten yolks of 
eggs, and serve. 

The same, with onions. — Put two ounces of butter in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire ; when hot, put in it two 
onions cut in slices, and fry them. Then add salt, pepper, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg, a saltspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, and a quart of beans cooked in water; also half a 
pint of boiling water ; boil ten minutes, stir with a wooden 
spoon, take from the fire, sprinkle in it a few drops of 
vinegar, and serve. 

The same, in salad. — Cook the beans in water, as di- 
rected above ; then put a layer of them in a crockery ves- 
sel, the layer to be about one inch thick; then sprinkle 
on it salt and pepper; repeat the same process till all 
your beans are in ; cover and leave thus three or four 
hours ; then throw away the water, or drain if convenient ; 
place the beans in a salad dish, with the sweet oil, vin- 



VEGETABLES. 173 

egar, and parsley necessary ; move like a salad, and serve 

cold. 

GREEX BEAXS, WITHOUT SHELLS. 

Hoio to "prepare and cook. — Shell the beans ; throw 
them in boiling water wdth a little salt, and an ounce of 
butter for a quart ; when cooked, drain them. Put in a 
stewpan two ounces of butter, set it on the fire, and when 
melted, put in it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the 
beans, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of vinegar ; toss 
gently now and then for a few minutes, and serve. 

How to prejiare and cook beans when dry. — Soak them 
in cold water (it must be soft water) for five or six hours, 
wash, and drain ; then put them in a stewpan with cold 
water, and set on a good fire ; boil till cooked, and drain 
them. 

Hoio to serve them iv'ith butter and parsley. — Have four 
ounces of butter in a stewpan, and on a good fire ; when 
melted, put in it a quart of beans cooked as directed, with 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, a middling 
sized onion, with a clove stuck in it, a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; 
stir with a wooden spoon ; when hot, add half a pint of 
the water in \vhich they were cooked ; boil gently from 
twenty to thirty minutes. Throw away thyme, parsley, 
and bay leaf, and serve. 

The same, steived. — Put two ounces of lard in a stew- 
pan and set it on the fire ; when hot, put in it a quart of 
beans cooked as above, with a pinch of flour, same of nut- 
meg, same of chopped parsley, half a pint of broth, salt, 
and pepper ; boil gently ten minutes, and serve. 

COLORED DRY BEANS. 

Soak a quart of them in cold water for six hours, wash 
and drain them. Put in a stewpan half a pound of bacon. 



1 74 VEGETABLES. 

and set it on the fire ; five minutes after, put the beans in, 
with four small onions, salt, and pepper, boil gently till 
cooked, and drain. Put two ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan on the fire ; w^hen melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful 
of flour, same of chopped parsley, then the beans without 
the bacon and onions ; toss now and then for ten minutes, 
then add half a pint of claret wine, the same of the water 
in which they were cooked, boil gently twenty minutes ; 
then put in it also the bacon and onions, boil five minutes 
longer, and serve the whole on the same dish. 

WHITE OR COLORED BEANS, IN SALAD. 

When cooked in water and drained, put a layer of 
them in a crockery vessel, about one inch in thickness ; 
then sprinkle on it salt and pepper; repeat the same 
process till all your beans are in ; then cover and leave 
thus four hours ; put the beans in a salad dish after having 
drained them ; add to them the oil, vinegar, chopped pars- 
ley, and salt necessary, and serve them hot. 

BEETS. 

Clean and wash well, but do not skin them. Put in a 
crockery vessel a layer of rye straw, moisten it slightly, 
place the beets on it, cover the vessel, and place it in a 
slow oven for five or six hours ; cool and skin them. 

Stewed. — When cooked, cut them in thin slices. Put 
butter in a stewpan, and when melted, sprinkle in it a 
pinch of flour, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper, then the beets ; simmer twenty minutes, add a few 
drops of vinegar, and serve. 

The same, in salad. — Cut them in thin slices when 
cooked, place them tastefully on a salad of chicory or en- 
dive, and serve like another salad. 



VEGETABLES. 175 

CABBAGES, COLEWORT, COLLARD, SAVOY, &c. 

How to prepare and cook them in water. — Take off 
the outer leaves, clean, cut in four pieces, free it from 
the stump, and throw it in boiling water with a little salt ; 
add a little piece of nutmeg, boil about fifteen minutes, 
and drain. 

How to serve with bacon. — ^When cooked put the cab- 
bage in a stewpan with bacon, sausages, and a piece of 
breast of mutton ; cover with cold water, season with 
three sprigs of parsley, a carrot, a clove, salt, and pepper ; 
boil till the whole is well cooked, then throw away parsley, 
carrot, and clove, and drain ; put the cabbage on a dish 
with the meat upon it, and serve warm. 

The same, ivith milk. — Cook in water two middling 
sized cabbages, and when drained, cut them in several 
pieces. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, set it on 
a good fire, and when melted put the cabbages in it, 
with salt and pepper ; sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of 
flour, add half a pint of good milk ; keep stirring with 
a wooden spoon during the whole process ; boil gently till 
the sauce is reduced, and serve. 

The same., stewed. — Cook in water two large cabbages, 
and cut them very fine. Put in a stewpan about two 
ounces of butter, and set it on the fire; when melted 
put the cabbages in and stir five minutes ; then add salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of flour ; wet with a pint of broth, 
boil till cooked and the sauce reduced, and serve. 

RED CABBAGES. 
Prepare, cook, and serve them like other cabbages. 

WHITE OR RED CABBAGES IN SALAD. 

Take either a white or red hard cabbage ; when all the 
outer leaves are taken off, see if it is clean, but do not 



176 VEGETABLES. 

wash it ; if a cabbage is not clean do not use it for salad 
(as you want a hard one, and a hard one is always clean 
when the outer leaves are taken off). Then cut it in four 
pieces, trim off the stump and coarse end of the leaves ; 
cut it as thin as possible, as in making sourkrout, put it 
in a crockery vessel, with salt, vinegar, and pepper sprin- 
kled on, cover and leave thus from four to six hours ; then 
throw away the water or vinegar, dress as another salad, 
and serve. 

SPROUTS. 

Prepare and cook them in water like cabbages. Put 
butter in a stewpan and set it on the fire ; when hot, put 
the sprouts in, with salt and pepper ; stir with a wooden 
spoon for five or six minutes, and serve. 

SOURKROUT. 

Soak in cold water for some time, changing the wa- 
ter three or four times ; then put it in a stewpan with a 
pound of bacon, two ounces of sausages, and two ounces 
of lard to every quart of sourkrout, salt, and pepper ; wet 
with water, boil from five to six hours, and serve with the 
bacon and sausages on it. ' 

When cooked you may drain it, put it in a stewpan, 
wet with white wine, boil five or ten minutes, and serve. 
This is done very often in Germany. 

CARDOON. 

The white part only is good to eat. Clean well and 
scrape the sides ; cut in pieces two inches and a half in 
length, and throw them in boiling water with a little salt ; 
boil them till their sliminess comes off easily ; then take 
from the fire, pour cold water in, and by the means of a 
towel remove the sliminess ; soak in cold water and drain 
them. Lay a few slices of bacon in a stewpan, place the 



VEGETABLES. 177 

cardoons on tliem, and again lay slices of bacon on ; sea- 
son with two onions, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
a bay leaf, and a clove, salt, pepper, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; cover with Avater and set on a good fire ; boil 
till cooked^ take from the fire and drain the cardoons 
only, throwing away the seasonings. Put the cardoons 
back in the stewpan, in which you have left the bacon ; 
add two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, and two of Es- 
pagnole sauce ; set on a slow fire, and simmer till the 
sauce is reduced to a proper thickness. Have at the 
same time in a pan on the fire a piece of ox marrow, and 
W'hen melted mix it well with the sauce at the moment 
you take the cardoons from the fire, and serve hot either 
wdth or without the bacon. 

CARROTS. 

How to clean and prepare them. — Trim off all the 
small roots, wash them well, scrape them gently, taking 
care to scrape the skin only ; then wash well, drain, and 
cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick. (Some 
cooks cut them in fillets once in a while, as a change, but 
they have a better appearance in slices.) 

Hoiv to serve them loith fines herhes. — Prepare a quart 
of carrots, and throw the slices in boiling water to cook 
them well ; then drain them. Put a piece of butter the 
size of two walnuts in a stewpan, and set it on a good 
fire ; when hot sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, stir- 
ring all the while ; then add a pinch of grated nutmeg, 
salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and half a 
pint of broth ; boil gently five minutes, then lay the car- 
rots in, subdue the fire, simmer five minutes, and serve. 
Sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice on them just before 
placing the dish on the table, if it suits you. 

The same., fried, — Prepare a quart of young carrots 
8* 



178 VEGETABLES. 

(old ones are not very good fried). Have hot butter or 
lard in a frying pan, and on a good fire, and then lay the 
carrots in ; toss now and then to have them fried on 
both sides ; when cooked place them on a dish, sprinkle 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper on them, and serve. 

The parsley, salt, and pepper may also be put in the 
pan with the carrots, according to taste. 

The same, stewed. — Prepare a quart of carrots, and 
throw the slices in boiling water for five minutes ; take 
them out and drain. Put a piece of butter the size of 
two walnuts in a stewpan, set it on a good fire, and when 
melted add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pep- 
per, and then the carrots ; Avet with half a pint of warm 
broth ; simmer till cooked, and serve. 

The same, with sugar. — After having prepared a quart 
of carrots, you throw the slices in boiling water with a 
little salt for five minutes ; take out and drain them. Put 
two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and set it on a good 
fire ; when hot lay the carrots in, with a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, and half a pint of warm broth ; sprinkle in it, while 
stirring with a wooden spoon, a teaspoonful of flour ; boil 
gently till cooked ; then take from the fire, and sprinkle in 
it also a tablespoonful of well pounded loaf sugar ; mix in 
the whole two yolks of eggs, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWERS AND BROCCOLI. 

How to prepare and cooTc them in water. — Clean and 
wash them well, throw in boiling water with a little salt ; 
boil till cooked, and drain them. 

How to serve with cheese. — Put them on a crockery 
dish when prepared ; pour on a white sauce, in which you 
have mixed a little grated cheese ; then dust the whole 
with fine bread crumbs ; after which you take a soft 



VEGETABLES. 179 

brush or a feather, which you dip in lukewarm butter, and 
put a thin coat of it all over the cauliflowers ; then place 
the dish in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve as 
they are, i. e., in the dish in which they have been 
cooked. 

The same, frieti. — Take them from the boiling water 
when half cooked, and drain. Mix well two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour with one beaten egg, a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, salt, pepper, and the quantity of milk necessary to 
make a paste thin enough to dip the cauliflowers in ; then 
have hot lard in a stewpan on a sharp fire, and lay them 
in it ; take them out when of a flaxen color, and serve. 

Another way. — When half cooked, and drained as 
above, have in a stewpan on a sharp fire, two ounces of hot 
butter ; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper, and lay them in it. Fry them gently till of a 
fresh butter color, and serve. 

The same, steived. — When cooked in water and drained, 
put in a stewpan two or three ounces of lard, and set it on 
a good fire ; when hot, put the cauliflowers in, with one 
gill of broth, salt, and pepper ; simmer ten minutes, stir 
gently with a wooden spoon so as not to break them, and 
serve hot. 

The same, with a tomato sauce. — Place them on a dish 
when cooked and strained, and immediately pour on them 
a tomato sauce, and serve. Do not allow them to cool. 

Do the same with a white sauce. 

The same, in salad. — After having cooked them in 
water, you allow them to cool in the drainer ; then cut 
them in pieces, place them on a salad dish, and serve. It 
is dressed like another salad. 

CELERY. 
How to prepare and cook in water. — Clean, wash well. 



180 VEGETABLES. 

cut off all the green leaves, split in four pieces, throw in 
boiling water with a little salt, boil from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes, and then drain it. 

How to serve it fried. — Make a paste with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one of vinegar, a beaten egg, salt, and 
pepper ; add to it the milk necessary to* make a paste thin 
enough to dip the pieces of celery in, after being cooked 
in water ; have hot lard in a stewpan on a sharp fire, and 
lay the celery in ; fry it till of a golden color, dish it, dust 
it with fine sugar, and serve. 

The same, stewed. — When cooked in boiling water, 
stew it the same as cauliflowers, simmering it fifteen min- 
utes instead of ten. 

The same, in salad. — Clean, wash well, cut off all the 
green leaves, split in four pieces, cut in pieces about one 
inch long, drain dry, and serve like another salad. 

Soup celery is cooked and served like the other, except 
that you cut it in slices instead of pieces. ^^ 

CORN {sweet). 

The simplest and best way is to boil it, and then eat 
it with butter, salt, and pepper. When boiled with any 
meat soup, or with pot-au-feu, it is delicious to eat, and 
gives a good taste to the broth ; it is also eaten with but- 
ter, salt, and pepper, as above. 

WATERCRESS, STEWED. 

Take only the top and the leaves around the stalk ; 
clean and wash it well ; throw it in boiling water with a 
little salt, and when cooked, drain it well, so as to extract 
all the water from it. Put a piece of butter the size of an 
egg in a stewpan ; when melted, put the cress in, sprinkle 
on it a tablespoonful of flour (for three quarts) ; stir con- 
tinually with a spoon, boil ten minutes, then add salt, pep- 



VEGETABLES. 181 

per, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of broth ; 
boil ten minutes longer, and serve either alone, or with 
hard boiled eggs on it ; cut the eggs in two or four pieces. 
The same, in salad. — Clean and wash it well, drain dry, 
or dry it in a towel, dress like another salad, and serve. 

CUCUMBERS, FRIED. 

Peel them, split them in four, take the seeds out, cut in 
pieces about one inch long, throw them in boiling water, 
with a little salt ; boil till cooked, drain, and put them on a 
towel so as to dry them well ; then put butter in a fry- 
ing pan, and set it on a good fire ; when hot, put in it 
some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, two minutes after 
put the cucumbers in it, 'fry a few minutes, tossing them 
now and then, and serve. 

TJie same, stewed. — Cook in boiling water, and dry them 
as above ; then put them in a stewpan with a little butter 
kneaded with flour, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg ; moisten with broth, simmer to reduce the sauce ; 
take from the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs in the sauce; 
add to it a few drops of vinegar, and serve them. 

The same, in salad. — Peel and cut them in slices, and 
put them in a bowl ; sprinkle salt on, cover and leave thus 
two hours ; then drain and put them in the salad dish, 
add oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

DANDELION. 

Dandelion is a very healthy green in the spring, either 
cooked or raw. 

Clean and wash them well several times, as it nearly 
always contains fine sand between the leaves ; leave them 
in cold water about two hours, and drain ; then throw 
them in boiling salt water, and boil twenty minutes if 
young, and thirty minutes if full grown ; then put them 



182 VEGETABLES. 

in a drainer, press on tliem so as to extract all the water, 
after which you chop them fine; put about two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan (for two quarts), and set it on a good 
fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, 
also salt, and pepper, then put in the dandelion, and stir 
for ten minutes, after which time you wet it with broth ; 
keep stirring for about fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

The same, in salad. — To serve in salad, it must be 
young, and as white as possible. 

It is served just like another salad. 

EGG PLANT, BROILED. 

Split the egg plant in two, peel it, and take the seed 
out ; put it in a crockery dish, sprinkle on chopped parsley, 
salt, and pepper ; cover the dish, and leave thus about 
forty minutes ; then take it off", put it on a greased and 
warmed gridiron, and on a good fire ; baste with a little 
sweet oil, and seasoning from the crockery dish, and serve 
with the drippings when properly broiled. It is a delicious 
dish . 

The same, fried. — Peel it, cut it in slices, put them in 
water with a little salt, for a quarter of an hour, take out, 
drain, and wipe it dry ; make a light paste with a little 
water, one egg, and a little flour ; dip the slices into it, 
place them in hot lard or butter in a frying pan on a good 
fire, turn over once, and serve hot when fried. 

Another way. — When peeled and' cut in slices about 
one inch thick, soak them in cold water with a little salt, 
for two hours, after which take ofl" and drain. Have hot 
butter in a frying pan, on a good fire, and place the slices 
in, fry them properly, and serve without the butter. 

The same, stuffed. — Split in two and peel, take the 
seed out, place it on a dish, sprinkle on it a little salt, and 
leave thus twenty minutes ; soak at the same time a 



VEGETABLES. 183 

piece of bread without crust, in milk for twenty minutes 
also ; then mix well that bread with chopped parsley, 
chopped bacon, a little butter, salt and pepper ; fill the 
egg plant with that mixture, putting the two pieces to- 
gether so as to make it appear as if it had not been split ; 
then put in a stewpan two or three thin slices of fat bacon ; 
place the egg plant on them, put other slices of bacon on ; 
wet with a little broth, cover and put in a hot oven, and 
serve with the sauce when cooked. It takes about an hour. 

Use as many egg plants as you wish, and the season- 
ing accordingly. 

Another luaij. — Proceed as above in every particular, 
except that you use a little more butter to make your mix- 
ture, and no bacon ; also, instead of putting slices of ba- 
con in the stewpan, you use butter. 

They may be cooked without joining the two pieces 
together, but be careful to have the mixture upward in the 
pan, and also on the table. 

It takes about fifty minutes to cook. 

ENDIVE, ALSO CALLED CHICCORY, SUCCORY, CURLED 
ENDIVE, ETC. 

Hoiv to serve it with milk. — Take off all the green 
leaves, clean, cut in two or four, wash Avell in several wa- 
ters, and throw in boiling water with a little salt ; boil 
half an hour, take it out, throw in boiling water, leave two 
minutes, and drain ; press on it in the drainer so as to ex- 
tract all the water from it, after which chop it fine. Put about 
two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it a teaspoonful of flour, also salt and pepper ; then put 
in the endive, say three or four heads, stir with a wooden 
spoon for ten minutes, after which time you beat two eggs 
with milk, and put them in the stewpan ; keep stirring 
fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 



184 VEGETABLES. 

The same, with broth. — Proceed as above in every par- 
ticular, except that you add a little broth instead of eggs 
and milk. 

The same, in salad. — Clean, wash, drain dry, and serve 
as directed for salads. 

HOMIXY. 
Hominy is prepared in different ways ; some make it 
in cakes, others like pap. The following is, however, the 
general way of preparing it : boil it for about three hours 
with water or milk, also butter, salt, and pepper ; then mix 
with it some w^ell beaten eggs, fry or broil, or even cook it 
in an oven and serve for breakfast. 

LEEKS. 

Clean, wash, and drain ; throw them in boiling water 
with a little salt, boil fifteen minutes, and drain ; press on 
them in the drainer, so as to extract all the water, then 
chop them fine. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; 
when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, salt, 
and pepper, then add the leeks. Stir with a wooden 
spoon for ten minutes ; after that beat two eggs with milk, 
and put them in a stewpan ; keep stirring fifteen minutes 
longer, and serve. 

LENTILS 

Prepare, cook, and serve like white dry beans. 

^ LETTUCE, COS LETTUCE, CABBAGE LETTUCE, CURLED 

SILESIA, WHITE OR GREEN LETTUCE, BUTTER 

LETTUCE, ETC. 

How to preimre. — Take off the outer leaves, clean and 
wash well, throw them in boiling w^ater with a little salt, 
boil ten minutes, and drain dry. 

Stewed. — ^When prepared, sprinkle on the top of 



VEGETABLES. 185 

each, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; then tie 
each head with a string. Place in a stewpan two or three 
slices of bacon, put the heads of lettuce in, season with 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, and a 
clove, also salt, and pepper ; cover with water, and simmer 
about two hours in an oven ; then take them from the pan, 
drain, pressing on them to extract all the Avater, and put 
them on a dish, the top upward. Have butter in a stew- 
pan, and on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a 
teaspoonful of flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; subdue 
the fire, add a little milk, and stir and simmer ten minutes 
longer; take from the fire, mix in it the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, pour it on the lettuce, which you have kept 
warm, and serve. 

Another luay. — When prepared, chop it fine. Put in 
a stewpan, for four heads of lettuce, three ounces of but- 
ter, and set it on the fire ; when melted, put the lettuce in 
with a little chopped chervil, stir now and then till cooked ; 
then sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, wet with broth, boil 
ten minutes longer, keeping it stirred, and serve. 

For a salad of lettuce, see salads. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Preserved mushrooms are used for sauces only. 

The first thing to consider very attentively in mush- 
rooms, is, not to eat any that you do not know to be 
good to eat. There are so many kinds of good and bad 
ones, that it is necessary to be very careful about even the 
edible ones, or the ones known as such when young ; it is 
better and safer never to use them when old ; they are 
considered old when the comb underneath is black before 
picking, while when young it is of a pink color. 

How to clean aiid prepare them. — Cut off the lower part 
of the stem ; skin them with a steel knife, commencing at 



186 VEGETABLES. ' 

the edge and finishing at the top ; cut in pieces and put 
them in cold water, to which you have added a few drops 
of vinegar ; leave them in it two hours, moving them oc- 
casionally; then wash well in two or three waters, and 
drain. 

When cleaned and prepared thus, they are ready to 
be used in sauces^ or to cook. 

Broiled. — If you have large mushrooms, clean and pre- 
pare as above, except that you do not cut them ; but when 
drained, put them upside down on a greased gridiron, and 
on a moderate fire ; place a little butter around the stem 
upon the comb, and when done, place them on a dish 
which you have warmed in advance, and in the same posi- 
tion they had on the gridiron ; put again around the stem 
some butter kneaded with a little chopped parsley, salt, 
and pepper, and serve. 

They must be served warm. 

As an ornament, you may make, with common white 
note paper, as many little square boxes as you have mush- 
rooms to broil ; grease them wdth butter, put the mush- 
rooms in, set them on the gridiron, and on a moderate fire, 
and serve them in the boxes when done. 

The same, steiued. — When cleaned and prepared as 
directed, and drained, throw a quart of them in boiling 
water, to which you have added a few drops of vinegar ; 
boil five minutes, take them out, put them in cold water 
to cool, drain, and dry them in a towel. Put two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan and set it on a good fire ; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, add also a sprig of 
parsley, two small onions, a little piece of carrot, a bay 
leaf, salt, and pepper, cover with broth, and boil till the 
onions are cooked ; then take from the pan, onions, parsley, 
and bay leaf, and put the mushrooms in instead ; boil slowly 
about twenty minutes, take from the fire, add to the sauce 



VEGETABLES. 187 

the yolks of two eggs, well beaten witli a few drops of vin- 
egar, and serve warm. 

Mushrooms are also cooked in omelets. (See Omelets.) 

OKRA. 

Okra is very little known here yet ; it is pretty good 
in pickles ; they make soup with it in the South and in 
the West Indies ; in that case, make it like a vegetable 
soup. 

ONIONS. 

Stewed. — Clean a quart of small onions, throw them in 
boiling water, add two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a 
bay leaf, a clove, a little piece of nutmeg, a clove of garlic, 
salt, and pepper ; boil twenty minutes, drain the onions 
only, and throw away the seasonings. Put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, and on a good fire; when melted, 
sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour ; then add the onions, 
cover with half broth and half claret wine ; boil gently till 
well cooked, and till the sauce is reduced, and serve. 

It is a very good and very wholesome dish. 

The same, in salad. — Clean small red onions ; boil 
them in broth till cooked, drain, and when cold, put them 
in a salad dish ; add oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and 
serve. 

A little chopped chervil may also be added. 

OYSTER PLANT. {See Salsify.) 

PARSNIPS. 
Fried. — Clean, wash in cold water, cut in slices or in 
fillets ; throw them in boiling water with a little salt for 
ten minutes, and drain. Put butter in a frying pan and 
set it on the fire ; when hot, put the parsnips in, sprinkle 
on them a little flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; then 



188 VEGETABLES. 

add a little broth, and white pepper ; when done, place 
them on a dish, add some fine sugar, and serve. 

The same^ stewed. — After they are cleaned, washed, 
and cut in slices, boil them ten minutes as above, and 
drain. Put butter in a stewpan and set it on the fire; 
sprinkle a pinch of flour in it ; when melted, add the pars- 
nips, salt, and pepper, stir with a wooden spoon five min- 
utes, cover with warm broth, simmer till cooked, and serve. 

GREEX PEAS, WITH BACON. 

Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it on 
the fire ; when hot, add four ounces of bacon cut in dice, 
fry it ten minutes ; add then two quarts of peas, wet with 
half a pint of broth, same of water, season with two sprigs 
of parsley, one of thyme, and a bay leaf, four small onions, 
salt, and pepper ; boil about forty minutes, throw away the 
seasonings, and serve peas and bacon together. 

The same, boiled, or ^j/ai/i boiled, as it is sometimes 
termed. — Throw two quarts of peas in boiling water, with 
salt and pepper ; boil till cooked, drain, and put them on a 
dish immediately, in order not to let them cool, put butter 
at the top, sprinkle a little salt and pepper on them, and 
serve. 

The same, loith sugar. — Put four ounces of butter in 
a frying pan and set it on a good fire ; when hot, put two 
quarts of peas in it, with half a pint of warm water, two 
sprigs of parsley, and one ounce of fine sugar; simmer 
thirty minutes, take from the fire, mix in it the yolk of an 
egg, beaten with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, take out 
the parsley, and serve. 

PRESERVED PEAS. 

They are cooked in the same way as green ones ; ex- 
cept that, when you have opened the box, you throw them 



VEGETABLES. 189 

in boiling water, and boil them only three minutes ; drain, 
cook, and serve, as green peas. 

DRY PEAS. 
Prepare, cook, and serve them, like white dry beans. 

PINEAPPLE, IN SALAD. 

Dust the bottom of a dish with white sugar, put a 
layer of slices on and dust again, repeating the same till 
the whole is in; then add over the whole a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and French brandy or rum to suit your 
taste, and serve. 

POTATOES. 

How to prepare. — Cut off the germs or eyes, if any ; 
if young and tender, take the skin off with a scrubbing 
brush ; if old, peel them with a knife, or rather scrape the 
skin off; for the part immediately under the skin contains 
more nutriment than the middle ; and then wash them. 

How to cook them by steam. — Place them above a 
kettle of boiling water, in a kind of drainer made for that 
purpose, and adapted to the kettle ; when cooked in this 
way, they are ready to be used, and are much better than 
when cooked in boiling water. 

How to serve them with bacon. — Prepare two quarts of 
potatoes ; cut them in pieces. Put in a stewpan half a 
pound of bacon cut in dice, and set it on the fire ; when 
nearly fried, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring 
with a wooden spoon ; then add the potatoes, season with 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, salt, and 
pepper, add also a pint of warm water ; boil gently till 
cooked, then take out parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, and 
serve. 

The sa7ne, in halls. — Prepare and cook by steam a 
quart of potatoes ; then peel, and mash them well ; knead 



1 90 VEGETABLES. 

tliem with the same quantity of minced meat, also salt, 
pej)per, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of 
butter, and the yolks of two eggs ; when the whole is well 
mixed, make balls as large as a middling sized apple, beat 
them in well beaten white of eggs ; then sprinkle a little 
flour on them, and throw them in boiling lard, which you 
must have boiling just at the same time ; take them out 
when fried, and serve with parsley around. 

The same, boiled. — Put two quarts of prepared pota- 
toes in a stewpan and cover with water ; season with two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, a little piece 
of nutmeg, four small onions, a small carrot, salt, and pep- 
per ; set on a good fire, and boil till cooked ; drain the 
potatoes only. Put two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil in a 
frying pan on a sharp fire ; when hot, fry the potatoes in 
it for about two minutes, and serve ; adding vinegar, salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley, as you serve. 

The same, ivith butter. — Take one quart of potatoes, 
and prepare and cook them by steam, whole ; then peel 
them carefully, and as fast as possible, in order not to let 
them cool ; put on a dish and serve them, with butter, 
salt, and pepper on the table, so that every one may eat 
them according to taste. 

Another way is : when they are on the dish, put some 
fried parsley around them; then pour on some brown 
butter, and serve hot. 

DEMOCRATIC CAKE OF POTATOES. 
Prepare and cook by steam a quart and a half of pota- 
toes, peel, and mash them ; mix with them the yolks of five 
eggs, half a lemon rind grated, and four ounces of fine, 
white sugar. Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan and 
set it on the fire ; when melted, put the mixture in, stir- 
ring with a wooden spoon continually ; as soon as it is in 



VEGETABLES. 191 

the stewpan, add tlie whites of the five eggs, well beat- 
en ; leave on the fire only the time necessary to mix the 
whole well together, and take off; when nearly cold, add, 
if handy, and while stirring, a few drops of orange flower 
water ; it gives it a very good flavor ; then put the whole 
in a tin mould, or in a tart dish, greased a little with but- 
ter ; place in a quick oven for about thirty-five minutes, 
and serve. 

The same, broiled. — Throw in boiling water a little 
salt, and about a quart of prepared potatoes ; when cooked, 
take out and drain them ; peel carefully, and cut them in 
slices half an inch in thickness ; place the slices on the 
gridiron and set it on a slow fire ; rub the upper part with 
a little butter, and as soon as the under part is broiled, 
turn each slice upside down and rub again with a little 
butter ; when well broiled, place them on a dish, sprinkle 
a little salt on, and serve. Butter may be added, if you 
choose. 

The same, fried. — Peel, wash, and cut in slices, or in 
square fillets, a quart of potatoes ; have hot lard in a stew- 
pan on a sharp fire ; throw the potatoes in (observe that 
the potatoes must be entirely covered with lard — see di- 
rection for frying — or oil) ; when fried, take them out 
gently with a skimmer, so as to let the grease drop in the 
pan ; place them on a dish, sprinkle a little salt on them, 
and serve warm. 

Sugar may be used instead of salt, according to taste. 

Some cooks dip them in paste before frying, but it is 
not so good and sightly ; they are much better without, 
and of a much more delicate flavor. 

Another way. — Peel, wash, and drain dry, good pota- 
toes ; put them whole in hot grease, in a pan, and on a 
sharp fire (see direction for frying) ; when well fried, take 
them out, make a small hole inside, with a small, sharp 



192 VEGETABLES. 

pointed knife, to the depth of about two thirds of the thick- 
ness of the potato ; fill that hole with butter maitre-d'hotel, 
and serve warm on a warm dish. 

The same, a la Franklin. — Prepare and cook in boiling 
water a quart of potatoes ; peel, cut in slices, and keep 
them warm ; then put four ounces of butter in a stewpan 
and set it on a good fire ; when melted, fry in it, until of 
a golden color, four onions cut in slices ; then add salt, 
pepper, a teaspoonful of flour, and one gill of warm water ; 
simmer twenty minutes, pour on the potatoes, and serve. 

The same, in maitre-d'hotel. — Take two quarts of pota- 
toes, prepare and cook them by steam, peel carefully, and 
cut them in thick slices ; place them on a dish and keep 
warm. Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it 
on a slow fire ; add, when melted, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, the juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of allspice, stir ten minutes ; afterward, put for five min- 
utes on a sharp fire, keep stirring, then pour on the pota- 
toes, and serve. 

The same, in matelote. — Prepare and cook a quart and 
a half of potatoes, and peel and cut them in thick slices. 
Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
set it on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, also the same of chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper, then the potatoes, wet with half a pint of claret 
wine, same of broth ; boil gently till the sauce is reduced, 
and serve. 

Tlie same, with milk or cream. — Peel and mash a quart 
of potatoes, when prepared and cooked. Put two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan and set it on a good fire ; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, same of 
chopped parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir 
with a wooden spoon five minutes ; then add the potatoes, 
and half a pint of milk or cream ; keep stirring ten min- 



VEGETABLES. 193 

utes longer, take from the fire, sprinkle in it two teaspoon- 
fuls of fine, white sugar, and serve hot. 

Tlie same, in Provenqale. — Put in a stewpan three 
tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, two cloves of garlic chopped very fine, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, salt, and pepper ; 
set on a good fire, and when hot, put in it a quart of pota- 
toes prepared and cooked by steam, and cut in thick slices ; 
subdue the fire, simmer about ten minutes, and serve. 

The same, sautees. — Take a quart of young and tender 
potatoes, peel them with a brush, and cut in slices. Put 
two ounces of butter in a frying pan on a sharp fire ; when 
hot, put the potatoes in, and fry them till of a golden 
color ; place them on a dish without any butter, sprinkle 
chopped parsley and salt on, and serve. 

They may also be served without parsley, according to 
taste. 

The same, loith a white sauce. — Clean, wash, and throw 
a quart of potatoes in boiling water, with a sprig of thyme, 
two onions, a bay leaf, two sprigs of sweet basil, two 
cloves, salt, and pepper ; when cooked, take the potatoes 
out carefully, peel, and cut them in two, place them on a 
warm dish, pour on them a white sauce, and serve warm. 

Another way. — Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan 
and set it on the fire ; when hot, add a teaspoonful of 
parsley chopped fine, and a little salt ; five minutes after, 
put in it a quart of potatoes, prepared, cooked, peeled, 
and mashed, as directed ; then pour on the whole, little 
by little, stirring continually with a wooden spoon, a pint 
of good milk ; and when the whole is well mixed, and 
becoming rather thick, take from the fire, place on the dish, 
then set in a brisk oven for five minutes, and serve. 

The same, in salad. — Cook them without water in an 
oven, or in hot cinders, if handy ; then peel and cut them 
9 



1 94 VEGETABLES, 

in th^'n slices; place them in a salad dish, season with 
chopped parsley, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and 
serve. 

You may use butter instead of oil if you serve warm ; 
you may also add slices of beets, and of pickled cucumbers, 
according to taste. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Prepare, cook, and serve them like other potatoes — 
either boiled, fried, stewed, or in any other way. 

PUMPKINS AND SQUASHES. 

Peel, take out the seed, cut in pieces, and throw them 
in boiling water, with a little salt ; drain when cooked, 
and afterward pass through a strainer. Put butter in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire ; when melted, add chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper, then the pumpkin, or squash ; 
simmer ten minutes ; after which, pour in it half a pint of 
milk, little by little, and stirring the while; leave ten 
minutes longer, that is, twenty minutes in all, and take 
from the fire ; mix well in it the yolks of two or more eggs, 
according to the quantity of pumpkin you have, and serve 
warm. 

Another ivay. — When cooked in boiling water as above, 
and drained, you put butter in a stewpan, and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, add chopped parsley, a little grated 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; then lay in the pieces of pump- 
kin or squash, stew for about six minutes, and serve warm. 

PURSLAIN. 

Clean, wash well, and throw in boiling water with a 
little salt, and boil till cooked, when take and drain. Put 
butter in a stewpan, set it on the fire, and when melted^ 
lay the purslain in, stir a little, then sprinkle on, gradu- 



VEGETABLES. 195 

ally, a pinch of flour, stirring the while ; season with a 
pinch of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper ; simmer about 
ten minutes, take from the fire, mix in it one or two 
beaten eggs, and serve. 

In salad, it is prepared just like lettuce. 



SALSIFY, OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape them, and throw one by one as you scrape 
them in cold water, with a few drops of vinegar : w^hen 
they are all scraped, move them a little, take out of the 
water, and throw them in boiling water with a little salt, 
boil fifty minutes and drain ; place them warm on a warm 
dish, and serve with brown butter, a maitre-d'hotel, or 
white sauce. 

Fried. — Make a paste with two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
a beaten egg, a tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
the quantity of milk necessary to make the paste thin 
enough to dip the plants in, so that a thin coat only sticks 
to them ; then, when they are cooked in water as above, 
you dip them in the above paste, and throw them in hot 
lard in a pan, and on a sharp fire ; take them out when 
you see that the paste is fried enough, and serve with fried 
parsley around, and without any grease. 

SKIRRET. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like parsnips. 

SORREL. 

Take the sorrel, hold it by the stalk with one hand, and 
pull off the leaves with the other, one by one, so that only the 
stalk and fibres attached to it will remain after the pulling ; 
the other part only is to be used, which you wash well, 
then drain and chop it fine, say a quart of it ; throw it in 



1 ^6 VEGETABLES. 

boiling water, with a handful of chopped chervil if handy, 
and a little salt ; when cooked, drain. Put a piece of 
butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, set it on a good 
fire, and when melted, put the sorrel in, sprinkle on it a 
tablespoonful of flour, stirring the while, and when all the 
flour is mixed, pour in also, little by little, and while stir- 
ring, half a pint of broth, or three quarters of a pint of 
milk, boil slowly ten minutes, and serve. 

Eggs boiled hard and cut in four pieces may be put on 
the sorrel. 

SPINAGE OR SPINACH. 

Cook and serve like sorrel, omitting chervil, and add- 
ing sugar just before serving. 

Eggs may be put at the top as for sorrel. 

TOMATOES. 

After they are washed, throw boiling water on them, 
take the skin .offj. and put them in a stewpan with butter, 
salt, and pepper ; set it on the fire and simmer forty-five 
minutes ; serve warm, with any kind of boiled or roasted 
meat. 

The same, in salad. — Wash gently and wipe them dry ; 
cut in slices, place them in the salad dish, season with 
sweet oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; cover and let them 
stand thus two hours, turn over gently to mix well with 
the seasonings just before eating them. 

Some "onions may be added if you choose, but they 
must be prepared thus before : take some small red onions, 
chop them fine, put them in cold water for ten minutes, 
then wipe them dry in a clean coarse towel, and mix with 
the tomatoes. 

I - TRUFFLES. 

If they are preserved, as is generally the case, take 



VEGETABLES. 197 

them out of tKe bottle or other vessel in -which they are, 
and drain them ; if not, then'put a pound of them in a 
stewpan (after being wiped dry), with two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, ja <clove, 
four ounces of butter, two ounces of grated bacon, a little 
salt, same of white sugar, two small onions, and a small 
carrot ; cover the v/hole with half broth and half claret 
wine ; boil gently about one hour, take off parsley, thyme, 
garlic, bay leaf, clove, onions, and carrot, and serve. 

TURNIPS. 

Clean, scrape and wash well three pints of turnips, 
throw them in boiling water for ten minutes, take out and 
drain. Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan, and set it 
on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in a teaspoonful of flour, 
then put the turnips in with a pint of broth, salt, and pep- 
per ; simmer till cooked, and serve. 

The same, with sugar. — Throw three pints of turnips 
in boiling water ; boil them ten minutes, and drain. Pro- 
ceed as for the above, except that you use two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar instead of flour. 

Turnips may be served with a bechamel or poulette 
sauce, with or without sugar 

Just before serving, you may also mix with them the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. 

WILD CHICCORY. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like dandelion. 

CHESTNUTS. 
To roast them, you have only to prick them with the 
point of a knife in any one place ; and to boil them, they 
may be shelled before or after. 



198 VEGETABLES. 

HOW TO PRESERVE TOMATOES. 
Take good and well ripened ones, clean and wasli 
them well, put them in a stewpan and set it on a moderate 
fire for a while ; take from the fire, throw away the water 
coming from them, and then strain them into a vessel. Put 
what there is in the vessel back on the fire, and in the 
same stewpan, and let it reduce about half; take from the 
fire, pour in a crockery pot, and leave thus twenty-four 
hours ; then put in bottles, cork well, and place them in a 
cold and dry place. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Clean and wash them well, stems and all ; cut them in 
two or four pieces ; then place the pieces in a crockery 
vessel, sprinkling salt on every layer of mushrooms, and 
leave thus twenty-four hours. Take them out and press 
them well, so as to take all the juice out, w^hich you bottle 
at once, and cork. Put the mushrooms back in the vessel, 
and tw^enty-four hours after, press them again ; and again 
put the juice in bottles, and the mushrooms in the vessel, 
and repeat this process again after another twenty-four 
hours. Then mix well together the juice of the three 
pressings ; add to it pepper, allspice, one clove (or more, 
according to the quantity), broken in pieces; boil the 
whole, skim off the scum as long as you see any on the 
surface, and strain. Bottle when cool ; put in each bottle 
two cloves and a peppercorn, cork air-tight, put in a cool 
and dry place, and it will keep for years. 

GREEN WALNUTS IN SALAD. 

The European walnut only can be used, and as soon 
as good to eat ; that is, before the outer shell dries and 
opens. 

Break the nuts in two, take out the kernels with a 



VEGETABLES. 199 

pointed knife, and place them in a salad dish, with some 
juice of grapes not yet ripe ; add salt and pepper, leave 
thus two or three hours, moving now and then, and serve. 
The eatable part will he found very good eaten that way. 
Tc persons who have never eaten any, it may appear a 
strange dish, but let them try it. 



SALADS. 



HOW TO PREPARE CHICCORY, SUCCORY, EXDIYE, CURLED 
ENDIVE, LETTUCE, BUTTER LETTUCE, CABBAGE LET- 
TUCE, COS LETTUCE, CURLED SILESIA, GREEN AND 
WHITE LETTUCE, ETC. 

Take oflf tlie outer leaves, then detach and cut (or 
rather break with the thumb and fingers) in two, three or 
four pieces, all the large leaves, split the heart in four (we 
understand by the heart of a salad, the inside small leaves, 
when only a fev/ of them remain), wash well and drain 
dry, taking care not to wilt the leaves, as it would give 
them an unsightly appearance. 

If it were possible to clean the salad by merely wiping 
the leaves with a towel, it would be better than washing ; 
but it must be washed if there is any earth or sand on 
it. Then it is ready to put in the salad dish ; the pieces 
of the heart at the top. 

HOW TO DECORATE A SALAD. 

Place tastefully on the top of the salad some blossoms 
of the following plants: borage, Indian cress or nastur- 
tium, marsh mallow, ox tongue or bugloss, periwinkle, 
wild chiccory, and also the petals of roses and of pinks. 
Place the salad thus decorated, on the table, at the begin- 



SALADS. 201 

ning of the dinner. You may put a few of each, or only 
of those you can procure. It is as agreeable to the eye 
during the dinner, as it is to the palate ^Yhen you eat it. 

HOW TO MAKE THE SALAD. 

When the time comes to eat the salad, place near the 
person that makes it, oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; then 
the oil necessary is poured on it first, the pepper after ; 
put in the spoon the quantity of salt you want to use, pour 
vinegar on it, dissolve it by moving it in the spoon with 
the fork and then move the salad. 

The salad may be made by the waiter, on the side- 
board ; that is, when the time comes to eat it, the waiter 
takes it from the table and makes it. 

The salad should be made by an experienced person, 
who can judge at a glance w^hat quantity of oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper, is necessary. The quantities cannot be 
given, as it depends on the quantity of salad ; it requires 
about two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, to one of good 
vinegar. 

Chopped parsley and cives must be offered at the same 
time with the salad, as many persons like that seasoning. 

Salads of cabbages (red and white), cauliflowers, celery, 
dandelion, fetticus, or corn salad, purslain, and water- 
cress, are made like the above. 

SOUP CELERY IN SALAD. 
Clean, wash well, and scrape it carefully; cut it in 
thin slices, place them in a salad dish, sprinkle on salt, 
pepper, vinegar, and a little mustard; leave thus from 
four to six hours ; then throw the vinegar a^vay, send to 
the table, and decorate and make it like another salad. 
It will require very little salt and pepper, as most of it 
remains when you throw away the vinegar. 
9* 



202 SALADS. 

APRICOTS, ORANGES, PEACHES, PEARS, STRAWBERRIES, 
RASPBERRIES, BLACKBERRIES, CURRANTS, AND LIKE 
BERRIES, IN SALAD. 

Dust the "bottom of a disli with white sugar, put a layer 
of slices of apricots, oranges, peaches, or pears, or a layer 
of the others entire, and dust again ; repeat the same till 
the whole is in, then add over the whole a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, and French brandy or rum to suit your taste, and 
serve. 

SALAD OF CHICKEN, FOWL, PARTRIDGE, PRAIRIE HEN, 
PHEASANT, ETC. 

Take a roasted chicken or partridge, etc. ; when cold, 
cut it in pieces as for fricassee, place them on a dish with 
pickled cucumbers cut in slices, and a little chopped pars- 
ley ; add the sweet oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper neces- 
sary ; move well, and serve. 

Some boiled eggs may be put around the dish, and also 
a cabbage lettuce cut in four pieces. 

A few sprigs of green parsley may also be placed 
around the disL 

COCOANUT IN SALAD. 

Peel it carefully and soak it in brandy for twenty-four 
hours. A little sugar may be added. 

EGGS IN SALAD. 

Cut hard boiled eggs in slices, add chopped parsley, 
sweet oil, salt, vinegar, and pepper ; move, and serve. 

SALAD MACfiDOINE. 

This salad ought to be called " compound salad," as 
it is made of a little of everything that can be served in 
salad, i. e., fish, meat, green and dry vegetables, &c. 
When the whole is mixed you add chopped parsley, sweet 



SALADS. 203 

oil, vinegar, salt and pepper ; you move till your arms 
are sore, and you have a salad macedoine. Every one 
has a right to try it. 

SALMON AND TUKBOT. 

Cut in slices, place them in a salad dish, with hard 
boiled eggs cut in two, or with some lettuce, and serve as 
directed for salads. 



EGGS. 

With asparagus. — Cut in pieces about a quarter of an 
inch long, a gill of the tender part of asparagus, throw 
it in boiling water with a little salt ; boil fifteen min- 
utes and drain. Beat eight eggs just enough to mix the 
yolks with the whites ; put them in a stewpan, season 
with a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; add also 
a tablespoonful of warm water, set on a slow fire, stir till 
they are J)ecoming thick ; then add four ounces of butter, 
stir five minutes longer ; then add the giU of asparagus ; 
simmer about fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

Tlie same, boiled. — Put the eggs in boiling water, as 
much as possible at the first boiling ; leave five minutes ; 
take out and put them immediately in cold water to cool ; 
then shell them without breaking them, serve thus on a 
puree of celery, mushrooms, or sorrel. 

The same, with h^own butter. — Break gently in a plate 
or dish, and without breaking the yolks, eight eggs ; sprin- 
kle salt and pepper on them. Put two ounces of butter 
in a frying pan, and on a good fire ; when turning brown 
subdue the fire. Put also, and at the same time, the 
same quantity of butter in another frying pan, and on a 
good fire, and when hot, place the eggs in without break 
ing the yolks ; then spread over the eggs the brown butter 



EGGS. 205 

you have in the other ; take from the fire when you see 
the whites becoming hard ; put them on a dish, pour on 
them a tablespoonful of vinegar which you have warmed 
in the pan after having used the brown butter, and serve. 

The same, fried. — Put half a pound of lard in a frying 
pan, and on a good fire ; when hot, break gently, one by 
one (being careful not to break the yolk), the quantity of 
eggs you can put in the pan without allowing them to 
adhere together; turn them upside down once with a 
spoon or skimmer ; take from the pan with a skimmer as 
soon as the white part becomes hard, and serve with fried 
parsley around, or on a garniture of vegetables. 

The same, mashed. — Beat six eggs just enough to mix 
the whites and yolks together ; put two ounces of butter 
in a stewpan, and set on the fire ; when melted take from 
the fire, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, 
then the eggs, also a tablespoonful of broth ; put back on 
a very slow fire, stir continually till cooked, and serve 
warm. 

The same, in matelote. — Put a bottle of claret wine in 
a stewpan and set it on a good fire ; add to it two sprigs 
of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, a middling 
sized onion, a clove, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper ; boil fif- 
teen minutes ; then take all the seasonings out and have 
your wine boiling gently ; break one Qgg in by letting it 
fall gently in order to have it entire, and then take it out 
immediately with a skimmer, and place it on a dish ; do 
the same with eight eggs ; keep them in a warm (but not 
hot) place. After which put in the wine, without taking 
it from the fire, four ounces of butter kneaded with a ta- 
blespoonful of flour ; boil till reduced to a proper thick- 
ness, pour it on the eggs, and serve. 

The same, with onions. — Cut in dice three middling 
sized onions ; put them in a stewpan with four ounces of 



206 EGGS. 

butter, and set it on a moderate fire ; when the onions are 
turning yellow, sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of flour, 
salt, and pepper ; add a gill of warm water, boil gently 
till reduced to a proper thickness. Have ready the quan- 
tity of eggs you want, which must be boiled hard, and 
cut in four pieces ; put them in the stewpan, leave only 
one minute longer on the fire, and serve. 

The same, with green 2Jeas. — Throw a gill of green 
peas in boiling water with a little salt, boil them twenty 
minutes, and drain. Beat eight eggs just enough to mix 
the yolks with the whites ; put them in a stewpan, and set it 
on the fire ; season with a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, 
and pepper ; add a teaspoonful of warm water, then the 
green peas, keep stirring for five minutes ; then add four 
ounces of butter, simmer fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

The same, sur le plat. — Butter the bottom of a crock- 
ery dish with two ounces of butter ; break in it gently six 
eggs, without breaking the yolks ; sprinkle salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg on them, put the dish on warm 
cinders, and when the white is hard, take off" and serve. 

They must be served in the crockery dish. 

The same, poached. — ^Fill a kettle with water, about 
two thirds full, add to it a gill of vinegar, and a lit- 
tle salt ; put it on the fire, and take it off" at the first boil- 
ing ; immediately break the eggs in, gently ; take them out 
as soon as the white is hard, place them on a pur6e of cel- 
ery, or of sorrel, and serve warm. 

The same, in the shell. — Put eggs in boiling water for 
two minutes, if you like them soft or underdone, and three 
minutes, if you like them quite done. After the two 
minutes of boiling, take from the fire, and leave them in 
the water half a minute longer, then take them out, and 
serve them on the table, enveloped in a napkin. 



EGGS. 207 

Cooked in this way they are eaten either in the shell 
by the means of an egg cup, or in a glass. 

Another way of cooking them is to put them in boil- 
ing water, and take the water immediately from the fire ; 
leave them in it five minutes. 

The same, a la neige, or snoiv-Uhe. — Break ten eggs 
and separate the yolks from the whites ; beat the whites 
till they are turned into a thick foam ; then sprinkle in 
them four ounces of fine white sugar, and a tablespoonful 
of essence of vanilla, stirring the while to mix well. Then 
put in a stewpan a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of orange 
flower water, and. two ounces of sugar; set it on a good 
fire, and as soon as it boils, take a tablespoonful of your 
beaten eggs, and let drop gently in the pan ; do the same 
for the whole, as rapidly as possible ; take them out with a 
skimmer as soon as you see them hard, and place in a dish ; 
then take the milk from the fire, beat the yolks of the 
eggs in a vessel with a little of the milk from the stewpan, 
put that mixture in a stewpan, and this back on the fire ; 
stir with a wooden spoon till it is becoming thick, take 
off and pour on the whites, and serve thus when cold. 



OMELETS. 

How to heat the eggs. — Break in a bowl the quantity 
of eggs you want, or as many as there are persons at the 
table ; beat them well with a little milk, or at least a 
little water if you have no milk ; add also a little salt and 
pepper. 

How to place on the dish. — When the omelet is cook- 
ed, you slide it gently from the pan into the dish, and 
when half of it is in the dish, you turn your pan upside 
down so as to fold the omelet ; it is more tender and tasty. 
Do not turn it over in the pan so as to fry bot^i sides, except 
when directed. 

With apjyles. — Peel two or three apples, cut them in 
thin, round slices, fry them with a little butter, and take 
them from the pan ; then put a little more butter in the 
pan, and when hot, pour in it six beaten eggs, in which 
you have mixed the slices of apples ; turn over once, and 
serve as directed. 

With asparagus. — Cut the eatable part of the aspara- 
gus half an inch in length, throw them in boiling water 
with a little salt, drain them when cooked, and chop them 
fine ; beat them with eggs and a little milk ; have hot 
butter in a frying pan on a good fire ; pour the eggs in, 
tossing continually till done, and serve on a dish as di- 
rected. 



OMELETS. 209 



With bacon. — Put two ounces of butter in a frying 
pan ; when melted add two ounces of bacon cut in dice ; 
when turning brown and very hot, pour in eight eggs, beaten 
as directed above ; toss the pan almost all the time till 
done, and serve as directed. 

With ham. — Proceed as with bacon in every particular, 
and use ham instead of bacon. 

With Jin herbes. — ^Beat as directed six eggs, with 
two tablespoonfuls of parsley, and one of cives chopped 
fine. Put four ounces of butter in a frying pan, and set 
it on a good fire ; when hot, pour the eggs in, toss now 
and then till done, and serve as above directed. 

When about half done, drop a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut under the omelet, to prevent it from adhering 
to the pan. 

With kidneys. — Koast a calf's kidney, and chop it 
fine ; beat it with eggs as directed. Put butter in a fry- 
ing pan, and set it on a good fire ; when hot, pour the 
eggs in, toss now and then till done, and serve. 

With mushrooms. — Cut mushrooms in pieces, and beat 
them with eggs as directed for omelets ; have hot butter 
in a frying pan on a good fire, pour the eggs in, toss the 
pan till done, and serve. 

Au naturel. — Put two ounces of butter in a frying pan ; 
when hot pour in it six eggs, beaten as directed for omelets, 
toss the pan all the time till done, place on a dish, and 
serve. 

Grated cheese may be added on the omelet ; in that 
case, when the cheese is on it, put in a quick oven for two 
or three minutes, and then serve. 

The cheese may also be beaten with the eggs. 

The best cheese for omelets is Gruyere. 

With sorrel. — Put two ounces of butter in a frying 
pan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, pour in it six 



210 OMELETS. 

beaten eggs, toss almost continually till done, turn it over 
once to fry both sides, and when cooked, serve it on a 
puree of sorrel. 

SOUFrL:EE. 

Mix well the yolks of eight fresh eggs with about four 
ounces of fine white sugar ;• beat well the whites of the 
eight eggs ; afterward mix well together yolks, whites, 
and the rind of half a lemon chopped very fine. Put four 
ounces of butter in a crockery dish, place it on a moderate 
fire ; when the butter is melted, pour the eggs in, mix well 
the butter, and as soon as you see the whole well mixed^ 
place in a very hot oven for five minutes ; take it out, 
dust with fine sugar, and serve hot. 

With sugar. — Mix well the yolks of eight eggs with 
two ounces of fine white sugar and a pinch of salt, and 
beat well the whites ; then mix well yolks, whites, and the 
rind of half a lemon, having the latter chopped very fine. 
Put four ounces of butter in a frying pan, and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, pour the eggs in, and toss now and 
then till done ; dust a dish with fine white sugar, put the 
omelet on, then dust again the upper side with the same ; 
have ready a red hot shovel, or any other flat piece of iron, 
pass it over the top of the omelet, so as to color it while 
melting the sugar, and serve warm. The whole process 
must be performed quickly. 

With rum. — Make an omelet with sugar as above, and 
when on the table, pour a gill or so of rum on it, set fire to 
it, and let it burn as long as it can, taking slowly but con- 
tinually with a silver spoon the rum from the sides, and 
pouring it on the middle while it is burning, and until it 
dies out by itself ; then eat immediately. 

With truffles. — Slice four ounces of truffles, beat them 
with six eggs, a little milk, and a little salt and pepper. 
Put in a frying pan four ounces of butter, and set it on a 



OMELETS. 211 

good fire ; when melted pour the eggs in, toss almost con- 
tinually till done, and serve as directed for omelets. 

A la Washington. — Make four omelets of four eggs 
each, one with apples, one with asparagus or sorrel (accord- 
ing to the season), a third with fines herbes, and the 
fourth, au naturel ; you serve them on the same dish, one 
lapping over the other. It makes a fine as well as a good 
dish 

This omelet, or rather these omelets were a favor- 
ite dish to the Father of his country ; they were very often 
served on his table when he had a grand dinner. 



PASTRY, TARTS, PIES, ETC. 

WHAT IS NECESSARY TO MAKE GOOD PASTRY. 
To make good paste, and consequently good pastry, 
always use the best wheat flour, properly sifted, the best 
fresh butter, fresh eggs, fine, white salt, a marble table, or 
a very clean and very smooth board ; be in a cool place in 
summer, and in a moderately warm one in winter ; use 
cold water in summer, and lukewarm water in winter. 

PASTE A. 
Take half a pound of butter, put it in a pail of very 
cold water for half an hour, and take it out ; make a paste 
with it and a pound of flour, also two eggs, half a pint of 
the water in which the butter was, and about a quarter of 
an ounce of fine salt ; knead the whole properly with the 
fingers ; then dredge your table or board with flour, take a 
rolling pin and roll it thin, fold it over once and roll again 
thin ; repeat the same process five times in summer and 
six in winter, and leave it thus half an hour in summer 
and an hour in winter, before using it. 

PASTE B. 

Take three quarters of a pound of butter, and put it in 
a pail of very cold water for half an hour. Make a paste 



PASTRY. 213 

with it and one pound of flour, four eggs, half an ounce of 
fine salt, and a little water ; knead the whole well ; roll 
it with a rolling pin to a thickness of half an inch, then 
break it in pieces with your fingers ; knead again and 
break it again. Then knead and roll it thin; leave it 
thus half an hour in summer and an hour in winter, before 
using it. 

PASTE C. 

Put a pound of butter in a pail of very cold water for 
half an hour. Take one pound of flour, two eggs, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of fine salt, a little water, and two ounces 
of the butter from the pound above mentioned, and knead 
the whole well together ; spread with a rolling pin ; then 
divide the remaining fourteen ounces of butter in eight 
parts, take one of them and spread it on the paste, then 
fold it over once, and roll again thin ; repeat this process 
seven times more, and then fold the paste over twice ; roll 
thin again, repeat this last process once, and half an hour 
after, it is ready for use. 

PASTE D. 

Work into a paste two pounds of flour with a little 
water, four eggs, half an ounce of salt, half a pound of 
butter, and four ounces of fine, well boiled beef suet; 
spread it on the board, fold it over once, and roll it thin ; 
fold and roll again four times more ; half an hour after, it 
is ready for use. 

PASTE E. ^ 

Beat well together the yolks of six eggs and half a pound 
of fine, white sugar ; whisk to a froth the six whites ; mix 
the whole with six ounces of the best flour (which flour 
you must have previously dried in an oven, and sifted 
before using it) ; when the whole is properly mixed, it 
makes a light paste, and is ready for immediate use. 



214 PASTRY. 

CHOCOLATE BISCUIT. 

Pound well two ounces of chocolate, mix it properly 
with paste E, put it in a well buttered mould or moulds, 
and place them in a moderately heated oven ; watch care- 
fully till baked, which you easily tell by the color it as- 
sumes. 

CINNAMON, LEMON, ORANGE, OR YANILLA BISCUIT. 

Proceed as for chocolate biscuit in every particular, 
except that you use cinnamon, lemon, etc., enough to give 
the taste, instead of chocolate ; for lemon or orange, you 
mix with the paste about the fourth part of a rind, well 
grated. 

Many names are given to these biscuits, according to 
fancy ; they are called biscuits en caisse, k la cuiller, k 
la royale, etc. ; these names mean nothing. 

They may be baked in moulds, in small square pa- 
per boxes, buttered, or on slips of paper only ; it is very 
easily done. 

FILBERT BISCUIT. 

Take eight ounces of sweet almonds and four ounces 
of bitter ones ; throw them in boihng water for five min- 
utes ; take out and skin them, put them in a mortar with 
a few drops of orange flower water, or well beaten whites 
of eggs ; when reduced to a paste, mix well with it four 
ounces of flour (the flour must be prepared as for paste E) ; 
also with eight ounces of fine, white sugar, the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten, and the whites of four eggs whisked 
to a froth ; when the whole is properly mixed, put it in a 
well buttered mould, which place in a moderately heated 
oven ; watch it carefully, take out when cooked, which is 
easily known by the color it assumes. 

Biscuits with hazelnuts, peach, or other kernels, may 



PASTE Y. 215 

be made in the same way ; that is, using tliem instead of 
almonds. 

ANCHOVY CAKE. 

Knead four ounces of flour with two ounces of butter, 
a little salt, and a little water. Clean four anchovies and 
put them in vinegar for five minutes ; then cut them in 
small pieces, put them in a bowl, and cover them with 
sweet oil ; leave them thus ten minutes. Eoll the paste 
thin, then place a little more than half of it on a tart dish, 
raising it all around with the thumb and forefinger ; cover 
that paste with the anchovies, and these with the remain- 
der of the paste, after having cut it in square pieces; 
spread some of the oil in v/hich were the anchovies, on it, 
bake in a warm oven, baste now and then with a little of 
the oil, and serve warm. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mix well with some paste A, the rind of half a lemon 
well grated, also four ounces of fine, white sugar, and a 
teaspoonful of orange flower water ; butter a mould, pLt 
the mixture in it, and put it in a moderately heated oven 
for about an hour. 

LIGHT CAKE. ' 

Take half a pound of flour, knead it with a little luke- 
warm water and yeast, put it in a warm place, and when 
it has swelled about three times its bulk (when first made) 
it is ready for use. 

Knead to a paste, one pound and a half of flour with 
the same quantity of butter, also fifteen eggs, salt, and 
about half a pint of milk ; then mix this again with the 
paste made with yeast, and when the whole is properly 
kneaded, put it in a warm place for about ten hours. 
After which, make a ball with three fourths of the paste, 



216 PASTRY. 

put it in a tin dish ; then make another ball c _- ^«xxer 
fourth, place it on the top of the larger one, moisten- 
ing with a little milk or water the parts joined, in order 
to make them stick together ; put them in a rather brisk 
oven, and ten or fifteen minutes after, place a piece of 
paper over the top ball — a kind of cap fd" prevent its baking 
too fast, as it is much smaller than the lower one ; it takes 
about forty-five minutes to bake it. 

It may be served cold as well as warm. 

If found too large with the above quantities, make it 
smaller, or make two or more out of it. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Mix well in a vessel a pound of sugar with a pound of 
butter ; then mix again with it eight eggs, one by one ; 
then mix again with it half a pound of raisins, also half a 
pound of flour, and a liquor glass of rum ; when the whole 
is well mixed, bake in an oven. 

RICE CAKE. 
Mix well with some paste A, six eggs and six ounces 
of rice (the rice must have been cooked previously in milk) ; 
add also a little salt, and four ounces of fine, white sugar ; 
then butter well a piece of paper, place th-- ^aste on it, 
and put it in a warm oven. Take out when Uitked, which 
takes about an hour, dust it with sugar, put again in the 
oven for two minutes, and serve warm. 

SAVOY BISCUIT, OR SPONGE CAKE. 
Mix well with some paste E, a little of the rind of a 
lemon, well grated, and a little piece of vanilla, well 
pounded. Butter a mould well, and dredge the butter 
slightly with fine, white sugar; place the paste in the 
mould, and put it in a moderatel^eated oven. It takes 



PASTRY. 217 

about fifty minutes to bake ; after which, take it out, let 
cool a little, turn over a dish, remove the mould, put 
again in the oven five minutes only, and it is done. 

You may put half the quantities above mentioned, or 
double them, according to the size of your mould or 
moulds. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mix with some of the paste A, four ounces of sugar 
and a little water ; spread the paste, and roll it to a thick- 
ness of* about three eighths of an inch ; cut it in small 
pieces, and of difi'erent shapes, put them on slightly but- 
tered sheet iron pans, or on pieces of buttered paper, glaze 
the top with a very little yolk of egg well beaten with 
water, dust with fine white sugar, bake in a slow oven, 
and eat warm. 

, ,^ FARCE, FOR MEAT PIES. 

■ Take four ounces of fillet of veal, four ounces of round 
of beef, and eight ounces of beef suet; sec that the 
whole is free from fibres, or thin skin ; chop the whole as 
fine as possible ; chop also very fine a littli^ pai^oy, a little 
piece of bay leaf, and the same of thyme ; pound the whole 
well, and mix together meat, suet, pnd spices ; add to it 
while pounding, and little by Litle. the whites of two eggs, 
and one yolk, beaten toget^iti ; when well mixed, it forms 
a kind of thick past*^, then add a liquor glass of French 
brandy, and cvo gill of white wine, to every pound of 
meat. Ad^ to it water or broth, and work it at the same 
time till you bring it to a rather liquid farce ; add, then, 
salt, r/pper, and a little grated nutmeg, and it is ready 
for . -^v. 

This farce may also be made with game, poultry, or 
jiids, raw, roasted, or cooked in any way, and in the 
same proportions as ab%e ; that is, you mix it with the 
10 



218 PASTET. 

same quantity of beef suet, and proceed as above in every 
other particular. 

FARCE, FOR FISH PIES. 

Clean as directed for fish, and cut in pieces about two 
inches long, a pound of fresh fish — cod, eel, sole, or turbot. 
Put it in a stewpan with two sprigs of parsley, one of 
thyme, half a bay leaf, one clove, salt, pepper, one clove 
of garlic, and half a glass of white wine ; cover with water, 
and set it on a good fire ; boil till cooked, let cool, take 
the fish out, take the bones out, and chop it very fine ; then 
pound it well, with six ounces of butter, a little chopped 
parsley, one beaten egg, salt, pepper, and a little grated 
nutmeg; bring it to a rather liquid farce, by adding a 
little water, and mixing well, and then it is ready for use. 

APPLE PIE, OR ANY OTHER FRUIT PIE. 

Quarter, peel and core as many apples as you want, 
envelop tLem with some of paste A ; put them in a tin 
or sheet iron pan, and in a warm oven ; twenty minutes 
after make a few holes at the top with a fork to let the va- 
por out ; put back in the oven till done, which you easily 
tell by the color ana the appearance of the pie. There are 
some kinds of apples tlat require a longer time than others 
to cook. Dust the pie with b-o^crar when taking it from the 
oven, and serve warm or cold. 

Any other fruit pies are made in tli^ same way, also 
rhubarb pie. 

These pies may also be made with marmalade:: of fruits, 
or with the fruits cooked before in any way ; in thct case, 
take some of paste B to make them. 

Tarts or pies may also be made with sweetmeats ; ^or 
these take some of pastes B or C, roll it thin, put it on l 
buttered tin or sheet iron pan, oi^ven on a piece of 



PASTRY. 219 

tered paper; spread tlie marmalade on it, and cover with 
another piece of the same paste, but as thin as possible ; 
you join the two pastes together by merely -svetting both all 
around, and pressing them gently together with the fingers ; 
bake in the oven like other pies. 

All these tarts or pies may be made with any kind 
of sweatmeats, and of every shape. Many names are 
given them, not according to the way they are made, 
but merely according to the shape ; the whole depends up- 
on the fancy of the maker ; some are called tartlets, 
others ladies' slippers, etc., etc. 

HOW TO FILL AND COVER THE MOULD, TIN PAN, OR 
SHEET IRON PAN FOR MEAT PIES. 

Bring some of paste D to a thickness of one sixteenth of 
an inch, and line the bottom and sides of the mould or pan 
with it ; place the meat inside, and pour on it some farce for 
meat pies, to fill the hollow places ; then cover with a piece 
of the same paste, and which you join with the paste of the 
sides, by merely wetting with water the two pastes, and 
pressing them together with the fingers. Make a few holes 
at the top with a fork or something else to let the vapor 
out while baking, and place in a properly heated oven. 

If the meat is cooked before putting it in the paste, 
it will take from one to two hours to bake the pie, accord- 
ing to its size ; and if the meat is raw^, it will take from 
two to three hours. 

Meat pies may be eaten warm or cold, according to 
taste. 

BIRD PIE. 

By birds, are understood all, from the partridge or pheas- 
ant to the smallest of birds ; turkey is very seldom pre- 
pared in pie. 

Clean and prepare as directed for birds ; cut them in 



220 PASTRY. 

two or four pieces, or use them whole, according to their 
size ; fry the birds in butter, with salt, pepper, a pinch of 
allspice, and a little chopped parsley ; when half done, 
take from the fire, and place in the mould as soon as they 
are cold. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut a chicken as for fricassee ; you may take the bones 
out if it suits you, and proceed as for bird pie in every 
other particular. 

HAM PIE. 

Cook the ham in water and seasonings, as directed for 
ham, only take it from the fire an hour before it is entirely 
cooked ; let cool, bone it, cut it in slices, and proceed as di- 
rected for pies. 

HARE PIE AND RABBIT PIE 

Clean and cut in pieces a hare, or half of it ; take the 
bones out, lard the pieces, fry them half done, with butter, 
salt, pepper, a piece of allspice, and a little chopped pars- 
ley; let cool, put in the mould or pan, as directed, and 
leave two hours in the oven. 

LAMB PIE. 
Take one pound or more of lamb, according to the size 
you want to make the pie ; cut it in pieces and take the 
bones out, fry with butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
and a pinch of allspice ; take from the fire when half done, 
let cool, put in the mould or pan, as directed, and bake. 

MINCE PIE. 

Chop fine any kind of meat, game, poultry, or butcher's 
meat you may have left from a dinner, of either, or of all 
of them ; add to every pound of it a quarter of a pound 
of mince meat for sausages, and mix the whole well ; then 



PASTET. 221 

fry the mixture with butter, chopped parsley, and a pinch 
of allspice ; leave on the fire about twenty-five minutes, 
wet with broth during the process, and also add a pinch 
of flour ; take from the fire and let cool ; put in the mould 
as directed, and leave about two hours in the oven. 

Mince pies are made of any size, from half a pound to 
eight or ten pounds ; when very large, leave it longer in 
the oven. 

Mince pies are very good for breakfasts, lunches, or 
suppers. 

VEAL PIE. 

Take a piece of veal and proceed as for lamb pie. 

FISH PIE. 

Clean as directed for fish in general, about three 
pounds of any kind of fish (you may use of one or of many 
kinds at the same time, as it suits you) ; cod, eels, soles, 
or turbot, are said' to be superior, but every kind of fish is 
very good when well prepared. Cut the fish in pieces 
about two inches long ; fry it with butter, chopped parsley, 
a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon 
juice ; take from the fire when half done, and let cool. 
Place the fish in the mould, or pan, as directed for meat 
pie, fill the hollow places with farce for fish pies, and pro- 
ceed as for meat pies in every other particular. 

YOL-AU-YENT. 

Bring to a thickness of three quarters of an inch, some 
of paste C ; give it a round form, and of the size of the dish 
you want to serve it on ; put the paste on a sheet iron 
pan ; then with the point of a knife you cut the paste at 
the top, about three fourths of its thickness, and three 
quarters of an inch from the edge, and the cut describing 



222 PASTEY. 

a circle ; beat yolks of eggs with water, and glaze slightly 
with them the inside of the circle, which is at the same 
time the upper part of the paste ; then put it in a rather 
quick oven, seeing carefully that it bakes even ; turn the 
pan round occasionally, as the oven might be warmer on 
one side than on the other ; take it out when well raised, 
and of a fine color. Then with a knife take oif the cover 
carefully (we understand by cover, the upper part inside 
the circle you have cut at the top before baking), and by 
the means of a spoon, remove the inside paste which is not 
baked, leaving only the bottom and sides untouched ; then 
fill the empty place with butcher's meat, game, fish, or 
fruit, cooked beforehand — the meat must be roasted, boiled, 
or stewed ; the fish must be boiled or stewed ; and the 
fruit must be cooked in a stewpan, with sugar enough to 
sweeten it — and put the cover back on the whole ; after 
which process you serve the vol-au-vent warm. 

As can be seen by the above receipt, a vol-au-vent 
may be served in some hundreds of ways. 

It may also be served without a cover. 

BABA. 

Make a light paste with about four ounces of flour, 
milk, and a little yeast ; when raised, knead it with 
twelve ounces of flour, and let it raise again ; knead it 
again with nine ounces of butter, and eight eggs, using 
the eggs one after another, and mixing the whole well ; 
add also then six ounces of raisins, and a liquor glass of 
brandy ; bake it in a moderately heated oven. 

CUSTARD AND FLAN. 
Put a pint of milk on the fire, and let reduce one half. 
Take twelve ounces of flour, same of butter, and knead to 
a paste, with the yolks of four eggs, and also with the milk ; 



PASTEY. 223 

leave thus half an hour ; then mix again with the whole 
four ounces of fine, white sugar, and a few drops of essence 
of rose ; then put the mixture in a crockery dish, and the 
dish in a moderately heated oven ; watch it carefully till 
done, which you will know by the color it assumes. 

Another way. — Make a light paste with a pint of milk 
(after having given it one boil), one pound and a half of 
flour, same of butter, five beaten eggs, a few drops of any 
essence, and a little salt ; put it in a crockery dish, and 
the dish in a rather hot oven. It will take about forty 
minutes to cook it. 

FKITTERS. 

Boil till reduced one third, a quart of milk ; let cool a 
little, and mix in it flour enough to make a thin paste ; 
chop fine the rind of half a lemon, and mix it with the 
paste, also a little sugar, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread 
the paste on a table, let cool about two hours ; then cut it 
in small pieces, either round, square, or of any other shape ; 
dip each piece in well beaten eggs, lay them in hot lard 
in a stewpan, and on a good fire, fry them till of a fine 
golden color, place on a dish, dust them with sugar, and 
serve warm. 

FRITTERS WITH APPLES. 

Make a thin paste with flour and lukewarm water; 
then add to it the yelks of one or two or more eggs, 
with a teaspoonful of sweet oil to each, then the white 
or whites of your eggs, after having well beaten them, and 
mix the whole well. 

Peel, core, and cut apples in slices, put the slices in 
French brandy with a little sugar, also some rind of lemon 
chopped fine, and leave thus three or four hours ; then take 
the slices out, dip each in the above paste, lay them in hot 
lard in a stewpan, and on a good fire ; fry till of a fine 



224 PASTET. 

golden color, take from the pan, drain, and place them on 
a dish, dust with fine, white sugar, and serve them warm. 
Fritters with peaches, pineapples, strawberries, rasp- 
berries, and any other kind of fruit, may be made like the 
above. The only difference is, that you quarter peaches, 
etc., and that you use strawberries, etc., entire. 

MACAROONS. 

Throw in boiling water for five minutes ten ounces of 
sweet almonds, and two ounces of bitter ones ; skin them 
well ; put in a mortar, and grind them to a paste, adding 
a few drops of the white of eggs during the process. 
Grind well also a pound of white sugar, with the quarter 
of a rind of lemon well grated ; then mix well together 
almonds, sugar, and the wdiites of two eggs. Make 
balls of any size with it ; put the balls on a piece of paper, 
beat the yolk of an egg with half a gill of water, and glaze 
the top of the balls with it by the means of a pencil, or 
a goose feather ; put them in a slow oven ; it will take about 
fifteen minutes to cook them. 

The scwie, luith chocolate, — Proceed as for the above 
in every particular, except you add to the mixture two or 
more ounces of pounded chocolate. 

MERINGUE, OR FRENCH KISSES. 

Whisk to a froth the whites of ten eggs, then mix well 
with them half a pound of fine white sugar, and a few 
drops of essence of lemon ; the best way to mix well is to 
sift the sugar on them slowly, and continue whisking the 
eggs till all the sugar is in ; when properly done, it forms 
a rather stiff froth. Butter very slightly a sheet of white 
paper, pour your mixture on it by means of a spoon. You 
may make four, six, eight, ten, etc. ; dust each cake with 
fine, white sugar, place in a slow oven for about ten min- 



PASTRY. 225 

utes, or till it becomes brown ; then take from the oven, 
and put each cake upside down on a tin sheet ; this is easily 
done with a flexible knife ; then with a spoon take out part 
of the inside, and dust it slightly with fine, white sugar ; 
when cold it is ready for use, and may be kept two or th;-ee 
days in a very dry closet. 

When you are to serve them, fill each with the follow- 
ing cream : beat well the yolks of ten eggs with one glass 
of good milk ; mix one glass of milk with five ounces 
of fine, white sugar, and one spoonful of fecula ; put in a 
stewpan the two mixtures, and set it on a slow fire ; stir 
continually with a wooden spoon till it begins to become 
thick, then add to it the whites of the ten eggs, well beaten 
with two ounces of fine, white sugar ; keep stirring two 
minutes longer, take from the fire, and let cool ; add a few 
drops of essence to flavor it, and also about an ounce of 
isinglass dissolved in a little water, and serve. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

There are many ways to make apple meringues ; but 
the easiest and best is to fill the cakes with apple jelly, in- 
stead of cream, and proceed as for meringue in every other 

particular. 

NOUGAT. 

Throw a pound of sweet almonds in boiling water for 
five minutes ; skin them well, and when cool, cut them in 
four or five pieces lengthwise ; then melt a pound of fine, 
white sugar with two spoonfuls of water, in a copper or 
crockery pan, and on a good fire, stirring all the time with 
a wooden spoon ; when well melted, put the almonds in ; 
keep stirring about five minutes longer, take from the fire, 
add a little of the rind of a lemon well grated, oil the 
mould, put it on the corner of the range in a warm, but 
not too hot place ; put the almonds and sugar in the 
10* 



226 PASTRY. 

mould, and little by little take oflf when of a brown color, 
turn on a plate, remove the mould, and serve. 

PANCAKES. 

Make a thin paste with one pound of flour, four eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, one of French brandy, 
a little salt, the necessary quantity of lukewarm water and 
milk, about half of each ; let it remain thus two or three 
hours at least ; then put about an ounce of lard, butter, or 
oil in a frying pan, and set it on a brisk fire ; when hot, 
put some of the paste in it with a ladle, spread the 
paste so as to cover the bottom of the pan ; fry on both 
sides, place it on a dish, dust it with fine, white sugar 
on both sides, and serve warm. 

Buckwheat and other pancakes are made in the same 
way. 

PUDDINGS. 

Every one knows how to make puddings. It is un- 
happily (for the constitution in general, and stomach in 
particular) too well known by all cooks or soi-disant cooks. 
We are of opinion that no one, and above all, children, 
ought to eat any kind of pudding, no matter how good it 
may taste. 

Pudding eating is an English custom, but before fol- 
lowing a custom of another country, people ought to con- 
sider if that custom or fashion (whatever it is) has not 
been introduced in that country by necessity, which is the 
case for pudding eating in England, and in some parts of 
Holland. 

In England, where the fog is perpetual, or nearly so 
in many parts, and where it exists at least eight or nine 
months of the year in others, the stomach requires to be 
filled with something very heavy, something that will stay 



PASTRY. 227 

there till the next meal, and very often longer than 
that. 

It is well known that in England, farm hands, or other 
persons working in the open air, eat six times a day, and 
have pudding at least three times ; they drink home brewed 
beer, which is very heavy, and very rich also ; let any 
one here, in this pure, clear atmosphere, eat six times a 
day, have pudding three times, with a pint of home 
brewed beer every time, and see how they will feel in the 
evening. We beg of all that may doubt our observations 
to try the experiment. 

Pastry in general, no matter how light it may be made, 
lies heavier on the stomach than any other food, and is very 
difficult of digestion. There are thousands of persons that 
have never had any indigestion but from pastry. Children 
like pastry very much ; this is very easily understood 
as their young stomachs digest very rapidly, they crave 
food oftener than grown persons. Pastry being easier 
to have at any time than anything else, it is given to 
them; and from habit in youth, arises the liking when 
grown up. The stomach being accustomed to it from in- 
fancy, may digest it better, but it is always at the expense 
of the whole system ; the stomach must work hard, too 
hard in digesting it ; whence come dyspepsia, weakness, 
and finally consumption, or debility, or any other sickness 
of the same kind. 

RISSOLlfiS. 

Cut round or square pieces, about two inches in size, 
of paste A ; fold it around to make a border ; place on 
each piece a little marmalade of apricots ; have hot lard 
or grease in a frying pan, and on a good fire ; lay the 
pieces gently in, and take them out when of a golden color. 

They must be served hot, and dusted with sugar. 

Any other marmalade may be used. 



228 PASTRY. 



WAFFLES. 



Make a thin paste with eight ounces of flour, six 
ounces of sugar, two eggs well beaten, a few drops of 
orange flower water, half a liquor glass of brandy, and the 
milk necessary; warm the mould on both sides ; grease both 
sides with butter ; put some of your paste in it, close it 
gently, set it on the fire, turn over to warm both sides 
equally, dust them with sugar when done, and eat either 
warm or cold ; it takes hardly one minute to make one, 
with a good fire. 

BLANC-MANGER. 

Throw in boiling water two ounces of sweet almonds 
and the same of bitter ones ; when the skin comes easily 
oflj take from the fire and drain. Then skin and, pound 
them well with the same quantity of sugar, lay the whole 
in a pan with about a pint of water, set on the fire, and 
when on the point of boiling, take off" and strain. Put in 
a stewpan about a pint of milk, with your strained juice, 
nearly an ounce of isinglass, a little of the rind of a lemon, 
well grated, and a little nutmeg, well grated also ; set on 
a moderate fire, simmer just enough to melt the isinglass ; 
then strain, put in a mould, set it on ice, and use when 
cool. 

FONDUE. 

Beat well six eggs, and put them in a stewpan with 
two ounces of Gruyere, well grated, and about one ounce 
of butter ; set on a brisk fire, and leave till it becomes 
rather thick, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; 
take from the fire, add pepper, and stir a little ; turn over 
on a warm dish, and serve. 

This is a very favorite dish in Italy, and also in Swit- 
zerland where it originated. 



PASTRT. 229 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
Line the bottom and sides of a round mould with 
pieces of Savoy biscuit ; fill it with well whipped cream ; 
turn the mould over on a dish ; put fifteen minutes on ice, 
and serve after having removed the mould. 

APPLES IX CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
Quarter, peel, and core about a quart of apples. Put 
butter in a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, put 
your apples in with sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; 
then take from the fire, put in an oven, and when cooked, 
drain them ; put them back on the fire for ten minutes, 
stirring the while, and take ofi". Butter slightly a round 
mould ; line the bottom and sides with croutons ; fill the 
mould with the apples ; cover with slices of the soft part 
of bread ; put in an oven for about twenty- five minutes — 
the oven must not be too hot — then take offj turn over on 
a dish, remove the mould, and serve hot. 



CREAM FOE ENTREMETS. 

With burnt sugar. — Put two ounces of sugar in a 
small tin pan, with a tablespoonful of water, set on the 
fire, and boil till burnt, and of a light brown color ; take 
ofi", and put it in a stewpan with a pint of milk, four 
ounces of white sugar, a few drops of rose or orange flower 
water ; boil ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; take from 
the fire, beat the yolks of two eggs, and one entire, put in the 
pan and mix the whole well, then strain, after which you 
put the mixture in small cream pots for that purpose : place 
them in a hot but not boiling bain-marie, and as soon as 
it thickens take them out, dust them with fine white sugar, 
let cool ; place them on ice for about fifteen minutes, and 
then it is ready to be serv^ed. 

With chocolate. — Put in a stewpan and on a moderate 
fire, six ounces of chocolate, three tablespoonful s of water, 
three ounces of white sugar, stir now and then with a 
wooden spoon till melted ; then pour in it, little by little, 
a quart of good fresh milk ; boil ten minutes, take from 
the fire, and mix in it one egg well beaten with the yolks 
of five others ; strain through a fine sieve, put in cream 
pots or cups, place them in hot but not boiling bain-marie, 
take ofi" as soon as it thickens, dust with fine white sugar, 
let cool, place on ice for about fifteen minutes, and use. 



CEEAM FOR ENTREMETS. 231 

With coffee. — Put a quart of milk in a stewpan with 
six ounces of white sugar, and half a pint of very strong 
coffee ; set on the fire, and proceed as for chocolate cream 
above in every other particular. 

With eggs. — Beat well six eggs with a little fecula, 
then add a pinch of grated cinnamon, and two or three 
tablespoonfuls of fine white sugar, beat again well, pour 
the whole in a crockery dish, dust with sugar, set it in a 
quick oven, and serve when done. 

With lemon or orange. — Put in a stewpan a quart of 
good fresh milk, with the rind of half a lemon cut in pieces 
and six ounces of white sugar ; set on the fire, and proceed 
as for chocolate cream in every other particular. 

With tea, vanilla, or other essences. — You proceed as 
for chocolate cream in every other particular, except you 
use instead of six ounces of chocolate, half a pint of very 
strong tea, or a small piece of vanilla, or a few drops of 
essence. Many different kinds of creams are made in this 
way. 



DESSERT CREAMS. 

How to prepare the milk. — Put in a vessel about a 
quart of milk with a pinch of gum arable, which you have 
previously dissolved in a few drops of water ; whip to a 
froth with a whisk (this you must do in a cool place, if 
in summer time), and use it at once ; it cannot be kept 
even on ice. If you want to color the cream, do it with a 
trifle of carmine. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Pound well two ounces of chocolate with three ounces 
of white sugar ; melt the whole in two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water ; let cool, put on ice till nearly frozen. Dur- 
ing this process, prepare a quart of milk as directed above ; 
whisk the whole well together, and serve. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Melt four ounces of white sugar in two tablespoonfuls 
of strong warm coffee, let it cool, place on ice, and finish 
it with chocolate cream. 

LEMON AND ORANGE CREAM. 

Take a piece of loaf sugar weighing about four ounces, 
grate fine on it one third of the rind of a lemon or orange ; 
pound the piece of sugar well, melt it then in two table- 



DESSERT CEEAMS. 233 

spoonfuls of warm water ; let cool, put on ice, and finish 
it as chocolate cream. 

CREAM WITH ORANGE FLOWER WATER, ESSENCE OF 
ROSE, OR ANY OTHER ESSENCE. 

Melt four ounces of sugar in two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water, let cool, place on ice till nearly frozen ; then 
add to it a few drops of essence, whisk it well with a 
quart of prepared milk, and serve. 

RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Melt four ounces of white sugar in two tablespoonfuls 
of juice of raspberries or strawberries, place on ice, and 
finish it as chocolate cream. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Pound well a little piece of vanilla, with four ounces 
of white sugar, and melt in two tablespoonfuls of warm 
water, and then finish it as chocolate cream. 

ICE CREAM. 

IIoiv to make the syrup. — Clean well some currants 
about half ripe, and about one fourth of raspberries ; mash 
them well in a vessel, leave them thus twenty-four 
hours, and then strain through a sieve or a towel, into a 
vessel. "Weigh the juice, add to it a pound of loaf sugar 
to every half pound of juice, put the whole in a kettle, set 
it on a good fire, and when boiling, skim it carefully ; one 
minute's boiling is enough ; pour it in an earthen vessel, 
let cool, and bottle it : it is then ready for use. 

Do the same with blackberries, cherries, raspberries, 
strawberries, etc. 

Hoio to make the ice cream. — Have in a pail or bucket 
some ice broken in small pieces ; mix we]l in a vessel some 



294 DESSERT CREAMS. 

of the above syrup with clear water, about half of each ; fill 
your moulds or other vessels with it, put them in the pail 
of broken ice, move them to accelerate the freezing, and 
serve when well frozen. 

COMPOTES FOR DESSERT. 

How to make syrup for compotes. — Common syrup. — 
Put a pound of loaf sugar in a crockery stewpan, with a 
pint of water, a wine glass of brandy, and a pinch of well 
grated cinnamon ; set it on a slow fire, boil gently for ten 
minutes, skimming oflf the foam ; then take from the fire 
and let cool ; bottle it ; cork it vrell and keep to use it 
when wanted. It may be kept for months in a cool and 
dry place. 

Apple syrup. — Peel quarter, and core four or six 
apples, of the pippin variety ; cook them well in about 
a pint of water, a wine glass of brandy, and a pinch of 
grated cinnamon ; when well cooked, put them in a coarse 
towel, and press the juice out ; put it in a stewpan and 
set it on a good fire ; add a pound of loaf sugar, take the 
foam off with a skimmer a little before it boils, and boil 
about five minutes ; take from the fire, let cool, bottle it, 
corking well. It may be kept for months. 

Pear syrup is made in the same way. 

COMPOTES OF APPLES. 
Quarter, peel, core, and cook apples in a stewpan, with 
a little water and sugar ; when done, put them on a plate, 
pour some apple syrup on them, and serve. 

OF APRICOTS AND PEACHES. 

Cut the apricots or peaches in two, and take the stone 
out. Throw them in boiling Mater for two minutes ; take 
them out ; throw them in cold or ice water, and take them 



DESSERT CBEAM3. 236 

out immediately ; then peel them. Put a pint of water in 
a crockery pan and set it on a good fire ; when boiling, 
put the apricots or peaches in, with some sugar; boil a 
little, and skim off the foam ; take out, place them on a 
dish, dust with sugar, pour some common syrup on them, 
let cool, and serve. 

OF BLACKBERRIES, CURRANTS, RASPBERRIES, STRA^V- 
BERRIES, ETC. 
Make common syrup as above directed, and when ready 
to be taken from the fire, throw the blackberries, etc., in 
it ; boil one minute, and serve. 

OF CHERRIES. 

Cut off the stalks of the cherries about half their 
length, wash well, and drain them ; put them in a crockery 
stewpan with just enough water to wet them, and also a 
little sugar — about three ounces to every pound of cherries ; 
place them on a dish when cooked, pour on them some 
common syrup, and serve warm or cold, according to taste. 

OF ORAXGES. 
Peel four oranges ; the under skin or pith must also 
be carefully taken off with a sharp knife; divide each 
orange as divided by nature (that is, open it in two, first, 
then detach each piece one after another, and without 
breaking them). Put a pint of common syrup in a 
crockery stewpan and set it on a brisk fire ; at the first 
boiling, subdue the fire ; put the oranges in and simmer 
about three or four minutes ; take from the fire, let cool, 
turn on a plate, and serve. 

OF PEARS. 
Peel the pears, cut the stalk half its length, put them 



236 DESSERT CREAMS. 

in a crockery stewpan, with a little sugar, a few drops of 
lemon juice, a pinch of grated cinnamon, and a little 
water ; set on a moderate fire, and at the first boiling add 
two gills of claret wine. Simmer till cooked, then put the 
pears only on a dish ; put the stewpan back on the fire, add 
the juice and water in it about the same quantity of pear 
syrup ; boil about fifteen minutes, pour the whole on the 
pears, and serve warm or cold. 

OF PINEAPPLES. 
Peel and cut in slices, put them in a crockery pan, 
with a little water and sugar, set on a good fire, and finish 
and serve like apricots. 

OF PLUMS. 

Throw the plums in boiling water and take them out 

when half cooked ; put them in a crockery stewpan, with 

a little water and a little sugar ; simmer till CQoked, place 

them on a dish, pour some common syrup on, and serve 

when cold. 

OF QUINCES. 

Quarter, peel, and core the quinces ; throw them in 
boiling water for five minutes ; take out and drain them ; 
put them in a crockery stewpan, with four ounces of sugar 
for every pound of quinces, a few drops of lemon juice, a 
little water, and a pinch of grated cinnamon ; set it on 
the fire, simmer till cooked, place them on a dish, pour 
some common syrup on them, and serve cold. 

JELLIES FOR DESSERT. 

With apples or quinces. — Peel, core, and cut in small 
pieces, two quarts of good apples or quinces ; put them in 
a stewpan, with a clove well pounded, and the juice of 
half a lemon ; cover with water, set it on a moderate fire, 
and boil gently till well cooked. Pat them in a jelly bag, 



DESSERT CREAMS. 237 

under which you place a vessel to receive the juice ; when 
the juice is all out, put it in a pan for that purpose, with 
half a pound of loaf sugar to every pound of juice, and boil 
to a jelly. Put the jelly in pots, let cool ; cut a piece of 
white paper the size of the inside of the pot, dip it in 
brandy, put it over the jelly, cover the pot well, and place 
in a dry and cool closet. 

What remains in the bag may be used to make a 
compote. 

Watch the process carefully, skimmer in hand, to skim 
and stir now and then, lest it should burn. 

With opricots, peaches^ ^;/?/wi5, etc. — After having taken 
the stone out, and cut them in four pieces, you proceed as 
for apples in every other particular. 

With blackberries, currants, grapes, raspberries, or 
other berries. — Press the blackberries well in a coarse 
towel, to have all the juice, which you put in a stewpan 
with as many pounds of loaf sugar as of juice, and finish 
as directed for apple or quince jelly. 

MARMALADES OF APRICOTS, PLUMS, QUINCES, ETC. 

Peel and stone two pounds of apricots ; crack the 
stones, throw about two thirds of the kernels in boiling 
water, and leave them in till the skin comes off easily ; 
skin them v/ell, and cut them in small pieces lengthwise. 
Place the apricots in a pan, wdth about a pound and a 
half of sugar ; set on the fire and boil twenty minutes, 
stirring the while with a Avooden spoon ; five minutes 
before taking from the fire, put also the kernels in the pan ; 
then put in pots or bowls as soon as out of the fire. 

With marmalade of quinces, sweet almonds may be 
used. 

SWEETMEATS. 

With blackberries, cherries, currants, raspberries, etc.—^ 



238 DESSEET CREAMS. 

Mash the blackberries, etc., well ; put a fine sieve over a 
vessel and strain them through it ; place what is in the 
vessel in a stewpan for that purpose, with the same weight 
of loaf sugar ; set it on the fire, skim it carefully ; it takes 
about half an hour to cook ; then put in pots and let cool ; 
cut a piece of white paper the size of the inside of the pot, 
dip it in brandy, put it over the fruit, cover the pots, and 
place them in a dry and cool closet. 

With grapes. — Proceed as for blackberries in every 
particular, except that you put half a pound of loaf sugar 
to every pound of juice. 

With peaches, or plums. — Throw peaches or plums in 
boiling water for one minute ; take off, and at the same 
time throw them in cold water to cool quickly ; then skin 
them immediately, cut in two pieces and take the stone 
out, put them in a stewpan, and finish like blackberries 
above. 

With pears. — Quarter, peel, and core the pears ; put 
them in a stewpan with half a pound of loaf sugar to 
every pound of fruit, and the rind of a lemon well grated ; 
set on the fire, and finish like blackberries. 

CURRANTS, BLACKBERRIES, OR OTHER FRUIT FOR 
DESSERT. 

Beat well the white of an egg with a little water ; dip 
the fruit in, and roll it immediately in some fine crushed 
sugar ; place it on a dish, and leave it thus five or six 
hours, and serve. 

A more sightly and exquisite plate of dessert than a 
plate of currants dressed thus, cannot be had. 

Besides all our receipts, any kind of fruit may be 
served for dessert, according to the season ; also, any kind 
of cheese ; also, fruits preserved in liquor. 



BILLS OF FARE. 

To make models of bills of fare is not difficult, but to 
follow them is nearly impossible ; hardly one in a hundred 
would suit any one. 

Bills of fare vary according to the season of the year, 
and therefore to the produce in the market. 

We will try to give another, and we think a better, 
way of making them to suit everybody, every purse, and 
at any time. 

A dinner, no matter how grand, is composed of three 
courses, and seven kinds of dishes. 

The first course comprises dishes of four kinds, viz. ; 
soups, releves, hors-d'oeuvre, and entrees. 

The second course comprises dishes of two kinds, viz. : 
rots and entremets. 

The third course comprises dishes of one kind, the 
dessert. 

The number of dishes of each kind is generally ac- 
cording to the number of guests. 

It may also be according to the importance of the 
' occasion for which the dinner is given ; to the honor 
the giver or givers wish to show the personage or per- 



240 BILLS OF FARE. 

sonages invited ; to the amount of money they are willing 
to spend, &c. 

A dinner may be composed of : 

FIRST COURSE. 

1 or 2 Soups. 1 or 2 Releves of Meat. 

1 or 2 Releves of Fish. 1 to 4 Hors-d'cBuvre. 

1 to 8 Entrees. 

SECOND COURSE. 
1 or 2 Rots. 1 to 10 Entremets. 

THIRD COURSE. 
1 to 30 plates of Dessert. 

The size of the releves and rots should be according to 
the number of guests. 

By the above everybody can see that for a dinner 
they want one or two soups ; one to four entrees ; one 
to thirty, or even more plates of dessert, &c. ; therefore 
select as many or as few dishes of each or of any kind as 
you please for your dinner. 

It will be just as easy to select dishes for a small din- 
ner as for a grand one ; for instance, you select a soup, 
an entree or rot, or both ; of fish or of meat, or of both ; 
one or more entremets, and one or more plates of dessert. 

"VVe have divided the following table in seven parts, 
each part being in the order the dishes of which must be 
served, and representing the seven kinds of dishes com- 
posing a dinner. 

By this means you select the dish or dishes which suit 
you, and which you can procure in any or all of the 
seven parts, and your bill of fare is made, and more to 
your liking than any steward on earth can do. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



241 



THE FIRST PART, OR SOUPS, IS COMPOSED OF: 

Broth, Potages, 



Consomme, 
Juliennes, 



Potages purees, 
Soups. 



THE SECOND PART, OR RELEVES. 



Beef: 

k la mode, 

boiled, served warm, 

fillet, broHed or roasted, 

corned, a large piece. 
Capon, boiled, 
Chicken, " 
Ham, " 

Lamb : 

fore quarter, 

hind quarter, 

in galantine. 
Matelote, 

Mutton, a leg boiled or stewed, 
Perch, boiled. 
Pies, Meat, 
Pike, boiled. 



Pork (fresh) : 

a leg roasted, 

any large piece roasted, 

(salted), any large piece boiled 
or stewed, 
Salmon, stewed or roasted. 
Shad, broiled or stewed. 
Sturgeon, " " 

Trout, " or roasted, 
Tunny, broiled, 
Turbot, boiled or broiled, 
Turkey, boiled, roasted, or stewed. 
Veal: 

breast, with green peas, or with 
onions, 

in galantine. 
Venison, haunch of. 



"Wild Boar, stewed. 



THE THIRD PART, OR H0RS-D'(EU7RE. 



Anchovy, 

Cake, 
Artichokes, raw, 
Cervelas of all sorts, found at pork 

butchers, 
Cucumbers (fresh), with vinegar 
and salt, • 

(pickled), cut in slices. 
Eggs in the shell, 
Escalops of Salmon or Veal, 
Herrings, salted or red. 
Melons, 

Mushrooms, broiled or in boxes, 
Olives, preserved. 
Ox tongue, smoked, 
11 



Oysters, raw. 
Potatoes, a la Franklin, 
Radishes (black) : 

black, served in slices with 

salt and vinegar, 
spring, served with butter, 
Sardines, 

Sausages of any kind : 
fresh, fried, 
smoked. 
Tunny, salted, smoked, or 

pickled, 
Walnuts, in salad ; the European 
nut only can be served in 
this way. 



242 



BILLS OF FARE. 



THE FOURTH PART, OR ENTREES. 



Angel Fish, with brown butter or 

white sauce, 
Aspic of Meat, 

Barbel, boiled, broiled, or in ma- 
telote, 
Bass, boiled, stewed, or in mate- 
lote. 
Bear meat, stewed, 
Beef: 

a la mode, 
braised, 

fillet, with cucumbers, or 
mushrooms, saute, or a 
piece left from the day 
before, 
loin, 

ribs, braised, stewed, with 
cucumbers or mushrooms, 
steaks, broiled, fried, or fan- 
cy, 
boiled, broiled, fried, in gro,- 
tin, in miroton, or maitre- 
d'hotel, with piquante, Ro- 
bert, or tomato sauce, and 
in salad. 
Black Fish, boiled, fried, stewed, 

or in matelote. 
Blue Fish, boiled, fried, stewed, 

or in matelote. 
Bream, boiled, fried, or stewed, 
Buffalo meat, stewed. 
Cabbages, with bacon, 
Calf: 

brain, boiled, or with mush- 
rooms, 
ears, 
feet, 
head, in poulette, stewed, or 

with oil, 
heart, 
kidnej^'s, 

liver, saute, or stewed, 
lights, 



Calf— pluck, 
sweetbreads, 
tail, 
tongue. 
Capon, boiled, or with rice, 
Carp, boiled, broiled, stewed, or 

in matelote, 
Chicken, broiled, in blanquette, 
or fricassee, Marengo, with 
onions, or peas, saute, or 
in tartar, 
broiled, in fricassee, or salad, 
with oil, piquante or poiv- 
rade sauce. 
Clams, 

Codfish (fresh), boiled, broiled, or 
fried, 
(salted), boiled, in bechamel, 
or brown butter, with ca- 
per sauce, or croutons, in 
maitre-d'hotel, with milk, 
oil, or potatoes, and cold. 
Conger, boiled, or in poulette, 
Crabs, 

Croquettes of fowl. 
Dab fish, boiled, or broiled, 
Duck, in salmis, with turnips, or 

cold. 
Eels, or eel pout, broiled, or in 

poulette. 
Eggs, boiled, or poached, 
Fish, boiled, broiled, or stewed. 
Flounders, fried, or stewed. 
Frogs, " " 

> Giblets, in fricassee, or stewed, 
Goose or Gosling, in salmis, with 

turnips, or cold, 
Haddock, boiled, or broiled. 
Halibut, boiled, stewed, or with 

cream. 
Hare, in civet, or cold, 
Herring (fresh), boiled, or 
fried. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



243 



Lamb : 

chops, broiled, sautees, in 
papillotes, with vegetables, 
or in the oven, 
feet, 
head, 
heart. 
Lamprey, boiled, or in poulette. 
Leveret, saute, 
Lobster, in salad, or omelet. 
Mackerel (fresh), broiled, with 
butter, in maitre-d'hotel, 
or stewed, 
(salted), 
Muscles, 
Mutton, 

breast, broiled, or in the 
oven. 
Mutton Chops, broiled, with 
crumbs, sautees, in pa- 
pillotes, with vegetables, 
or in the oven, 
leg, with beans, or eggs, 

and piece left, 
saddle, 

shoulder, boiled, stewed, 
with beans, or pieces left 
from the day before, 
Ox: 

brain, 
heart, 
kidneys, 
liver, 
tail, 
tongue, 
Oysters, broiled, fried, or stewed. 
Partridge, broiled, with cab- 
bage, in salmis, fricassee, 
or salad. 
Peas, with bacon. 
Perch, stewed, or in matelote. 
Pheasants, broiled, with cab- 
bage, in salmis, fricassee, 
or salad, 



Pigeon, broiled, fried, with green 

peas, or stewed. 
Pig: 

brain, 
ears, 
feet, 
head, 
kidneys, 
liver, 

tail, boiled, or broiled, 
tongue. 
Pickerel, boiled, or in matelote, 
Pike, in matelote, 

Porgy, boiled, stewed, or in mate- 
lote. 
Pork cutlets. 
Potatoes, ' with bacon, or in 

balls, 
Prairie Hen, broiled, with cab- 
bage, in salmis, fricassee, 
or salad. 
Rabbit, fricandeau, in gibelotte, 
with green peas, (ft in 
civet. 
Salad of Fowl, Game, Salmon, or 

Turbot, 
Salmon (fresh), broiled, or piece 
left, 
(salted), 
(smoked). 
Salted pork, boiled, 
Sheep : 
brain, 

feet, broiled, or in poulette, 
heart, 
kidneys, broiled, or with 

champagne, 
liver, 
tail, 
tongue, 
Sheepshead, boiled, broiled, or 

with cream. 
Smelts, fried, or stewed. 
Snails, broiled, or stewed. 



244 



BILLS OF FAKE. 



Sole, in Normande, or in maitre- 

d'hotel, 
Sourkrout, 
Sturgeon, broiled. 
Sweetbreads, 
Tench, boiled, broiled, stewed, or 

in matelote. 
Tripe (double), broiled, or 

stewed, 
Trout, stewed, 
Troutlet, in matelote. 
Tunny, stewed, 

Turkey, in salad, or pie, or cold, 
Turtle Steaks, 
Yeal: 

blanquette, 

breast, in matdote, or 

stewed, 

Wild Boar, 



Veal cutlets, broiled, with crumbs, 
in fines herbes, or in papil- 
lotes, 
fricandeau, 
loin, with a garniture, or 

stewed, 
shoulder, stewed, or a piece 
left. 
Venison : 
cutlets, 

shoulder, stewed, or cold, 
Vol-au-vent, with meat. 
Weak Fish, boiled, stewed, or in 

matelote. 
White Fish of the lakes, stewed, 

or in matelote. 
Whitings, boiled, broiled, or 

stewed, 
stewed. 



THE FIFTH PART, OR ROTS. 



Barbel, fried, 



Bear Meat, roasted, 
Beef: 

fillet, broiled, or roasted, 

ribs, roasted. 
Birds (small), roasted. 
Black Birds, " 

Buffalo Meat, " 
Calf's Liver, roasted, or in the 

oven, 
Capon, roasted. 
Carp,, fried, 

Chicken, roasted, or stuffed. 
Crape, roasted. 
Duck, 

Eel, fried, or roasted. 
Fig-peckers, roasted, 
Fish, fried, or roasted. 
Fox, roasted. 

Goose or Gosling, roasted, 
Guinea Fowl, " 

Haddock, fried, 



Halibut, fried. 

Ham, roasted. 

Hare, 

High-holders, roasted. 

Kid, roasted. 

Lamb, hind quarter, roasted, 

Lapwings, " 

Meadow Larks, " 

Mutton : 

breast, roasted, 

fillet, 

leg, 

shoulder, " 
Opossum, " 

Ostrich, " 

Otter, " 

Partridge, " 
Peacock or Hen, roasted. 
Pelican, " 

Perch, fried, 
Pheasant, roasted, 
Pickerel, fried, 
Pigeons, roasted, 



BILLS OP FAKE. 



245 



Pig's Kidneys, in brochette, 
Pike, fried, or roasted, 
Plover, roasted, 
Pork: 

chime, roasted, 

shoulder, " 
Prairie Hen, " 
Quails, " 

Rabbit, " 

Raccoon, " 

Reed Birds, " 
Salmon, " 

Shad, 

Sheep Kidneys, in brochette, 
Sheepshead, fried. 
Skunk, roasted, 
Snipe, " 
Sole, fried, 
Squirrel, roasted, 



Sturgeon, roasted. 
Sucking Pig, roasted. 
Tench, " 

Thrush, " 

Trout, " 

Turkey, roasted, or stuffed. 
Tunny, roasted, 
Veal : 

breast, roasted, 

loin, 

rump, " 

shoulder, " 
Venison, haunch, roasted, 
Weak Fish, fried. 
White Fish of the lakes, fried, 
Wild Boar, roasted, 
Woodchuck, " 
Woodcock, " 
Yellow Birds, " 



THE SIXTH PART, OR ENTREMETS. 



Artichokes, fried, stewed, or with 

oil, or white sauce. 
Asparagus, fried, with milk, with 

oil, or white sauce. 
Beans, with bacon, broth, onions, 

in salad, green, dry beans, 

with butter, stewed, lima 

beans, or colored. 
Beets, stewed, or in salad. 
Cabbages, with milk, in salad, 

stewed, and red in salad, 
Cardoon, 
Carrots, with fines herbes, fried, 

or stewed, 
Cauliflowers, with cheese, fried, 

stewed, in tomato or white 

sauce, or in salad. 
Celery, fried, stewed, or in salad ; 

soup celery in sa-lad. 
Cucumbers, fried, or stewed. 
Dandelion, stewed, or in salad, 



Eggs, with asparagus, in brown 
butter, fried, mashed, in 
matelote, with onions, 
green peas, or sur-le-plat. 

Egg Plant, broiled, fried, stewed, 
or stuffed, 

Endive, Chiccory, or Succory, with 
milk, or broth, or in salad, 

Fetticus, in salad, 

Leeks, 

Lentils, with butter, stewed, or in 
salad, 

Lettuce, Cos-lettuce, &c., stewed, 
or in salad, 

Mushrooms, stewed. 

Omelets, with asparagus, bacon, 
fines herbes, ham, kidney, 
mushrooms, au naturel, 
with sorrel, truflBes, or a la 
Washington, 

On-ons, stewed, or in salad. 



246 



BILLS OF FAEE. 



Parsnips, fried, or stewed. 

Peas, preserved and cracked, 
boiled, 

Potatoes, boiled, broiled, with 
butter, cake, fried, a la 
Franklin, in maitre-d'hotel, 
matelote, with milk, in pro- 
ven ale, sautees, with white 
sauce, or in salad. 

Potatoes (sweet), dressed in 
every way like other pota- 
toes, 

Purslain, stewed, or in salad, 

Salads of any greens, 

Salsify, with butter, or in salad, 

Skirret, 

Sorrel, stewed, 

Spinage, 

Sprouts, 

Sweet Corn, 

Tomatoes, boiled, or in salad. 

Turnips, stewed, or in bechamel, 

Watercress, stewed, or in salad, 

Whitings, fried. 

Pastry — Baba, 

biscuits, with chocolate, cin- 
namon, filbert, lemon, 
orange, savoy, or vanilla, 
cakes, lemon, light, or plum, 



Pastry ; 

pies, any kind of fruit pies, 

tarts, or tartlets, 
Sweet Dishes : 

asparagus, with sugar, 

blanc-mange, 

cake of rice, 

carrots, with sugar, 

Charlotte, apples in, Russe, 

croquettes of rice, 

creams, burnt sugar, choco- 
late, coffee, eggs, essences, 
lemon, orange, tea, or va- 
nilla, 

custard, 

eggs, snow-like, called also 
ceufs a la niege, 

fondue, 

fritters, with apples, peach- 
es, pineapples, raspberries, 
strawberries, &c., 

meringue, 

omelets, souffle, with sugar, 
rum, or apples, 

pancakes, 

peas, with sugar, 

rissoles, 

turnips, with sugar, 

vol-au-vent of fruits. 



Waffles. 



THE SEVENTH PART, OR DESSERT. 



Baba, 


Compotes of 


Biscuits, 


peaches, 


Charlotte Russe, 


pears. 


Cheese of every kind. 


pineapples. 


Compo'tes of 


plums. 


apples, 


quinces, 


apricots, 


raspberries. 


blackberries, 


strawberries, 


cherries. 


Creams : 


currants, 


chocolate. 


oranges. 


coffee, 





BTT,T.R 
\ 


OE FARE. 


Creams . 








Jellies of 


essence, 








currants. 


ice, 








grapes, 


lemon, 








peaches. 


orange. 








plums. 


raspberry. 








quinces, 


strawberry, 








raspberries. 


vanilla, 








strawberries, 


Fritters of 








Macaroons, 


apples, 








Marmalades of 


peaches. 








apricots. 


pineapples, 








plums, 


raspberries. 








quinces, &c.. 


strawberries; 


, &c. 






Oranges, in salad, 


Fruit : 








Sweetmeats of 


of any kind. 


according to the 


blackberries, 


season, 








cherries, 


preserved in 


liquor. 






currants. 


prepared with eggs 


and 


su- 


grapes, 


gar, 








peaches, 


Jellies of 








pears. 


apples. 








plums. 


apricots. 








raspberries, &c. 


blackberries. 








Waffles. 



247 



Some dishes are served either as releves or as entrees, 
others as entremets, or as dessert, according to taste. 

There are so many kinds of fruit at nearly every sea- 
son of the year, that it is very easy to have as many 
plates of them as are wanted for dessert. 



BREAKFAST. 

We are of opinion that everybody ought to eat as lit- 
tle meat as possible, and drink no wine, beer, or any other 
liquor at breakfast, no matter what the sex or age, except 
when prescribed by the physician in case of sickness, de- 
bility, etc. 

The food may be selected from the following : 



248 BELLS OP FARE. 

Bread and Butter, Fried Potatoes, or other regeta- 

Eggs, bles, 

Omelets, Sardines, 

Fried Fish, Fruit, according to the season. 

As for meat, in case some should be eaten, it ought to 
be cold, such as fowl or veal, cooked the day before. 

MufBns, and other cakes or pastes, served warm, are 
very bad for the stomach and teeth. 

The beverage ought to be either coffee, with milk, 
chocolate, cocoa, choca, or cold water, but do not by any 
means drink tea at breakfast. 

Although cold meat is not by far so injurious as warm 
meat for breakfast, it ought, nevertheless, to be as little 
partaken of as possible, and especially by the young. 

We do not understand by breakfast a meal taken un- 
der that name in the afternoon ; then it should be called 
dinner^ or at least lunch ; at such a meal, the following 
dishes may be served : 

Calf's head, served cold, Pate de foie gras, 

Cervelas of any kind, found at Meat and Fruit Pies, served cold, 

pork butchers. Salad of Chicken, 
Headcheese, " Partridge, and other 

Mutton Chops, birds, 

Veal Cutlets, « Lobster, 

Eggs, cooked in any way. Sandwiches, 

Fried Fish, Sardines, 

Fruit, according to the season, Sausages, of any kind, fresh or 
Galantine of Birds, smoked, 

" Veal, Smoked Tongue, 

Ham, Smoked Fish or Meat, 

Cold Meat, of any kind, Fried Vegetables, 

Oysters, Drinks according to taste. 
Omelets, 

LUNCH. 
What we have described above for breakfasts taken in 
the afternoon, may be served for lunch, no matter at 
what hour it is taken. 



BILLS OF FARE. 249 

SUPPER. 

This being the last meal taken before going to bed, all 
persons should be careful about what they eat then, espe- 
cially if they take no bodily exercise, or retire soon 
after it. 

Some persons are not aware that their rest depends 
nearly, if not entirely, on what they have eaten at supper. 

What is served for a lunch, or for a dessert, may be 
served for a supper. 

EVENING PARTIES. 

Lemonade is a good drink in the evening. 
Bavaroises, bichofs, creams, punch, wines, and fruit, 
are served at evening parties, besides the supper. 

11* 



II^DEX. 



A la cr^me fish, 81. 
A la mode beef, 66. 
Allemande sauce, 45. 
Anchovy, 90. 

butter, 46. 

cake, 215. 

sauce, 45. 
Angel fish, ray, and skate, 80, 81, 00, 
Apples, 218. 
Apricots, 202. 
Artichokes, 169. 

Jerusalem, 170. 
Asparagus, 170. 

fried, 171. 

with milk, 171. 
" oil, 170. 
" sugar, 171. 
Aspic, 167. 
Baba, 222 
Bacon, 25. 
Bain-marie, 11. 
Baking, 7. 
Barbel, 82. 
Barley, lemonade, 18. 

sugar, 18. 
Bass, 82, 

Batter, for frying, 20. 
Bavaroise, with chocolate, 22. 

" cofiee or tea, 23. 
Bay leaf, 28. 
Beans, 171. 

green, 173. 

in salad, 172, 174. 

Lima, 171. 

colored, 173. 

pur6e, 62, 
Bear meat, 164. 
Bechamel sauce, No. 1, 46. 
No. 2, 47, 
Beef, to select, 66, 

to make tender, 66. 

to broil or roast, 66. 

cow beef, 66, 

bull beef, 66. 



Beef, a la mode, 66. 
braised, 67. 
fillet, 67. 

broiled, 68. 
roasted, 68. 
with cucumbers, 68, 
" mushrooms, 69. 
6aut6, 69. 

left for the next day, 69. 
loin, 70. 

ribs, broiled, 70. 
roasted, 70. 
stewed, 71. 
braised, 71. 
with cucumbers, 71, 
" mushrooms, 71, 
steaks, broiled, 71, 
fried, 72. 
fancy, 72, 
boiled, 73, 

served warm, 73, 
broiled, 73. 
fried, 73. 
in gratin, 73. 
" miroton, 74, 
" maitre-d'hotel, 74, 
with piquante, Robert, or 

tomato sauce, 74, 
in salad, 74, 
soup, 31, 
Beets, 174, 
Bichof, warm, 23, 

cold, 23. 
Billsof fare, 239. 
Beignet, 223. 
Birds, preserved, 23. 
Biscuits, with chocolate, 214. 
" cinnamon, 214. 
» filbert, 214. 
" lemon, 214, 
" orange, 214. 
" Savoy, 216. 
" vanilla, 214. 
Blackberries, 202. 



252 



INDEX. 



Blackbirda, 158. 
Black fish, 82. 
Blanc mange, 228. 
Bianquette, 102, 140. 
Blue tieh, 82. 
Boiling, 7. 
Brain, 74. 109, 122. 
Braised beef, 67. 
Braisin?, 11. 
Bread, 25. 

farce, 58. 

eauce, 46. 
Breakfast, 247. 
Bream, 82, 
Breast, 103, 117. 
Broccoli, 178. 
Broiling, 7. 
Broth, 25. 

chicken, 42. 

herb, 42. 

made quickly, 31. 

for sauces, 30. 
" soup, potage, or purde, I 

another, 31. 

turtle, 43. 

veal, 42. 
Brown butter, 47. 
Buffalo meat, 164. 
Butter maitre-d'hotcl, 47. 
Buttered paper, 21. 
Cabbages, 175. 

garniture, 58. 

eoup, 39. 0n> 

in salad, 175. 

eourkrout, 176. 
Cakes, anchovy, 215. 

lemon, 215. 

light, 215. 

plum, 216. 

rice, 216. 

sponge, 216. 

tea, 217. 
Calf's brain, 109, 110. 

ears, 110. 

feet, 110, 111. 

head, to prepare, 111. 

to cook, 111. 

in poulette, 112. 

with oil, 112. 

kidneyp, 112. 

lights, 112. 

liver, 113, 114. 

pluck, 115. 

Bweetbreada, 115. 

tail, 115.. 

tongue, 116. 
Caper sauce, 48. 
Capon, to select and clean, 134. 

boiled, 135. 

with rice, 135. 

roasted, 135. 

in galantine, 148. 
Caramel, 19. 
Cardoon, 176. 
Carp, 82. 



Carre te, to clean, 177, 

with fines herbes, 177. 

fried, 177. 

stewed, 178. 

with sugar, 178. 

puree of, 63. 
Cat fish, 88. 
Catsup, 25. 
Cauliflowers, to clean, 178. 

with cheese, 178. 

fried, 179. 

stewed, 179. 

in salad, 179. 

with sauce, 179. 
Celery, 179. 

soup, in salad, 201. 

dried, 21. 

puree of, 63. 
Charlotte russe, 229. 

apple, 229. 
Cheese, 39. 
Chclmon, 88. 
Chestnuts, 197. 

puree of, 63. 
Chiccory, 200. 
Chicken, to clean, 134. 

to select, 136. 

broth, 42. 

broiled. 136. 

in fricassee, 136. 

Marengo, 138. 

with onions, 139. 

with peas, 139. 

roasted, 138. 

saute, 138. 

6tufi"ed, 138. 

in tartar, 139. 

with oil, plquante, or poivrada 
sauce, 140. 

boiled in fricassee, 140. 
" in salad, 202. 
" bianquette, 140. 
" galantine, 148. 
preserved, 23. 
Choca, 17. 
Chocolate, 17. 
Chops, 118, 126. 
Clams, 97. 
Coal fish, 88. 
Cocoa, 17. 

Cocoanut, in salad, 202. 
Cod fish, 91, 92, 93. 
Coff"ee, 15, 16. 
Colored beans, 173. 
Common syrup, 234. 
Compotes, 234. 

apple syrup, 234. 

pear " 234. 
Conger, 93. 
Cooking, 7. 
Corn (sweet), 180. 
Corn salad, 201. 
Consomm6, 30. 
Coulis of fish, 48. 

lobster, 40. 



INDEX. 



253 



Coulis of veal, 48. 
Coureea, 240. 

first, 240. 

second, 240. 

third, 240. 
Crab6, 97, 98. 

Creams for entremets, 230. 
" dessert, 232. 

sauce, 49. 
Croquettes of fowl, 140. 

rice, 
Croutons, 20. 

garniture, 58. 
Crumbs, 20. 
Cucumbers, 24, 181. 

pickled, 24. 

sauce, 50. 
Currant sauce, 49. 
Curry, 11. 
Custard, 222. 
Cutlets, 105, 129. 
Dab fish, 82. 
Dandelion, 181, 182. 
Dessert, 246. 

compotes, 334. 

creams, 230. 

fritters, 232. 

fruit with eg:g and sugar, 238. 

other fruit, 218. 

jellies, 236. 

marmalades, 237. 

sweetmeats, 237. 
Diet, 25. 
Dinner, 239. 

kinds of dishes, 239. 
Doree or Dory, 88. 
Draining, 12. 
Ducks and Ducklings, 141 

to select, 141. 

roasted, 141, 

in salmis, 142. 

with turnips, 142. 

cold, 142. 

in galantine, 148. 

preserved, 23. 
Ears, 110, 131. 
Eel, 80. 
Eggs, with asparagus, 204. 

boiled, 204. 

with brown butter, 204. 

fried, 205. 

mashed, 205. 

in matelote, 205. 

with onions, 205. 
" green peas, 206. 

poached, 206, 

sur le plat, 206. 

in the shell, 206. 

snow-like, 207. 
Eggplant, 182. 

boiled, 182. 

fried, 182. 

stuflTed, 183. 
Endive, with broth, 184. 
» milk, 183. 



Endive in salad, 184. 

Entrees, 242. 

Entremets, 245. 

Escalops, 88, 108, 

Espagiiole sauce, 50. 

Essence of spinage, 50. 

Evening parties, 249. 

Fancy words and expressions, 16. 

Farces and garnitures, 68. 

bread, 58. 

cabbage, 58. 

croutons, 58. 

matelote, 59. 

mushrooms, 59. 

papillote, 60. 

quenelle, 60. 

ealpicon, 60. 

truffle, 61. 

vegetable, 61. 
Farce for fish pies, 218. 

" meat pies, 217. 
Fecula, 36. 
Feet, 110, 122, 131. 
FeticuB, 201. 
Figpeckers, 158. 
Fillet, 67, 119. 
Fines herbes, 26. 
Fish, 26, 80. 

sauce, 51. 

to keep, 15. 

quality, 27. 

to sele'ct, 80. 

to cleati and prepare, 80. 

same family or kind, 81. 

how it can be cooked, 81. 

to know when cooked enough, 81. 

Btufl'ed, 81. 

a la creme, 81. 

in matelote, 88. 
" escalops, 88. 
" Normande, 96. 
" poulette, 93. 
" maitre d'hote! , 92, 95, 96. 
" salad, 203. 

salted, 92, 94, 96. 

smoked, 96. 

to improve, 82. 

boiled, 82. 

broiled, 82. 

fried, 84. 

roasted, 85. 

stewed, 86. 

that may be boiled, broiled or 
stewed, 88. 

anchovy, 90. 

angel 90. 

barbel, 82, 83, 84, 88. 

bass, 82, 84, 87, 88. 

black, 82, 84, 87, 88. 

blue, 82, 84, 87, 88. 

bream, 82, 84, 87. 

carp, 82, 83, 84, 87, 88. 

cat, 88, 

chelmon, 88. 

coal, 88. 



254 



INDEX. 



Fish : cod, 91, 92, 93. 
conger, 83. 
crocodile, 88. 
dab, 82. 
doree, 88. 
eel, 83, 85, 88, 91 
flat 87. 

flounder, 84, 87. 
flying, 88. 
frog, 93. 
gar, 88. 
gold, 88. 
growler, 88. 
gurnard, 88. 
haddock, 82, 83, 91. 
hake, 88. 

halibut, 81, 83, 84, 87. 
head, 88. 
herring, 84, 94. 
king, 88. 
lamprey, 83. 
loach, 88. 
mackerel, 95, 96 
mullet, 88. 
perch, 82, 84, 87, 88. 
pickerel, 82, 84, 88. 
pike, 81, 82, 84, 85, 88. 
pilchard, 88. 
pilot, 83. 

porgy, 82, 84, 87, 88. 
ray, 90. 
roach, 88. 

salmon, 81, 83, 85,87, 88. 
Bhad, 81, 83, 85, 87. 
sheep's head, 81, 91. 
skate, 90. 
smelts, 84, 8S. 



sole, 84, 



97. 



87. 



sprats, 84. 

sturgeon, 81, 84, ^^, 

sucker, 88. 

sun, 88. 

tench, 82, 83, 84, 87, 88. 

trout, 83, 85, 87. 

troutlet, 88. 

tunny, 81, 83, 85, 87. 

turbot, 81, 82, 83. 

■weak, 82, 84, 87, 88. 

•whiting, 82, 84, 87. 

white fish of the lakes, 84, 87, 

small, 84. 

clams, 97. 

crabs, 97. 

lobster, 98. 

muscles, 99. 

oysters, 100, 101. 

shrimps, 101. 
Flan, 222. 
Flounder, 84. 
Fondue, 228. 
Fo-wl, 202. 
Fox, 159, 161. 

French kisses or meringues, 224. 
Fricandeau, 106. 
Fricassee, 136, 166. 



Fritters, 223. 
Frogs, 93. 

fried, 93. 

etewed, 94. 
Fruit, 27, 218. 

with eggs and sugar for dessert, 
238. 
Frying, 8. 

directions for, 8. 

grease, " 20. 

batter, " 20. 

Galantines, 147, 148. 
Game, 151. 

to preserve, 151. 

to clean, 151. 

bear, 164. 

blackbird, 158. 

bufl"alo. 164. 

ducks, 141. 

figpecker, 158. 

fox, 159. 

goose, 143. 

grouse, 152. 

hare, 152. 

hedgehog, 133. 

high-holders, 158. 

lapwings, 158. 

leveret, 153. 

meadow lark, 158. 

opossum, 159. 

ostrich, 153. 

otter, 159. 

partridge, 154. 

peacock, 156. 

pelican, 156. 

pheasant, 146. 

pigeon, 143. 

plover, 158. 

prairie hen, 154. 

quail, 156. 

rabbit, 157. 

raccoon, 159. 

reed bird, 158. 

robin, 158. 

skunk, 160. 

snipe, 159. 

squirrel, 160. 

thrush, 158. 

turkey, 144. 

wild boar, 133. 

woodcock, 159. 

woodchuck, 159. 

yellow birds, 159. 
Gar-fish, 88. 
Garlick, 26. 
Garnitures. 58. 
Gibelotte, l57. 
Giblets, 149. 

in fricassee, 149. 

stewed, 150. 
Glazing, 12. 
Gold fish, 88. 
Goose and gosling, 143. 
Grape, 238. 
Grease for frying, 20. 



INDEX. 



255 



Grouse, 152. 
Growler, 88. 
Guinea fowl, 143. 
Gurnard fish, 88. 
Haddock, 82. 
Hake, 88. 
Halibut, 83. 
Ham, to prepare, 130. 

boiled, 130. 

roasted, 130. 
Hare,-to select, 152. 

in civet, 152. 

roasted, 153. 

left for the next day, 153. 

pie, 220. 
Hazelnut butter, 51. 
Head, 111, 132. 
Head fish, 88. 
Heart, 75. 
Herb broth, 42. 
Herring, 94. 
High-holders, 158. 
Hominy, 184. 
Hors-d'ceuvre, 241. 
Ice cream, 233. 
Indian sauce, 51. 
Indigestion, 24. 
Italian sauce, 51. 
Isinglass jelly, 48. 
Jellies, 236. 
Julienne, 33. 
Juice, 52. 
Kale, 175. 
Kid, 127. 

Kidney, 75, 112, 123, 132. 
King fish, 88. 
Kitchen utensils, 13. 
Lait de poule, 43. 
Lamb : chops, 126. 

fore quarter, 126. 

hind quarter, 126. 

roasted, 127. 

left for the next day, 127. 

in galantine, 148. 

feet, 127. 

head, 127. 
Lamprey, 83. 
Lap-wings, 158. 
Lard, 21. 
Larding, 12. 
Leeks, 184. 
Leg, 120. 
Lemon, 214, 215. 
Lemonade, 18. 

barley, 18. 
Lentils, in salad; 184. 

puree of, 63. 
Lettuce, 184. 

stewed, 184. 

in salad, 200. 
Leveret, 153. 

saut^, 153. 
Liarht cake, 215. 
Lights, 112. 
Lima beans, 171. 



Liver, 76, 113. 
Loach, 88. 

Lobster, in salad, 98. 
" omelet, 99. 

sauce, 49. 
Loin, 70. 
Lunch, 248. 
Macaroni, 34. 
Macaroons, 224. 
Macedoine, 202. 
Mackerel, 95. 
Maitre-d'hotel sauce, 52. 
Marengo chicken, 138. 
Marinade sauce, 62. 
Marmalades, 237. 
Matelote, 88, 89. 

garniture, 59. 
Mayonnaise sauce, 53. 
Meadow lark, 158. 
Meats, 26, 27. 

to keep, 14. 

to cook, 13. 

quality, 27. 
Melons, 241. 
Meringue, or French kisses, 224. 

apple, 225. 
Mince pie, 220. 
Minced beef, 73. 
Mint, 19. 
Miroton, 74. 
Mixing, 8. 

Mock turtle soup, 40. 
Monaco potage, 34. 
Muffins, 248. 
Mullet, 88. 
Muscles, 99. 
Mushrooms, 185. 

puree of, 64. 

catsup, 198. 

farce, 59. 
Mutton, to select, 117. 

breast, broiled, 117. 
in the oven, 117. 
roasted, 118. 

chops, broiled, 118. 
with crumbs, 118. 
sautees, 118. 
in papillote, 119. 
" the oven, 119. 
with vegetables, 119. 

fiUet, roasted, 119. 

leg, 120. 

boiled, 120. 
roasted, 120. 
stewed, 121. 
with beans, 121 
left over, 121. 

saddle, 122. 

shoulder, 122. 
Nougat, 225. 
Oil sauce, 53. 
Oiled paper, 21. 
Okra, 187. 
Omelets, 208. 

to whisk the egge, 208. 



256 



INDEX. 



Omelets, to dish, 208. 

apple, 208. 

asparagus, 208. 

with bacon, 209. 
" ham, 209. 

fines herbes, 209. 

with kidneys, 209. 
" mushrooms, 209. 

au naturel, 209. 

with sorrel, 209. 

BOuflBee, 210. 

with sugar, 210. 
" rum, 210. 
" truffles, 210. 

a la "Washington, 211. 
Onions, 187. 
Opossum, 159, 161. 
Orangeade, 18. 
Oranges, 202. 
Osmazome, 12. 
Ostrich, 153. 
Otter, 159, 161. 
Ox brain, 74. 

heart, 75. 

kidneys, 75. 

liver, 76. 

tail, 76. 

tongue, 77. 

smoked, 78. 

double tripe, 78. 
Oysters, 100, 101. 

sauce, 53. 
Oyster plant, 195. 
Panado, 43. 
Pancakes, 226. 
Pap, 24. 
Paper, buttered, 21. 

oiled, 21. 
Papillote, 60, 119. 
Parsley, dried, 21. 

fried, 22. 

white, 22. 
Parsnips, fried, 187. 

stewed, 188. 
Partridge, to select, 154, 

broiled, 154. 

with cabbage, 154. 
. roasted, 155. 

in salmis, 155. 

*' fricassee, 156. 

'« salad, 202. 

" galantine, 148. 

preserved, 23. 
Paste A, B, C, D, E, 212, 213. 

for frying, 20. 
Pastry, 212—228. 
Peacock, 156. 
Peach, 202. 
Pear, 202. 
Peas, green, 188. 

preserved, 188. 

dry, 189. 

pur6e of, 64. 

soup, 37. 
Pepper, white, 22. 



Perch, 80. 

Pheasant, 23, 154, 202. 

Pickerel, 82. 

Pickled cucumbers, 24. 

Pickles, 25. 

Pies, 212. 

to cover, 219. 

fruit, 218. 

meat, 219—221. 

apple, 218. 

bird, 219. 

chicken, 22a 

fish, 221. 

ham, 220. 

hare, 220. 

lamb, 220. 

mince, 220. 

rabbit, 220. 

veal, 221. 
Pig's ears, 131. 

feet, 131. 

head, 132. 

kidneys, 132. 

tail, 132. 

tongue, 132. 

sucking, 133. 
Pigeons, to" select, 143» 

boiled, 143. 

fried, 143. 

with green peas, 144. 

roasted, 144. 

etewed, 144. 
Pike, 82. 
Pilchard, 88. 
Pilot fish, 88. 
Pineapple, 189. 
Piquante sauce, 53. 
Plover, 158. 
Pluck, 115. 
Plum, 216. 
Poached eggs, 206. 
Poivrade sauce, 54. 
Porgy, 82. 
Pork, to select, 128. 

to improve, 128. 

chine, 128. 

cutlets, 129. 

leg, roasted, 129. 
salted, 131. 

other parts, 131. 
Potages, 32. 
Potatoes, to prepare, 189. 

to cook, 189. 

with bacon, 189 

in balls, 189. 

boiled, 190. 

broiled, 191. 

with butter, 190. 

cake, 190. 

fried, 191. 

a la Franklin, 192. 

maitre-d'hotel, 192 

matelote, 192. 

with milk, 192. 

in Provencale, 193. 



INDEX. 



257 



Potatoeg : puree, 65. 

sauteea, 193. 

with white sauce, 193. 

in ealad, 193. 

sweet, 194. 
Pot-au feu, 29. 
Poulette sauce, 54. 
Poultry, 134. 

to clean, 134. 

capon, 135. 

chicken, 136. 

duck, 141. 

duckling, 141. 

goose, 143. 

gosling, 143. 

guinea fowl, 143. 

pigeon, 143. 

turkey, 144. 
Prairie hen, 154. 
Preface, 3. 

Preserves (compotes, ^ellies, marma- 
lades), 234, 236, 237. 
Printanier potage, 34, 
Provenjale sauce, 54. 
Puddings, 226. 
Pumpkins, 194. 
Punch, 19. 
Purees, 62, 65. 
Purslain, 194. 
Quails, 156, 157. 
Quenelles, 60. 
Quinces, 236. 
Rabbit, 157. 

in gibelotte, 157. 

*' civet, 157. 

pie, 220. 
Raccoon, 159, 161. 
Radishes, 241. 
Raspberries, 202. 
Ravigote sauce, 55. 
Ray, 90. 

Red herring, 94. 
Reed birds, 158. 
Releves, 241. 
Rhubarb pie, 213. 
Ribs, 70. 
Rice, 32, 216. 
Rissoles, 227. 
Roach, 88. 
Roasting, 8. 
Robert sauce, 55. 
Robins, 158. 
Rots, 244. 
Roux sauce, 55. 
S (go potage, 36. 
Salads, 200. 

to prepare, 200. 

to decorate, 200. 
to make, 201. 

apricot, 202. 

bean, 172, 174. 
beef, 74. 
beets, 174. 

blackberries, 202. 
cabbages, 175. 



Salads : cauliflowers, 179. 

celery, 201. 

chicken, 202. 

chiccory, 200. 

cocoanut, 202, 

cucumbers, 181. 

currants, 202. 

dandelion, 182. 

eggs, 202. 

endive, 200. 

fettieus, 201. 

lentils, 184. 

lettuce, 200. 

lobster, 98. 

Macedoine, 202. 

onions, 187. 

oranges, 202. 

partridge, 202. 

peaches, 202. 

pears, 202. 

pheasants, 202. 

prairie hens, 202. 

pineapples, 189. 

potatoes, 193. 

purslain, 184. 

raspberry, 202. 

salmon, 203. 

succory, 200. 

strawbery, 202. 

tomato, 196. 

turbot, 204. 

walnuts, 198. 

watercress, 181. 

wild chiccory, 200. 
Sage, 21. 
Salmis, 142, 155. 
Salmon, 81. 
Salpicon garniture, 60. 
Salsify, 195. 
Sandwiches, 168. 
Sardines, 84. 
Sauces, 45. 

Allemande, 45. 

anchovy, 45. 

butter, 46. 

bread, 46. 

broth for, 30. 

bechamel No. 1, 46. 
" No. 2, 47. 

brown butter, 47. 

butter maitre d'hotel, 47. 

caper, 48. 

coulisof fish, 48. 

" of lobster or shrimps, 49. 
" of veal, 48. 

cream, 49. 

cucumber, 50. 

currant, 49. 

Espagnole, 50. 

essence of spinage, 50, 

fish, 51. 

hazelnut butter, 51. 

Indian, 51, 

Italian, 41. 
juice, 62. 



258 



INDEX. 



Sauces : maitre d'hotel, 52. 

marinade, 52. 

Maj-onnaise, 53. 

oil, 53. 

oyster, 53. 

piquante, 53. 

poivrade, 54. 

poulette, 54. 

Frovenfale, 54. 

ravigote, 55. 

Robert, 55. 

roux, 55. 

supreme, 56. 

tartar or cold, 56. 

lomato, 56. 

truffle, 56. 

•white, 57. 
Sausages, 
Sauteiug, 9. 
Savory, 26, 
Savory cake, 216. 
Seasoning, 9. 
Semoulina, 36. 
Shad, 81. 
Sheep, brain, 122. 
" feet, 122. 
" kidneys, 123. 
" tails, 124. 
" tongues, 124. 
Sheepshead fish, 81. 
Shrimps, 101. 

sauce, 49. 
Simmering, 10. 
Skate, 90. 
Skirret, 195. 
Skunk, 159, 160. 
Smelts, 84. 
Smoked tongue, 78. 
Snails, 165. 
Snipes, 159. 
Sole, 84, 96, 97. 
Sorrel, 195. 

puree of, 64. 
Soups, 29. 

hints for, 27. 

plates, 29. 

beef and mutton, 31. 

broth for, 30. 

made quicklj', 31. 

cabbage, 39. 

cauliflower, 39. 

cheese, 39. 

consomme, 30. 

milk. 40, 

mock turtle, 40. 

onion, 41. 

ox tail 41. 

pot-au-feu, 29. 

rice, 32. 

turtle, 43. 

Juliennes, 38. 

potage a la Cond6, 32. 
a la Crecy, 32. 
with carrots, etc., 33. 
" celery, 33. 



Soups : 

potage with chestnuts, 33. 

" fecula, 36. 

" frogs, 33. 

" lettuce, 34. 

" macaroni, 34. 
a la Monaco, 34. 
printanier, .34. 
with pumpkin, 35. 

•' rice, 35, 

" sago, 36. 

" semoulina, 36. 

" Eorrel, 36. 

" tapioca, 36. 

" tomatoes, 36. 

" vermicelli, 38. 
puree with beans, etc., 37. 
" " green beans, 37. 
" '* carrots, 38. 
Sourkrout, 176. 
Sparrowgrase, 170. 
Spinage, 106. 
Sponge cake, 216. 
Sprats, 84. 
Sprouts, 176. 
Squash, 194. 
Squirrel, 164. 
Steaks, 44, 71. 
Stewing, 10. 
Stirring, 27. 
Straining, 13. 
Strawberry, 202. 
Stuffing, 81. 
Sturgeon, 81. 
Succory, i200. 
Sucker, 88. 
Sucking pig, 133. 
Sun fish, 88. 
Supper, 249. 
Supreme sauce, 56. 
Syrup for compotes, 234. 
Sweetbreads, 115. 
Sweetmeats, 237. 
Sweet potatoes, 194. 
Tail, 76, 115, 124, 132. 
Tapioca potage, 36. 
Tartar saiice, 56. 
Tarts, 212. 
Tea, 17. 

cake, 217. 
Teal, 141. 
Tench, 82. 
Thrush, 158. 
Thyme, 21. 
Time to keep fish, 15. 
to keep meat, 14. 
to cook meat, 13. 
Toasts, 22. 
Tomatoes, 196. 
in salad, 196. 
sauce, 56. 
to preserve, 198. 
Tongue, 77, 116, 124, 132. 
Tripe, double, 78. 
Trout, 83. 



INDEX. 



259 



Troutlet, 88. 
Truffles, 196. 
sauce, 56. 
garuiture, 61. 
Tunnv, 81. 
Turbot, 81. 

Turkey, to select, 144. 
to clean, 134. 
boiled, 145. 
roasted, 145. 
Btewed, 146. 
Btufted, 145. 

left for the next day, 147. 
in salad, 202. 
" galantine, 147. 
preserved, 23. 
Turnips, 197. 

puree of, 65. 
Turtle, broth, 43. 

steaks, 44. 
Vanilla, 214. 
Veal, 102. 

blauquette, 102. 

broth, 42. 

breast, stewed, 103. 

with green peas, 103. 

roasted, 103. 

with onions, 104. 

in matelote, 105. 
cutlets, broiled, 105. 

Avith crumbs, 105. 
" fines herbes, 106. 

in papillote, 105. 
fricandeau, 106. 
loin, stewed, 107. 

with a garniture, 107. 

roasted, 107. 
rump, roasted, 108. 

in escalops, 108. 
shoulder, roasted, 108. 

etewed, 108. 

left over, 109. 
pie, 169. 

in galantine, 148. 
Vegetables, 169. 
quality, 27. 
green and dry, 169. 
eauce for, 169. 
artichokes, 169. 

Jerusalem, 170. 
asparagus, 170. 
beans, 171. 
beets, 174. 
broccoli, 178. 
cabbage, 175. 
cardoon, 176. 
carrot, 177. 
cauliflower, 178. 



Vegetables : 

celery, 179. 

Boup, 180. 

corn salad, 201. 

coi-n, sweet, 180. 

cucumber, 181. 

dandelion, 181. 

egg plant, 182. 

endive, 183. 

feticns, 201. 

leek, 184. 

lentil, 184. 

lettuce, 184. 

mushroom, 185. 

okra, 187. 

onion, 187. 

oyster plant, 195. 

parsnip, 187. 

pea, 188. 

potato, 189. 

pumpkin, 194. 

purslain, 194. 

radishes, 241. 

rhubarb, 218. 

salsify, 195. 

Bkirret, 195. 

sorrel, 195. 

Bourkrout, 176. 

sparrowgrass, 170. 

spinagc, 196. 

sprouts, 176. 

tomato, 196. 

truffle, 196. 

turnip, 197. 

watercress, 180. 

wild chiccory, 197. 

garniture, 61. 
Venison, to select, 162. 

to improve, 162. 

cutlets, 1G2. 

haunch, 163. 

shoulder, or saddle, 163. 

cold, 164. 
Vermicelli, potage, 37. 
Vol-au-vcnt, 221. 
Waffles, 228. 
Walnuts, in salad. 198. 
Watercress, 180, 181. 
Weak fish, 82. 
White fish, of the lakes, 84. 
White sauce, 57. 
Whitings, 82. 

Why this book is small, 27. 
Wild boar, 133. 
Wine in sauces, 13. 
Woodchuck, 159, 161. 
Woodcock, 159. 
Yellow birds, 158. 



/ D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 

THE 

NEW AMERICAN CYCL0PJ:DIA. 

EDITED BY 

GEOUGE RIPLEY AND CHARLES A. DAM. 

PUBLISHED BY 

P. APPLETON & COMPANY, New York 

In 16 Vols. 8vo, Double Colnnms, 750 Pages eaeh. 

Price, Cloth, ^3.50 ; Sheep, ^i; Half Mor., $4:.50 ; Half Russia, $5 
per Volume. 



Evert one that reads, every one that mingles in society, it* 
constantly meeting with allusions to subjects on which hb 
needs and desires further information. In conversation, in 
trade, in professional life, on the farm, in the family, practical 
questions are continually arising, which no man, well read or 
not, can always satisfactorily answer. If facilities for reference 
are at hand, they are consulted, and not only is the curiosity 
gratified, and the stock of knowledge increased, but perhaps 
information is gained and ideas are suggested that will directly 
contribute to the business success of the party concerned. 

With a Cyclopsedia, embracing every conceivable subject, 
and having its topics alphabetically arranged, not a moment ia 
lost. The matter in question is found at once, digested, con- 
densed, stripped of all that is irrelevant and unnecessary, and 
verified by a comparison of the best authorities. Moreover, 
while only men of fortune can collect a library complete in all 
the departments of knowledge, a Cyclopasdia, worth in itself, 
for purposes of reference, at least a thousand volumes, is within 
the reach of all — the clerk, the merchant, the professional man, 
the farmer, the mechanic. In a country like ours, where the 
humblest may be called to responsible positions requiring 
intelligence and general information, the value of such a work 
can not be over-estimated. 



D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. \ 



PLAN OF THE CYCLOP/EDIA. 

The New American Cyclopoedia presents a panoramic view 
of all human knowledge, as it exists at the present moment. 
It embraces and popularizes every subject that can be thought 
of. In its successive volumes is contained an inexhaustible 
fund of accurate and practical information on Art and Science 
in all their branches, including Mechanics, Mathematics, As- 
tronomy, Philosophy, Chemistry, and Physiology; on Agri- 
culture, Commerce, and Manufactures; on Law, Medicine, and 
Theology ; on Biography and History, Geography and Ethnol- 
ogy; on Political Economy, the Trades, Inventions, Politics, 
the Things of Common Life, and General Literature. 

The Industrial Arts and those branches of Practical Science 
which have a direct bearing on our every-day life, such as 
Domestic Economy, Ventilation, the Heating of Houses, Diet, 
&c., are treated with the thoroughness which their great im- 
portance demands. 

The department of Biography is full and complete, embra- 
cing the lives of all eminent persons, ancient and modern. In 
American biography, particularly, great pains have been taken 
to present the most comprehensive and accurate record that 
has yet been attempted. 

In History, the ISTew American Cyclopedia gives no mere 
catalogue of barren dates, but a copious and spirited narrative, 
under their appropriate heads, of the principal events in the 
annals of the world. So in Geography, it not only serves as a 
general Gazetteer, but it gives interesting descriptions of the 
principal localities mentioned, derived from books of travel 
and other fresh and authentic sources. 

As far as is consistent with thoroughness of research and 
exactness of statement, the popular method has been pursued. 
The wants of the people in a work of this kind have been care- 
fully kept in view throughout. 

It is hardly necessary to add that, throughout the whole, 
perfect fairness to all sections of country, local institutions, public 
men, political creeds, and religious denominations, has been a 
sacred principle and leading aim. Nothing that can be con- 
strued into an invidious or offensive allusion has been admitted. 



THE NEW AMERICAN CYCLOPEDIA. 



DISTINGUISHING EXCELLENCES. 

While we prefer that the work should speak for itself, and 
that others should herald its excellences, we cannot refrain 
from calling attention to the following points, in which we 
take an honest pride in believing that the New American 
Cyclopsedia surpasses all others : — 

I. In Accueacy axd Feeshness of Infoematiox. — The 
value of a work of this kind is exactly proportioned to its cor- 
rectness. It must preclude the necessity of having other 
books. Its decision must be final. It must be an ultimatum 
of reference, or it is good for nothing. 

II. Ix Impaetiality. — Our work has undergone the exam- 
ination of Argus eyes. It has stood the ordeal. It is pro- 
nounced by distinguished men and leading reviews in all parts 
of the Union, strictly fair and national. Eschewing all expres- 
sions of opinion on controverted points of science, philosophy, 
religion, and politics, it aims at an accurate representation of 
facts and institutions, of the results of physical research, of the 
prominent events in the history of the world, of the most sig- 
nificant productions of literature and art, and of the celebrated 
individuals whose names have become associated with the 
conspicuous phenomena of their age — doing justice to all men, 
all creeds, all sections. 

III. In Completeness. — It treats of every subject, in a terse 
and condensed style, but fully and exhaustively. It is believed 
that but few omissions will be found ; but whatever topics may, 
through any oversight, be wanting, are supplied in an Appendix. 

lY. In Ameeican Chaeactee. — The New Cyclopsedia is 
intended to meet the intellectual wants of the American people. 
It is not, therefore, modelled after European works of a similar 
design ; but, while it embraces all their excellences, has added 
to them a peculiar and unmistakable American character. It 
is the production mainly of American mind. 

Y. In Peactical Beaeing. — The day of philosophical ab- 
straction and speculation has passed away. This is an age of 
action. Gui 'bono is the universal touchstone. Feeling this, we 
have made our Cyclopasdia thoroughly practical. N"o man of 
action, be his sphere humble or exalted,can afford to do without it. 



A D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 

VI. In Interest of Style. — The cold, formal, and re- 
pulsive style usual in works of this kind, has been replaced with 
a style sparkling and emphatically readable. It has been the 
aim to interest and please, as well as instruct. Many of our 
writers are men who hold the foremost rank in general litera- 
ture, and their articles have been characterized by our best 
critics as models of elegance, force, and beauty. 

VII. In Convenience of Form. — I^o ponderous quartos, 
crowded with fine type that strains the eyes and wearies the 
brain, are here presented. The volumes are just the riglit size 
to handle conveniently; the paper is thick and white, the type 
large, the binding elegant and durable. 

VIII. In Cheapness. — Our Cyclopaedia has been univer- 
sally pronounced a miracle of cheapness. "We determined, at 
the outset, to enlarge its sphere of usefulness, and make it 
emphatically a book for the people, by putting it at the lowest 
possible price. 

Such being the character of the New American Cyclopaedia, 
an accurate, fresh, impartial, complete, practical, interesting, 
convenient, cheap Dictionary of General Knowledge, we ask, 
who can afford to do without it? Can the merchant, the 
statesman, the lawyer, the physician, the clergyman, to whom 
it gives thorough and complete information on every point 
connected with their several callings? Can the teacher, who 
is enabled, by the outside information it affords, to make his 
instructions doubly interesting and profitable? Can the far- 
mer, to whom it offers the latest results of agricultural research 
and experiment? Can the young man, to whom it affords the 
means of storing his mind with useful knowledge bearing no 
any vocation he may have selected? Can the intelligent 
mechanic, who wishes to understand what he reads in his daily 
paper? Can the mother of a family, whom it initiates into the 
mysteries of domestic economy, and teaches a thousand things 
which more than saves its cost in a single year? In a word, can 
any intelligent American, who desires to understand thg, insti- 
tutions of his country, its past history and present condition, 
and his own duties as a citizen, deny himself this great Ameri- 
can digest of all human knowledge, universally pronounced the 
best Cyclop83dia and the most valuable work ever published? 



92 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05493 412 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



^p. 



9 



<p. 



> 



