Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



COOKERY 



FOR ENGLISH HOVSF.HOIDS. 




^ 



COOKERY 



FOR 



ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS. 



-5 

I 



BY A FRENCH LADY. 



??(mbon anb €amlrribge: 
MACMILLAN AND CO. 

1864. 



T/te Right of Translation and Reproduction h r^cmt^, 

JZ^a, /K.. SSL. 



LONDON : 

R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, 

BREAD STREET HILL. 




PREFACE. 



After reading several books on French Cookery, 
it struck me that none of them were appropriate 
to the class which most wanted them — I mean the 
class rich enough to have good dinners, and still 
which cannot afford to keep a chef. 

Even Monsieur Soyer*s famous works are not fit for 
the class I speak of : his cheap book is very well for 
working people, and his " Gastronomic Regenerator " 
may be useful to professional cooks, but it is alto- 
gether impracticable in a modest household. Without 
mentioning his ''Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of 
Great Britain," in which he recommends you to 
deposit a smile of the Duchess of Sutherland, a 
lesson from the Duchess of Northumberland, etc. 
with the Beams of the Aurora Borealis and an 



VI PREFACE. 

eruption of Mount Vesuvius, it is still costly enough 
to use sixteen pounds of meat and no end of vege- 
tables to make a few pints of broth. The natural 
effect of such works as the "Gastronomic Regenerator" 
is to make everybody believe that French cookery is 
so extravagant that only the wealthiest people can 
ever afford to employ it. It is not so ; there exists 
in France, as well as anywhere else, a middle class, 
and I assure the reader that they want food and that 
they like it to be good. I shall therefore endeavour 
to give, in this volume, the recipes used in the 
kitchens of people who live well and have only one 
cook. 

My intention is to write for ladies who wish either 
to be able to point out to their cooks the defects they 
find in their ways of cooking, and to give them the 
means of improving, or for ladies who would under- 
take occasionally to prepare some dishes requiring 
either more care or more intelligence than a common 
cook could give. 

This book is practical, and therefore avoids giving 
recipes requiring stores of ready sauces : if you open 
Monsieur Soyer's book you constantly see, "have 



PREFACE. Vll 

ready Aspic sauce, B^chamelle sauce, etc. Put two 
spoonfuls of velout6, six of consomm6, three of 
Espagnole ; " then again, " essence of shrimps, of 
mushrooms, of truffles, etc" 

The reader will find some explanations about the 
culinary apparatus used in France, and I hope there 
will be no difficulty in understanding their utility. 

The demand for French wines has become so 
general in -England that I have devoted a few pages 
to those of Burgundy. Having lived many years in 
the centre of the richest Burgundy wine district, I 
am better qualified to speak about Burgundy than 
Bordeaux. My general directions for the care of 
wines will, however, be found applicable to all the 
wines of France. I shall also point out the time 
when each wine ought to be served at a well-regulated 
dinner. 

Ladies don't like to cook, thinking that it might 
spoil the beauty of their hands, but this may be 
easily avoided ; if they would take the precaution 
not to touch peeled vegetables nor the handle of a 
pan without gloves, there would not be any difference 
between their hands and those of the idlest ladies of 



Vlll PREFACE. 

their acquaintance. The gloves used in the kitchen 
should be thick, so as to prevent the heat of the 
handle from browning and thickening the skin of the 
fingers ; if by accident this should happen, the use of 
pumice-stone and lemon would leave the skin as 
delicate and white and the nails as transparent and 
rosy as ever. 

It is, moreover, the duty of a lady to look sharply 
after the cook, to prevent the use of dangerous sea- 
soning; she alone knows what suits her children's, 
her husband's constitution, and upon her knowledge 
of cookery the health of many is dependent. 



FRENCH COOKERY 
FOR ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS, 



CHAPTER I. 

COOKING APPARATUS, PAKS, ETC. 

In England the use of coals is general, and the 
cooking apparatus is not unlike design No. i ; it 
is smaller or larger, but the principle on which it 
is made is always the same. It is much better for 
cooking than an open fire, from which the ashes 
rise into the pans and very often spoil a white 
sauce. An open fire is also extremely disagreeable 
for another reason, its heat burns the face and hands, 
and it is impossible for a lady to show herself after 
standing for five minutes before such a fire ; besides, 
the grate, being black, dirties everything it touches. 
I infinitely prefer our French charcoal apparatus, 
No. 2. It is built of glazed tiles, and may be 
cleaned in a minute with a wet sponge or a wet 
towel ; there are as many separate fires as holes, 
and by means of doors that shut or open at will, 
you may moderate or increase each fire. It is 
possible to cook at once as many dishes as there 
are holes, and a lady may stand in front and stir 

B 



2 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and remove the pans, in full dress, without fear of 
spoiling her sleeves or dress, and may go out of 
the kitchen into the drawing-room without looking 
redder than if she had been in any other place. 

There is a nice little charcoal apparatus used by 
poor people, which is extremely useful, being porta- 
ble (see No. 3), but it supports only one pan. 

A great many people object to the use of brass 
and copper pans, from the idea that they are dan- 
gerous : they are not dangerous if tinned inside and 
properly cleaned. The lady of the house must 
frequently inspect the copper pans, and have them 
tinned if required ; brass preserve pans* must never 
be tinned. 

Tinning will last at least a year if servants do not 
use knives or sharp instruments to scrape it. 

Copper pans are superior to all other kinds, 
because they do not burn easily. 

For cooking French dishes it is very often neces- 
sary to have fire both at the top and bottom of the 
pan ; No. 4 is perfectly adapted for this method 
of stewing. 

It is also desirable to have some pans like No. 5 ; 
they close hermetically. 

For everything au gratifty silver dishes should be 
used if possible ; the fish or vegetables au gratin must 
be cooked and served in the same dish. In houses 
where there are no silver dishes, they use copper 

* I hare seen exactly the contrary recommendation in an English 
cookery book ; but I speak from personal experience. If you use tinned 
pans for making preserves, your fruit will lose its beautiful colour. 



COOKING APPARATUS, ETC 3 

ones (tinned) ; if they are properly cleaned, they 
will be bright and look very well. 

For stews of any kind cast-iron pans, tinned inside, 
are the best (see No. 6). 

For boiling fish see the fish-pan, No. 7, with the 
flat part coming out to slip the fish on the dish ; the 
court-bouillon, or sauce, being allowed to run freely 
through the holes. 

Several little contrivances have been invented, and 
are very nice for decorating dishes : such are No. 8, 
for curling potatoes ; No. 9, for cutting vegetables in 
the shape of olives, &a 

No. ID, vide-pommes, to take out the inside of 
apples. 

No. 1 1, gaufrier, a cake-mould. 

A number of graduated lardoires, No. 12, are also 
required for larding all sorts of stews and game. 

I give a sketch of a French rotissoire and of 
a tourne-broche for roasting, without insisting upon 
their usefulness; they are very convenient, but the 
English roast so well that to give them any advice 
on the subject would be ridiculous. It is not the 
same for frying or cooking on the gridiron. As frying 
requires plenty of lard or oil, the operation, to be 
safe, must be made in a pan like No. 13. 

As to the different merits of gridirons, there are 
so many that it is difficult to choose ; the best, in my 
opinion, is No. 14. The charcoal being put in the 
middle, and the fish or meat to be fried upright, the 
fat does not drop on the charcoal, and so the smoky 
taste is avoided. 

B 2 



4 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

I also give a design of a French omelette-pan, or 
poile as called in French, No. 15 ; it is different 
from the English frying-pan in the curve of its 
ring, which allows the omelette to be easily dished. 

No. 16 is a very convenient little invention to mash 
any kind of vegetables in a minute, either for soups 
or purees; it is called moulin-d-Ugumes, It saves 
a great deal of time. 



INGREDIENTS. 5 



CHAPTER 11. 

ON DIFFERENT INGREDIENTS USED IN COOKING. 

On the quality of the ingredients used in cooking 
depends almost entirely the quality of the dishes. 

I speak here more especially about seasoning in- 
gredients, such as thyme, laurel, &c It is almost 
impossible to obtain good cookery by using essences, 
even with the greatest moderation. Being in the 
Highlands for some time, I was obliged to use thyme, 
laurel, lemon, &a in essences, and I found their 
flavour so different from that of the herbs themselves, 
that I consider such essences of little or no value. Use, 
then, laurel and thyme in the leaf, previously dried. 

To vegetables and white sauces salted butter gives 
a rancid taste ; use fresh butter. 

For frying, olive oil is the best of all ; but in 
England I found it most difficult to obtain it genuine. 
It must be tasted ; and if not perfectly good, it would 
be preferable to use fresh lard.* 

* Some people think that the French way of frying is a most extra- 
vagant one ; but it is not so. For frying potatoes in moderate quantity, 
say for six people, about two pounds of lard are required ; but when 
the potatoes (or anything else) have been fried, the lard is poured into 
an earthen jar, to be used again and again till the end ; only, when it 
becomes too brown, some more fresh lard must be added to make up the 
requisite quantity. 



% 



6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

For preserves, always give the preference to the 
finest sugar ; there will be less scum and the preserves 
will look and keep far better. 

I recommend the use of truffles where they are 
wanted ; they are not so dear as people generally 
think, and I have always been greatly astonished at 
hearing that truffles were out of the reach of moderate 
purses. It would be true if they had to be bought 
in small bottles at ten shillings each ; but if you take 
care to preserve them yourself, as I shall indicate, you 
need not be afraid of the expense. One truffle is 
often sufficient to flavour a dish, if it is of a good 
quality. The best truffles are purple and highly 
flavoured ; another very good kind is large, black, 
and rough. These last present, when cut, a marbled 
appearance. White truffles are the worst. 

Wine vinegar only is to be used. 

Wheat flour is the best for sauces of every de- 
scription. A great deal of attention must be paid to 
the choice of it, for if it is old it will taste like dust 
It should be of a light cream colour ; when the 
fingers are dipped into it, it should adhere to the 
skin. 

Macaroni, vermicelli, &c. must be of the first 
quality, or they would thicken the soups and lose 
all shape. 

I must say here, that I do not agree with Monsieur 
Soyer when he recommends his readers to season 
rather too much than too little ; it is a great mistake : 
and the small quantity of mustard, ginger, garlic, 
nutmeg, &c. used now in French cookery is a sign of 



INGREDIENTS. ^ 

progress in the delicacy of taste. High seasoning 
is a means of stimulating appetite, which in the end 
must prove injurious to health. The quality of 
good cookery does not depend upon hot seasoning, 
but upon a scientific combination, balance, and know- 
ledge of the different ingredients used. 



8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY 



CHAPTER III. 

POTAGES — SOUPS. 

I. Pot-aU'feu {Beef Soup). 

To make this soup take two pounds of meat to a 
quart of water; you may use all the trimmings of 
beef or veal. Beat the meat properly, with a roller, 
fasten it up together, then put it into a stewpan or 
an earthen pot; fill up with cold water, salt it 
immediately, then set it on a moderate fire. Take 
care to have a hole in the lid, or to put a spoon under 
it, to prevent it from closing hermetically. Be careful 
to skim the soup before it boils, else it would not be 
clear. When skimmed and boiling, peel and cut down 
the middle two or three carrots (according to their 
size), two leeks, a turnip, half of a parsnip, and a 
very small branch of celery ; tie them together, and 
put them into the soup with a large onion, four cloves, 
and a little garlic ; add a little pepper. Put your pot 
on one side of the fire so as to let it boil very slowly 
and equally for six or seven hours. When ready 
to be served, colour it with a little burnt onion or 
caramel (see caramely Index) ; toast some thin slices 
of bread, and lay them in the bottom of the soup- 
tureen. Take the meat out of the pot and pour the 



POTAGES — SOUPS. 9 

soup upon the toasts through a fine sieve. Take off 
some of the fat. 

This soup is much better when rice or Italian 
pastes are employed instead of bread. (See riz au 
gras Sindpdtes d'ltalie au gras. Index.) 

It is the custom in some French houses to have 
ready, in a separate dish, grated parmesan and 
gruyere cheese, that the guests may add to their 
soup if they choose ; it is a great improvement. 

In the north of France, chopped chervil is also 
presented to each guest with the soup. 

If the soup were destined for invalids or infants, it 
would be better not to use either garlic or cloves. 

A calf's foot makes this soup better and more 
nutritious. 

2. Bouillon hdtif (Soup quickly made), 

» 

Cut the meat into small dice and break the bones. 
Rub the bottom of the pan with a little butter ; put 
meat and bones upon it ; cover the pan and set it on 
a slow fire ; after two or three minutes fill up the pan 
with tepid water ; salt and skim when required. Add 
the vegetables indicated for No. i, only cut them 
in thin slices, even the burnt onion ; let the soup boil 
an hour and a half rather briskly, then pour it upon 
the bread. 

This soup is not so delicate as No. i, but it is still 
very good ; it may be used like No. i, in all sorts of 
sauces, instead of the costly velouti and suprime sauces 
indicated in the majority of cookery books. 



lO HQUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

3. Consommd {another Beef Soup). 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. i, only use a 
double quantity of meat to the same quantity of 
water, and let the broth reduce to a sufficient con- 
sistency ; pass through a sieve and bottle when cold. 

This soup may be kept for a fortnight in winter, 
four or five days in summer. It is particularly useful 
in travelling with children or invalids ; two table- 
spoonfuls mixed in a gill of boiling water will give 
you a good, light, and still nutritious beverage ; and 
it is always easy to get a gill of boiling water with a 
spirit-lamp. 

4. Potage ^ la Marie-Louise, 

Begin as you would for No. i. When the pot is 
on the fire, roast quickly a hen until very brown and 
only half-done, then put it into the pot and let it boil 
without interruption for eight hours. 

5. Riz au gras {Rice Soup), 

Wash carefully your rice in two or three waters, 
and use about a dessert-spoonful for every guest. 

The best way is to have broth No. i or No. 4, and 
to set it on the fire until it boils ; then to add the rice 
and let it boil for fifteen minutes or half an hour. 

If you do so, your rice will be very good, but your 
soup will be pale and not clear. If you want it to 
be clear, boil first your rice in water. Drain it in a 
hair sieve, and put it into the broth when it boils. 



. POTAGES — SOUPS. II 

Remove the pan to a comer of the fire and let the 
rice simmer for five minutes without boiling. 



6. Vermicelle au gras ( Vermicelli), 

When your broth is boiling throw in your vermi- 
celli, previously breaking it ; then keep stirring with 
a wooden spoon for five minutes. 

It is difficult to indicate the requisite quantity, for 
some kinds of vermicelli swell a great deal more than 
others, but a table-spoonful for each guest is generally 
sufficient. 

Vermicelli with milk has to be boiled exactly in 
the same manner ; using milk instead of broth, and 
adding a little sugar and essence of lemon-peel, 
vanilla, or any other flavour. 



7. Semoule {Semolina)* 

Exactly like vermicelli, No. 6. A tea-spoonful 
of semolina is sufficient for each person. 

8. P&tes cTItalie {Italian Pastes), 

See No. 6. Use Italian pastes instead of ver- 
micelli. 

9. Macaroni. 

See No. 6. Use macaroni instead of vermicelli. 
Do not forget to serve grated parmesan with this soup. 



12 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lo. Tapioca. 

Put on a sharp fire two-thirds of the broth that 
you require ; mix the remainder of it with your 
tapioca (a tea-spoonful for each person). When 
the broth on the fire is boiling, pour it slowly into 
your tapioca, stirring it briskly all the time ; then 
put it back into the pan and let it boil for five 
minutes. Never stop stirring. 

Arrow-root, potato-flour, barley, sago, &c. must be 
boiled like tapioca. 

II. Cr/cy grasse. 

Put into a pan some trimmings of beef, a quarter 
of a pound of ham or even the bone of a ham, an old 
hen, and the remains of any roasted game ; fill the 
pan with cold water, and put it on a slow fire ; skim, 
salt and pepper ; add twelve large carrots, six onions, 
five cloves, two large potatoes. Let it boil until the 
vegetables are perfectly tender ; then take them out 
of the pan and mash them through a fine sieve. Mix 
them with the boiling broth which has been passed 
through a silk sieve ; add two or three spoonfuls of 
well-washed rice, and let it boil for another quarter of 
an hour. 

This soup, if properly prepared, should be served 
without bread, having been thickened by vegetables 
and rice. 

12. Soupe aux faisans (Pheasant Soup). 

Roast, underdone, two young pheasants ; take off 
the breasts and fillets to put aside. Carve the phea- 



POT AGES— SOUPS. 1 3 

sants, break the bodies, and put them into two quarts 
of broth (No. i, page 8), and let the whole boil for four 
hours ; then pass through a silk sieve and let it cool. 
Pick the flesh off the bones and chop it very fine with 
the breasts and fillets ; make a paste of it with bread 
crumbs, a little cayenne pepper, a chopped shalot, 
and one or two yolks of eggs. Make little balls with 
this paste and roll them in wheat flour, fry them in 
oil or lard {s^^friture, Index) ; at the same time put 
your broth on a brisk fire. When your balls are all 
fried, put them in a tureen and pour your boiling 
broth upon them. 

13. Soupe au Lih)re (Hare Soup). 

Carve a raw hare as you would a roasted one ; put 
it into a pan with a pound of lean ham, three large 
onions, two carrots, a laurel-leaf, a little thyme and 
some parsley, salt and cayenne pepper; fill up the 
pan with water, or, still better, with broth No. i. Let 
it boil for four hours. Pound in a mortar the ham 
and the flesh of the hare ; add them to the boiling 
soup, with a gill of port wine. 

After the addition of port wine, the soup must be 
kept hot for a quarter of an hour au bain-marie (in 
boiling water), but it must not boil. 

14. Julienne ( Vegetable Soup), 

Cut into small dice or fillets all sorts of vegetables 
(fresh), carrots, turnips, lettuces, cabbages, French 
beans, potatoes, peas, cauliflowers, onions, &c. and a 



k 



14 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

little chervil. Put a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter into a pan ; let it melt without browning ; add 
your vegetables, and stir them with a wooden spoon 
for five minutes. Be careful not to let them take 
colour. Fill your pan with boiling water; salt and 
pepper. Cover your pan with the lid, and let the 
soup boil until the vegetables are perfectly tender ; 
then put two spoonfuls of rice into the soup. Mix 
two yolks of eggs with a small quantity of milk ; pass 
through a silk sieve ; add to your eggs three spoon- 
fuls of thick cream, and beat it well together. Take 
your soup off the fire and wait till it ceases boiling ; 
then stirring it with one hand, pour slowly into it your 
liaison of eggs and cream, and serve immediately. 

This soup is delicious if carefully prepared ; the 
more variety there is in the vegetables the better it 
is. An intelligent cook will soon remark that vege- 
tables with a strong taste, such as cabbages, turnips, 
and onions, should be used in a less proportion than 
potatoes or green peas. 

15. Soupe d Voignon (Onion Soup). 

Put four ounces of butter in a copper pan on a 
brisk fire; peel and cut in slices two large onions; put 
them into the pan ; stir them until they become very 
brown ; add a table-spoonful of flour, mix it well with 
the butter and onions ; then fill up the pan with boil- 
ing water or broth No. i ; salt and pepper ; cover the 
pan and let the soup boil until the onions are tender. 
Pass through a hair sieve, and pour upon thin toast. 
Serve with grated parmesan. 



POTAGES— SOUPS. 1 5 

1 6. Soupe d VoignoHy au maigre (another Onion Sotip), 

Put six ounces of butter into a pan, with two large 
onions cut in thin slices ; when the onions are of a 
golden colour, add a table-spoonful of flour; mix. 
Fill up the pan with milk, and when it boils add 
three or four spoonfuls of well-washed rice ; put in a 
little salt, a little pepper, two lumps of sugar. When 
the rice is boiled enough, mix two yolks of eggs with 
a little cream, and put it into the soup, which has been 
taken off the fire to prevent it from curdling. 

17. Soupe d la reiney au gras. 

Take a hen previously roasted, and a calf's foot 
carefully washed in hot water ; put them into a pan, 
into which pour water enough to cover them. Add 
three lai^e onions, two laurel-leaves, salt and pepper ; 
skim before it boils, and let it remain on a moderate 
fire for three hours. Pass through a fine sieve. Pick 
the white parts of the hen off the bones, and pound 
them in a mortar with six almonds (previously 
blanched) and six ounces of crumb, soaked in boiling 
milk. Pass all this pur^e through a fine sieve or 
through the fnoulin-d-Ugumes (No. 16, page 4). Put 
it into a clean pan and pour your broth upon it, stir- 
ring it all the time. Keep it warm au bain-marie (in 
hot water), and if it is not thick enough, add a table- 
spoonful of arrow-root or potato-flour. Do not let it 
boil from the time you mix the broth with the purie. 
This soup must be perfectly white. 



\ 



1 6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

1 8. Soupe ct la reine^ au maigre. 

Boil a quart of milk ; sweeten it with a small bit of 
vanilla, or a few orange blossoms. Mix three yolks 
of eggs with a little cold milk. Take the pan off the 
fire and put the yolks into it, stirring the hot milk 
with a wooden spoon. Set the pan on a very moderate 
fire, and keep stirring until the soup thickens and 
adheres to the spoon. Watch it carefully to prevent 
it from curdling. When thick enough, pour upon a 
French roll cut in slices. 

19. Soupe aux choux, grasse {Cabbage Soup). 

Put into a cast-iron pan half a pound of bacon, 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a German sausage, 
and three quarts of cold water. Put the pan on a 
brisk fire, and let it boil for two hours. Cut two 
cabbages by the middle ; peel two carrots, a turnip, 
two large potatoes, an onion, and put them into the 
pan. Let the vegetables boil for two hours, then 
take them out, mash them, put them back into tlie 
soup (the ham and bacon having been taken out), 
and when it boils pour it upon toasts. 

This soup would be too much salted, if the bacon 
and ham were not washed carefully in two or three 
different waters before using them for the soup. 

20. Soupe aux choux au frontage {Cabbage Soup with 

cheese). 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. 19 ; and 
when the soup is ready cover the bottom of the 



POT AGES — SOUPS. 1 7 

tureen with slices of bread; then cover the slices 
of bread with grated parmesan and gruy^re; then 
another layer of bread, and another layer of cheese, 
and so on, until you have a sufficient number of 
layers to thicken the soup which you pour upon 
them. 

2 1 . Soupe aux chouXy au maigre {another Cabbage Soup), 

In three quarts of cold water put two cabbages, 
two potatoes, two carrots, a handful of French»beans, 
a handful of green peas, a turnip, two onions, salt and 
pepper. Let it boil quickly for an hour and a half; 
add then a quarter of a pound of butter. When 
the vegetables are tender, add a gill of milk, and 
when boiling serve upon fried croutons (see Crou- 
tonsy page 32). 

22. Soupe d lapurie de ligumes. 

Have two quarts of boiling water ; put in it six 
carrots, one onion, a large piece of ripe vegetable 
marrow, two turnips, four large mealy potatoes, a few 
leaves of green sauce, salt and pepper. When the 
vegetables are perfectly tender, mash them through 
the moulin-d-Ugumes (No. 16, page 4), put them back 
into the water with six ounces of fresh butter ; when 
boiling, add a liaison (see Liaisony No. 66, page 32), 
and pour upon a French roll or fried croutons. 

Rice may be used instead of either. 



1 8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

23. Soupe ct Vosdlle {Greeii Sauce Soup). 

Pick and wash carefully a large handful of green 
sauce and as much chervil ; put a quarter of a pound 
of butter in a saucepan with the green sauce and 
chervil ; cover the pan, and set it on a slow fire ; let 
the whole simmer for ten minutes, and pour a quart 
of boiling water and a gill of milk upon it Salt and 
pepper, When it boils, add a liaison, and serve upon 
fried croutons (see Liaison^ No. 66). 

24. Soupe aux laitues {Lettuce Soup), 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. 23, using 
lettuces instead of green sauce. 

'25. Soupe aux romaines {Cos-lettuce Soup). 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. 23, using 
cos-lettuces instead of green sauce. 

26, Soupe aux navets {Turnip Soup), 

Peel a dozen of turnips and throw them into two 
quarts of boiling water; let them boil for an hour. 
Take them out, mash them in the moulin-d-l^gumes ; 
put them back into the water, with a little salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, six ounces of fresh butter, and a gill of milk. 
When boiling, add a liaison, and serve with fried crou- 
tons (see Liaison, No. 66). 

This soup is extremely delicate if rice is used in- 
stead of croutons. 

If the turnips have too strong a taste, they must be 
blanched before being used for the soup. 



POTAGES — SOUPS. 1 9 

27. Purie depois verts {Green-pea Soup), 

Take a quart of green peas, put them into a pan, 
with two quarts of boiling water, a bunch of parsley, 
a large onion, and four ounces of butter. When the 
peas are tender mash them, and put them back into 
the water ; take out the parsley and the onion. Salt 
and pepper. When ready to serve add a liaison (see 
Liaison^ No. (36) ^ and three spoonfuls of thick cream. 

Use either rice or croutons. 

28. Pur^e de pommes-de-terre {Potato Soup). 

Do as you would for No. 27 ; only use six large 
mealy potatoes instead of peas, and a leek instead of 
parsley. 

29. Purie de lentilks {Lefttil Soup), 

Do as you would for No. 27 ; use cold water instead 
of boiling water, and lentils instead of peas. 

30. Pur& de haricots sees { White Bean Soup). 

Do as you would for No. 29 ; using white beans in- 
stead of lentils. 

31. Purie de pois sees {Dried Pea Soup), 

Do as you would for No. 29 ; using dried peas in- 
stead of lentils. 

32. Soupe aupotiron { Vegetable-marrow Soup), 

Prepare a riz-au-lait (see Index). Then cut about 
a pound of ripe vegetable-marrow in small dice ; set 

C2 



^ 



20 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it on the fire with two or three spoonfuls of water ; 
let it simmer for half an hour, stirring it frequently, 
and keeping the lid on the pan. When the vegetable- 
marrow is tender, rub it through a fine hair-sieve. 
Then put the riz-au-lait in a tureen, and stir it whilst 
you add the vegetable-marrow. When mixed together, 
add a liaison (see Liaison, No. 66), and two spoonfuls 
of thick cream. 

This soup is a perfect delicacy. To succeed in 
making it, it is necessary to have the riz-au-lait very 
thin, and to be very careful in mixing the rice and 
vegetable-marrow. 

33.. Soupeau melon {Melon Soup), 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. 32 ; using 
melon instead of vegetable-marrow. 

34. Pannade (Bread Soup). 

Take a pound of stale bread, break it (do not 
cut it) in small bits, put it in a pan and cover it with 
cold water. Cover the pan. Let the fire be very 
slow, and the soup simmer gently for two hours, with- 
out ever stirring it. Mash through a fine sieve, add a 
quarter of a pound of perfectly fresh butter, very little 
salt, and two lumps of sugar. When the sugar is 
melted add a liaison (see Liaison, No. 66), and two 
spoonfuls of thick cream. 

This soup is extremely delicate, and perfectly 
adapted for invalids or infants. It must be transpa- 
rent ; if it were stirred it would burn. 



POTAGES— SOUPS. 21 

35. Potage atix icrevisses (Cray-fish Soup). 

Put two branches of celery, two onions, three cloves, 
a laurel-leaf, a bunch of parsley and chervil, and two 
carrots, in two quarts of water and a quart of white 
wine (not sweet wine). When it boils add a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter, salt and pepper, and let 
it evaporate for half an hour ; then put twenty fine 
cray-fish into it (previously drawn) and let them boil 
until they become perfectly red. Pick out the tails 
and set them aside to be used separately. Pick the 
insides out of the fish and pound them in a mortar 
with a little crumb fried in butter. When pounded 
very fine, add it to the bouillon in which it was boiled, 
and serve with fried croutons. 

To use the tails, see Index. 

36. Potage aux huitres (Oyster Soup). 

Do exactly as you would for No. 35 ; using oysters 
instead of cray-fish. 



22 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER IV. 

« 

SAUCES. 

Sauces made separately are generally used to roasted 
meat, roasted game, fowls, hard-boiled eggs, and fish. 
They are particularly useful and economical in a 
modest and well-regulated household, affording means 
of serving in a decent way all the remains of a dinner, 
which, otherwise, would have to be given to servants. 

37. Sauce blanche. 

Take four ounces of perfectly fresh buttery melt it 
and mix with it a spoonful of flour, without letting 
it take colour; pour slowly and gradually into it 
a tumbler of hot water (not boiling), stirring all 
the time ; salt and pepper (white pepper) ; when 
transparent add a liaison; do not let it boil (see 
LiaisoUy No. 66). 

The quality of this sauce depends entirely upon the 
quality of the butter employed ; five minutes are 
sufficient to make it. 

Capers may be added if the sauce is used to fish or 
roasted meat ; nutmeg if used to vegetables or eggs. 

38. Sauce blonde. 

Proceed as you would for rotix (see Rotix, No. 39, 



SAUCES. 23 

page 23), and when it is ready add it to a white sauce 
(see Sauce blanche^ No. 37, page 22). 

39. Roux. 

To four ounces of butter add a spoonful of flour, 
stir it constantly on a brisk fire until it becomes of a 
light brown ; cover the pan and let it renudn for half 
an hour on hot cinders ; then add a tumbler of hot 
water, salt and pepper, and stir it gently until well 
mixed. Put the pan on a brisk fire and let it boil for 
five minutesL 

If broth were used instead of water the roux would 
be incomparably better. 

One or two spocMifuls of gravy are a great improve- 
ment. 

A great deal of attention must be paid to the pre- 
paration of a rtmr, for if the flour and butter become 
too brown the sauce takes an acrid taste. 

4OL Sauce au beurre nair. 
Put half a pound of butter in a frying-pan on a 



brisk fire; let it become veiy brcnm, nearfy 
then throw into it a fiew branches of pai^ey, a taiifc- 
spK>oiiful of capers, and three tab!e-^x»nfi£s of 
gar. Tarragon vinegar is the best. 

Take care in maldag this sauce to seizit fe 
moment to thrcwr in the pani^* and vis^^zr:. 

The parsley must be crj^^ l>tfo!r»: yc^ 
vinegptr. 

Be careful to wipe t2it fo^<^r h=»*-S2C^^ 
using it for this saoce, or ^ht it nrii; 




\ 



24 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

If the butter had not been properly washed, and if 
any buttermilk remained in it, it would precipitate at 
the bottom of the pan ; in that case it is necessary to 
pour the butter out of the pan, which should be wiped 
carefully, then the butter is to be put back into it. 

41. Sauce ct la mattre (ThdteL 

This is only melted butter with chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper. 

Some persons add either a chopped shalot, or a 
little lemon-juice, or vinegar. 

42. Satice blanche (foignons. 

Cut in fillets a dozen of onions, put them into a 
pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, cover the 
pan and set it on a slow fire ; stir from time to time 
for half an hour ; then add a spoonful of flour, and a 
gill of milk, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 
When the onions are tender add a liaison {st^Liaisonj 
No. 66). 

Some people use sugar instead of salt. 

43. Sauce blonde d^oignons, ou sauce Soubise. 

Put into a pan a quarter of a pound of lean ham 
cut in dice, a dozen of onions also cut, a quarter of a 
pound of butter and a spoonful of flour; let it simmer 
on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour ; then add a 
pint of warm water or a pint of broth. Let it boil 
for an hour ; pass through a sieve, and add a liaison 
(see Liaison^ No. 66). 



SAUCES. 25 

44. Sauce Robert, 

Cut in small fillets two large onions, put them into 
a pan with four ounces of butter ; when brown add a 
spoonful of flour ; mix well ; pour into it a gill of 
warm water; salt and pepper. Let the whole boil 
for a quarter of an hour. When ready, take the pan 
off the fire and mix a spoonful of mustard and a 
spoonful of vinegar with the sauce. 

45. B^chamelle grasse. 

Cut in dice a quarter of a pound of lean ham and 
two ounces of fat bacon, put it into a pan with a large 
onion, two carrots, and two cloves ; let it simmer for 
five minutes on a slow fire, then add a pint of water. 
Let it boil slowly for two hours ; pass through a hair- 
sieve. Prepare separately a white sauce (see White 
Sauce, No. 37, page 22), and mix the two together. 
Take the pan off the fire, and pour into it a gill of 
fresh cream, stirring it without interruption. 

46. B^chamelle maigre. 

Take four ounces of fresh butter, melt it in a copper 
pan ; add a handful of mushrooms cut in small bits, 
and a spoonful of flour ; mix well without letting it 
take colour. Pour into it. a pint of milk, salt and 
pepper, and a little grated nutmeg and chopped 
parsley. When ready, add a liaison (see Liaison, 
No. 66). 



^ 



26 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

47. Sauce d Vltalienne. 

Put into a brass pan a spoonful of olive oil, two 
shalots, three truffles, and some parsley, the whole 
chopped very fine. Salt and pepper ; add a small 
bit of lemon-peel, a tumbler of white Burgundy, and 
a gill of water or broth. Let it boil for five minutes, 
pass it through a sieve, and serve. 

If water is used instead of broth, add a quarter of a 
pound of bacon cut in dice, and let the sauce boil for 
half an hour. 

48. Sauce Portugaise, 

Set a pan in hot water, put into it two raw yolks of 
eggs, six ounces of butter, a spoonful of lemon-juice, 
some salt and pepper. Beat the whole for three 
minutes with a wooden spoon, and serve immediately. 

49. Sauce d la Sainte Mhidhould, 

In four ounces of butter mix a spoonful of flour ; 
add a pint of milk, ten mushrooms cut in small bits, 
two truffles, also cut, and two shalots ; salt and 
pepper. Let it boil slowly for half an hour ; take out 
the shalots, and put in their stead a spoonful of 
finely-chopped parsley. 

50. Satice Provengale. 

Put into a pan two spoonfuls of olive-oil, two sha- 
lots, some garlic, and twelve mushrooms, the whole 
chopped. Add a spoonful of flour ; mix well. Pour 
upon it a tumbler of boiling water, and a tumbler of 



SAUCES. 27 

white Burgundy ; add salt and pepper, parsley, laurel 
and thyme, and let it boil slowly for an hour. Take 
off some of the oil, and serve. 

5 1. Sauce d la minagire. 

Make a roux (see Roux^ No. 39, page 23) ; add a 
pint of water, salt, pepper, twelve mushrooms cut in 
fillets, and six small carrots, also cut. Tie in a bunch 
a few branches of parsley, a laurel-leaf, a little thyme, a 
little garlic, two shalots, a large onion, and two cloves. 
Let the whole boil for an hour ; take out the shalots, 
and the bunch of parsley, eta ; serve. 

52. Sauce matelote. 

Put eight ounces of butter into a copper pan (not 
tinned), with twenty small onions, and a quarter of a 
pound of bacon cut in dice ; let it take colour. When 
brown, add a quart of water, and a quart of French 
wine, either red or white (red is the best in my 
opinion), salt and pepper, a bunch of parsley, a branch 
of celery, four carrots cut by the middle, two laurel- 
leaves, some garlic, five cloves, a little thyme, four 
truffles, and twenty mushrooms. Let it boil for an 
hour ; knead two spoonfuls of flour with four ounces 
of butter ; add it to the matelote with the fish. 

This sauce is exclusively for fish, and I do not 
hesitate to say that it is the best to eat with fresh- 
water fish ; it may be prepared more cheaply without 
mushrooms and truffles, but I cannot say that it 
would be as good* 



i 



28 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

When the fish is boiled, take out the parsley, 
garlic, cloves, carrots, thyme, celery, and laurel, and 
serve upon thin toasts. 

The best composition for a matelote would be a 
large carp with a hard roe, a large pike, an eel, two 
tenches, and a perch ; trout is a great improvement 
The fish is to be cut across in three or four bits 
before it is put into the sauce. Good matelotes may 
be obtained without so many different kinds of fish, 
if care is taken to have at least one kind of fat fish, 
such as tench or eels. 

Some people make a matelote without water, but 
then the taste is very strong, and they are obliged to 
set fire to it before serving it 

If some of the sauce remains, it may be used to 
hard-boiled eggs (see Oeufs en matelote^ Index). 

The sauce must cover the fish entirely. 

53. Sauce salmis (Game Sauci). 

Make a roux (see Rouxy No. 39, page 23) ; pound the 
liver or livers of the game for which you want this 
sauce ; add it to the rotix, with a bunch of parsley, 
one onion, two cloves, salt, pepper, bay-leaf, thyme, 
and garlic. Let it boil for half an hour ; pour into it 
a tumbler of romance or any other kind of good Bur- 
gundy, and let it boil for another hour. Put your 
game into it, and let it get warm without boiling. 
When warm, dish the game, add a spoonful of olive- 
oil to the sauce and beat it well for two minutes, then 
pour it upon the game. 

The game must be previously roasted, underdone. 



SAUCES. 29 

54. Sauce piquante. 

Make a roux (see ^^^/L;r, No. 39, page 23), in which 
you put two chopped shalots, half of a bay-leaf, a 
small branch of thyme, a bunch of parsley, and two 
cloves. Let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, 
then add two chopped gherkins and a spoonful of 
vinegar. 

If this sauce should be destined for delicate per- 
sons, it would be well to pass it through a sieve 
before adding the gherkins and vinegar. 

55. Autre sauce piquante. 

In a wine-glass of vinegar put three chopped 
shalots ; let them boil until the liquid is entirely 
evaporated ; add then a gill of broth, salt, nutmeg, 
cayenne pepper, two chopped gherkins, a spoonful of 
capers, and the juice of a lemon. 

This sauce is very hot, and unfit for delicate 
stomachs ; it is often difficult to digest, whilst No. 54 
may be used in its stead without any danger. 

56. Sauce tomate (Tomato Sauce). 

Take eight large tomatoes, put them into a pan 
with a tumbler of water ; cover the pan. When the 
tomatoes are tender, mash them through a very fine 
sieve ; put them back into the pan, with six ounces 
of butter ; salt and pepper. Let the water evaporate, 
and allow the sauce to boil until it is very thick. 



\ 



30 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

57. Sauce tontate d Vltalienne {Italian Tomato Sauce), 

Put into a pan six large tomatoes, three large 
onions cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and 
saffron, some salt and cayenne pepper, three spoonfuls 
of broth. Cover the pan and let the whole simmer 
for an hour. Pass through a fine sieve ; keep it hot 
in warm water, and add four ounces of fresh butter ; 
mix well ; serve. 

Delicate persons must abstain from partaking of 
this sauce. 

53. Sauce aux truffes {Truffle Sauce). 

Put into a pan two spoonfuls of olivei oil and six 
ounces of chopped truffles ; cover the pan. Let it 
simmer for ten minutes ; add a spoonful of flour and 
a gill of broth ; salt and pepper. Let the whole boil 
for half an hour ; take off some of the oil ; serve, 

59. Sauce aux truffes d la PMgueux {another Truffle 

Sau^e), 

Do as you would for No. 58 ; use butter instead of 
olive oil, and when the sauce is ready pour into it a 
wine glass of Madeira. 

60. Sauce aux anchois {Anchovy Sauce), 

Make a rotix (see RouXy No. 39, page 23), add a little 
gravy or broth, a little pepper, no salt. Let it boil 
for half an hour ; chop the fillets of two anchovies, or 
pound them ; add them to the sauce, and serve. 



SAUCES. 3 1 

6i. Satice mayonnaise. 

Put the yolk of a raw egg in a tureen ; beat it well, 
then pour into it a few drops of olive oil, stirring it 
constantly with one hand ; keep dropping olive oil with 
one handy and stirring with the other, until your sauce 
is thick; the preparation generally takes a quarter 
of an hour. When thick enough add a spoonful of 
vinegar ; salt and pepper ; mix the whole thoroughly. 

This sauce must be of a cream-colour, and may be 
used either to cold meat or cold fish. The proportion 
of oil is live spoonfuls to one yolk 

62. Sauce rimoulade. 

Proceed exactly as you would for No. 6i, adding 
half of a spoonful of mustard, two chopped shalots, 
a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of 
capers, and two gherkins pounded in a mortar. 

I generally chop all the ingredients tc^ether and 
pound them afterwards ; the sauce is then of a light- 
green colour. 

63. Sauce ravigote. 

Pound in a mortar two branches of parsley, as much 
chervil, celery, pimpernel, cress, chives, a spoonful of 
capers, two anchovies, the whole previously chopped. 
When the whole is pounded into a paste, add the 
yolk of a raw ^;g, a spoonful of vinegar, three or four 
of olive oil ; mix well ; serve. 

64. Autre ravigote. 

Do as you wouU for Xo- 63 ; only use two v " 
hard-boiled ^^s instead of a raw <-/g, ^ ^ ^"** ^ 



S2 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



i 



CHAPTER V 

ACCESSOIRES — ACCESSORIES. 

65. Croutons. 

Cut half a pound of stale bread in dice ; put half a 
pound of butter into a pan ; when brown throw the 
dice into it, stir them until they are of a golden 
colour on all sides ; then put them into a sieve to be 
used when wanted. 
The butter may be used again. 

66. Liaison, 

Take the raw yolks of two eggs, beat them well, 
add a sjpoonful of milk ; mix again. 

TRUFFES — TRUFFLES. 

Before cooking them, you must wash and brush 
them carefully, to take off the small stones and earth 
adherent to them. When washed and brushed, wipe 
them in a clean towel and either peel them or not ac- 
cording to your taste ; the peel is the part most highly 
flavoured, but some persons object to keeping it be- 
cause the truffles are dry when cooked. If you peel 
the truffles you may preserve the peel in olive-oil 
until wanted ; it may be used pounded in all sorts of 
sauces and stuffings. 



SAUCES. 35 

6^. Truffes au naturel (Hors domvri). 

Put a bottle of white Burgundy into a steamer ; 
when boiling, steam the truffles and serve in a napkin, 
without sauce. 

Steaming truffles requires at least an hour and a 
half. Water may be used instead of wine. 

68. Truffes au vin {Hors (Toeuvre). 

Put into a pan a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, 
and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, chopped ; add 
a pound of truffles, a bottle of white Burgundy, a gill 
of broth, and let it simmer slowly for an hour. When 
ready, take the pan off the fire, let the truffles cool in 
the sauce and serve them dry. 

69. Truffes au champagne {Entremets), 

Cut your truffles in dice, put them on the fire with 
four ounces of butter, cover the pan and let it simmer 
for ten minutes ; add a tumbler of champagne or 
sparkling Burgundy, and three spoonfuls of gravy. 
When ready add a tea-spoonful of arrowroot to 
thicken the sauce. 

70. Truffes d la Pihnontaise {Hors cPoeuvre^ d^je^ner). 

Cut your truffles in dice, put them into a pan with 
a spoonful of olive-oil ; add a little pounded garlic, 
salt and pepper ; let it simmer on a slow fire for half 
an hour; when ready, add a little lemon-juice. 

D 



^ 



34 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

71. Truffes en ragout {Hors d^otuvre, cUjeHner). 

Cut in slices a pound of truffles, put them into a 
pan with six ounces of butter ; cover the pan and let 
the truffles simmer on a slow fire for a quarter of an 
hour. Add a tumbler of good claret, a gill of broth, 
a bunch of parsley, two shalots, a bay-leaf, a small 
branch of thyme, salt and pepper. Let the whole 
boil for three-quarters of an hour. When ready, take 
out the seasoning ingredients and thicken the sauce 
with arrowroot or potato-flour. 

CHAMPIGNONS — ^MUSHROOMS. 

I shall say nothing about the danger of mushrooms, 
as it is well known ; I shall only state here a fact less 
generally understood ; it is, that all mushrooms become 
deleterious when oldy and that it is always dangerous 
to use them when the stamina are uncovered and 
black. There is a good precaution to take in all 
cases, that is, to let the peeled mushrooms remain in 
water and vinegar, or water and lemon-juice, at least 
for half an hour before using them ; their taste is 
quite as good, and it keeps them white. 

72. Champignons en ragout {Hors d^oeuvre^ d^jeAner). 

Peel a pound of mushrooms, and after cutting them 
by the middle put them into a pan, which you cover 
and set on the fire ; let them sweat and throw their 
water out of the pan ; add four ounces of fresh butter, 
some parsley and garlic (very little garlic) chopped 



SAUCES. 35 

together, salt, pepper, and bread-crumbs. Let it 
simmer for half an hour ; then add three spoonfuls of 
gravy and as much water. When boiling, serve; 

73. Champignons pan^s{Hors d'osuvre^d^'eAner), 

Have some olive-oil, dip your peeled mushrooms 
into it, and roll them in bread crumbs ; set them on 
a gridiron over a brisk fire ; dish them with melted 
butter, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. 

74. CroAte aux champignons {Entremets). 

Throw your mushrooms into boiling water; salt 
and 'pepper. Drain them in a sieve. Put them in 
a clean pan with four ounces of butter and a spoonful 
of flour ; do not let it take colour. When well mixed 
pour upon a tumbler of boiling water, add a little 
chopped garlic and grated nutmeg. When ready add 
a liaison (see Liaison, No. 66, page 28,) and three 
spoonfuls of thick cream. Have ready the crust of 
a French roll fried in butter; dish it and serve the 
mushrooms in it 

75. Champignons au jambon {Mors (Tceuvrey d^je^ner), 

Blanch your mushrooms, drain them, dip them into 
melted lard, roll them in crumbs, roast them before a 
brisk fire as you would roast small birds ; seven 
minutes are sufficient Whilst they are roasting, cut 
thin slices of ham ; fry them, dish them,, and serve the 
mushrooms upon. 

D 2 



36 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

TOMATES — ^TOMATOES. 

j6, Tomates d la Grimod {Hors d'csuvre^ d^jeAner). 

Choose some fine large, very red tomatoes ; cut 
them by the middle; take out the pips without 
breaking the skin ; take out the pulp and put it into 
a pan with four ounces of bacon cut in slices, a little 
garlic, a wine-glass of white Burgundy, some parsley, 
salt, pepper, bay-leaves and thyme. Let it simmer 
slowly for a quarter of an hour ; mash through a sieve ; 
add a little bread-crumbs and grated parmesan ; mix 
well. Fill up the tomatoes with it, put them on a 
dish ; throw over them grated parmesan, bread-crumbs 
and olive-oil ; let them remain in a hot oven for five 
minutes. 



CEUFS (EGGS). 3/ 



CHAPTER VI. 

CEUFS (eggs). 

It is well known that eggs to be good ought to be 
newly laid, but the way to ascertain whether they are 
fresh or not is not so generally known, and for this 
reason I shall give a rule here. In putting the hands 
round the egg and presenting to the light the end 
which is not covered, it should be transparent ; if you 
can detect some tiny spots it is not newly laid, but 
may be very good for all ordinary uses, except boiling 
soft. If you see a large spot near the shell it is bad, 
and should not be used on any account 

The white of a newly-laid egg boiled soft is like 
milk ; that of an egg a day old is like rice boiled in 
milk ; and that of an old egg compact, tough, and 
difficult to digest A cook ought not to give eggs two 
or three days old to people who really care for fresh 
eggs, under the delusion that they will not find any 
difference, for an amateur will find it out in a moment, 
not only by the appearance but also by the taste. 

y;^. CEu/s d la coque {Eggs boiled soft). 

When the water is boiling put the eggs into it, cover 
them and let them boil for two minutes and a half^ 



^ 



j8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

if they are still warm ; two minutes if they have been 
laid two or three hours, and one minute and a half 
will be sufficient for eggs two or three days old. 
Take them out of the pan and serve them in a folded 
napkin to keep them warm. 

78. CEufs sur le plaU 

Put four ounces of butter in a copper or silver dish 
(for the eggs are to be served in it), when melted, 
break carefully your eggs into it, so as to keep them 
whole ; salt and pepper them ; add, if you like, two 
spoonfuls of thick cream. 

Instead of pepper and salt you can put pounded 
sugar, and the ^gs will be more delicate. 

79. CEt(fs brouilLis aux asperges {Eggs with 

asparagus). 

Put some fresh butter into a pan ; set it on a slow 
fire and break some eggs into it; then with a fork 
mix them together, and add some asparagus previously 
boiled. and cut in smallbits ; when ready, add a liai- 
son (see Liaisofty No. 66, page 32). 

80. CEufs brouilUs au natureL 

Proceed as above, only use a spoonful of tomato 
sauce, the juice of a lemon, or half a spoonful of white 
vinegar instead of asparagus, and no liaison. 

81. CEufs frits {Fried eggs). 

Put a pint of olive-oil, or a pound of lard, in a fry- 
ing-pan; when very hot break the eggs into it, and 



CEUFS (EGGS). 39 

when you' think them stffliciently done on one side, 
turn them on the other ; take them out, drain them 
in a sieve, salt and pepper them, and serve upon fresh 
parsley. 

82. (Eufs au vin (Eggs tvitk wine). 

Make a roux (see Roux, No. 39, page 23), add half 
a pint of broth and half a tumbler of red Burgundy 
wine, a large onion, two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a 
little bay-leaf and thyme, salt and pepper. Let it 
boil gently for half an hour, then break the eggs into 
it and let them simmer for five minutes : serve upon 
toasts. 

83, (Eufs en salade (Salad of eggs). 

Boil the eggs hard ; they require ten minutes' boil- 
ing. Put them into cold water ; take off the shells 
Cut the eggs in slices ; add some chopped chervil and 
tarragon, a little salt and pepper, half a spoonful of 
vinegar, two spoonfuls of olive-oil ; turn the eggs re- 
peatedly in the sauce and serve. 

84. (Eufs d la poulette. 
Boil the eggs hard. Put a quarter of a pound of 
butter into a pan on a moderate fire ; when melted, put 
the eggs into it with a little chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper ; let them simmer slowly for ten minutes ; add 
a liaison and a little scraped nutmeg. 

85. (Eufsfarcis. 

Boil the eggs hard. Divide them by the middle 

lengthwise; take out the yolks which are to he 



40 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

chopped with three ounces of bacon, a little parsley 
and chives, then added to and mixed with three 
ounces of bread, dipped in boiling milk. Take a little 
of this stuffing to fill up all the whites, and with the 
rest make a thick layer at the bottom of a pie-dish ; 
put the whites upon it with the large part uppermost ; 
salt moderately because of the bacon, pepper and put 
the dish in the oven. When the eggs are of a golden 
colour take them out of the oven and pour under them 
a wine-glass of milk or broth to moisten the stuffing. 

86. (Eufs pochis (PoacJud eggs). 

Have some boiling water in a pan as flat as possible, 
put into it a spoonful of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of 
salt Break the shells carefully, put the eggs into the 
water and prevent them from boiling fast, which 
would spoil their appearance. When the white film 
is formed upon the yolks, remove them out of the pan 
Mrith a skimming spoon, through which you let the 
water run ; then serve, either upon buttered toasts or 
any sauce ox purie you choose. 

The eggs should be soft and tremble when moved. 

The skimming-spoon used for poaching eggs is a 
porcelain spoon, for the eggs would adhere to metal. 

87. (Eufs d la neige (Entremets). 

Take eight fresh eggs, separate the whites from the 
yolks and whip them until they are very firm. Boil a 
quart of new milk with six ounces of pounded sugar 
and a small bit of vanilla, or a spoonful of orange- 



cEurs (eggs). 41 

flower water. When the milk is boiling, fill up a laige 
spoon with the whites and put the spoon gently upon 
the milk, allowing a few drops to run into it under the 
whites, so as to lift them off the spoon ; let them boil 
for two minutes, and, with a skimming-spoon, turn 
them on the other side. When done, take them out 
of the pan and lay them upon a dish. Do exactly the 
same until you have used all the whites, then break 
the yolks and mix them with a spoonful of cold milk. 
Take the pan off the fire and pour the yolks into the 
milk, slowly, and stirring it all the time with a wooden 
or a silver spoon ; when well mixed, set the pan on a 
very slow fire and continue to stir the milk until it is 
of a proper thickness ; pass it through a fine sieve and 
pour it dexterously under the whites, which must have 
a nice shape and float upon a thick custard. To be 
served cold. 

To succeed in this dish the whites should not be 
whipped in a hot kitchen, but in the coolest possible 
place ; moreover, I have known women altogether in- 
capable of whipping eggs to snow; the failure is gene- 
rally caused by unhealthy breathing, still a very 
healthy person would be incapable of whipping old 
eggs to snow. 

88. Omelette au naturel. 

It is difficult to make a good omelette with more 
than a dozen eggs, indeed I should recommend never 
to employ more than eight ; if the family is large, it 
is better to make two omelettes than a very large one, 
which will never be delicate. 



42 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Break the eggs in a deep dish, season them with 
salt and pepper, add a spoonful of milk or water ; 
beat the eggs with a fork until they begin to froth. 
Put four ounces of butter in a frying-pan and set it 
on a quick fire ; when the butter begins to smoke, 
pour the eggs into it and watch carefully ; as soon as 
any part of the omelette begins to adhere to the pan, 
lift it gently with a fork to allow the liquid part to 
run under it ; if necessary, add a little butter in the 
middle in making a hole in the omelette with your 
fork. When the omelette looks solid remove it on the 
corner of the fire to let it take colour ; but do not let 
it remain too long, for it would become tough. To 
serve an omelette properly you must put your dish 
close to the frying-pan, then slip half of the omelette 
into the dish and turn the other part quickly upon it, 
so as to double it. 

A good precaution to take to insure success in the 
confection of omelettes, is to have a frying-pan on 
purpose, and never to allow the cook to use it for any- 
thing else, for omelettes are sure to stick to the pan 
if it is used for frying meat. 

89. Omelette aux fines herbes. 

Proceed as above, only add to the eggs before you 
beat them, some chervil, cress, chives, and tarragon, 
finely chopped. 



CEUFS (EGGS). 43 

9a Omelette au frontage. 

Proceed as above, only add to the eggs before you 
beat them, two ounces of parmesan cheese and two 
ounces of gruyfere, finely chopped. (You can use 
Cheshire dieese instead of gruy^re.) 

9i« Omelette aux icreoisses. 

Boil some cray-fish (see Cray-fish^ Index), take the 
insides out and pound them in a mortar ; add them 
to the eggs with the tails of the cray-fish cut in two ; 
beat the whole together, and proceed as for No. 88, 
page 41. 

92. Omelette aux oignons. 

Cut some onions in small slices, and let them 
simmer on a slow fire for ten minutes with two 
spoonfuls of milk, two ounces of butter ; salt and 
pepper. Add the onions to the eggs before you beat 
them, and proceed as for No. 88, page 41. 

93. Omelette aux truffes. 

Boil the trufiles (see Truffles y No. 67, page 33), 
cut them in thin slices, and when you dish the 
omelette au naturel (see No. 88, page 41), put the 
truffles upon the lower part and cover them with the 
upper. 

94. Omelette d la viande. 

Chop some cold meat, either mutton, veal, beef, 
poultry, or game (previously cooked), with half of 




44 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

shalot and a little parsley, add it to the eggs before 
you beat them, and proceed as for No. 88. 

95. Onulette aux confitures. 

Proceed as you would for No. 88, only put very little 
salt and no pepper ; when you are ready to dish the 
omelette, put a thin layer of preserves upon it ; cur- 
rant jelly is the best 

96. Omelette au sucre. 

Proceed as for No. 88, and put sugar instead of salt 
and pepper. 

97. Omelette au rhum. 

Proceed as for No. 88, put some pounded sugar and 
a spoonful of rum instead of salt, pepper, and water ; 
fry it as No. 88. When dished, pour some rum around 
it, and set fire to it. 

98. Omelette souffl^e. 

Take half-a-dozen of eggs ; separate carefully the 
yolks from the whites; put four yolks into a dish 
with four ounces of pounded sugar, very little salt, 
and a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, or any 
flavour you choose. Mix it well until it begins to 
whiten, then whip the whites to snow — ^that is until 
they are very firm and remain in the shape you 
choose to give them. Mix lightly the yolks and the 
whites as quickly as possible. Put four ounces of 
perfectly fresh butter in a frying-pan when very hot, 
pour your omelette into it Five minutes are suffi- 



CEUFS (eggs). 45 

dent for the frying. Dish the omelette, throw some 
pounded sugar upon it, and put it in the oven ; when 
it is of a golden colour serve quickly. 

I recommend English ladies to study this chapter ; 
I hope that they will see how great a resource eggs 
afford for varying our diet; they are always whole- 
some, generally liked, and it is very useful in the 
country to be able to prepare, with very common 
material, a delicate and unknown dish for unexpected 
guests who just drop in at lunch-time. 



46 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER VIL 

CRUSTACfiS, COQUILLAGES (SHELL-FISH). 

99. Huifres ct lapouUtte {Oysters), 

Open the oysters, and put in a pan all the water 
contained in the shells, warm it, but do not let it boil ; 
throw the oysters into it and let them remain for fiVe 
minutes ; drain them, lay them at the bottom of a 
dish, and cover them with three ounces of mushrooms, 
half of a shalot, and some parsley chopped together. 
Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and put the 
dish in the oven ; when browned take them out and 
squeeze upon them the juice of a lemon. 

100. Huitres f rites (Fried Oysters). 

Proceed as above; take the oysters out of the 
water and wipe them carefully with a clean towel, 
in which you let them remain for ten minutes ; take 
them out and dip them into a paste (see P&te dfrire^ 
Index), and fry them in half-a-pound of hot lard; 
drain them in a sieve and serve upon fresh parsley. 

loi. Huitres en hachis {Chopped Oysters). 

Proceed as for No. 99 ; take the oysters out of the 
warm water and throw them into cold water. Chop 



CRUSTACfiS, COQiniXAGES (SHELL-FISH). 47 

them with a little parsley. Put four ounces of butter 
into a saucepan and melt it. Put the oysters and 
parsley into the pan on hot ashes; cover the pan 
and let the oysters simmer (not boil, for they would 
be tough) for five minutes ; add a little grated nut- 
m% and a liaison (see Liaison^ No. 66)^ 

102. Huitres au vin bla$ic (Oysters with White 

Burgundy). 

Proceed as for No* 99, and when you take the 
oysters out of the water drain them in a sieve. Pre- 
pare a sauce as follows : — Chop four ounces of mush- 
rooms, with a little parsley and chives, and put them 
into a pan with four ounces of butter ; stir it gently ; 
add a spoonful of flour, two tumblers of Meursault 
(white Burgundy wine) and a pint of broth ; salt and 
pepper. Let it boil away to a proper thickness, then 
remove the pan from the fire, and warm the oysters 
in the sauce. 

103. Moules {Mussels). 

Mussels are difficult to digest when cooked, and 
should be chosen perfectly fresh, because they 
become poisonous if not used immediately; the 
best way is to abstain from them in summer. 

104. Monies it la pottktte. 

Wash the mussels three times in cold water to 
take off the sand, and brush the shells with a hard 
brush. Put them ia a pan on the fire and toss 
them several times until the shells ace op^xi\ \2k& 



48 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

them out of the pan, and break off one-half of the 
shell; pass the water that came out of the shells 
through a clean piece of flannel. Put six ounces of 
butter in a saucepan, and when melted add the mus- 
sels and half a spoonful of flour and a little pepper. 
Toss them over the fire, and pour upon them the 
water that you have kept Sprinkle upon the mus- 
sels some chopped parsley and chives. When you 
take the mussels off the fire, thicken the sauce with 
two yolks of eggs well beaten, and squeeze upon 
them a little lemon juice. 

105. Monies d la provenqale. 

Chop finely together three truffles, twelve mush- 
rooms, a little garlic and parsley ; put it all into a pan 
with a spoonful of olive-oil ; let it simmer slowly, 
without boiling, for five minutes ; add half a tumbler 
of sherry, a pint of broth (or water), some pepper 
and grated nutmeg. Put the mussels on the fire, and 
keep their water as indicated for No. 104; add the 
water so kept to the sauce, and when reduced to a 
proper thickness pour it boiling upon the mussels. 

(The quantity of seasoning is for about two dozen 
of mussels.) 

106. Ecrevisses {Cray Fish), 

After washing them and drawing the scale in the 
middle of the tail,* put the cray fish into a pan on a 

* It is quite necessary to draw this scale with precaution, so as to 
bring with it a small intestine. I know that some people neglect it, 
but the fish has then a very bad taste, and for that reason I was obliged 
to abstain from eating cray fish in Switzerland. 



CRUSTACES, COQUILLAGES (SHELL-FISH). 49 

very quick fire, with a good deal of salt and pepper, 
some garlic, onions, and carrots, cut in slices, and four 
ounces of butter. Cover them ; toss them repeatedly 
over the fire. When they are perfectly red, add a 
tumbler of white vinegar ; let them remain for five 
minutes and dish them ; pass the gravy through a 
sieve, and pour it upon the cray fish. 

Amateurs think that this is the best way to cook 
cray fish ; for my part, it is so cruel that I could never 
bring myself to use it ; the fish being alive when you 
put them on the fire, struggle for a long time, and you 
have to push them back constantly into the pan, from 
which they try to escape. I always boil them in the 
following manner. 

107. Another way. 

Put into a pan a bottle of white Burgundy and a 
bottle of water (this will do for twenty-five cray fish), 
a good deal of salt and pepper. Cut four large onions 
and four carrots in slices ; put them into the pan with 
garlic, four cloves, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, 
and thyme. Let the whole boil for half an hour, 
then throw the cray fish into it and cover them ; they 
will be smothered at once. When perfectly red take 
them off the fire, and let them remain in the gravy 
until they are served. They should not be left either 
in a brass, or copper, or even tin pan ; an earthen pot 
would be the best. 

This receipt is not so extravagant as it would seem, 
for you can use the gravy to boil other cray fish, or 
crabs, or lobsters, or prawns ; if you are careful enough 

£ 



\ 



50 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

to pass it through a sieve, bottle it and put it in a 
cool place, in the cellar for instance ; only if you use 
it again for salt-water fish, you must add half a bottle 
of water and no salt. 

Some people use red Burgundy instead of white ; 
the fish become then of a darker red. 

You can use water instead of wine, and put in it a 
tumbler of vinegar, but the fish will be more dry. 

108. Crates et homards (Crabs and Lobsters), 
Homards au Court-bouillon. 

Proceed as for cray fish. No. 107, only use water 
instead of wine. When the fish is half done, add half 
a tumbler of sherry ; let the lobster cool in the sauce. 
When cold rub it over with olive-oil to improve its 
appearance, and serve with a mayonnaise (see Mayon- 
naise^ No. 61). 

109. Homards d la Hollandaise, 

Put two quarts of cold water into a pan with the 
lobster and half a pound of salt ; let it boil for half an 
hour, during which you heat a shovel three times and 
put it in the water. 

The receipts for boiling crabs are the same. 

no. Escargots {Snails), 

1 beg pardon for introducing snails, but there are 
duties attached to all undertakings, and in writing a 
book on French cookery I may not omit so important 
an item. Snail-eating having become a fait accompli 



CRUSTACES, COQUILLAGES (SHELL-FISH). $1 

in Spite of its opponents, I must foi^et my antipathy, 
and write as impartially about snails as I should do 
about any other delicacy. 

III. Escargots d la poulette. 

Snails, to be good to eat, ought to be kept without 
food for two months ; the way to obtain this is to put 
them in a tub and cover them. 

It should also be understood that it is only the 
large white snails, with white shells, and which feed 
on vines, that are to be used. 

Put some water on the fire (enough to cover the 
snails), with two handfuls of wood or charcoal ashes. 
I hardly dare tell my lady-readers why, and still I 
must, for they might think that this was needless, 
and that I was only trying to prevent them from eat- 
ing snails on account of my own dislike. Well, it is 
to make them yield in the water the precious slimy 
substance said to cure consumption. When you try 
to draw them out of the shells, if they come easily, 
take them out of the pan and let them remain in clean 
tepid water for a quarter of an hour ; then throw them 
into cold water, wash them well and wipe them with a 
clean towel. Surely, if nature did not make them 
clean, this treatment must. Put four ounces of fresh 
butter in a pan with a handful of mushrooms cut in 
slices, a little grated nutmeg, and some parsley and 
shalot chopped together. Toss it over the fire, add 
salt and pepper, and a tumbler of white Burgundy, or 
half a tumbler and as much broth ; let it boil for half 
an hpur ; roll the snails in flour, put them in the sauce, 

E 2 



N 



52 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

let them remain in it for three minutes, take the pan 
off the fire, and thicken the sauce with a liaison (see 
Liaison J No. 66). 

112. Escargots farcis. 

Proceed as above for the cleaning of the snails; 
then chop them very fine with as much fish (previously 
boiled), two eggs boiled hard, a shalot, and some 
parsley ; add some bread soaked in boiling niilk ; salt 
and pepper. Mix thoroughly together. Take the 
shells and brush them with a hard brush in three 
different waters, then fill them up with what you have 
mixed together ; put the shells so filled upon a dish 
and put the dish in the oven ; let it remain for five 
minutes, and serve. 

113. Grenouilles (Frogs). 

I shall venture to give receipts for cooking frogs, 
although I know that English people have very strong 
prejudices against this dish, for to express their con- 
tempt for French people they frequently call them 
frog-eaters and even toad-eaters ; we plead guilty to 
the first offence, we are innocent of the second, and if 
my readers find courage enough to try the dreadful 
experiment of frog-eating, I fancy that they might 
become as barbarous as the French. 

None except river frogs are to be used ; it is easy 
to know them by their green colour and black spots ; 
the hind part only is employed, the rest being cut off. 
Young frogs taste like young chickens, old ones like 



CRUSTACES, COQUILLAGES (SHELL-FISH). S3 

thread. In the French markets frogs are sold ready 
for cooking, that is, skinned. 

1 14. Grenouilles ct la poulette. 

Have some boiling water into which you throw the 
thighs of the frogs, previously skinned, let them 
remain a minute, take them out and throw them into 
cold w^ater ; drain them and put them in a pan on a 
slow fire, with six ounces of fresh butter, a handful of 
mushrooms, some parsley, a little garlic, thyme and 
bay-leaf, salt and pepper. Sprinkle a tablespoonful 
of flour, and a wine-glass of white Burgundy or 
white Bordeaux ; let it boil slowly for half an hour. 
Take the pan off the fire and dish the frogs ; take 
the parsley, thyme and bay-leaf out of the pan ; add 
a liaison to the sauce (see Liaison^ No. 66), to thicken 
it, and pour it upon the frogs. 



54 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

POISSONS DE MER (SALT-WATER FISH). 

115. How to clean Salt-water Fish, 

As soon as the fish is in the kitchen it should be 
washed, the scales scraped off, the inside taken out, 
and the whole fish wiped carefully, then wrapped in a 
clean dry towel and put in the cellar until it is used. 
It is a great mistake to think that fish will keep 
better in the water. 

For people who live at the sea-side and can get 
salt-water fish alive, the best way to boil them is the 
simplest ; that is, to get a sufficient quantity of sea- 
water and boil the fish in it ; but when the fish are 
dead, as is usually the case, boiling in a court-bouillon, 
like No. 116, is better. 

116. Court-bouillon for live Fish. 

Put into a poissonnifere some water, highly salted, 
and as much milk, (some people use white Burgundy 
or Bordeaux, but milk is preferable ; the flesh of 
fish boiled in milk is more savoury, and whiter than 
that of fish boiled in wine). Put it on a brisk fire 
until it begins to boil; then put the fish into it; 



POISSONS DE MER (S ALT-WATER FISH). $5 

remove the pan to the comer of the fire, or cover the 
fire with ashes, and let the fish boil very slowly until 
it is done. 

117. Turbot d la Hollandaise {Turbot), 

Take the gills and the inside out of the turbot ; 
wash it in salted water, wipe it, and rub it carefully 
all over with a lemon cut in two ; then boil it in a 
court-bouillon (see No. 116); and if it is to be served 
hot, have some melted butter along with it ; if cold, 
serve with a remoulade (see Remouladey No. 62). 

118. Turbot au court-bouillon {Another way). 

Clean the fish as above, and if it is not perfectly 
freshy this receipt will be better than the first. In 
two quarts of water put a pound of salt, ten bay- 
leaves, twelve onions, four carrots, cut in slices, and 
three small branches of thyme. Let the whole boil 
together for a quarter of an hour ; drain it in a fine 
sieve, pour it upon the fish previously laid in the 
poissonnifere, and let it boil slowly until the fish is 
done. If served hot, have some melted butter to it ; 
if cold, a remoulade (see Remouladey No. 62). 

The remains may be served at breakfast with a 
b^chamelle (see B^chamellCy No. 46), or a mayonnaise 
(see Mayonnaise, No. 66), 

1 19. Turbot d la ravigote {Another way). 

Boil the turbot as above; keep it warm in the 
water until you serve. Mix six yolks of eggs in half 




\ 



S6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

a tumbler of cold water, and as much vinegar ; put 
it in a pan on a very slow fire, and stir it continually 
with a wooden spoon. When it thickens put into 
it a little salt, a little grated nutmeg, and eight 
ounces of perfectly fresh butter. When the butter is 
melted, and the sauce of a proper thickness, serve it in 
a boat. Take the turbot out of the poissonnifere on 
the drainer, wipe it carefully, and serve upon a napkin 
with sprigs of parsley. 

Some people boil potatoes along with the fish, and 
serve them on the same dish. 

120. Turbot au gratin {Another way). 

The bits that remain of a turbot may be served in 
the following manner. Lay them at the bottom of 
a pie-dish, pour a b^chamelle upon them (see Bicha- 
melle^ No. 46), scrape some parmesan cheese on the 
top, and two ounces of bread crumbs; melt three 
ounces of butter, pour it upon the crumbs, and put 
the dish in the oven. When it is of a light brown 
take it out, and serve. 

The remains of a turbot may be put on the grid- 
iron, and served with a maitre d'hotel (see Mattre 
(Thotel, No. 41). 

121. Barbue {Brill). 

Proceed as for turbot. 

Soles (Soles), 

Some people think that it is sufficient to scrape off 
the scales and take the inside out of soles : for my 



POISSONS DE MER (S ALT-WATER FISH). 5/ 

part, I think, that it is far better to skin them — ^for 
this, you have only to make an incision near the head, 
to put your fingers into it under the skin, which you 
draw towards the tail ; make another incision in the 
belly, which is placed on one side, and draw the 
inside out, leaving the roe ; then wipe it carefully. 

122. Soles au blanc {Soles Boiled). 

Boil them in a court-bouillon (see No. ii6), and 
serve them with a sauce blanche aux cApres (see 
No. 37). 

123. Soles f rites {Soles Fried), 

When they are cleaned and wiped, roll them in 
flour or in a pite k frire (see Index) ; have some hot 
lard or olive-oil in the frying-pan, and when it smokes 
put the fish into it. When done on one side turn 
them on the other with a skimming-spoon ; then take 
them out, drain them, and serve them upon parsley, 
and squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. 

124. Soles au gratin {Another way). 

Put in a copper, or silver dish, three ounces of 
fresh butter, a handful of mushrooms, two ounces of 
bread crumbs, a little garlic, and some parsley finely 
chopped. Put the sole upon and cover it with the 
same seasoning ; the bread crumbs uppermost. Salt 
and pepper. Add half a tumbler of water and a 
tumbler of white Burgundy wine. Put the dish in 
a slow oven, or on a slow fire, and cover it wit* 



\ 



58 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

warm four-de-campagne. Let it simmer half an hour, 
and serve in the dish in which it was cooked. 
This is the best way to eat soles. 

125. Soles sur le gril (Soles on the Gridiron), 

When cleaned, wrap them in a sheet of well- 
buttered paper (each separately), and put them on 
the gridiron on a slow fire. When done, take them 
out of the paper and lay them on a dish with a 
maitre d'hotel (see No. 41). 

126. Soles aux huitres {Another way). 

Make a roux (see No. 39), add to it a gill of broth, 
or a gill of water, with four ounces of bacon cut in 
dice ; add a handful of mushrooms, and let it boil 
for a quarter of an hour. Put the soles in the sauce 
with a dozen of oysters, without the water, and 
a little pepper. Let the whole simmer for twenty 
minutes and serve. 

127. Soles en matelote {Another way). 

When cleaned boil them in a matelote (see No. 
52). 

128. Limandes {Dutch Plaice). 

They are to be cooked like soles. 

129. Raie {Skate). . 

The best are those which have some small hooks 
on the skin, we call them, in French, raies boucl^es ; 



POISSONS DE MER (SALT-WATER FISH). 59 

the flesh is firmer, tenderer, and whiter than that 
of the others. 

130. Raie d la sauce blanche (Skate with a white 

sauce). 

Take the inside out, wash it, then boil it in a court- 
bouillon (see No. 118), when boiled drain it and take 
off carefully the skin, the head and the tail ; dish it 
and take the skin off the other side ; clean the sides 
of the dish, and serve with a sauce blanche aux 
cipres (see No. 37). 

131. Raie au beurre noir {Another way). 

Wash it, and boil it in a court-bouillon (see 
No. 118); take the skin off as above and pour upon 
it a sauce au beurre noir (see No. 40). 

132. Cabillaud {Cod-Fish), 

Open the belly, and draw the inside out ; draw the 
gills, wash the fish, and wipe it 

133. Cabillaud au naturel. 

Boil it in a court-bouillon (see No. 118), and serve 
with a white sauce aux cypres (see No. 37), or a 
b^chamelle (see No. 46). 

Some people boil potatoes along with it. 

134. Cabillaud au gratin {Another way). 

Clean it, and boil it in a court-bouillon (see 
No. 118), put it upon a dish with chives, parsley, 



"ir 



\ 



60 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

green sauce chopped together, salt and pepper, six 
ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg, half a bottle 
of white Burgundy wine, and cover the fish with 
bread crumbs. Drop a little melted butter on the 
top of the crumbs, and put the dish in the oven. 
Look at it frequently, and take some of the gravy 
to put on the top of the fish to prevent it from 
becoming dry. Leave it twenty minutes in a slow 
oven, and serve in the dish in which it was cooked. 

135. Morue skhe {Stock-Fish). 

It is a great fault to put salted fish or salted meat 
merely in a bucketful of water, and to change this 
water twice a day to make the fish yield up the salt 
Salted water being heavier than pure water, the fish 
or meat at the bottom of the bucket always remains 
in salted water. The best way is to wrap up the fish in 
a piece of muslin or of net, which is tied to the side of 
the bucket, so as to keep the fish in the water, but not 
at the bottom. The salt will deposit at the bottom of 
the bucket, and the fish remaining all the time in pure 
water, the operation will be better done and wonder- 
fully shortened. 

136. Morue au court-bouillon {Stock-fish Boiled), 

Make several incisions in the bits of stock-fish that 
you want to use, and put them in a bucketful of 
cold water (see above), change the water two or three 
times ; taste the fish to know when it is unsalted ; 
then take it out of the cold water and put it in a 



POISSONS DE 3fER 4SA£.T-WATER FISH). 6l 



tureen. Have some boiling water irsSch yoa tinow 
upon the fish ; cov^er it ; let it remain for half an 
hour, pour the water oat of the tureen and throw 
again some boiling water into it ; this method pre- 
vents it from tasting tough. Drain it, and serve with 
a sauce aux cipres (see No. 37^. 

137. Morue d la b^chamelle {Another vraj). 

Proceed as above ; when ready, take off the black 
skin and put the fish for five minutes in a bechamelle 
(see No. 46). 

138. Maquereau (Mackerel), 

Draw the inside out of the g^lls, cut the fins, and 
wipe the fish carefully. The colours of a fresh 
mackerel are brilliant and the g^lls of a light red. 

139. Maquereau a la mattre d^hSteL 

After cleaning the fish as above, fill it up through 
the gills with fresh butter, salt, pepper, parsley, and 
chives, chopped together. Cut the back of the 
mackerel from head to tail, and fill up the line with 
butter, salt, pepper, parsley, and chives chopped 
together ; wrap it up in a sheet of well-buttered 
paper, and put it on the gridiron on a slow fire, or in 
the oven. When ready, take it out of the paper, and 
squeeze upon it the juice of a lemon. 

140. Maquereau d Veau sal^e {Boiled Mackerel). 

Clean the fish, leave the liver inside ; cut the back 
open from head to tail ; have about a quart of boiling ^ 



k 



62 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

water on the fire, throw two handfuls of salt into it, 
and when dissolved put the mackerel into it. Let it 
boil slowly for a quarter of an hour ; take it out and 
serve with a mattre d'h6tel (see No. 41). 

141. M Brians frits {Whitings Fried). 

After drawing the inside out of the gills and wiping 
the fish, dip them in a pite i frire (see Index), and 
fry them in hot olive-oil or lard ; drain and salt them, 
and when dished squeeze upon them the juice of a 
lemon. 

142. M Brians grilles (Whitings on the Gridiron), 
See MaquereauXf No. 139, 140. 

143. Merlans au gratin. 
See Soles au gratin, No. 124. 

144. Mulets (Mullets). 

Cut off the gills and draw the inside through the 
gills ; wipe the inside and fill it up with a force-meat 
so composed : bread-crumbs, parsley and shalot 
chopped together, salt, pepper, and olive-oil. Wrap 
the fish in a sheet of paper well-oiled, and set it on the 
gridiron on a slow fire, or in a slow oven. When 
sufficiently done, take it out of the paper, and serve 
with a sauce aux cipres (see No. 37). 

145. Rouget (Red Mullets). 

This fish should always \>^ perfectly fresh, or else it 
would be uneatable ; it is easy to see whether it is of 



POISSONS DE MER (SALT-WATER FISH). 63 

a light red colour ; if it is discoloured and the eyes 
sunk in the head, it is not good. 

146. Rouget grille {Red Mullet on the Gridiron), 

Pull the gills and the inside out together, but put 
the liver back into the fish ; wipe and prepare the 
red mullets as mackerel (see No. 139, 140), and serve 
with a maitre d'h6tel (see No. 41). 

If you prefer another sauce, melt three ounces of 
butter, add the liver well pounded, and three spoon- 
fuls of water and one of capers ; let it simmer for 
five minutes ; pour it into the dish, and serve the fish 
upon it 

147. Rouget au court-bouillon {Red Mullet Boiled). 

Boil it in a court-bouillon (see No. 118); when ready, 
take it out of the water and take off the skin ; serve 
with a sauce aux cypres (see No. n)\ if it is to be 
eaten cold, serve with a mayonnaise (see No. 61). 

148. Dorade {John Dory), 

It is very difficult to get this fish alive; but I 
recommend never to buy it dead, for it is only good 
when boiled the very minute after it is killed. 

Pull out the gills, cut open the belly and draw the 
inside out, wash it well, and wipe it. 

149. Dorade au court-bouillon {John Dory Boiled). 

After cleaning it, boil it immediately in a court- 
bouillon (see No. 116), and serve with a sauce aux 




i 



64 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

truffes (see No. 58) ; if it is to be eaten cold, serve 
with a mayonnaise (No. 61). 

150.-^ nguille de mer (^Conger Eel). 

Cut it in round bits not too thick, and take off the 
skin ; then boil it in a court-bouillon (see No. 118), 
and serve with a sauce aux cipres (see No. 37), or 
a b^chamelle (see No. 46). 

151. Harengs (Herrings), 

Herrings begin to be good in the middle of Sep- 
tember ; and, although it is now fashionable to serve 
them in August, merely because their price is higher, 
I advise my readers to wait a little longer. 

Draw the gills and the inside out ; scrape off the 
scales, wash and wipe the herrings carefully. 

152. Harengs sur le gril {Herrings on the gridiron). 

When cleaned, put them on a dish with a little 
salt, some parsley and chives finely chopped, and 
a little olive-oil. Let them remain for an hour, and 
remember to turn them three or four times over. 
Take them out of the dish, and, without wiping thenij 
put them on the gridiron on a very slow fire. When 
ready, serve with a sauce aux cipres (see No. 37). 

Instead of putting them on the gridiron, you may 
cook them in the oven in the same way. 

153. Harengs saurs {Dried Herrings), 

Cover them with milk, and let them remain in it 
for a day. Take them out, wipe them, open the 



POISSONS DE MER (SALT-WATER FISH). 6$ 

belly. Melt six ounces of butter in a pan, add a 
spoonful of flour, a cup of milk, a bay-leaf, a 
small branch of thyme, and a little pepper. Put 
the herrings in the sauce, and let them boil until 
they are done. 

154. Harengs saurs aufour {Dried Herrings in the 

Oveti). 

Proceed as above; take them out of the sauce and 
cover them all over with bread-crumbs, put them on 
a dish and let them take colour in the oven. When 
of a light brpwn, serve. 

155. Harengs sal^s {Salted Herrings). 
To be boiled like dried herrings (No. 153). 

156. iperlans {Smelts). 

These delicious and delicate fish must have a 
silvery appearance, and require a great deal of at- 
tention in cleaning them. Draw the gills and the 
inside out as carefully as can be, and wipe the fish 
as lightly as possible. 

157. iperlans {Smelts Fried). 

When cleaned, dip them in tepid milk, roll them 
in flour, and fry them in hot olive-oil. When fried, 
drain them and salt them. 

158. Aperlatis au gratin. 
See Sole au gratiny^^Q. 124. 



66 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER IX. 
poissoNS d'eau douce (fresh-water fish). 

159. Saumon (Salmon). 

Open the belly, take the inside out, cut off the 
gills, wash the fish, and wipe it. 

160. Saumon bouilli (Salmon Boiled). 

Boil it in a court-bouillon (No. 1 16), to which you 
add six ounces of butter. When boiled, serve with 
a sauce aux cipres (see No. 37), or a maitre dliotel, 
(No. 41). 

If the fish is to be eaten cold, serve with a mayon- 
naise (see No. 61). 

161. Saumon sur le gril {Salmon on the Gridiroti), 

Cut the salmon in slices, about three inches thick; 
salt and pepper them, and roll them in a sheet of 
well-buttered paper; put them on the gridiron on 
a slow fire; turn them over three or four times. 
When ready, take the slices out of their papers, and 
serve with a sauce aux cypres (see No. 37). 



POISSONS D'EAU DOUCE (FRESH-WATER FISH). 6/ 

162. Saumon en matelote (Salmon Boiled with Wine). 

Prepare a matelote (see No. 52), and boil the fish 
(or slices) in it ; it is excellent. 

163. Saumon en salade {Salad 0/ Salmon). 

The remains of a salmon may be served as fol- 
lows : — Cut them in thin dice, have some hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices, and a few lettuces. Put the whole 
in a tureen, and cover it with a mayonnaise (see 
No. 61). Turn it over several times, and serve. 

164. Saumon aujus {Salmon with Gravy). 

If you have some gravy or broth, put some thin 
slices of salmon into it, and let them boil slowly until 
they are sufficiently done. Take them . out and put 
them on a dish ; mix half a tablespoonful of arrow- 
root or potato-flour with the gravy to thicken it, 
and pour it upon the fish. 

165. Alose {A lose). 

Pull off the gills, cut open the belly, draw the 
inside out. Scrape off the scales, wash the fish, wipe 
it, and salt it inside. 

166. Alose aux fines herbes {Alose on the Gridiron). * 

When cleaned, fill up the belly with bread-crumbs, 
chives, and parsley chopped together, butter, salt, 
and pepper. Sew up the belly. Wrap the fish in 
a sheet of well-buttered paper, upon which you put 



T* *% 



\ 



68 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

another sheet of paper tied at the head and . tail. 
Put it in a slow oven, or on the gridiron; turn it 
over several times. When done, serve with a maitre 
d'hotel (see No. 41). If the fish is small draw the 
inside out through the gills without opening the 
belly. 

167. A lose en matelote {A lose Boiled in Wine), 
Boil it in a matelote (see No. 52). 

168. A lose rotie {Alose Roasted), 

When cleaned, wrap it up in a sheet of well-buttered 
paper, and roast it before the fire. Boil about half a 
pound of green sauce, drain it, put it in a pan with 
four ounces of fresh butter, a little salt and pepper. 
Let it simmer for ten minutes, and move it about 
with a wooden spoon. Take it off the fire, pour a 
liaison into it ; mix well together, put it on a deep 
dish with the alose on the top. 

169. Truites {Trout). 

The best are the red trout, and they are to be 
cooked and cleaned like salmon ; if very small, they 
inust be fried. 

170. Truites f rites {Trout Fried), 

When cleaned, roll them in flour, and fry them in 
hot lard or olive oil ) drain and salt them. 



poissoNs d'eau douce (fresh-water fish). 69 

171. Truites d la Montagnarde {Trout Boiled). 

When cleaned, boil them in a court-bouillon (see 
No. 118). When done, pour into a pan, through a 
sieve, half of the coqrt-bouillon in which the fish were 
boiled, and leave them in the remaining half. Put 
the pan on the fire, add four ounces of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and let it boil quickly to a 
proper thickness ; then take the fish out of the court- 
bouillon, and pour the sauce upon them. 

172. Truites d la hussarde. 

Clean and skin them; fill the inside with fresh 
butter, chopped parsley, and chives, and a few mush- 
rooms, if you have any. Put the trout in a dish and 
cover them with olive-oil, or melted butter, salt and 
pepper. Let them remain an hour ; then take them 
out and put them in the oven. When done, serve 
with a remoulade (see No. 62). 

173. Brocket {Pike). 

The largest pike are not the best, they eat tough ; 
choose middle-sized ones. 

Scrape off the scales, and pull the gills out with a 
towel, not to prick your fingers. Open the belly, 
take the inside out, and be careful not to leave the 
roe, which is indigestible. Wash the fish, and wipe it 

174. Brocket au bleu {Pike Boiled). 

Boil it in a court-bouillon (see No. 118), only use 
red Burgundy wine instead of water. When cold 
serve with a mayonnaise (see No. 61). 



N 



70 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

175. Brockets frits (Pike Fried). 

When cleaned, fry them in hot lard ; drain and salt 
them, and serve upon fresh parsley. 
Small pike only are to be fried. 

176. Brocket d la mattre (TkoteL 

When cleaned, stuff the inside with bread-crumbs, 
olive-oil (or butter), mushrooms, parsley, and chives, 
chopped together. Sew up the belly. Wrap the 
fish in a sheet of well-buttered paper, and put it 
either on the gridiron or in a slow oven, or roast it 
before the fire. When done, serve with a white sauce 
(No. 37); or a sauce tomate (No. 56), or a sauce 
piquante (No. 54). 

The remains of a pike may be served au gratin. 
(See Turbot au gratiUy No. 120). 

177. Carpe {Carp). 

You must choose carp with very brilliant scales, 
which is a proof that they have lived in a river and 
not in a pond, for the last always taste of mud. If, how- 
ever, you want to use some of the last-mentioned, they 
must be put in a large bucket full of spring water, 
changed every day for three or four days ; in so doing 
they will lose their disagreeable taste. April, May, 
and June are the three months generally chosen to 
eat carp. 

Scrape off the scales, draw the inside out without 
touching the roe ; pull out the gills, and cut off the 
fins. 



POISSONS D'EAU DOUCE (FRESH-WATER FISH). 7 1 

178. Carpefrite {Carp Fried). 

When cleaned, cut open the back, roll the fish in 
flour, and fry them in hot lard. Drain and salt them, 
and serve upon parsley. 

It is only small carp that may be fried. 

179. Carfe en matelote {Carp Boiled). 
Boil it in a matelote (see No. 52). ' 

l8a Carpe au gratin. 
Sec Sole au gratin (Na 124). 

181. Carpe au court-bouillon. 
B<m1 it in a court-bouillon (see No. 118), only use 
red Burgundy wine instead of water, and when cold, 
serve with a mayonnaise (see No. 61). 

182. Barbeau (Barbel). 
Pull the gills and the inside out, wash the fish, and 
wipe it carefully. Put it in a dish, and pour upon it 
two tumblers of boiling vinegar ; salt and pepper it. 
This precaution is quite necessary, for barbel would 
be bad before the court-bouillon was ready ; it must 
always be bought alive, and as it is naturally insipid 
it requires high seasoning. It may be boiled, roasted. 
&&, exactly like pike (see Nos. 174, 175, 176). 

183. Tancke (Jench). 

Tench are very delicate and generally delidous. 

but as they like to Uve deep in the mud of rivers, it is 

a good precaution to put them, for a day or two, 




J2 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in a large bucket full of spring-water, changed three 
or four times a day ; the flesh will thus become free 
from muddy taste. 

Tench are difficult to clean; but the operation 
becomes quite easy if you just dip them into boiling 
water and take them out immediately. A towel 
is, then, all that is required to scrape the scales off. 
Open the belly, take the inside and the gills out, and 
wipe the fish. 

184. Tanches f rites (Tench Fried). 

When cleaned, roll them in flour and fry them in 
hot lard. Drain and salt them ; serve upon fried 
parsley. 

185. Tanches atix fines herbes (Tench on the Gridiron). 

Fill up the inside of the tench with olive-oil, bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, parsley, and shalot chopped 
together. Sew up the belly. Put the fish on a dish 
with olive-oil, parsley, and shalot chopped together ; 
a bay-leaf and a small branch of thyme. Let the 
tench remain in the seasoning for an hour; then 
wrap them up in a sheet of well-oiled paper, and 
put them in the oven, or on the gridiron. When 
done, serve with a sauce piquante (No. 54), or with 
a sauce aux cdpres (No. 37). 

186. Perche (Perch). 

Clean them like tench (No. 183), only they are 
always good and do not require to be put in fresh 
water. 



poissoNS d'eau douce (fresh-water fish). 73 

187. Perche au bleu (Perch Boiled in Wine). 

Boil them in a court-bouillon (see No. 118), only- 
use red Burgundy or Bordeaux wine instead of 
water. When cold, serve with a mayonnaise (see 
No. 61). 

188. Perches f rites {Perch Fried). 

When cleaned, roll them in flour, and fry them in 
hot lard. Drain and salt them, and serve upon 
parsley. 

189. Perches au gratin. 
See Sole augratin (No. 124). 

190. Goujon (Gudgeon), 

Open the belly, draw the inside out, wipe them. 
Roll them in flour, and fry them in hot lard. Drain 
and salt them. 

All small fish are fried alike, but none are as good 
as gudgeon. 

191. Anguilles {Eels). 

Some people think that it is extremely difficult to 
kill and skin eels. Skinning eels alive is a shameful 
and useless cruelty. Cut off" the head — which is 
never served in decent houses ; then, when you want 
to cook the eel, put it on the gridiron on a brisk fire ; 
turn it over two or three times, and do not let it 
remain for more than a minute. The skin will be 
swollen and cracked, and very easy to scrape off". 
Open the belly and take the inside out. 



N 



74 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Eels must be chosen with very white bellies and 
dark blueish backs. 

192. Anguille d la tartare. 

When cleaned, put it in a dish with olive-oil, salt 
pepper, chopped shalots, a branch of thyme, two 
bay-leaves, and half a spoonful of vinegar. Turn 
it over three or four times in the space of an hour. 
Then put it in a pan with its seasoning, and set it 
on a slow fire; cover it, and do not forget to put 
lighted charcoal on the top of the pan. When ready 
(it takes about half an hour), serve with a sauce 
mayonnaise (see No. 61), or a sauce tomate (No. 56). 

It may be put in the oven and cooked in the same 
way. 

193. Anguille f rite {Eel Fried). 

When cleaned, cut it in bits about three inches 
thick. Put them in a pan with white Burgundy or 
Bordeaux wine, enough to cover the bits of fish; 
two large onions and carrots cut in slices, a branch of 
thyme, two bay-leaves, four ounces of butter, three 
cloves, salt, and pepper. Let it simmer slowly until 
nearly done (about half an hour). Then take the 
slices out of the pan and let them cool. When cold, 
beat three eggs, dip the slices in the eggs, and roll 
them in bread-crumbs; then fry them in hot lard, 
and serve with a sauce tomate (see No. 56), or 
piquante (see No. 54). 

194. Anguille en matelote (Eel Boiled). 
After cleaning it, boil it in a matelote (see No. 52), 



poissoNS d'eau douce (fresh-water fish). 75 

but generally it is boiled urith carp, pike, or barbel, 
for it is too fat and indigestible to be eaten b}"- itsel£ 

195. AnguiUe a la minute. 

Clean them and cut them in several bits, which you 
throw into boiling water, highly salted. Let them 
boil for a quarter of an hour ; drain them, put them on 
a dish and squeeze upon them the juice of a lemon ; 
then cover them with a maitre dliotel (see No. 41), 
and serve with fried potatoes. 

196. Anguille d lapouletU. 

When cleaned cut it in slices, which you throw into 
boiling water, with three spoonfuls of vin^^ar. Let 
them boil for five minutes ; take them out Melt six 
ounces of fresh butter, mix a tablespoonful of flour to 
it ; do not let it take colour. Add a tumbler of hot 
water, and as much White Burgundy wine or Bordeaux ; 
salt, pepper, a small branch of thyme, a bay-leaf, a few 
sprigs of parsley, six small onions, and a handful of 
mushrooms. Let the whole boil very slowly for half 
an hour, then put the slices of eel into the sauce. 
Cover the pan, and let the eels simmer for half an 
hour. Take the pan off the fire, add a liaison (see 
No. 66)f and serve. 

You may put it in a pie-dish, and bake it with a 
light crust over it. 

197. Lamproies (Lamprey), 

They are to be cooked and cleaned like eels (Nos. 
191, 192, 193, 194, 19s, 196). 



76 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Before finishing this chapter, I caniiot omit to say 
that cooks are, generally speaking, exceedingly cruel 
to animals, and that I consider it as a duty for the 
mistress of the house to repress that cruelty as much 
as may be in her power. I have seen cooks opening 
the bellies of live fish, and frying them immediately; 
causing in doing so endless sufferings. Would it not 
be quite as easy to stun them with a blow on the 
head ? Some cooks will answer that the more animals 
suffer the better they are. This is a gross mistake; it 
is a scientific truth that sufferings destroy a certain 
per-centage of nutritious qualities, and if we cannot 
teach kindness to some people, we must at least make 
them respect our interest. 

Of course, I have not given in this chapter all the 
fish that exist in Europe ; there are so many different 
kinds that it would be impossible ; but it will be easy 
to know how to cook those that are omitted by their 
resemblance to those mentioned. There are also 
many ways of cooking fish that I have omitted ; some 
of them require such a long time, and so many different 
ingredients, that I have thought them too complicated 
for a modest household. 



GIBIER A POIL— RUNNING GAME, yj 



CHAPTER X. 

GIBIER.A POIL. — RUNNING GAME. 

• 198. SangKer ( Wild Boar), 

' Sometimes it is so tough that it is impossible to use 

It at all; but if the boar is young, it may be eaten after 

a week. The tusks of an old boar are long and curved. 

• Boars are to be cut and cleaned like pigs ; the fillets 

^d ribs are to be roasted ; the head is to be prepared 

like a pig's head (see Index). 

« 

iigg. yambon de sanglier bouilli {Boiled Leg of Boar). 

' Lard it with square, rather large, bits of bacon, salt 
and pepper it, and put it in highly-salted water for 
four or five days, with thyme, bay-leaves, onions, 
cayenne pepper, a few juniper-berries and sage leaves. 
When ready to boil it take it out of the water, wipe 
it, and sew it up in a clean towel ; then set it in a pot, 
and put with it the water in which it was at first ; add 
half a bottle of white Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, 
four large carrots and onions cut in slices, eight cloves 
and a bunch of parsley. Let it boil on a quick fire 
for six hours ; take the pan off the fire and l^t the leg 
cool in it. When cold, take it out of the towel, and 
serve either at breakfast, lunch, or supper. 



78 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

If the leg of wild boar is wanted for a dinner, pro- 
ceed as above, and, instead of boiling it, roast it before 
a moderate fire, and serve hot, with a sauce piquante 
(see No. 54). 

The shoulder may be cooked in the same way ; 
either boiled or roasted. 

200. Chevreuil (Deer). 

The leg of a deer is the best part Put it (after 
larding it) in a pot with a pint of vin^ar, salt, pepper, 
cloves, garlic, bay-leaves, thyme, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Let it remain for four days, turning it over 
every day, and roast it like a leg of mutton ; serve 
with a sauce piquante to which you add the gravy 
from the roast. 

The cutlets are to be beaten and larded, then put 
in a pan with six ounces of butter, two carrots, and 
three onions cut in slices ; when the cutlets are firm, 
add a tumbler of water and a spoonful of fiour ; mix 
well. Put some red-hot charcoal on the top of the 
pan which you remove to a corner of the fire, and let 
the cutlets simmer slowly for half an hour ; dish them ; 
let the gravy boil fast and take off the lid of the pan. 
When the gravy is thick enough squeeze into it half 
of the juice of a lemon and pour it upon the cutlets. 

201. Civet de chevreuiU 
See Civet de lihre^ No. 204. 



GIBIER A POIL— RUNNING GAME. 7/ 



CHAPTER X. 

GIBIER.A POIL. — RUNNING GAME. 

■ 

^ 198. Sangher ( Wild Boar). 

' Sometimes it is so tough that it is impossible to use 
it at all; but if the boar is young, it may be eaten after 
'a week. The tusks of an old boar are long and curved. 
' Boars are to be cut and cleaned like pigs ; the fillets 
tod ribs are to be roasted ; the head is to be prepared 
like a pig's head (see Index). 

ft 

:i99. yambon de sanglier bouilli {Boiled Leg of Boar). 

• Lard it with square, rather large, bits of bacon, salt 
and pepper it, and put it in highly-salted water for 
four or five days, with thyme, bay-leaves, onions, 
cayenne pepper, a few juniper-berries and sage leaves. 
When ready to boil it take it out of the water, wipe 
it, and sew it up in a clean towel ; then set it in a pot, 
and put with it the water in which it was at first ; add 
half a bottle of white Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, 
four large carrots and onions cut in slices, eight cloves 
and a bunch of parsley. Let it boil on a quick fire 
for six hours ; take the pan off the fire and let the leg 
cool in it When cold, take it out of the towel, and 
serve either at breakfast, lunch, or supper. 



80 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

quart of water into the pan ; add a handful of mush- 
rooms, three large truffles, a little garlic, salt, pepper, a 
bay-leaf, a little thyme, and some parsley. Put the 
bacon back into the pan and let the whole boil quickly 
for half an hour. Reduce your fire, put the hare in the 
pan and cover it. Let it boil slowly for another half 
hour ; then add two tumblers of good red Burgundy and 
the blood of the hare. Let it simmer for another half 
hour ; put the onions in the pan and let them simmer 
for half an hour. Toast some bread, put the bits of 
hare upon it and keep them warm. Set the sauce on 
a brisk fire, take the lid off the pan and let it boil 
quickly for five minutes, then pour it upon the hare. 

Mushrooms and truffles are not indispensable, but 
they improve the taste wonderfully. 

When you clean the hare for a civet, be careful to 
keep the blood in a cool place until wanted ; and 
remember that it will not keep more than a day in 
summer. 

205. Levraut sauti. 

For a very young hare, this will be an excellent 
way. Cut the hare in pieces and put it in the frying- 
pan with six ounces of butter, salt and pepper. Toss 
it over a sharp fire until it becomes of a light brown. 
Sprinkle upon it a spoonful of flour, and cover the fire 
with ashes, to let the hare boil slowly. Pour a tum- 
blerful of white Burgundy wine upon the hare. Chop 
together some parsley, one shalot, and four or five 
mushrooms if you have any. Add them to the sauce. 
Let the whole boil for five minutes and serve. 



GIBIEll A POIL — RUNNING GAME. 8 1 

You can dispense with the flour, wine, and mush- 
rooms, but then it will be rather dry. 

206. LUvre en daube. 
See Basufd Vituviey No. 287, page 113. 

207. Lapin (Rabbit). 

If it is a tame rabbit that you wish to use, it must 
be cleaned as soon as it is dead, and wiped carefully 
inside ; then filled with sage-leaves, cloves, salt, pepper, 
thyme, and bay-leaves. 

You may dispense with this preparation, but tame 
rabbits often have a disagreeable taste of cabbage, 
(vhich the way explained above removes entirely. 

208. Gibelotte de lapin. 

See Lih)re en civet (No. 204), only use white Bur- 
gundy wine instead of red, and do not keep the blood. 

If you prefer not to use wine at all, put the rabbit 
in a panful of cold water with four table-spoonfuls of 
(vinegar, and let it remain in it at least for an hour. 
Then take it out, wipe it, and when cooked (using 
ivater instead of wine), squeeze upon it the juice of a 
lemon. 

209. Lapin rdti {Roasted Rabbit). 

Lard it and roast it like hare. (See No. 203.) 

210. Lapereau a lapotilette. 

Put four ounces of butter in a pan on a slow firCi 
nix with it a table-spoonful of flour, and pour upon it 



N 



82 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

a tumbler of hot water and a tumbler of white Bur- 
gundy or Bordeaux wine; salt and pepper. Add a 
few mushrooms, a truffle, a bunch of parsley, a little 
garlic and nutmeg, and twelve small onions. Put the 
rabbit, cut in pieces, into the pan, and let it boil slowly 
for three-quarters of an hour. Dish the pieces of 
rabbit, take the parsley and garlic out of the pan ; 
thicken the sauce with a liaison (see No. 66), and 
pour it upon the rabbit 

211. Lapereau sauti. 
See Levraut saut/ QUo, 205). 






GIBIER A PLUMES — FLYING GAME. 83 



CHAPTER XL 

GIBIER A PLUMES— FLYING GAME. 

Faisan {Pkeasatu). 

Hang it for eight or ten days in winter, for three or 
LIT in summer. Some people lard pheasants and, 
leed, all pieces of game; but it is much better to 
/ a thin slice of fat bacon upon the breast, so as to 
ver it, and to place a large vine-leaf, if you have any, 
on the bacon. Larding game is a bad method : the 
avy comes out of the bird through the holes made 
larding, and dries on the surface ; whereas, the way 
licated above keeps the bird juicy, and the vine- 
if gives it a delicate flavour. 

The feathers of a pheasant are not to be plucked 
' the head : roll several layers of well-buttered paper 
>und the head, and take them off when the bird is 
isted. 

212. Faisan rdti {Roasted Pheasant). 

Proceed as above, then roast the pheasant at a 
derate fire : three-quarters of an hour is sufficient 
:f you have any truffles, cut them in slices, and add 
m to the gravy about half an hour before the 
^asant is done. Serve with the gravy under the 

G 2 




84 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

bird, or with a sauce piquante (see Sauce piquante, 
No. 54) separately. 

213. Faisan d V^touff^e. 
Cut some slices of fat bacon, cover them with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let them remain so for an 
hour ; take them either to bard * or to lard the pheasant 
Lay some thin slices of raw ham, bacon, and veal at 
the bottom of a pan, put the pheasant thereupon, 
with two carrots cut in slices, and two large onions with 
cloves stuck in them, salt and pepper ; add a tumbler 
of white Burgundy wine and a tumbler of water, 
or broth, if you have any. Set the pan on a slow fire, 
and put some red charcoal on the lid. Let it simmer 
for an hour; dish the pheasant and keep it warm; 
pass the gravy through a fine sieve in another pan, 
which you put on a quick fire ; add to the g^avy a 
few chopped truffles, and pour it upon the pheasant 

214. Faisan en salmis. 

Roast one or two pheasants under-done ; let theffl 

cool. Prepare a sauce de salmis (see No. 53), carve 

the pheasants as if they were to be served, put theffl 

in the sauce until they are done, and serve them upon 

toast. 

215. Perdrix {Partridge), 

Red partridges are much better than the common 
partridges, but they are generally much dearer. When 
you want to truffle a partridge, do it four or five days 
before roasting it, and proceed as for Dinde truffk 
(see Index). 

^ To lay a thin piece of bawn upon the breast of the fowL 



GIBIER A PLUMES — FLYING GAME. 8$ 

2 1 6. Perdreau d la broche (Roasted Partridge). 

If it is young, roast it like a pheasant (see No. 212), 
only pluck the head, and serve with slices of orange 
around the dish. 

The remains of a roasted partridge may be served 
cold with a mayonnaise (see No. 61). 

217. Perdrix en salmis. 

Roast it under-done, and let it cool. Prepare a 
sauce de salmis (see No. 53), carve the partridge, and 
put it in the sauce until it is done. 

218. Perdrix d VHouff^e, 

Lard the breast of the partridge, and put it in 
a pan with four ounces of butter and four ounces of 
lean bacon or ham ; let the whole take colour ; add 
a tumbler of white Burgundy wine, two carrots cut 
in slices, two onions, three cloves, a tumbler of boiling 
water, salt, pepper, abay-leaf and a little thyme, a bunch 
of parsley. Let the whole simmer on a slow fire for 
an hour, and keep some red charcoal on the lid of 
the pan. Dish the partridge, and keep it warm ; pass 
the gravy through a fine sieve into another pan, and let 
it boil quickly to get thicker ; when it is thick enough 
squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, and pour it upon 
the partridge. 

If you have a handful of mushrooms put them 
into the pan with the other seasoning. 

If the partridge is to be eaten in a private way — 
that is, if there are no guests to dinner— the vegetables, 



\ 



86 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

such as carrots, mushrooms, and onions, may be served 
along with the partridge. 

219. Perdrix aux chotix. 

Put SIX ounces of butter in a pan on a brisk fire, 
when it is very hot add six ounces of bacon cut in 
dice, and four sausages: let them take colour, and 
take them out of the pan. Cut one or two cabbages 
through the middle, put them in the pan and let them 
become of a light brown ; take them out and put the 
partridge in their stead ; when of a nice colour take 
it out. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with the butter 
and when it is of a dark brown pour upon it two 
tumblers of boiling water, or broth if you have any. 
Put the partridge in the pan, and around it the dfce 
of bacon, two onions with cloves stuck in each, two 
carrots cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley* 
a little thyme tied together, and let the gravy boil 
away for five minutes. 

This is a very good way to cook old partridges 
which cannot be roasted, 

220. Canard {Dtick), 

Wild ducks are infinitely superior to tame ducks ; 
sometimes they are so fat that the only way is to 
roast them, for if you put vegetables along with them 
they would be oily : the greater part of the fat is to be 
removed from the gravy and used for cooking all sorts 
of vegetables. 



GIBIER A PLUMES— FLYING GAME. 87 

221. Canard rdti {Roasted Duck), 

A duck is always better if it is stuffed before it is 
roasted ; still, you may dispense with the stuffing. 

Take the liver and chop it with three sausages and 
some parsley ; add three ounces of bread-crumbs, salt. 
pepper, and fill up the inside of the duck with it If 
the duck is very fat it must be roasted at a moderate 
fire, and requires an hour and a half roasting ; if it is 
not very fat it must be roasted at a quick fire, and 
requires an hour's roasting. 

You may serve it with its own gravy, or still better, 
with a sauce piquante (see No. 54), to which you add 
the gravy. 

222. Canard aux petits pais {Duck with Green Peas). 

Put four ounces of butter in a pan on a quick fire, 
when very hot put the duck in it with three ounces of 
bacon (bacon is only required when the duck is lean). 
Let the duck take colour; add a tumbler of hot water, 
a large onion, salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley. 
Put the pan on a slow fire with some red charcoal on 
the top. Let the duck boil slowly for an hour, put a 
quart of green peas around it, cover the pan, remove 
the charcoal from the lid, and let the peas boil slowly 
for half an hour. Take off the lid and set the pan on 
a quick fire to let the water evaporate. After ten 
minutes' quick boiling, take the parsley and onion out 
of the pan and serve. 



I 



88 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

223. Canard en daube. 

See Bomf d /Vtuv/e, No. 287, page 113. An hour 
and a half is sufficient for a duck. 

224. Canard aux navets. 

Put six ounces of butter in a pan, and when it is 
very hot put the duck into it and let it take colour. 
When of a light brown take it out of the pan and put in 
its stead eight or ten turnips cut in slices ; let them take 
colour ; sprinkle upon them a table-spoonful of flour ; 
when it is brown pour a tumbler of hot water into the 
pan and move the turnips about with a wooden spoon. 
Put the duck in the middle of the pan and the turnips 
around it. Add to the sauce a large onion, a bay- 
leaf and a little parsley tied together, salt and pepper. 
Set the pan on a slow fire, with a little charcoal on the 
top. Let the whole boil slowly for an hour and a half, 
and serve. 

225. Canard aux olives (Duck with Olives). 

Put four ounces of butter in a pan on a brisk fire; 
when it is very hot, put in it the duck and twenty 
small onions ; let them take colour, add a spoonful of 
flour ; when it is brown, pour a tumbler of hot water 
into the pan ; mix with a wooden spoon. Add a bunch 
of parsley, a small bay-leaf, and a little thyme tied 
together, very little salt and some pepper. Set the 
pan on a slow fire with red charcoal on the top. Let 
the duck boil slowly for an hour and a half; take the 
onions, bay-leaf, thyme, and parsley out of the pan and 



GIBIER A PLUMES — FLYING GAME. 89 

put in their stead half a pound of stoned olives. Put 
the pan on a' quick fire and let the sauce boil briskly 
for ten minutes, then serve. 

Be careful to put very little salty for the olives are 
always highly salted. 

226. Canard atix onions. 

Proceed as above, but when the onions are of a 
nice colour take them out of the pan and put them 
back only half an hour before the duck is ready, else 
they would lose all shape. 

227. Canard aux choux. 
See Perdrix atix chouXy No. 219. 

228. Pluvier (Plover). 

Plovers take half an hour s roasting ; they are not 
to be drawn. Dip some toasts in the gravy and serve 
the plovers upon them. 

229. Tourterelles {Turtles), 

They may be cooked like pigeons (see Index), or 
roasted with a thin slice of fat bacon upon the breast, 
covered over with a vine-leaf. 

230. Caille {Quail), 

These delicate little birds are particularly good 
when they are wrapped up first in a very thin slice of 
fat bacon, then in a vine-leaf well-fastened, then put 



\ 



90 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in a pan with a little butter on a brisk fire, then tossed 
about until they are nearly done ; when at this point, 
salt and pepper them ; cover the pan and put it on a 
slow fire for ten minutes. Have some thin pieces of 
toast ready, put the quails upon them ; throw a wine- 
glass of hot water into the pan and let it boil with 
the juice of the birds for a minute or two and pour it 
upon the quails. 

Quails when prepared as above may be roasted at 
a moderate fire ; twenty minutes are sufiicient. 

231. AlotietteSy GriveSy etc. (Larks y ThrusheSy etc). 
All small birds may be cooked like quails. 

232. Cailles au chasseur. 

Put the quails in a pan with six ounces of butter, 
some chopped parsley and shalots, salt and pepper; 
toss them repeatedly over the fire for five minutes ; 
sprinkle upon them a table-spoonful of flour; toss 
again. Add half a tumbler of white Burgundy wine, 
and as much water or broth. Let the sauce thicken 
in boiling fast. When the quails are done, squeeze 
upon them half of the juice of a lemon. 

233. B^cassine et B^casse {Snipe and Woodcock), 

Snipes and woodcocks should not be kept longer 
than three days, for they are not to be drawn. Cover 
the breasts with a layer of thin bacon, and roast them 
at a moderate fire. Dip some pieces of toast in their 
gravy and serve the woodcocks upon them. 






GIBIER A PLUMES — ^FLYING GAME. 9 1 

The best way to eat snipes is to roast them under- 
done, to let them cool, to carve them, and to let them 
boil in a sauce de salmis (see No. 53) until they are 
done. 

234. Bicassines d la minute. 

Put the snipes in a pan with six ounces of butter, 
three chopped shalots, a bay-leaf, a little grated nut- 
meg, salt and pepper. Toss them repeatedly over 
the fire until they are nearly done (about ten minutes) ; 
take them out of the pan and put in their stead 
a table-spoonful of bread-crumbs, a wine-glass of 
Madeira wine (or sherry, if you have not got any 
Madeira), and the juice of a lemon ; move the sauce 
quickly about with a wooden spoon, put the snipes 
into it, and serve when they are done. 



92 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XII. 



VOLAILLES — POULTRY. 



235. Poulet rdti {Roasted Fowl), 

When it is drawn and trussed put a piece of fat 
bacon upon the back of the fowl, and roast it at a 
moderate fire ; when done it should be of a very light 
brown (more golden than brown). Be careful not to 
put any water or butter to it, as I have seen many 
cooks do ; butter gives a greasy taste to roasts of all 
kinds, and water takes away all taste. When it is 
ready put some vinegar on a dish, some watercress 
around it, and lay the fowl in the middle. 

236. Fricassee de poulet 

It is a wrong way generally adopted by cooks to 
carve a fowl for a fricassee, which ought to be per- 
fectly white. Truss the fowl as if for roasting, it will 
look much better. 

Put six ounces of fresh butter in a pan on a mode- 
rate fire, mix with it two table-spoonfuls of flour ; add 
a pint of hot water, and move it about with a wooden 
spoon until thickish. When it begins to boil, salt and 
pepper it, add a bay-leaf, a small bit of lemon-peel. 



VOLAILLES — POULTRY. 93 

and the fowl. Cover the pan, and let the fowl boil 
slowly for an hour, then turn it on the other side, and 
place around it thirty very small onions and a few 
mushrooms, if you have any. After another hour's slow 
boiling, put the fowl on a dish and keep it warm ; then 
set the pan on a brisk fire, take off the lid and let the 
sauce boil quickly until it is thick enough. Take the 
pan off the fire, and when the sauce stops boiling add 
to it a liaison (see No. 66), which you mix thoroughly 
with a wooden spoon, and pour it upon the fowl. 

You may cut a lemon in slices and decorate the 
dish with it. 

A little grated nutmeg put at the same time with 
the onions greatly improves the taste. 

If some mushrooms are to be added they should be 
previously thrown in hot water and carefully wiped, 
else the sauce would be of a dirty-looking grey. 

237. Poulet au vin blanc (Fowl with White Wine). 

Carve the fowl and throw it in a quart of boiling 
water, with thyme, a bay-leaf, and parsley tied together, 
one clove, a large onion, some salt and pepper, and 
put it on a moderate fire. Cover the pan. Let the 
fowl boil for half an hour, then add six ounces of fresh 
butter, four ounces of bacon, a tumbler of white Bur- 
gundy wine, and a table-spoonful of flour; turn about 
with a wooden spoon, to mix the flour with the sauce. 
Cover the pan, and let the fowl boil for three-quarters 
of an hour. Take the bits of fowl out of the pan and 
put them on a dish. Remove the seasonings, and put 
in their stead three or four truffles cut m s\\c^?». \u^\. 



\ 



94 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

them boil in the sauce for two minutes, and take the 
pan off the fire. Add a liaison to the sauce (see No. 
66), and pour it upon the fowl. 

238. Poulet d. la Marengo. 

Carve the fowl, and put it in a pan with three table- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil, some salt and pepper, thyme, a 
bay-leaf, and parsley, tied together, and a handful of 
mushrooms. Cover the pan and put it on a slow fire, 
with red charcoal on the top, until the fowl is done; 
then put two ounces of butter in another pan, with 
a table-spoonful of flour ; mix well. Add two wine- 
glasses of water, and as much sherry. (If you have 
any broth use it instead of water.) Turn about with 
a wooden spoon. Dish the fowl, pour into the pan 
the sauce which you have just prepared with sherry, 
broth, and flour ; mix well with a wooden spoon, to 
incorporate the oil in the sauce, and pour it upon the 
fowl. 

239. Poulet d la minute. 

Carve a fowl, and put it in a frying-pan, with ax 
ounces of butter, on a brisk fire. When the bits are 
of a nice colour, turn them on the other side with a 
fork ; cover the fire, salt and pepper the fowl, add a 
tumbler of water, and let it boil quickly for a quarter 
of an hour. Chop together some parsley, tarragon, 
shalots, and gherkins; add them to the sauce. Let 
the whole boil for two minutes, and serve. 

This way is particularly good for young fowh^ 
which are generally too lean to be roasted. 



VOLAILLES — POULTRY. 95 

24a Poulet en daube. 
See Bceufi ntuv^e. No. 287, page 113. 

241. Poulet en gibelotU. 
See Lapin engibelotte^ No. 208, 

242. Poulet d. testragon. 

When the fowl is drawn, put inside some fresh 
butter, salt, and chopped tarragon. Truss the fowl, 
and put it in a pan with a pint of water, four large 
onions, four carrots cut in slices, two cloves, six ounces 
of fat bacon cut in dice, a bay-leaf, a little thyme 
and parsley, and four branches of tarragon without 
leaves. Cover the pan, and set it on a moderate fire ; 
let the fowl boil slowly for an hour, then turn it on 
the other side. After another hour dish the fowl; 
pass the sauce into another pan through a fine sieve, 
and let it boil very fast, to get thicker ; add a few 
tender branches of tarragon with their leaves, put 
them around the fowl, and pour the sauce upon thenL 

243. Poule an pdt (Boiled Fowl). 

Truss the fowl as if for roasting, and put it in a pot 
with four laige onions having cloves stuck in them, 
two carrots, and a turnip cut through the middle, a 
bay-leaf, salt and pepper. Cover the fowl over with 
cold water, and put it on a quick fire until it boils ; 
skim the water and reduce the fire, so as to let the 
fowl boil slowly for two hours (three if it is an old 



-i\ 



96 HOUSEHOLD COOKERYt 

There are two ways of serving a Poule-au-p6t ; 
either with a sauce aux cApres (see No. 37), or with 
its own broth ; if you choose the last, put three 
ounces of butter in a pan with a table-spoonful of 
flour, mix it with a w;ooden spoon, and when it is of a 
light brown pour upon it a tumbler of the broth in 
which the hen was boiled ; add to it two small gher- 
kins cut in slices, and pour this sauce upon the hen. 

The remainder of the broth may be used for a^ 
soup, if you add two table-spoonfuls of gravy (from a 
roast) and boil some rice along with it 

244. Poularde au cileri {Fowl with Celery), 

Put six ounces of butter, a fowl, and six ounces of 
raw ham or bacon into a pan on a quick fire ; let 
the fowl take colour ; add half a tumbler of water, 
two large onions, two carrots, thyme, a bay-leaf and 
parsley tied together ; salt and pepper. Cover the pan, 
and let the fowl boil slowly for an hour ; turn it on the 
other side. After another hour take the vegetables 
out of the pan. Cut some celery in bits about as long 
as a finger, and throw them into boiling water rather 
highly salted, and let them boil in it until they b^[in 
to soften. Drain them in a sieve and put them around 
the hen, and let them boil with it for a quarter of an 
hour without putting the lid on the pan, for the 
water that comes out of the celery must evaporate 
immediately. 






VOLAILLES — POULTRY. 97 

245. PouU au riz {Fowl with Rice), 

Proceed as above, only use boiled rice instead of 
celery. 

246. Dinde (Turkey and Turkey-fien), 

Never take a turkey with a yellow skin and reddish 
feet ; the skin should be white and the feet black, 
otherwise it is old and coarse. 

Turkey-hens are much more delicate than turkey- 
cocks ; still the largest are not to be roasted, for the 
middle-sized ones are the best. 

247. Dinde truffle rdtie (Truffled Turkey Roasted), 

Have ready about four pounds of truffles, cut them 
in four pieces each, and put them in a pan with a 
pound of chopped bacon and about a quarter of a pound 
of bread-crumb. Put the pan on a brisk fire, and move 
the contents about with a wooden spoon until all the 
ingredients seem to be hot. The turkey having been 
previously drawn, fill up the inside with the truffles, 
bacon, and bread-crumb ; sew up the opening, truss 
the turkey, and put it in a cool and dry place, in which 
it may remain for a week in winter, if the weather is 
cold and dry, for three or four days only if it is not, 
and only two days in summer. 

When the turkey is ready for roasting, put a slice 

of bacon upon its back, another upon its breast, and 

cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper, well 

fastened. Roast it at a moderate fire for two hours ; 

take off the paper and bacon, to let the turkey take 



XT 



98 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

colour, and salt it ; another hour will be sufficient to 
finish the roasting. 

Half a pound of truffles would be sufficient to give 
a very good flavour to a turkey ; but if it is wanted 
for a dtner de cMmonie^ no less than four or five 
pounds should be used. Of course, the quantity to 
be employed depends, in a great measure, upon the 
size of the turkey. 

248. Dinde aux marrons {Turkey with chestnuts). 

Chop the liver with half a pound of bacon and some 
parsley, put it inside the turkey (previously drawn), 
with a quart of boiled, peeled chestnuts, and roast 
as above. 

The remains of a turkey may be served cold with a 
mayonnaise (see No. 61, page 31), or warmed up in 
a tomato sauce (No. 56, page 29), or in a sauce 
piquante (No. 54, page 29). 

249. Dinde aux champignons (Turkey with 

Mushrooms), 

Proceed as above, only use blanched mushrooms 
instead of chestnuts. 

25a Dinde en daube. 

See Bceuf d VituviCy No. 287, page 113. Four 01 
five hours are required. 

251. Dinde aupdt (Boiled Turkey), 
See P^uU au p6t^ No. 243, page 95. Five or six 



VOLAILLES — POULTRY. 99 

hours' boiling is required. Serve with a tomato 
sauce. No. 56, page 29. 

252. Dindonneaux en salmis. 

Young turkeys may be roasted underdone, and 
warmed up in a sauce de salmis (see No. 53, page 28). 

253. Oies {Geese). 

They may be cooked either like turkeys, or like 
wild ducks. 

254. Pigeons rdtis (Roasted Pigeons), 

Bard them when they are drawn and trussed, and 
cover the breasts with vine-leaves if you have any. 
Roast them at a moderate fire for half an hour. 

255. Pigeons aux petits pois {Pigeons with Green Peas). 

Put the pigeons in a pan with six ounces of butter 
and four ounces of bacon ; let them take colour, and 
then take them out of the pan. Mix a table-spoonful 
of flour with the butter, and let it become brown ; pour 
upon it two wine-glasses of hot water, and put the 
pigeons back into the pan ; salt and pepper them ; 
cover the pan, and let them boil slowly for a quarter 
of an hour. Add a pint of green peas, a large onion 
and a bunch of parsley, and let the whole boil slowly 

for three-quarters of an hour. Remove the onion 

and parsley out of the pan, and serve. 



s 



100 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

256. Pigeons sur le gril {Broiled Pigeons). 

When plucked and drawn, cut open the pigeons 
from the neck to the tail, and flatten them with a 
roller. Dip them into melted butter and roll them 
in bread-crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Set them on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and 
when done on one side, turn them on the other. 
Serve with a sauce piquante (see No. 54, page 29). 

It is only very young pigeons which may be 
cooked on the gridiron. 

257. Pigeons d la crapaudine (Another way). 

When the pigeons are drawn, cut their backs open 
and fill them up with chives, parsley, and bacon, 
chopped together, and bread-crumb soaked in milk; 
the whole mixed together previously. Dip the pigeons 
in olive-oil, roll them in bread-crumbs, and wrap them 
up in a sheet of well-buttered paper ; each separately. 
Put the pigeons on the gridiron, and turn them on all 
sides to broil them equally. When sufficiently done, 
take off the papers, and serve. 

Pigeons k la crapaudine may be cooked in the 
oven. 

2^58. Pigeons d la minute. 

Cut each pigeon in four pieces ; put them in a pan 
with six ounces of butter, two ounces of fat bacon, 
and a handful of mushrooms. Move the whole with 
a fork for a quarter of an hour. Take the pigeons out 
of the pan, and put in their stead a table-spoonful of 
flour and a little hot water, or broth if you have any; Y 



VOLAILLES— POULTRY. lOI 

when it boils put the pigeons back into the pan for 
five minutes, and squeeze upon them the juice of 
a lemon. 

The fire is to be sharp all the time. 

259. Pigeons d la provengale. 

Put the pigeons in a pan with two table-spoonfuls 
of olive-oil ; let them take colour over a quick fire. 
Add four anchovies, a bunch of chervil, twenty small 
onions, and a little garlic; salt and pepper. When 
half done add six small sausages, and let the pigeons 
simmer slowly for another half-hour. When ready, 
squeeze upon them the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

260. Pigeons en compote. 

Cut them in four pieces, and put them in a pan 
with six ounces of butter and twenty small onions. 
When they are of a nice colour take them out of the 
pan, and put in their stead a table-spoonful of flour. 
When the flour is brown throw upon it some hot water, 
and mix it with a wooden spoon. Put the pigeons back 
into the pan with salt, pepper; a bay-lea^ parsley, 
and thyme tied together. Cover the pan, and let the 
pigeons boil slowly for an hour. 

Take the bay-leaf, thyme, and parsley out of the 
pan, and serve. 

261. Pigeons au vin (Pigeons with Wine). 

Proceed as above, only instead of water pour a 
tumbler of red Burgundy wine upon the flour; and 
ivhen the paeons are ready, serve them upon toasts^ 



I02 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



\ 



CHAPTER XIII. 

PORC (pork). 

The fat parts of a pig, the fillets, and cutlets ought 
to be white, and the rest of a light red. When you 
choose a pig, try to get one with small bones and 
fine skin ; it is a proof that the breed is good, and the 
flesh will be more tender. 

I am going to give receipts concerning fresh pork 
and salted ham : the receipts for curing ham, making 
sausages, &c. will be found in the chapter on provisions. 

262. Porcfrais rdti {Roasted Pork). 

The best piece for roasting is that which is to be 
found under the ribs, or the ribs themselves. Previous 
to roasting, the piece should be slightly salted and 
put in a dry place for a few days: not in a cellar, 
where it would be almost sure to get tainted, a taste 
impossible to remove. 

A roast of pork, to be really good, must be per- 
fectly done, and will require, at leasts two hours 
roasting at a moderate fire. When ready, serve with 
a sauce piquante (No. 54, page 29), to which you 
add the gravy, having previously removed the extra 
quantity of fat. 

Some people sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of vin^ 



PORC — PORK. 103 

upon the piece of pork two days before roasting it ; 
it generally becomes more tender after this process. 

The remains of this roast may be served cold with 
a mayonnaise (No. 61, page 31), or warm in a tomato- 
sauce (No. 56, page 29), or with a sauce robert (No. 
44, page 25). 

263. Filet de pore d la bolonaise. 

Put the fillet or the ribs in a pot, and cover it over 
with vinegar and sage-leaves ; add four cloves, the 
rind of a lemon, salt and pepper, and let it remain 
so for two days ; then put it in a pan with half of the 
vinegar, two tumblers of water or broth, two large 
onions and four carrots cut in slices. Put it over a 
brisk fire and let it boil quickly for five minutes ; 
skim it, and cover the fire to let the pork boil slowly 
for three hours. Take it out of the pan, put the 
carrots around it, and keep it warm whilst the sauce 
boils quickly to evaporate ; when it is thickish pour 
it upon the pork. 

264. Cdtelettes deporcfrais d la minute {Cutlets). 

Put a little laid in a frying-pan over a quick fire, 
when it is very hot put the cutlets in it, and let them 
take colour ; turn them on the other side, and when 
they are of a light brown pour a tumbler of water upon 
them. Reduce the fire ; salt and pepper the cutlets^ 
and let them boil rather fast until they are done ; 
then add some gherkins cut in slices, and a table- 
spoonful of vin^rai; and serve A quarter of an hour 
is sufiicient. 




\ 



104 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

265. Cdtelettes de pore enpapillotes {Another way). 

Beat the cutlets and flatten them with a roller, cut 
off the fat, and dip them in melted lard, roll them in 
bread-crumbs, and sprinkle upon them a little grated 
nutmeg and chopped parsley. Tie them in a piece 
of well-buttered paper, and set them either on the 
gridiron over a very slow fire, or in a moderate oven. 
When they are sufficiently done (half an hour is 
sufficient), take the papers off, and serve the cutlets 
either with a tomato-sauce (No. 56, page 29), or a 
sauce piquante (No. 54, page 29). 

266. Cdtelettes de pore brais/es {Another way). 

Beat the cutlets, and rub them over with flour, 
have some melted butter or lard on a quick fire ; put 
the cutlets into it, and let them take colour on both 
sides. Salt and pepper them, add two wine-glasses 
of water ; a bay-leaf, thyme, and parsley tied together ; 
and reduce the fire. Cover the pan, and put some 
red charcoal on the top. Let the cutlets simmer 
slowly for an hour. Take the parsley, thyme, and 
bay-leaf out of the pan, and put in their stead two 
chopped shalots and two gherkins ; let them boil for 
two minutes, and serve. 

267. Cdtelettes depore atix truffes {Cutlets with Truffles), 

Proceed as above, only do not put any thyme with 
the cutlets ; and use white Burgundy or Bordeaux 
wine instead of water. When the cutlets are done, 
chop coarsely four or five truffles and let them boil 



PORC — PORK. 105 

for five minutes in the sauce, instead of shalots and 
gherkins. 

268. l^paule de pore d la marinih'e (Roasted 

Shoulder of Pork), 

Put a shoulder of pork for two days into salted 
water ; take it out and put it for other two days in 
red Burgundy wine of good quality, such as Beaune 
(two bottles are required). Put in the wine some 
cayenne pepper, four sage-leaves, eight cloves, a bay- 
leaf and thyme. On the fifth day take the shoulder 
out of the wine and wipe it carefully ; make about six 
incisions in it with a sharp knife, and insert a little 
garlic in each ; then roll it in a sheet of well-buttered 
paper, and roast it at a moderate fire. When it is 
done, and still before the fire, take the paper and the 
skin off and sprinkle some bread-crumbs upon it 
several times over, so as to form a sort of crust ; 
roasting it, of course, all the time. It may be used 
instead of ham. 

269. Jambon au naturel (Boiled Ham), 

Before boiling a ham it is a good precaution to 
thrust into it a knitting-needle, and put it upon the 
tongue to ascertain to what degree the ham is salted, 
and how long it will have to remain in fresh water; 
some require a day, others two or three. All the 
yellowish parts must be cut off, for they would spoil 
the whole of the ham. 

When you take it out of the water wipe it care- 
fully, and fasten it up in a clean towel. Put it in 




I06 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

a large pot with two large onions, four carrots, ten 
cloves, a bunch of parsley, a little garlic, some cayenne 
pepper, a branch of thyme, and six bay-leaves ; fill 
up the pot with cold water. Let the ham boil for five, 
six, or eight hours, according to its size, and take it 
out of the pot Undo the towel and take the middle 
bone out of the ham whilst it is hot ; then put the 
ham back again in the towel, and in fastening it very 
tight give it a good shape, and let it cool. The day 
after sprinkle some bread-crumbs upon it, and put 
some paper, nicely cut out, around the top bone. 

270. Jambon d la Bourguignonne {Another way). 

Proceed as above, only when you put the ham into 
the pot use less water, and fill up with a bottle of 
Meursault, or other white Burgundy wine. When it 
is done, take it out of the towel, and remove all the 
bones. Lay the ham at the bottom of a round deep 
dish; lift up the skin without breaking it, and put 
upon the fat, on all the surface, some chopped parsley 
soaked in vinegar ; it should be about half an inch 
thick. Put the skin back upon the parsley, which is 
now placed between the fat and the skin. Cover the 
ham with a dish rather smaller than the first — so as 
to fit the inside of it — and put a good weight upon 
it to press heavily upon the ham. Take it out the 
day after ; it will have a nice shape, a delicious taste, 
and will look very pretty with its green edge of 
parsley when cut in slices. 

There is another way of boiling ham, but it is vei}' 
extravagant ; it consists in replacing the white wine 



I 



PORC-^PORK. 107 

and water, of the above receipt, by champag^ne ; no 
doubt it is good, but it is also very expensive. 

271. Jdmbon au vin {Ham with Wine), 

Cut some thin slices of raw ham and put them 
in a frying-pan, with a little butter, over a quick fire. 
Sprinkle a little pounded sugar upon the slices, and 
let them take colour on both sides. Take them out 
of the pan immediately, for they would become tough, 
and pour two wine-glasses of red Bordeaux or Bur- 
gundy wine into the pan. Let it boil quickly for tvvo 
minutes, and pour it upon the slices of ham. 

272. Jambon rdti (Roasted Ham), 
See Apaule de Pore, No. 268, page 105. 

273. Oreilles de pore (Ears), 

They must be put into boiling water and well 
scraped; then washed in cold water, and carefully 
wiped. 

When cleaned, put them in a pot with four cloves, 
two onions, two carrots, a little garlic; a bay-leaf, 
thyme, and parsley tied tc^ether. Cover them wth 
cold water, and let them boil until they are tender, 
and serve with a tomato-sauce (No. 56, page 29), or a 
sauce piquante (No. 54, page 29). 

274. Oreilles f rites (Fried Ears). 

When cleaned and boiled as above, let them cool ; 
dip them in a p4te a frire (see Index), and fr>' them 




I08 HOUSEHOLD- COOKERY. 

in hot lard, then serve with a tomato-sauce (No. 56, 
page 29), or a sauce robert (No. 44, page 25). 

275. Rognons {Kidneys). 

See Rognon de Veau^ No. 321, page 128. 
If the pig is old it is better not to use the kidneys, 
as they generally contract a very bad taste. 

276. Pieds de pore sur le gril {Broiled Feet). 

When cleaned and boiled, like ears (see No. 273, 
page 107), let them cool. When half cold, open them 
by the middle, remove the small hairy balls, and 
powder the feet well all over with bread-crumbs. Put 
them on the gridiron over a moderate fire, and when 
done, serve with a tomato-sauce (No. 56, page 29), or 
with a sauce piquante (No. 54, page 29). 

277. Pieds deporcfarcis {Another way). 

Proceed as above. When the feet are half cold, 
remove all the bones, and chop the flesh with a little 
parsley and a few truffles, salt and pepper, and incor- 
porate with it a table-spoonful of bread-crumbs ; then 
give it an oblong shape, and cover it all over with 
a piece of caul, and rub it well with bread-crumbs, 
and broil for a quarter of an hour over a moderate fire. 

You may use sausage-meat instead of truffles ; it 
will be plainer, but still very good, 

278. Queues de pore {Tail), 

Proceed as for oreilles de pore (Nos. 273, 274, 
page 107). 



PORC — PORK. 109 

279. Sauctsses {Sausages). 

Put some lard or butter in a frying-pan over a quick 
fire. When it is very hot put the sausages in it, and 
turn them frequently about When done, pour half 
a tumbler of water upon them^ and let them boil for 
five minutes longer. 

280. Saucisses aux pommes {Sausages with Apples). 

Cut some apples in thin slices and put them in 
a frying-pan with four ounces of fresh butter and the 
sausages. Move the whole about frequently with a 
wooden spoon ; add a wine-glass of water ; mix it 
well with the apples. When sufficiently done, serve 
the sausages on the top of the apples. 

281. Boudin {Black Pudding). 

Prick it in several places with a fork to prevent it 
from bursting, and broil it over a moderate fire. 



no HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

VIANDE DE BOUCHERIE (BUTCHER'S MEAT). 

Bcmf {Beef), 

Ox beef is the best. It ought to be of a bright red 
colour, with streaks of white fat ; if it is pale, it comes 
from a cow ; if it is rough, of a dark red with yellow 
fat it comes from a bull, and is sure to be tough. 

It is quite necessary to know which are the pieces 
best adapted for the different ways of cooking them ; 
no doubt several pieces may be stewed, roasted, or 
boiled indifferently, but it is also a fact that some of 
them will be much better cooked in a particular way, 
than if they were cooked otherwise. 

The best pieces for roasting are the fillet and ribs ; 
for soup use the neck, tail, the top of the ribs, and all 
the inferior parts, and the rest for stewing. 

282. Bouilli en boulettes. 

If any meat remains after boiling it for a soup, chop 
it with a shalot and some parsley ; put the whole in 
a basin, add to it salt, pepper, two eggs, and four 
potatoes previously steamed and pounded in a mortar. 
Mix the whole perfectly ; then take a small quantity 



BCEUF — BEEF. 1 1 1 

of it in your hand and give it the shape of a ball 
about as large as a small apple. Roll it in flour. Do 
the same until no meat remains, then fry the boulettes 
in hot lard and drain them in a sieve. 

Be careful to rub the inside of your hands with flour, 
to prevent the boulettes from sticking. 

283. Gdteau de viande {Meat Cake). 

If you have to employ the remains of a roast, or 
any boiled meat, chop it with a shalot and some 
parsley, and mix with it eight eggs and six ounces of 
sausage-meat ; salt and pepper. Put six ounces of 
butter or lard into a pan over a quick fire. When very 
hot, pour the meat and eggs into it and let it harden at 
the bottom, so as to form a crust. When the crust is 
formed, which you ascertain by driving a fork through 
the meat to the bottom of the pan, cover the fire, and 
put some red charcoal on the top of the pan. Let 
the cake simmer for half an hour, then put a round 
deep dish on the top of the pan, which you turn 
quickly topsy-turvy. The meat-cake will then be in 
the dish with a nice crust on the top. 

This cake is easily made, only the pan in which it 
is cooked is to be larger at the top than it is at 
the bottom, to allow the cake to come out without 
difficulty. 

If the cake seems to stick to the pan, make an 
incision in the crust, and put a little butter into it. 

284. Aloyau rSti {Roast Beef ). 
Use the ribs and fillet, and cut off the top part of 




112 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ribs, as it always remains tough when roasted : besides 
the roast will have a much nicer appearance. 

Roast it at a quick fire, and be careful not to run 
larding-needles through it, as I have seen several 
cooks do. It makes the gravy run out, and leaves the 
roast dry. 

It is a good precaution to put two table-spoonfuls 
of water in the dripping-pan, to prevent the gravy from 
drying. Never use butter or lard for that purpose. 

The remains of roast-beef may be served in a sauce 
de salmis (see No. 53, page 28), or in a tomato sauce 
(see No. 56, page 29). 

Some people add to the gravy a chopped shalot 
and two or three gherkins. 

285. Filet de bceuf rdti (Roasted Fillet), 

This piece is to be taken under the rump, and is 
without bone. It is the most delicate part, and the 
only one ever used in France for roasting ; we pay for 
it double the price charged for any other piece. 

It may be roasted au nature^ that is, like a leg of 
mutton, or any other roast ; but generally we lard it 
very fine, and put it in a dish with two onions, and 
two carrots cut in slices, two bay-leaves, four cloves, 
a little thyme and garlic, some salt and pepper, four 
table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, and one of vinegar. It is'to 
be put in the cellar and kept there for two days, taking 
care to turn it on the second day ; then on the third 
day it is to be roasted at a moderate fire, and when 
half done, a table-spoonful of the oil in which it re- 
mained is to be added to the gravy. 



BOEUF— BEEF. 1 1 3 

286. Bomfd la mode. 

Fillet, or any other piece of beef, may be used for 
this purpose, provided it is free from bones and rather 
thick. 

Proceed as above before cooking it 

Lay some bacon and some thin slices of raw ham 
at the bottom of a pan ; put the piece of beef upon 
them, and range around it all the ingredients in which 
it remained for three days, adding a calf's foot, half a 
tumbler of white Burgundy wine, and a wine-glass of 
brandy. Let it boil very slowly for two hours, then 
turn it on the other side, and add a little burnt onion 
or burnt sugar, to give the sauce a nice colour. After 
two hours longer put the meat on a dish, and pour the 
gravy upon it through a sieve. 

If it is left to cool, the gravy will set to a firm, trans- 
parent jelly, and in that state it may be served at 
breakfast, lunch, or supper. 

287. Bcmf d Vihivie {Rump), 

Take the bones out of a rump of beef, break them, 

and tie up the meat, giving it a nice round shape. 

Put it in a pan with four ounces of butter, over a 

quick fire. Let it take colour on both sides, and pour 

upon it a tumbler of water and a tumbler of red 

Bordeaux or Burgundy wine ; salt and pepper ; add 

the bones, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and a little 

thyme, tied together. Reduce the fire, and put some 

i-ed charcoal on the lid of the pan. Let it boil slowly 

ibr two hours ; add a handful of mushrooms (if you 




114 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

have any), two cloves, two carrots cut in dice, and 
twelve small onions ; let them boil slowly for an hour. 
Take the parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and bones out of 
the pan, and serve. 

288. Cdte de bceufd la Flamande (Ribs), 

Lard all the fleshy parts, and put the meat into a 
pan with four ounces of butter, over a quick fire ; when 
of a nice colour on both sides, pour upon it a tumbler 
of white Burgundy wine and a tumbler of water ; add 
some parsley, a bay-leaf, two onions, two cloves, and 
two carrots ; salt and pepper. Reduce the fire, and 
put some red charcoal on the top of the pan. Let 
the meat boil slowly for four or five hours, then put it 
on a dish, pass the gravy through a fine sieve into 
another pan, add to it three or four truffles cut in 
slices ; let them boil for two minutes, and pour the 
sauce upon the meat. 

The truffles may be omitted. 

289. Filet de boeiif d, la satice tomate (Fillet with 

Tomato Satice), 

Lard a fillet of beef and put it in a pan with four 
ounces of raw ham, two carrots and two onions cut 
in slices, two cloves, a wine-glass of water, and as 
much brandy ; no salt, a little pepper. Let the fire 
be moderate, and put some red charcoal on the t<y 
of the pan. After three or four hours* slow boib'ng; 
pour the gravy out of the pan through a fine sieve, 
and mix it with a thick tomato sauce (see No. S^ 



BCEUF — ^BEEF. 1 1 5 

page 29). Pour the sauce into a deep dish and serve 
the fillet upon it 

290. FUet de bceufd Feati. 

Beat it and lard it, then put it in a pan and cover 
it with cold water ; add a little pepper and very little 
salt. Let it boil over a moderate fire for four hours 
and take off the lid of the pan to let the water evapo- 
rate, then serve 

This is a perfect way of cooking a fillet of beef, in 
spite of its apparent plainness ; it is really very refined, 
for it leaves to the meat all its own taste ; but to do 
this, you must be entirely sure of the quality of the 
meat. 

291. Bifteck aux pommes (Beefsteak with Potatoes), 

Take a fillet, or the thick part of the rump, cut it 
in nice rather thick squares, and beat them well with 
a roller ; never mind if you alter the shape, it will be- 
come right again after exposure to the fire. Set the 
steaks on a gridiron and broil them over a slow char- 
coal fire ; if it smokes on account of the fat dripping 
upon it, cover it with a thin layer of ashes. When 
completely done on one side turn the steaks on the 
other and be careful not to salt them whilst over the 
fire, else the gravy will come on the surface and leave 
the meat dry and tough. Chop some parsley and 
garlic together and put them on a dish with six ounces 
of fresh butter, salt and pepper Put the dish over a 
very slow fire or in the oven, to melt the butter ; lay 
the steaks in the middle, salt and pepper them, and 



Il6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

range around some fried potatoes (see Pommes de fern 
frites^ Index). 

292. Bifteck aufour {Beefsteak in the Oveti). 

Have ready a nice thick steak, put it in a quick 
oven with six ounces of butter; when done on one 
side turn it on the other, salt and pepper it ; add two 
wine-glasses of hot water. Chop together a shalot, 
two gherkins, and some parsley. Dish the steak and 
keep it warm, whilst you put the gherkins, shalot and 
parsley into the sauce. Let the gravy boil for two 
minutes, then mix with it half a table-spoonful of 
mustard and pour it upon the steak. 

You may add a little lemon-juice. 

293. Langue de boetif en daube {Ox Tongue). 

Cut off all the root, wash the tongue in cold water, 
wipe it and throw it into boiling water. Let it remain 
until the skin comes off easily ; then take it out 
and scrape it carefully. Wash it again and wipe it 
Lard it and put it in a pan with four ounces of lean 
bacon, thyme, a bay-leaf, pepper, half a tumbler of 
brandy and a tumbler of white Burgundy wine. Cover 
the pan. Let the tongue boil slowly for two hours; 
add four carrots cut in dice and twenty small onions. 
Cover the pan and let the tongue boil slowly for two 
hours longer ; then serve with the vegetables around it 

The part near the root may be boiled along with 
the tongue and given to the servants ; it is very good, IJ 
but cannot be served decently. 



BCEUF — ^BEEF. II7 

294« Langue de bceufen sauce piqiiante. 

Boil it in a pot-au-feu (see No. i, page 8), and 
serve with a sauce piquante (see No. 54, page 29). 

295. CervelU de bceuf {Ox Brains), 

Wash them carefully and take off all the skin ; 
wash them again in two or three different waters until 
no blood remains ; throw them into boiling water with 
a tumbler of vinegar, four onions, two carrots cut in 
slices, four cloves, a bay-leaf and thyme, some salt 
and pepper. Let them boil for half an hour, take 
them out of the water, and let them cool. When cold, 
cut them in slices and warm them up, either in a 
tomato sauce (No. 56, page 29), or in a sauce pro- 
ven§ale (No. 50, page 26), or in a sauce piquante, 
(No. 54, page 29). 

296. Cervelle de bceuf frite (Ox Brains Fried). 

Proceed as above. When they are cold, cut them 
in slices and dip them in a p4te i frire (see Index), 
and fry them in hot olive-oil or hot lard ; drain and 
salt them* and serve upon fried parsley. 

297. Queue de bceuf pan^e {Ox Tail). 

Boil it either in a pot-au-feu (see No. i, page 8), 
or like cervelle de bceuf (see No. 295, above), let it 
cool; dip it in melted butter and roll it in bread- 
crumbs. Broil it over a sharp fire, and serve with a 
tomato sauce (see No. 56, page 29), or a maitre d'hdtel 
(see No. 41, page 24). 



Il8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

298. Rognons sauUs {Kidneys). 

Pull off the skin and cut out the centre, which is 
always tough. Cut the kidney in slices and put them 
in a frying-pan with six ounces of butter. Toss them 
repeatedly over a sharp fire ; when they are of a nice 
colour, add a table-spoonful of flour and toss s^sdn ; 
salt and pepper. Chop some parsley and garlic and 
sprinkle it upon the kidneys ; add two wine-glasses of 
red Burgundy or Bordeaux wine ; reduce the fire and 
let the kidney boil for twenty minutes longer. 



VEAU — ^VEAL. 

Veal should be fat and white ; red and skinny veal 
will never be good. A great part of the most delicate 
French dishes are prepared with calfs kidneys, brains, 
liver, sweetbread, etc. 

299. Veau rdti {Roasted Veal). 

As veal requires to be perfectly done, if you have 
a large piece to roast, it would be a good precaution 
to wrap it up in a piece of well-buttered paper until 
nearly done. Roast it at a moderate fire, else the 
surface will harden and the middle remain raw. 
About a quarter of an hour before serving, take off 
the paper, salt the roast and let it take colour. It 
should not be brown, but of a golden colour. 

Roasting veal is perhaps the worst way to cook it, 
as it is insipid ; larding improves it greatly. 



VEAU — ^VEAU 119 

300. Veau rdti aux fines tierbes {Anot/ier Way), 

Chop together some parsley and two shalots ; mix 
them with two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, some salt 
and pepper ; lay them upon the surface of the veal that 
you are going to roast, and which you wrap up in a 
well-buttered piece of paper. Roast it at a moderate 
fire for two or three hours. A quarter of an hour before 
the roast is done, unfasten the paper and scrape off the 
parsley and shalots, which you put in a pan with four 
ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour. Move 
the flour about with a wooden spoon until it becomes 
of a light brown. Pour upon it a tumbler of boiling 
water or broth ; salt and pepper. Add half a table- 
spoonful of vinegar or the juice of a lemon and let it 
boil slowly. When the roast is of a nice colour, take 
the gravy out of the dripping-pan ; add it to the 
sauce. Let the whole boil together for two minutes 
and serve the roast and the sauce separately. 

The remains of a roast of veal may be used as 
follows : — 

301. RagoAt de veau. 

Cut the remains of the roast in slices about half an 
inch thick, put them in a pan with six ounces of 
butter over a sharp fire, and let them take colour on 
both sides. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of flour upon 
them. Add a tumbler of boiling water, some salt 
and pepper, a bay-leaf, a little parsley and garlic 
chopped together. Cover the pan and let the veal 
boil quickly for a quarter of an hour. Take the b; 



^ 



1 20 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

leaf out of the pan ; squeeze the juice of a lemon 
upon the slices of veal, and serve. 

Add, if you like the taste, two gherkins cut in slices. 

302. Blanquette de veau. 

Take either a shoulder of veal or any part of the 
breast ; cut it in pieces about three inches square and 
half an inch thick. Throw them into a quart of boil- 
ing water with a bay-leaf, a little thyme and parsley 
tied together, four ounces of bacon cut in dice, an 
onion, one clove, a little garlic, some salt and pepper. 
Cover the pan and let the veal boil for a quarter of an 
hour. Add a tumbler of white Burgundy wine, and 
six ounces of fresh butter, kneaded with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Reduce the fire, cover the pan, 
and let the veal boil slowly for an hour. Add a 
handful of mushrooms, if you have any, and let them 
boil in the sauce for a quarter of an hour ; then take 
the parsley, onion, garlic, bay-leaf, and thyme out of 
the pan. Prepare a liaison (see No. 66). Remove the 
pan from the fire, pour the liaison into the sauce, and 
do not let it boil afterwards ; serve immediately. 

This dish, like any other in which there is a liaison, 
can be warmed up only au bain-marie — ^that is^ in 
putting the pan into boiling water. 

303. Carrd de veau d la bonne femtne. 

Lard a fillet of veal and put it in a pan, over a sharp 
fire, with four ounces of butter, and six ounces of raw 
ham or bacon; let them take colour on both sides. 



VEAU — VEAL. 121 

Add a tumbler of boiling water, a wine-glass of brandy, 
two cloves; a bunch of parsley, a small branch of 
thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together. Cover the fire, 
put some red charcoal on the top of the pan, and let 
the veal simmer for two hours. Take the seasonings 
out of the pan, and put in their stead, twenty small 
onions and six carrots cut in slices, or, better still, 
twenty young carrots. Cover the pan, let the whole 
boil slowly for an hour longer, and serve. 

304. Apaule de veaufarcie {Stuffed Shoulder), 

Have ready a shoulder of veal ; take the bones out, 
nicely, without cutting the skin. Chop together one 
onion, eight ounces of raw ham, and some parsley, 
which you mix with six ounces of stale bread, soaked 
in broth or milk, and two eggs, a little salt and pepper. 
Make with all these ingredients a sort of paste, which 
you insert in the holes left by the removal of the 
bones. Now roll the shoulder and fasten it up tightly. 
Put it in a pan, over a quick fire, with four ounces of 
butter, and let it take colour. Take it out of the pan ; 
add to the butter two table-spoonfuls of flour, and 
let it become brown ; pour upon it two tumblers of 
boiling water, and mix about with a wooden spoon. 
Put the shoulder back into the pan, with four cloves, 
two large carrots, and two large onions cut in slices ; 
some parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf, salt and pepper. 
Put some charcoal on the lid of the pan, and let the 
shoulder boil slowly for five hours. Take it out of 
the pan, and pour the gravy upon it through a sieve. 

The vegetables are not to be served. 



122 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

A shoulder farcie may be served cold (without 
gravy) at breakfast, lunch, or supper. 

Breast of veal may be cooked in the same way. 

305. r.paule de veau aux petits pois {Breast of Veal 

with Green Peas). 

Cut it in pieces about three inches square and put 
them in a pan, with six ounces of fresh butter; let 
them take colour on both sides, and sprinkle upon them 
a table-spoonful of flour. Toss two or three times 
over the fire ; add a tumbler of boiling water, some salt 
and pepper ; some parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied 
together, and one onion. Cover the fire and let the 
veal boil slowly for an hour. Take the seasonings 
out of the pan, and put in their stead a pint of green 
peas ; cover the pan for five minutes to let the water 
come out of the peas ; then take off the lid of the pan, 
which you set over a quick fire, to let the water evapo- 
rate. The peas, if tender, will not require more than 
a quarter of an hour's fast boiling. Serve with the 
slices of veal in the centre of the dish, and the peas 
around them. 

306. r.paule de veau aux choux {Shoulder of Veal with 

Cabbages). 

Take the bones out of a shoulder of veal ; beat it well 
with a roller, and lard it ; roll it, and fasten it up. Cut 
two cabbages through the middle, and put them in a 
pan, with six ounces of butter ; let them become of a 
nice colour on all sides. Take them out of the pan 
and put the shoulder in their stead. When it is of a 
light brown pour upon it a tumbler of boiling water. 



VEAU — VEAL. 123 

Add some salt, pepper, carrots, onions, thyme, a bay- 
leaf, and parsley tied together. Cover the pan, and put 
some charcoal on the lid. Let the shoulder boil for 
an hour. Take the seasonings out of the pan, and 
place the cabbages around the shoulder, with four 
sausages, if you have any. Cover the pan, and let the 
whole simmer for an hour, and serve. 

307. Longe de veau A la bourgeoise. 

Lard a fillet of veal and put it on a dish ; lay upon 
it two lemons and three large onions cut in slices; 
pour upon it four table-spoonfuls of olive-oil ; salt and 
pepper it. After a quarter of an hour, turn it, and 
let it remain as it is for another quarter of an hour ; 
then put it in a pan, over a moderate fire, with the oil, 
onions, and lemons. Let the veal simmer for three 
hours ; dish it and pour into the pan a gill of broth 
or hot water, and half a tumbler of white Burgundy 
wine. Let the sauce boil very fast for five minutes ; 
squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, and pour it 
upon the veal through a sieve. 

308. C6telettes de veau en papillotes {Cutlets), 

Chop some parsley, chives, raw ham — mushrooms 
and truffles if possible — together. Mix them with 
an egg, bread-crumb and pepper. Put a thin layer 
of this force-meat on each side of the cutlets, which 
you wrap up first in a thin slice of fat bacon, then in 
a sheet of well-buttered paper. When ready, put 
them on the gridiron over a slow fire, and broil them 
for half an hour on each side. *J^ 



N 



124 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

It IS much easier, and quite as good, to cook them 
in a moderate oven, as there is no smoke, and you are 
not obliged to watch the papers so carefully. 

C6telettes en papillotes should be served with 
their paper of a light brown, and not burnt. 

309. Cdtehttes de veau aux fines herbes (Cutlets in the 

Frying-Pan), 

Put six ounces of butter in a frying-pan over a 
quick fire ; when it is very hot, put the cutlets (pre- 
viously rubbed with flour) into it, and let them take 
colour on both sides. Add a tumbler of boiling 
water, some salt and pepper. Chop together some 
parsley, gherkins, chives, and a little garlic ; add 
them to the sauce, and let them boil in it for a 
quarter of an hour; squeeze the juice of a lemon 
upon the cutlets, and serve. 

310. Cdtelettes de veau d la provenqale. 

Rub your cutlets with flour, and put them in a pan 
with two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil ; let them take 
colour on both sides. Reduce the fire, cover the pan, 
and let the cutlets simmer for half an hour. Add a 
tumbler of hot water, four anchovies, two gherkins 
cut in slices, and a little garlic. Let the whole boil 
together for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 

311. Cdtelettes d la Dreux. 

Rub your cutlets with flour, and let them take 
colour with four ounces of butter and four ounces of 



VEAU — ^VEAL. 125 

bacon cut in dice ; when of a light brown, add a 
tumbler of hot water, two carrots cut in slices, and 
twelve small onions, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; salt 
and pepper. Cover the fire, and let the cutlets boil 
slowly for half an hour. Take the thyme, bay-leaf, 
and parsley out of the pan, pour into it two wine- 
glasses of Madeira, and let the sauce boil very 
quickly (with the lid off the pan) for a quarter of 
an hour. 

312. Cdtelettes d la Milanaise, 

Dip your cutlets into melted butter, and rub them 
with bread-crumbs ; beat four eggs, and mix some 
bread-crumbs with grated parmesan cheese, salt and 
pepper. Dip the cutlets into the beaten eggs, and 
rub them two or three times with the bread-crumbs 
and parmesan; fry them in very hot lard. When 
done, take them out of the frying-pan, drain them in 
a sieve, and pour upon them a tomato-sauce (see 
No. 56, page 29). 

313. Fricandeau glac^. 

Cut some slices of veal, free from bones, about 
half an inch thick, and four inches long. Lard them 
on both sides, and put them in a pan with four ounces 
of butter. When they are of a golden colour on both 
sides, pour upon them some boiling water ; enough to 
cover them over. Add some parsley, a bay-leaf, thyme, 
two large onions, and carrots cut in slices ; salt and 
pepper. Let the whole simmer slowly for two hours ; 
then take the gravy out of the pan and pour it 



^ 



126 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

through a fine sieve into another pan, which you set 
on a brisk fire. Let the sauce boil very fast until it 
is almost as thick as a jelly ; dish the veal (without 
vegetables), and pour the sauce upon it 

314. Fricandeau d Voseille^ 

Proceed as above, and when you take the gravy 
out of the pan add it gradually to a pur^e ^ Toseille 
(see Index), and serve the veal upon the pur6e. 

315. Fricandeau d la chicorie. 

See above, Fricandeau d roseille, only use chicory 
instead of green sauce. 

316. Rouelle dans son jus. 

Have ready a nice leg of veal, cut it through the 
middle, and from the large side cut a piece about three 
inches thick ; beat it well with a roller, and rub it with 
flour. Put it in a pan with four ounces of butter, and 
let it take colour on both sides. Add a tumbler of 
hot water, salt and pepper. Cover the fire, put some 
red charcoal on the top of the pan, and let the veal 
simmer slowly for three hours. Chop some parsley 
and a little garlic ; put them in the sauce with the 
juice of a lemon, and serve. 

317. Rouelle de veau farcie. 

Take the middle of a leg of veal ; cut it flat about 
three inches thick. Chop together six ounces of 



VEAU — ^VEAL, 127 

bacon, some parsley and garlic; mix them with 
bread-crumb, two eggs, very little salt, and some 
pepper, thick enough to form a sort of paste. Cover 
both sides of the veal with this paste, fasten it up 
with string, and sprinkle some flour upon it. Put six 
ounces of butter in a pan, and when it is very hot 
put the veal into it, and let it take colour on both 
sides. Add half a tumbler of water. Cover the fire, 
and put some red charcoal on the top of the pan. 
Let the veal simmer slowly for three hours. Take it 
out of the pan, remove the string carefully without 
breaking the crust formed upon the veal, and serve. 

318. Rouelle de veau au vin. 

Use the same piece as above, and rub it with flour. 
Put it in a pan with four ounces of butter ; when it 
is of a nice colour on both sides, add a tumbler of 
water, and a tumbler of white Burgundy wine; some 
salt and pepper, an onion, and a bay-leaf Cover 
the fire, put some charcoal on the top of the pan, 
and let the veal boil slowly for two hours. Then 
take off the lid of the pan, which you put on a brisk 
fire, and let the sauce boil quickly to get thicker. 
When it is of a proper thickness, take out the onion 
and bay-leaf, and serve. 

319. Roiielle de veau aux onions. 

Put six ounces of butter in a pan over a quick fire. 
When it is very hot, throw into it twelve large onions 
with a piece of bacon in each, and let them become 



i 



128 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of a nice colour, tossing them repeatedly over the 
fire. Take them out of the pan, and put the veal 
well-rubbed with flour in their stead. When it is of 
a light brown on both sides, pour upon it a tumbler 
of hot water ; add to it some parsley, thyme, and a 
bay-leaf tied together, some salt and pepper. Cover 
the fire and the pan, and let the veal simmer for t\vo 
hours ; then turn it on the other iside ; take the 
parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf out of the pan ; add the 
onions. Cover the pan, and let the onions simmer 
along with the veal for another hour, and serve. 

320. Rognon de veau saut^ [Kidney). 

Choose it of a light colour, cut it in small pieces, 
and put it in a pan with six ounces of butter, and 
a table-spoonful of flour; toss over the fire until it 
becomes of a blonde colour. (Do not let it become 
brown, it would be tough.) Add a tumbler of red 
Bordeaux or Burgundy wine ; salt and pepper. Toss 
again. When it is done, sprinkle upon it a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

321. Rognon de veau d la Bourguigfionne, 

Cut it in small pieces, and put it in a pan with six 
ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a handful 
of blanched mushrooms cut through the middle, and 
a little garlic. Toss over a moderate fire and prevent 
any part from becoming brown, as the sauce is to be 
white. When it is hot, pour upon it half a tumbler 
of water, and as much white Burgundy wine ; salt 



VEAU— VEAL. 1 29 

and pepper. Move the sauce about with a wooden 
spoon until the kidney is done. Then take the pan 
off the fire, add half of the juice of a lemon to the 
sauce, and serve. 

322. Ris de veau glach (Sweetbreads), 

Wash them well in cold water, and throw them 
into boiling water. Take off the skin, and let them 
remain in fresh cold water for ten minutes ; then cook 
them like fricandeau glac6 (see No. 313, page 125), 
but half an hour is sufficient 

323. Ris de veau ct la poiilette. 

Clean them as above, and cook them like blan- 
quette de veau, No. 302, page 120. Half an hour is 
sufficient 

324. Ris de veau satit^s. 

When cleaned, like No. 322, cut them in three or 
four pieces, and let them cool. Take some gravy 
from a roast, add to it two wine-glasses of Madeira, 
and let them boil slowly together for five minutes. 
Put the sweetbreads in this sauce, and let them boil 
in it until they are done. 

325. Ris de veau en caisses. 

When cleaned, like No. 322, boil the sweet-breads 
in broth until nearly done ; take them out and dip 
them into thick gravy. (You may use gravy 
coming from a roast, if boiled thick.) 'R.oW ^JJci^tam 

K 



130 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

bread-crumbs. Miake some paper cases and place 
the sweetbreads each in a separate case. Put them 
in the oven, and serve them when they are of a 
golden colour. 

326. Ris de veau aux fines kerbes. 

Chop together some parsley, chives, and shalots, and 
put them in a pan with four ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of flour, the sweetbreads (previously cleaned), 
half a tumbler of water and as much white Burgundy 
or Bordeaux wine, salt, pepper, and a few thin slices of 
fat bacon ; the last are to be put at the bottom of the 
pan and the sweetbreads upon them. Cover the pan 
and let the sweetbreads boil slowly for half an hour. 
If the sauce is not thick enough, take off the lid of 
the pan and let it evaporate to a proper thickness; 
take off part of the fat, and serve. 

327. Ris de veau au gratin. 

Put four ounces of butter at the bottom of a pie- 
dish, then a layer of sweetbreads, previously blanched. 
Cover them with parsley, mushrooms, stale bread, 
bacon, and chives chopped together. Sprinkle some 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg on the top and put 
the dish in the oven. Let it remain for a quarter of 
an hour, and serve. 

328. Cervelles de veaufrites (Brains), 

Clean them like sweetbreads (see No. 322, page 1^ 
129), dip them in a pate i frire (see Index), and fiy L 



VEAU — ^VEAL. 131 

them in hot lard. Drain and salt them, and serve 
with lemons, to be squeezed upon them by those who 
like the taste. 

Brains may be cooked exactly like sweetbreads 
(see Nos. 322, 323, 324, 325, 326, 327). 

329. Fraise de veau d la vinaigrette (Calf's Paunch). 

Blanch it in salted boiling water, then put it in cold 
water. Boil it with onions, cloves, salt, pepper, a 
tumbler of vinegar and water, enough to cover the 
whole. Let it boil for three hours, and serve it hot 
with a ravigote (see No. 63, page 31). 

330. Fraise de veau d lapoulette, 

Blanch and boil it as above and let it cool, then cut 
it in small pieces and put it in a pan with six ounces 
of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, some boiled 
mushrooms, and a little garlic and parsley chopped 
together. Toss it over a moderate fire, but do not 
let it take colour. Add a wine-glass of boiling water, 
a little salt and pepper. Let the whole boil five 
minutes, then mix two yolks of eggs with a spoonful 
of vinegar. Take the pan off the fire and pour the 
yolks into the sauce with one hand, whilst you stir it 
with the other. Serve immediately. 

331. Fraise de veau f rite (Fried), 

Blanch it and boil it as indicated, No. 329, let it 
cool and cut it in small bits, which you dip in a 
p4te a frire (see Index), and fry them in hot lard. 

K2 




132 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Drain and salt them, and when dished, squeeze upon 
them the juice of a lemon. 

332. Fraise de veau ct la sauce tontate. 

When cleaned and boiled as indicated, No. 329, 
page 132, let it cool, and cut it in pieces, which you 
warm up in a tomato sauce (see No. 56, page 29). 

333. Tiie de veau au naturel (Calf^s Head Boiled). 

In every French town it is easy to get a calfs 
head ready for boiling, but in the country one is 
obliged to know how to manage for one's self, and I 
shall indicate the means of making a calfs head look 
as nice as possible. 

Cut the skin and flesh under the jaws, and saw off 
the bones to the big teeth. Cut off the tongue and 
break the palate ; then turn up the skin without 
breaking it and saw off the upper jaw. Then clean 
thoroughly the inside of the ears with a wet piece of 
linen wrapped round a stick, and put the calfs head 
in a bucket with plenty of cold water. Let it remain 
so for two hours. Take it out, put down in its usual 
place the skin which you had turned up, and rub the 
whole of the head with a lemon cut through the 
middle. Then sew it up tightly in a towel, to keep it 
white and to prevent it from taking an ugly shape. 

Put it in a pot with cayenne pepper, salt, garlic; 
parsley, bay-leaves and thyme. Cover it with water ifl 
which you mix two ounces of flour and six ounces of 
butter. Let it boil slowly for six hours, and be careful 



VEAU — ^VEAL. 133 

to add boiling water from time to time, to keep the 
calf s head constantly covered over. When sufficiently 
boiled, take it out of the pan, undo the towel, and 
put the calf's head upon a dish previously warmed ; 
then put around it some fresh parsley, and boiled 
cray-fish or prawns, if you have any. Serve with a 
ravigote (see No. 63, page 31). 

The remains may be served cold with a mayonnaise 
(see No. 61, page 31), or warmed up in a sauce 
piquante (No. 54, page 29), or k la poulette, like 
fraise de veau i la poulette (No. 330, page 131). 

334. T^U de veau en tortue. 

When cleaned and boiled as above, cut it in pieces, 
then put in a pan four ounces of fresh butter, a pound 
of chopped bacon, and three table-spoonfuls of flour. 
Move the whole about with a wooden spoon, and do 
not let it take colour. Pour upon it a pint of hot 
water, mix thoroughly. Add the rind of a lemon, a 
bottle of white Burgundy wine, six cloves, a long 
pepper, bay-leaves, thyme, and six large onions. 
Cover the pan and let the whole boil for an hour ; 
then squeeze into the pan the juice of a lemon, and 
add the calf's head, some blanched mushrooms, 
French truffles, and prawns or cray-fish, if you have 
any. Cover the pan and let the head boil for half 
an hour. Take the pieces out and dish them in the 
form of a pyramid, with the eyes and ears on the top. 
Range around the basis the truffles, mushrooms, 
brains, and prawns. Keep the whole warm whilst 



134 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

you pass the sauce through a sieve into another pan. 
When it is boiling, take it from the fire and pour into 
it three yolks of eggs previously mixed with a little 
cream or milk. Mix the yolks with the sauce and 
pour it upon the calf 's head. 

It should be perfectly white. 

I know that this is not the way indicated in standard 
cookery books, but the recipes they give are so costly 
and so elaborate, that no cooks, but the most expe- 
rienced, can ever hope to succeed in their attempts. 
I have given here a practical and economical way, 
requiring only a little care, and a few ingredients easily 
found. This way has been found excellent every time 
I have used it 

335. 7V/^ de veaufrite (Fried), 

When cleaned and boiled, like No. 333, page 132, let 
it cool, and cut it in pieces which you dip in a pdte i 
frire (see Index), and fry in hot lard. 

336. Tite de veau ct la Saint MMhould, 

When cleaned and boiled, like No. 333, page 132, 
cut it in pieces. Put in a pan four ounces of butter, 
and a table-spoonful of flour, on a sharp fire. Let the 
flour become brown, and pour upon it a tumbler of 
boiling water or broth. Mix well, and take the pan 
from the fire. Pour into the sauce three yolks of 
eggs mixed with a table-spoonful of vinegar. Mix 
thoroughly. Dip the pieces of calf's head into the 
sauce, one after the other, and roll them in bread- 
crumbs ; then arrange them in a pie-dish, put them 



VEAU — ^VEAL. 135 

in the oven, and let them become of a nice colour, 
then serve with a sauce piquante (see No. 54, page 29). 

337. Pieds de veau d lapoiilette (Calf's Feet), 

In every town it is easy to find calf's feet ready for 
boiling. Choose them very white, and boil them for 
three hours like tfite de veau au naturel (No. 333, 
page 132), and when cold serve with a mayonnaise 
(see No. 61, page 31). 

Or, take the bones out of the calf's feet while they 
are hot, and cook them like fraise de veau a la pou- 
lette. No. 330, page 131. 

338. Foie de veau d la broclie {Roasted Calf's Liver). 

Lard it and put it in a dish with four table-spoonfuls 
of olive-oil, thyme, bay-leaves, salt and pepper, and let 
it remain so for five hours, turning it every two hours. 
Take it out of the dish and wrap it up in a sheet of 
well-oiled or well-buttered paper, and roast it at a 
moderate fire for an hour and a half When done, add 
to the gravy two chopped shalots, a little pepper, and 
the juice of a lemon. 

339. Foie de veau d la bourgeoise. 

Lard it and put it in a pan with four ounces of 
butter, four ounces of bacon cut in dice, twenty small 
onions, eight small carrots (or two large carrots cut in 
slices), parsley, bay-leaves, and thyme tied together, 
very little salt, some pepper, and a tumbler of white 
Burgundy or Bordeaux wine. Set the pan on a slow 




136 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

fire and put some charcoal on the top of it. Let the 
liver boil slowly for three hours. Take the parsley, 
bay-leaves, and thyme out of the pan, and dish the 
liver with the vegetables around it. 

If you want to serve the liver at lunch, breakfast, 
or supper, put a calf's foot along with it. Then, when 
you take the liver out of the pan, pour the gravy upon 
it through a fine sieve ; it will set in a jelly. Serve 
cold. 

340. Foie de veau en daube. 

Proceed as above, only use red Burgundy wine 
instead of white, and when ready to serve add a tea- 
spoonful of arrowroot to thicken the gravy. 

341. Foie de veau d ritalienne. 

Cut the liver in slices about half an inch thick and 
two inches long, and dip these slices into four eggs 
and two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil whipped together ; 
then rub them with flour and fry them in olive-oil. 

If it is for a dejeClner de cdrdmonie, proceed 
exactly as above, only dish the slices in the shape 
of a crown — ^that is, lay them around the rim of the 
dish, leaving an empty space in the centre, which 
you fill up with a tomato-sauce. 

342. Foie de veau d la minute. 

Cut the liver as above, and put the slices in the 
frying-pan on a sharp fire, with four ounces of butter. 
Let them take colour on both sides, and sprinkle 
a table-spoonful of flour upon them. Add a tumbler 



I 



MOUTON — MUTTON. 1 37 

of red Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, some salt and 
pepper. Reduce the fire, and let the slices boil for 
ten minutes. Add some chopped parsley and chives, 
and serve immediately. 

343. OreilUs de veau d la sauce piquante. 

Clean them carefully, and boil them like tete de 
veau (see No. 333, page 132). When done, put them 
on a dish, and fill up the insides with a sauce 
piquante (see No. 54, page 29), or with a tomato- 
sauce (No. 56, page 29). 

344. Langue de veau (Calfs Tongue). 
See Langue de Beeuf, No. 293, page 1 16. 

MouTOX (Mutton). 

Mutton should be of a very dark red, rather blackish, 
with the fat firm and white. It may be kept a long 
while, and is only the better for it ; the leg is the 
part which may be kept the longest, provided it is 
hung up in a dry, airy place, where flies cannot get 

345- Gigot rdti (Roasted Leg of Mutton). 

Choose it short and thick ; if it is long it comes 
from an inferior breed. 

When it has been kept for two or three days in 
summer, for five or six in winter, beat it well with 
a roller. In France we generally insert a clove of 
garlic near the knuckle, but if the taste of garlic is 
not liked, it may be easily omitted. Begin to loast 



138 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it at a sharp fire for half an hour to keep the gravy 
in ; then salt it ; let the fire get rather lower to 
finish the roasting, which requires from an hour and 
a half to two hours, according to size. 

The remains of a roasted leg of mutton may be 
used for a giteau de viande (see No. 283, page 1 1 1), or 
warmed up in a sauce piquante (see No. 54, page 29), 
in a tomato-sauce (No. 56, page 29), or in a sauce de 
salmis (No. 53, page 28). 

346. Gigot marini. 

Put it into a dish with six spoonfuls of olive-oil, 
two of vinegar, salt, pepper, and a good deal of thyme, 
bay-leaves, and cloves. Let it remain so for three 
days, turning it every day. Then roast it as above, 
only, when half done, add to the gravy the oil in 
which it was pickled. When the leg is sufficiently 
done, pour the gravy upon it, and take off the oil 
visible on the top of it. 

347. Gigot d la bourgeoise. 

Lard the leg of mutton, and put it in a pan with 
six ounces of raw ham or lean bacon, four large 
onions and carrots, thyme, bay-leaves, pepper, cloves, 
and a little salt, half a bottle of white Burgundy or 
Bordeaux wine, and water enough to cover the whole. 
Set it on a brisk fire, ahd skim when the water begins 
to boil ; then take off the lid of the pan, reduce the 
fire, and let the water evaporate. After ah hour's 
boiling, turn the leg of mutton, and let it boil for 



MOUTON — MUTTON. 1 39 

another hour (still with the lid off). Then dish it, 
and pour the gravy upon it through a fine sieve. 

If too much gravy remain, you should first dish 
the leg of mutton, and keep it warm ; then put the 
gravy on a very brisk fire, and let it boil away as fast 
as possible. 

348. Gig^ot d la Bourguigiionne, 

Take the bones out, and break them. Beat the 
leg of mutton with a roller, lard it, and fasten it up 
to give it a good shape ; then put it in a pan with 
four ounces of butter, and let it take colour on all 
sides ; pour upon it two tumblers of water, and one 
of red Burgundy or Bordeaux wine ; salt and pepper ; 
add the bones, a bay-leaf, thyme and parsley tied 
together. Reduce the fire, put some charcoal on the 
lid of the pan, and let the leg of mutton simmer for 
two hours. Add twenty small onions, as many small 
carrots, and some mushrooms, if you have any. Let 
the whole boil slowly for two hours. Take the bones, 
thyme, bay-leaf, and parsley out of the pan, and serve. 

349. Gigot d r Infante, 

Take out the bones, and break them ; lard the leg 
of mutton, and fasten it up to give it a good shape ; 
put it with the bones in a deep dish with six table- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil, salt, pepper ; parsley, chives, 
and shalot chopped together. Let it remain so for a 
day, turning it every two hours ; then take it out and 
wipe it Put it in a pan, on a brisk fire, with four 




140 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ounces of butter, and let it take colour on all sides. 
Pour upon it half a tumbler of water, and half a 
bottle of Sherry or Malaga. Arrange the bones 
around it, reduce the fire, and put some charcoal on 
the lid of the pan. Let the leg of mutton simmer 
for three hours ; then take the bones out of the pan, 
and put in their stead twenty small onions, and twelve 
small sausages. Cover the pan, and let the whole 
simmer for another hour. Serve the leg of mutton 
with the sausages and onions around it. 

It is a good improvement to put a thin, but large 
piece of raw ham at the bottom of the pan, and 
another on the top of the meat ; the ham keeps the 
leg of mutton tender, and becomes itself delicious, 
being impregnated with the flavour of the wine. 

350. Filet de mouton rbti {Roasted Breast of Mutton), 

Roast it like a leg of mutton. No. 346, page 137; 
only one hour's roasting will be sufficient. 

351. Filet de mouton aux haricdts verts ( With French 

Beans), 

Beat it well and put it in a pan, on a sharp fire, 
with four ounces of butter. Let it take colour on 
both sides, and pour upon it a tumbler of water. 
Salt and pepper. Add a little thyme, a bay-leaf, and 
parsley tied together. Reduce the fire, and cover the 
pan. In another pan have some boiling water, in 
which you throw three table-spoonfuls of salt, and a 



MOUTOX — MUTTOX. 141 

pound of French beans. Let them boil for five 
minutes, take them out of the water, drain them, 
and put them around the fillet of mutton. Let the 
whole boil slowly together for an hour. Take the 
parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme out of the pan, and serve 
the breast of mutton with the beans around it 

352. HaricSt de mouton. 

Take a breast of mutton, not too fat, and cut it 
in pieces an inch and a half square. Have ready 
twenty peeled potatoes, and t\%'elve turnips. (Long 
potatoes are the best, for they remain whole.) Put 
in a large pan, on a sharp fire, six ounces of butter. 
When it is very hot put the potatoes and turnips in 
the pan, and let them become of a light brown all 
round ; then take them out of the pan, and put them 
by. Add the pieces of mutton to the butter, and let 
them take colour on both sides ; pour upon them tA\'o 
tumblerfuls of hot water. Cover the fire, put some 
charcoal on the lid of the pan, and let the mutton 
boil slowly for half an hour. Add a large onion, 
some salt and pepper, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, 
and parsley tied together. Then put the turnips and 
potatoes upon the meat so as to let them be steamed ; 
do not put them around the meat, for they would 
absorb the sauce and lose all shape. Cover the pan, 
and let the whole boil slowly for two hours; then 
take the parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and onion out of 
the pan, and dish the meat with the vegetables 
around it. 




142 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

You may use potatoes only, if you do not like the 
taste of turnips, or else turnips alone if you have no 
potatoes. 

Breasts of mutton may be cooked like Nos. 345, 
346, 347, 348, 349, given for legs of mutton. 

353. Apaule de mouton {Shoulder of Mutton), 

Shoulders of mutton may be cooked like legs of 
mutton (see Nos. 345, 346, 347, 348, 349), but they are 
often tough when roasted. 

354. Epaule de mouton farcie {Stuffed), 

Exactly like ipaule de Veau Farcie, No. 304, page 
121. 

355- Cdtelettes de mouton grillies {Broiled Cutlets), 

Do not choose them very fat, and cut them neatly. 
Set them on the gridiron over a moderate fire, and if 
any fat drops upon the charcoal, cover the place with 
ashes immediately to prevent it from smoking. 

When the cutlets are done on one side, turn them 
on the other, and be careful 7iot to salt them whilst 
on the fire, for it makes the gravy come and dry on 
the surface. Put some fresh butter in a dish, with 
salt, pepper, chives, and parsley chopped together. 
Melt the butter over the fire, but do not let it boil ; 
and when the cutlets are sufficiently done (about 
twenty minutes are required) lay them upon the dish, 
and keep them warm for a minute, then turn them 
on the other side, and serve. 



MOUTON — ^MUTTON. 1 43 

356. Cdtelettes panh {Another Way), 

Dip the cutlets in olive-oil or melted butter well- 
seasoned with salt and pepper; rub them over with 
bread-crumbs, and pile them up. Put them in the 
cellar for a day. When you are ready to cook them, 
roll them another time in bread-crumbs, and set 
them on the gridiron. Broil them over a moderate 
fire for ten minutes on each side, and serve them 
with a tomato-sauce (see No. 56, page 29), or with 
a sauce piquante (see No. 54, page 29). 

357. Cbtelettes de mouton sauties. 

Put the cutlets in the frying-pan with six ounces of 
butter ; let them take colour on both sides. Sprinkle 
upon them a table-spoonful of flour and toss over the 
fire. Pour into the frying-pan half a tumbler of hot 
water. Salt and pepper the cutlets. Chop together 
some chives, gherkins, and parsley, add them to the 
sauce with half of the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

The fire is to be sharp all the time, and a quarter of 
an hour is sufficient for cooking cutlets in this way ; 
but it is required that the cutlets should be very 
tender, else they would be uneatable. 

358. Rognons de mouton d la brochette {Sheep's 

Kidneys), 

Pull off the skin and cut the kidneys open length- 
wise ; keep them open with a silver or wooden skewer, 
and dip them in melted butter, then in bread-crumbs, 
and broil them over a moderate fire. When done (ten 



144 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

minutes are sufficient) knead together a little flour, 
chopped chives and parsley, and fresh butter, and 
insert it in the openings of the kidneys, previously 
drawn from the skewer. Put them on a hot dish, 
squeeze upon them the juice of a lemon, add a little 
salt and pepper, and serve. 

359. Rognons de mouton au vin de champagne. 

Pull off the skin and cut them in thin slices which 
you put in a pan with four ounces of butter and ten 
mushrooms ; let the kidneys take colour ; sprinkle 
upon them a table-spoonful of flour, and a few chives 
and parsley chopped together. Toss over the fire. 
Add some salt and pepper, grated nutmeg, two table- 
spoonfuls of gravy, and a tumbler of champagne. 
Let the whole boil together for five minutes ; add 
then an ounce of fresh butter and half of the juice of 
a lemon ; remove the pan immediately from the fire : 
move the sauce about with a wooden spoon, and 
when the butter is melted, serve. 

White Burgundy or Bordeaux wine may be used 
instead of champagne. 

360. Rognons d la Bourguignonne. 

Pull the skin off; wrap the kidneys each in a vine- 
leaf, then in a thin piece of fat bacon, and tie them 
over. Put them in a pan with four ounces of butter, 
salt and pepper, and toss them over a moderate fire 
until they are done (it takes about ten minutes). 
Then cut off the fastenings, dish the kidney, and keep 



MOUTON — MUTTON. 1 45 

them warm whilst you pour a wine-glass of hot water 
into the pan. Scrape the bottom of the pan with a 
wooden spoon to detach the gravy, and when it begins 
to boil, pour it upon the kidneys. 

361. Langues de mouton {Sheep's Tongues), 
See Langues de boeufy No. 293, page 1 16. 

362. Queues de mouton bouilles {Boiled Sheep s Tails). 

Boil them in a p6t-au-feu (see No. i, page 8), 
take them out when tender and roll them in bread- 
crumbs. Let them cool ; then broil them over a 
moderate fire, and serve with a tomato sauce (see 
No. 56, page 29), or with a sauce piquante (see 
No. 54, page 29). 

363. Queues de mouton en daube {Stewed). 
See Langue de boeuf en daube ^ No. 293, page 1 16. 

364. Pieds de mouton d lapoulette {Sheep's Feet). 

Wash them well and boil them in water with two 
large onions, six cloves, a bunch of parsley, thyme, 
and a bay-leaf; salt and pepper. They require eight 
hours* boiling at least. Take them out of the water 
and drain them. Open them by the middle, and take 
out the small hairy balls and the big bone. Put the 
feet into a pan with six ounces of fresh butter and a 
table-spoonful of flour. Toss over the fire, but do not 
let them take colour. Pour into the pan a tumbler 
of boiling water ; add a little salt, pep^^x, ^\^\.^4. 

L 



\ 



146 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Let the whole boil for 
five minutes ; then remove the pan from the fire and 
add two yolks of eggs well mixed with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Move the sauce about with a 
wooden spoon, and serve. 

365. Pieds de mouton frits (Friid). 

When boiled and prepared as above, let them cool, 
and put them in a dish with a tumbler of vinegar, 
salt, pepper, chives, shalots and parsley chopped 
together ; let them remain so four hours, turning them 
every hour. Dip them in a pite k frire (see Index), 
and fry them in hot lard. Drain them and serve 
upon fried parsley. 

366. Pieds de mouton an gratin. 

Proceed exactly as for pieds de mouton i la pou- 
lette, No. 365, page 144, only when ready to add the 
yolks of eggs, take them from the fire and pour them 
into a pie-dish with the sauce. Cover them over with 
grated parmesan and gruyere cheese ; upon the cheese 
place some small bits of fresh butter all about the 
surface, and sprinkle upon the top a good layer of 
bread-crumbs. Set the pie-dish in the oven, and when 
the top looks like a crust, serve in the same dish. 



AGNEAU — LAMB. 

367. Agneau roti (Roasted Lamb). 

Choose a nice breast or leg of lamb and lard it 
Begin to roast it at a sharp fire. Mix some bread- 



i 



AGNEAU— I^MB. 147 

crumbs and chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and, as 
soon as the fat b^ns to melt, sprinkle the parsley 
and bread-crumbs all over the surface of the roast 
When it is done (it takes an hour), add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar to the gravy, and some capers, if 
you like the taste. 

The roast should be very crisp. 

The remains of a roast of lamb may be used in a 
blanquette (see Blanqiutte de veau^ No. 302, page 120), 
but half an hour^s boiling will be sufficient. 

368. Carri d^agneau a la bourgeoise. 

Have ready a breast of lamb ; put it in a pan with 
four ounces of veal, and four ounces of raw ham cut 
in dice ; salt and pepper. Let the whole take colour, 
and pour into the pan half a tumbler of hot water and 
as much white Burgundy or Bordeaux wine. Let the 
lamb boil slowly for an hour ; add a handful of mush- 
rooms, two or three truffles, if you have any, and some 
parsley and chives chopped together. Let the whole 
boil for another half-hour, then squeeze into the pan 
the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

369. l^paule d'agfuau a la Proven^ale (Shauldrr). 

Take the bones out of a shoulder of lamb and put 
it in a pan with two table-spoonfuls of olive-oil ; let it 
take colour ; pour upon it a tumbler of broth or water ; 
salt and pe{^>er. Add the bones, a large onion, two 
cloves of garUc, a little thyme, a bay-leaf and parsley 
tied together. Cover the pan and let the shoulder 

L2 



\ 



148 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

slowly for an hour and a half. Take the bones, parsley, 
bay-leaf, thyme, garlic, and onion out of the pan; 
put in their stead a pound of stoned olives, and let 
them boil for five minutes in the sauce. Remove the 
oil from the surface of the gravy, and serve. 

370. Epaule (Tagneau en daube. 

Take the bones out of a shoulder of lamb, lard it, 
and fasten it up. Put it over a sharp fire with four 
ounces of butter, and let it take colour on all sides. 
Take it out of the pan and put in its stead twelve 
large onions, which you toss over the fire until they are 
of a light brown ; then sprinkle upon them a table- 
spoonful of flour and toss again. Pour into the pan a 
tumbler of boiling water ; add the shoulder, the bones, 
some salt and pepper, a small bay-leaf, thyme and 
parsley tied together, and twenty small carrots. Re- 
duce the fire and put some charcoal on the top of the 
pan, and let the whole boil slowly for two hours. 
Then remove the bones, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme 
out of the pan, and serve. 

371. Croquettes d^agneau. 

Have ready some consomm6 (see Consomm/, No. 3, 
page 10) in which a calf's foot was boiled ; if you 
have none, cut a calf's foot in dice and put it in a 
quart of broth, which you set on a quick fire to make 
it boil very fast. Do not cover the pan, but let the 
broth evaporate as fast as possible. When it is as thick 
as rich gravy keep it warm but do not let it boil any 
longer. Put in a pan four ounces of butter and two 



AGNEAU— LAMB. I49 

table-spoonfuls of flour; move the flour about with 
a wooden spoon and do not let it take colour ; when 
it is well mixed pour upon it half a tumbler of water 
and the broth through a fine sieve, a handful of mush- 
rooms cut in slices, a little grated nutmeg, salt and 
pepper, and a pound of roasted lamb cut in dice. Let 
the whole boil together for five minutes, then pour it 
upon a dish and let it cool. When half done, take a 
small portion of it and roll it in your hands to ^ve 
it the shape of an egg, and dip it in bread-crumbs. 
Do the same for all the contents of the dish ; then 
beat four eggs together ; dip your prepared croquettes 
into the beaten eggs, one after another, and roll them 
again in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot olive-oil or 
lard. 

This delicate dish is very easy to prepare if you 
take care to have the broth thick enough, that is the 
important point ; for if it is not thick enough to hold 
the different ingredients together, it is impossible to 
proceed. 

This dish is not much known, and may be served at 
a dtner de cMmonie, 

372. CdteletteSy pieds^ tite dagneau (Cutlets^ and 

Lamb's Feet). 

Cook them in the way given for cutlets, and sheep's 
feet (see Nos. 355, 356, 357, 364, 365, 366). 

373. Chevreau {Kid). 
See all the recipes given for lamb. 



ISO HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 




CHAPTER XV. 

LEGUMES (VEGETABLES). 

We are accustomed in France to attach great 
importance to vegetables in our cooking; and we 
have several ways of preparing them to be eaten 
separately. They form quite a separate part in a 
dinner, not being served with the roast, but generally 
afterwards. In private, vegetables are brought on 
the table at the same time with the roast, but eaten 
separately, as having a different sauce of their own. 
The French are not fond of eating (as I have seen 
an English gentleman do at my own table) sweetened 
potatoes with a r6ti marin^, and declaring that it is a 
delicacy. 

It seems, at first, that we are very extravagant, 
both in spending so much time and ingredients for 
cooking vegetables, which are very good when plainly 
boiled ; but a deeper examination of the subject 
will bring to the conclusion that vegetables cooked 
in the French manner are much more nourishing 
than if they were only boiled, and that they may 
replace agreeably, and even economically, one or two 
dishes of meat 



LfcCMES — VEGETABLES. 151 

374. Pommes de terre en robe de ckambre (Potatoes). 

Choose them laige, round, yellow, and with a rough 
skin ; these are generally the signs of a good mealy 
kind. Steam them, and serve them like boiled ^;gs» 
in the middle of a folded napldn, to keep them warm. 
Do not peel them, but put before each guest two 
plates — one for the potatoes, and the other for the 
skins. Be careful to have some very fresh butter, 
for each person takes a little of it to eat with his 
potatoes. 

375. Pommes de terre d la mattre d hotel. 

Choose the long red kind, and steam them as above. 
Feel them, and let them cool ; cut them in slices, and 
put them in a pan over a moderate fire, with six ounces 
of butter, some salt and pepper, the juice of a lemon 
(or a table-spoonful of vin^^), and some parsley 
and chives finely chopped. Toss over a moderate 
fire for five minutes, and serve. 

376. Pommes de terre d lapoulette. 

Choose the long red kind ; steam and peel them, 
and let them cool. When nearly cold cut them in 
slices. Put in a pan four ounces of butter and two 
table-spoonfuls of flour ; move the flour about with a 
wooden spoon ; pour upon it a gill of milk ; salt 
and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. When this 
sauce begins to boil, put the potatoes into it, and let 
them boil slowly for a quarter of an hour; then 
remove the pan from the fire. Mix two yolks of eggs 




^ 



152 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a table-spoonful of thick cream, and pour it into 
the sauce, which you stir until it is of a good thick- 
ness. 

377. Pomtnes de terre au lard. 

Cut six ounces of bacon in dice, and put them in 
a pan with four ounces of butter ; let them take 
colour. Add a table-spoonful of flour, and when it is 
brown pour upon it two tumblers of hot water. Add 
some salt, pepper, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, and parsley, 
tied together. Cover the pan, and when the sauce 
boils, put into it some long potatoes previously peeled 
and cut in slices. Cover the pan, and let the potatoes 
boil for an hour, then take the seasonings out of the 
pan, and serve. 

378. Pomtnes de terre saut/es. 

Put in a pan half a pound of butter, and let it 
become very hot ; then have ready some long potatoes 
previously steamed and peeled, or some new potatoes 
raw and scraped ; throw them into the hot butter, 
and toss them over a sharp fire for a quarter of an 
hour if they were steamed, for half an hour, at least, 
if they were raw. When they are of a golden colour, 
salt and pepper them ; and when sufficiently done, 
drain them, and serve them without sauce. 

The butter may be used for anything else. 

379. Pomtnes de terre d la Hambourgeoise, 
Peel some large round potatoes, and boil them in 



I,]fiGUMES — ^VEG ET ABLES. 1 5 3 

salted water. When done, pass them through the 
moulin k pur6t or mash them. Have ready the same 
quantity of boiled spinach, chop it, and add it to the 
potatoes with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and six 
ounces of butter ; mix the whole thoroughly, and put 
it in a pie-dish which you set in the oven. When the 
top is of a nice colour, serve. 

380. Potntnes de terre d V^tur^e. 

Steam some long potatoes ; peel and cut them in 
slices. When cold put them in a pan with six ounces 
of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, some salt and 
pepper, chives and parsley chopped together, one 
clove, a bay-leaf and thyme tied together ; toss over a 
moderate fire for five minutes; add a tumbler of broth 
or hot water, and as much red Burgundy or Bordeaux 
wine. Cover the pan; let the potatoes simmer for 
half an hour. Take the seasonings out of the pan, 
and serve. 

381, Pommes de terre f rites. 

Peel some large, round potatoes ; wipe them (do 
not wash them), and cut them in very thin slices^ 
lengthwise. Have ready some very hot lard or olive- 
oil ; fry your potatoes in it, and do not touch them for 
the first ten minutes or you would break them ; but 
after that, when they begin to harden, move them 
about with a skimming spoon to make them take 
colour on all sides. When they are of a golden 
colour, drain and salt them, and serve. 




154 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

382. Potntnes de terre eft salade. 

Steam and peel some long potatoes, and cut them 
in slices. When cold, lay them in a deep dish, and 
sprinkle upon them some chopped parsley and chives, 
salt and pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 
four of olive-oil. Turn the potatoes several times 
over, like a salad, and serve. 

383. Pur^e de potntnes de terre. 

Put some large mealy potatoes in a cast-iron pan, 
without peeling them. Pour a tumbler of water into 
the pan, and cover the potatoes with a wet towel 
Let the fire be moderate, and put some charcoal on 
the top of the pan. Keep the fire equal all the time, 
and do not let it become too hot, for it would bum the 
potatoes. When they are sufficiently done, take them 
out and peel them. Mash them through the moulin 
^ pur6e, or in a mortar, and put them in a pan with 
four ounces of fresh butter, salt and pepper, and a 
bay-leaf Stir the potatoes with a wooden spoon, and 
add gradually a gill of milk ; this is to be done very 
carefully. You add about a table-spoonful of milk, 
and stir until the potatoes become very thick, then 
you add another spoonful, and so on until they have 
absorbed the gill of milk. Remove the bay-leaf, and 
serve. 

384. Autre pur^e {A not Iter way). 

Peel and cut by the middle some large potatoes, 
put them in a pan with a quart of cold water, a 



LEGUMES — VEGETABLES. 1 5 5 

bay-leaf, a branch of thyme, two cloves of garlic, 
a bunch of parsley, a large onion, some salt and 
pepper. Cover the pan, and let the potatoes boil 
very fast until they are done. Mash them, and 
proceed as above. 

More ways of cooking potatoes will be found in 
the Chapter on Entremets. 

385. Topinambours d la Bourguignonne (yertisalem 

Artichokes). 

Peel some Jerusalem artichokes, and throw them 
into boiling water for five minutes ; take them out 
and drain them. Put in a pan six ounces of butter 
and a table-spoonful of flour, stir about with a wooden 
spoon until the flour becomes of a light brown, then 
throw upon it a ,^tumbler of white Burgundy wine, 
and a gill of broth, some salt and pepper. When this 
sauce begins to . boil, put the artichokes into it, and 
let them boil slowly until they are done. Do not 
cover the pan, but let the sauce evaporate. 

386. Topinambours frits {Jerusalem A rtichokes Fried), 

Peel some Jerusalem artichokes, throw them into 
boiling water rather highly salted ; let them remain 
in it for five minutes ; take them out, and drain them. 
Dip them in a pite i frire (see Index), and fry them 
in hot olive-oil or lard ; drain them, and serve upon 
fried parsley. 

Jerusalem artichokes may be cooked in all the 
ways given for potatoes. 



N 



156 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

387. Carottes d la mattre d^ hotel (Carrots). 

Scrape twenty small new carrots, and wipe them 
(do not wash them). Put them in a pan with six 
ounces of fresh butter. Cover the pan, and toss the 
carrots over the fire from time to time. After a 
quarter of an hour, add salt and pepper, some 
chopped chives and parsley. Cover the pan, and toss 
it again from time to time until the carrots are done. 

If you use large carrots cut them in slices, and boil 
them in water until they are nearly done ; drain them, 
and finish them as above. 



388. Carottes d la poulette. 

Have some new carrots, which you scrape and wipe 
carefully. Put them in a pan, over a moderate fire, 
with six ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of 
flour ; toss them repeatedly over the fire, and do not 
let the flour become brown. Pour a tumbler of milk 
into the pan ; add two ounces of sugar (more if the 
carrots are old). Cover the pan, and let the carrots 
boil slowly until they are done; then take the pan 
from the fire, and pour into it two yolks of eggs 
mixed with a table-spoonful of thick cream. Stir, to 
amalgamate the whole, and serve. 

You may use salt and pepper instead of sugar. 

389. Carottes aujambon (Carrots with Hani). 

Put in a pan six ounces of butter and a table- 
spoonful of flour over a quick fire ; let the flour become 



LEGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. I57 

of a light brown and pour upon it a gill of boiling 
water. Add six ounces of raw ham cut in small dice, 
wtry little salt, some pepper, a bay-leaf, a branch of 
thyme and some parsley tied together, and a large 
onion. Add six large carrots cut in slices about as 
thick as a half-crown. Cover the pan and let the 
carrots boil until they are done ; then take the 
seasonings out of the pan, and serve. 

390. Carottes it la mMag^re. 

Put in a pan six ounces of butter and a table- 
spoonful of flour ; stir the flour until it becomes of a 
very light brown, then throw upon it half a tumbler of 
white Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, and a gill of broth. 
Add the carrots previously blanched and sliced, and 
cover the pan. Let the sauce boil quickly until the 
carrots are sufficiently done ; then remove the pan 
from the fire and pour into it two yolks of eggs mixed 
with a few drops of water. Stir the whole about with 
a wooden spoon until the sauce is thick enough, then 
serve. 

391. Carottes d V Andalouse, 

Put in a silver or copper dish four table-spoonfuls 
of olive-oil, six large carrots cut in slices, and a tea- 
spoonful of pounded sugar ; toss over a moderate fire 
until the carrots are done ; if more oil is required, pour 
a few drops into the dish from time to time. When 
the carrots are done, reduce the fire and pour a 
tumbler of Malaga upon the carrots, then stir quickly 
to mix the oil and Malaga without letting it boil; 



IS8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

when no oil remains visible on the surface, serve in 
the same dish. 

392. Navets (Turnips), 

Turnips are more generally used along with a leg 
of mutton, a duck, etc., than by themselves ; they are 
difficult to digest, and it is a wise precaution never to 
eat many at a time. 

393. Navets d lapoulette. 

Peel and wipe them and cut them in dice about the 
size of a nut ; put them in a pan and cover them over 
with milk ; salt and pepper them, or sweeten them, 
and let them boil rather fast for a quarter of an hour. 
Knead together four ounces of fresh butter and a 
table-spoonful of flour which you add to the sauce. 
Let the turnips boil until they are done. Take the 
pan from the fire and pour into it two yolks of eggs 
mixed with a table-spoonful of thick cream. Stir with 
a wooden spoon until the sauce gets to a proper 
thickness, and serve. A little grated nutmeg or a 
bay-leaf may be added to flavour the sauce, but only 
if there is neither salt nor pepper. 

394. Navets aujambon. 

See Carottes aujambon^ No. 389, page 156. 

395. Navets d la Picarde. 

Peel a dozen of turnips and throw them whole into 

boiling water with six ounces of butter, salt, pepper, 

three large onions, a bay-leaf, a branch of thyme 



LEGUMES — VEGETABLES. 159 

and some parsley. Let the turnips boil slowly, so as 
not to break them until they are done ; then remove 
the pan from the fire and prepare separately the 
following sauce. Put six ounces of butter and a table- 
spoonful ol potato-flour over a moderate fire, stir about 
with a wooden spoon to prevent the flour from taking 
colour ; pour upon it enough of the water in which 
the turnips were boiled, to make a sauce of a good 
thickness. Move about until it is very hot, but do 
not let it boil. Add gradually a tea-spoonful of 
mustard to the sauce. Drain the turnips, dish them, 
and pour the sauce k la Picarde upon them. 

396. Navets au vin blanc (Turnips with White Wine). 

Cut some turnips in the shape of pears and throw 
them into boiling water; let them remain in it for 
two minutes, take them out and drain them. Put 
them in a pan with a little salt, pepper and cinnamon ; 
cover them over with broth and let them boil very 
fast. After ten minutes take the cinnamon out of the 
pan, and let the turnips boil until no broth remains. 
Then dish the turnips, and pour half a tumbler of 
white Burgundy wine into the pan ; scrape the bottom 
with a wooden spoon to detach the gravy, and mix 
it with the wine; then pour this sauce upon the 
turnips. 

397. Betteraves {Beetroots). 

Beetroots begin to be good at the end of October ; 
the best are those which weigh about four pounds. 
They are very difficult to bake, as they teo^vc^ 'sjsa^iv -^ 



N 



1 60 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

long time; they must be put in the oven with the 
dough and left a good while after taking the loaves 
out. Their sweetness prevents a great many people 
from eating them ; in my opinion, the best way to eat 
them is along with a salad, when they have been pre- 
viously baked ; the seasonings used for salad correct 
their insipidity. 

Some people boil beetroots in water for four hours 
and then bake them for two hours ; it is the easiest 
way, but the beetroots so cooked are not to be com- 
pared with those that have been only baked. 

Beetroots are not only very good in salad, but they 
make also a very pretty ornament ; in winter, when 
no nasturtiums are to be found, if you take two beet- 
roots, a yellow and a red one, and cut them in slices, 
you may decorate the top of your salads most prettily 
with them. 

398. Betteraves d la poulette. 

When baked, proceed as for carottes k la poulette, 
No. 388, page 156. 

399. Betteraves au vin. 

Cut them in thin slices and put them in a pan 
with six ounces of butter, two large onions cut in 
slices, and a tumbler of water. Cover the pan and let 
the beetroots boil for three hours. Add then a table- 
spoonful of flour, salt and pepper ; toss over the fire for 
two minutes, and pour two tumblers of red Bordeaux 
or Burgundy wine into the pan, cover the pan, and 
let the whole simmer for two hours more, and serve. 



LfiGUMES— VEGETABLES. l6l 

Salsifis {Salsifis), 

Salsifis, when well cooked, are excellent ; they are 
extremely valuable as a change in the winter, when we 
are reduced to potatoes and cabbages ; moreover, they 
are light, easy to digest, and may be given to invalids 
without any danger. 

400. Salsifis d la sauce blanche {Salsifis with a White 

Sauce), 

Scrape the salsifis, cut them in pieces about as long 
as the forefinger, and throw them into cold water, pre- 
viously mixed with three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. 
Take them out and throw them into boiling water 
with salt, pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 
two ounces of butter. Cover the pan and let the 
salsifis boil until they are tender. Drain them, and 
keep them warm while you prepare a white sauce (see 
No. 37, page 22), to which you add a liaison ; then 
dish the salsifis, and pour the sauce upon them. 

401. Salsifis au gras. 

Scrape them and cut them in pieces ; then throw 
them into cold water with three table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar. Put six ounces of butter and a table-spoon- 
ful of flour over a quick fire ; let the flour become of 
a light brown, and pour upon it a gill of broth and 
two table-spoonfuls of gravy. When the sauce begins 
to boil, put the salsifis into it, cover the pan, and 
let them boil until they are tender. 

M 



1 62 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

402. Salsifis frits {Fried Salsifis). 

Scrape and boil them like salsifis k la sauce blanche, 
(No. 400, page 161), drain them and let them cool. 
Prepare a paste as follows : mix six table-spoonfuls of 
flour with water enough to make it into a thin paste ; 
work it well with a wooden spoon to make it very 
smooth ; add a little salt, a tea-spoonful of olive-oil, 
and two yolks of eggs ; leave this paste until you are 
ready to fry the salsifis ; then whip the whites of the 
eggs until they are very firm, and mix them thoroughly 
with the paste. Then dip the salsifis into it and fry 
them in hot lard or olive-oil ; drain them and serve 
upon fried parsley. 

The paste should be prepared about two hours 
before using ; it will be much lighter ; but the whites 
of the eggs are not to be whipped till you are ready 
to use the paste. 

If you do not require such a delicate paste, you 
may use the common pite a frire (see Index). 

403. Asperges d la sauce blanche (Asparagus with a 

White Sauce), 

Scrape the sticks and cut them all of the same 
length, wash them in cold water, and tie about fifteen of 
them together ; make as many bundles as are required 
to use up the whole ; they will be easier to take out 
of the water without breaking the heads. Have ready 
plenty of boiling water, highly salted, and put your 
asparagus into it. Let it boil until it is tender, but 
take care that it is not over-boiled; for the heads, 



LfiGUMES — VEGETABLES. L6y 

which are the most delicate part, would be broken 
off. When boiled, take it out of the water with 
a skimming-spoon, and serve it immediately with a 
white sauce in a boat (see Sauce blanc/ie, No. 37, 
page 22). 

It is a good precaution to add two table-spoon- 
fuls of vinegar to the boiling water before putting the 
asparagus into it ; it keeps it green. 

About ten minutes are sufficient to boil asparagus. 

404. Asperges d Vhuile, 

Boil it as above, and when you take it out, throw it 
into a good quantity of cold water previously mixed 
with four table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Let it become 
quite cold ; it will be green and firm. Dish it, and 
serve in a boat a sauce prepared with salt, pepper, 
two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and five of olive-oil. 

405. Asperges 671 petits pois. 

Choose the thin green kind grown on purpose for 
this dish, scrape and wash it. Cut it in pieces about 
three-eighths of an inch long, and put it in a pan with 
six ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a bunch 
of parsley, and three small onions. Toss the pan 
over the fire for five minutes, and add some salt, 
pepper, and a tumbler of broth. Reduce the fire, 
cover the pan, and let the asparagus simmer until 
it is done ; then take the seasonings out of the pan 
and pour into it two yolks, of eggs mixed with a 
little water. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir 

M 2 



\ 



164 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the asparagus with a wooden spoon to thicken the 
sauce, and serve. 

You may use sugar instead of pepper and salt, 
water instead of broth, and mix the yolks with a table- 
spoonful of thick cream, and it will be more delicate. 

406. Asperges d la Pompadour. 

Boil it like asperges 4 la sauce blanche (see No. 403, 
page 162), take it out of the water and wrap it up in 
a towel to keep it warm. Have some boiling water, 
set a pan into it, and in the pan put half a pound 
of perfectly fresh buttery a table-spoonful of flour, and 
a little grated nutmeg. Stir the butter with a wooden 
spoon, add a little salt and two yolks of eggs mixed 
with the juice of a lemon. Stir until the sauce is 
thick enough, then cut the asparagus a finger's length 
from the end, lay it on a dish previously wanned, and 
pour the sauce upon it. 

407. Houblon {Hops). 

In the beginning of spring, when the young sprigs 
of hops begin to grow and are very tender, cut them 
off, and cook them like asparagus ; their taste is very 
similar. 

408. Celeri {Celery). 

Cut off the leaves and throw the celery into boiling 
water, after cutting it in pieces about two inches long ; 
let it remain for two minutes, drain it, and keep it 
warm ; then prepare a white sauce (see No. 37, page 
22), and when it begins to boil, put the celery into 



LEGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. 1 65 

it and let it simmer until done ; then remove the pan 
from the fire, and pour into it two yolks of eggs 
mixed with a table-spoonful of thick cream. Stir the 
sauce until it thickens, and serve. 

409. Celerifrit {Fried Celery). 

Cut off the leaves and blanch the celery as above ; 
then let it become quite cold ; cut it in pieces, which 
you dip in a pdte ct frire (see Index), and fry in 
hot lard. 

410. Celeri d la bonne femme. 

Cut off the leaves, blanch the celery, and cut it in 
pieces like No. 408, page 164. Put in a pan four ounces 
of butter, and a table-spoonful of flour, and let them 
become of a light brown ; then pour into the pan a gill 
of broth, some salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; add 
the celery, and let it boil rather fast (without covering 
the pan) until it is done ; then pour upon it three or 
four table-spoonfuls of gravy. Knead two table-spoon- 
fuls of flour with four ounces of butter, and put them 
in the pan, which you remove from the fire. Stir the 
whole about with a wooden spoon until it is thick 
enough, and serve, 

411. Cardons {Cardoons), 

Clean and cook them exactly like celery (Nos. 
408, 409, 410). 

412. Car dons a la moelle. 

Scrape and blanch the cardoons, drain them, and 
cut them in pieces about three inches long. Put ia ^ 



> 



1 66 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pan six ounces of butter and two table-spoonfuls of 
flour ; when the flour is of a light brown, pour upon it 
a tumbler of white Burgundy wine, and as much broth. 
When the sauce begins to boil, put the cardoons into 
it, and let them boil rather fast (without covering the 
pan) until they are done. Take them out of the 
pan with a skimming spoon ; lay them on a dish, and 
keep them warm ; chop two ounces of beef-marrow, 
and put it in the sauce ; stir it about until it melts, 
and pour the sauce upon the cardoons. 

413. Oseille {Green Sauce). 

Green sauce is good in the spring and in the 
autumn, but it is acid in summer ; and in winter, 
having been kept long, it generally tastes rancid. 

Choose it green and tender, pick it well, and throw 
it into boiling water highly salted. Let it boil for 
three minutes ; take it out and drain it ; then put it 
in a pan, with six ounces of butter, a table-spoonful 
of flour, some salt and pepper. Stir it about with a 
wooden spoon, and gradually add half a tumbler of 
milk, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. 
Then add two yolks of eggs, mixed with a table- 
spoonful of thick cream ; remove the pan from the 
fire, and mix the whole thoroughly. 

414, Oseille aujus. 

Clean it and boil it as above. Put it in a pan, with 
six ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, some 
salt and pepper ; move it about with a wooden spoon, 
and add gradually half a gill of gravy. 



LifiGUMES— ^VEGETABLES. 1 6/ 

415. Apinards {Spinach), 

Spinach may be cooked like green sauce, only when 
it is boiled it should be thrown into cold water, 
squeezed in a towel, and chopped (see Nos. 413, 414). 

416. hpinards au sucre. 

When boiled and chopped, put it in a pan, with a 
table-spoonful of pounded sugar, a little grated nut- 
meg, six ounces of fresh butter, and a table-spoonful 
of flour. Stir it with a wooden spoon, and when done, 
remove the pan from the fire, and incorporate a table- 
spoonful of thick cream with the spinach. 

Decorate the top of the dish with triangular fried 
croutons (see No. 65, page 32). 

417. Chicore^ {Chicory). 

Proceed exactly as for green sauce (Nos. 413, 414). 

418. Laitue et Romain {Lettuce and Cos-Lettuce), 

Break off the outer leaves so as to keep only the 
heart of each lettuce ; tie them up to prevent them 
from losing their shape, and put them into boiling 
water, with a good deal of salt. Let them boil for five 
minutes, drain and dish them, and pour upon them 
either a white sauce (see No. 37, page 22), or a sauce 
blonde (see No. 38, page 22). 

419. Laitues farcies. 

Prepare them as above ; make a neat hole in the 
middle with a sharp knife, and insert into it a small 



^ 



l68 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ball of forcemeat (see Index), cover the top with a 
large leaf, and fasten the whole nicely ; do the same 
with all the lettuces, and boil them slowly in broth. 
When ready, take them out, undo the fastenings, 
and serve with a sauce blonde (No. 38, page 22), 
separately. 

The quantity of broth must be sufficient to cover 
the lettuces. 

420. Choux (Cabbages). 

Cut off all the outer leaves, divide the cabbage 
through the middle, and throw it into boiling water. 
Let it boil until it is done ; drain it, dish it, and pour 
upon it a white sauce (see No. 37, page 22), to which 
you add a table-spoonful of vinegar. 

421. Chou fricass^. 

Boil and drain it as above, and chop it Put it 
in a pan, with six ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of 
flour, a little grated nutmeg, some salt and pepper. 
Stir it with a wooden spoon, and add gradually half a 
tumbler of milk or broth. 

422. Chou larcU, 

Choose a large and white cabbage ; lard it through 
with large pieces of bacon ; tie it up to keep its shape, 
and put it in a pan with water enough to cover it, 
half a pound of ham, four large carrots, four large 
onions, a bay-leaf, a branch of thyme, a bunch of 
parsley, some salt and pepper. Let the whole boil 



LfiGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. 1 69 

Slowly for four hours, and keep the cabbage warm 
whilst you prepare the following sauce. Put in a pan 
six ounces of butter, two table-spoonfuls of flour, and 
let them become brown ; pour upon them a tumbler 
of the water in which the cabbage was boiled, and a 
gill of gravy ; let the whole boil very fast, and kfeep 
stirring until it is as thick as custard ; then dish the 
cabbage, undo the fastenings, and pour the sauce 
upon it. 

The ham may be served cold, and the water in 
which it was boiled used for a soup. 

423. Choufarci, 

Choose a very large white cabbage, and put it in 
boiling water until the leaves are rather tender ; then 
take it out of the water and put it upon the table ; 
open it carefully without breaking the leaves, and 
take out a piece about as large as an t.%% ; then 
press, lightly at first, and then more heavily, on 
each side of the cabbage from the inside, so as to 
flatten it. Chop the heart of the cabbage with half 
a pound of cold meat, half a pound of raw ham, an 
onion, and a bunch of parsley. Mix the chopped 
ingredients with two eggs, and take a portion of it 
to put in the middle of the cabbage ; then lift up 
some of the leaves to cover the meat, and upon these 
leaves place a small layer of the forcemeat, as near 
the root as possible ; cover it in, lifting up some more 
leaves, and insert again some forcemeat, until it is all 
used up ; the last layer of leaves must be rather thick. 



I/O HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Try to give the cabbage a nice shape, and fasten it 
up very tightly in a towel ; then boil it as No. 422, 
page 168, and when sufficiently done take it out of 
the towel, and pour upon it the sauce given for chou 
lard6, No. 422, page 168. 

424. Choux de Bruxelles {Sprouts). 

Cut off all the loose leaves, and throw the sprouts 
into boiling water, with salt and pepper. Let them 
boil for a quarter of an hour ; drain them, and put 
them in a pan, with six ounces of fresh butter, some 
salt and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, if you 
like the taste. Toss over the fire until the butter is 
melted, and serve. 

425. ChouX'Jleurs {Cauliflowers). 

Choose them very white, and divide them in four 
or six ; cut off the leaves. Have ready some boiling 
water, and throw the cauliflowers into it, with a good 
deal of salt. Cover the pan, and let the cauliflowers 
boil until tender (twenty minutes or half an hour). 
Drain and arrange them close to each other upon a 
dish, with the heads uppermost, and pour upon them 
a white sauce (see No. 37, page 22), previously mixed 
with two yolks of eggs and a table-spoonful of thick 
cream. 

426. Choux-fleurs a la Louis XIV. 

When the cauliflowers are divided, wash them in 
tepid water three times over, changing the water each 



LEGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. 1 7 1 

time, then put them in a pan and cover them over 
with broth, and let them boil until they are tender ; 
keep them warm whilst you prepare the following 
sauce. Put in a pan six ounces of perfectly fresh 
butter, a table-spoonful of flour, and a little grated 
nutmeg. When the flour is of a light brown, pour upon 
it enough of the broth in which the cauliflowers were 
boiled, to make a thickish sauce. Drain the cauli- 
flowers, and when the sauce begins to boil, pour it 
upon them. 

427. Choux-fleurs au gratin. 

Boil them like No. 425, page 170. Drain them. 
Put in a pie-dish, or any other deep dish, two ounces of 
fresh butter divided into small pieces, then a layer of 
cauliflowers, which you cover with salt, pepper, grated 
parmesan and gruy^re cheese, and pieces of butter, then 
a second layer of cauliflowers, and another of cheese, 
and so on until you have used up all the cauliflowers ; 
finish the top with cheese. Put the dish in the oven, 
and when the top is of a nice brown, serve in the same 
dish. 

428. Choux-fleurs aujus. 

Boil them like No. 425, page 170. Drain them 
and put them in a pan with six ounces of butter, a 
table-spoonful of flour, and a tumbler of gravy, a little 
salt and pepper. Toss them over the fire for five 
minutes, and serve. 



t72 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

429. Choux-fleurs frits. 

Boil them like No. 425, page 170. Drain them, 
dip them in a thick pite k frire (see Index), and fry 
them in hot lard. 

430. Choux-fleurs en salade. 

Boil them like No. 425, page 170, and let them 
become quite cold ; then put them in a dish, and 
cover them with a mayonnaise (see No. 61, page 31), 
turn them several times, and serve. 

431. Artichauts bouillis {Boiled A rtic/tokes). 

Cut off the small leaves at the bottom and the top 
of the large leaves, then put the artichokes into boil- 
ing water highly salted. Cover the pan and let them 
boil until they are tender. Take them out of the 
pan, drain them, lift up the inside to take out the 
choke, and replace the middle. Serve hot with a 
white sauce (see No. 37, page 22), or a tomato 
sauce (No. 56, page 29), or a sauce blonde (No. 38, 
page 22). Or serve them cold with a mayonnaise 
(No. 61, page 31), or a remoulade (No. 62, page 31). 

The sauce is to be served separately in a boat. 

The way to keep artichokes green is to boil them 
in a preserving pan (of course not tinned inside), but it 
may be injurious to delicate stomachs. 



UfiGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. 1 73 

432. Artichauts frits {Artichokes Fried). 

Choose them young, tender, and small; divide 
them into four parts, remove the choke, and cut off 
half of the leaves ; dip the artichokes into a pite i 
frire (see Index), and fry them in hot lard; drain 
them and serve them in the shape of a pyramid. 

433. Artichauts d la barigoule. 

Cut the leaves very short, and put the artichokes 
into boiling water with salt, pepper, four large carrots, 
and four large onions cut in slices, and six ounces of 
bacon cut in dice. Cover the artichokes and let them 
boil until they are tender ; take out the inside and 
remove the choke. Cut off all the tender part of the 
leaves you have just taken out, and chop them with 
half a clove of garlic, a little parsley, the boiled bacon, 
and some meat, either raw, boiled, or roasted. Fill 
up the insides of the artichokes with all these ingre- 
dients, and put some olive-oil or butter at the bottom 
of a dish and lay the artichokes upon it ; drop on the 
top of the artichokes some olive-oil or melted butter, 
and set them in the oven. Whilst they are in the 
oven, let the water in which they were boiled evapo- 
rate over a brisk firp. When it is reduced to a good 
thickness, pass it through a sieve and add it to the 
artichokes, which you serve when they are brown. 

There should be very little sauce. 

You may fill up the insides of the artichokes with 
bread-crumbs, grated nutmeg, hard-boiled eggs and 
chives. 




174 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

434. Artichauts au beurre. 

Choose them small and very tender ; cut the leaves 
short ; divide them into four parts, and take out the 
choke. Put the artichokes over a moderate fire with 
six ounces of butter, some salt and pepper. Cover the 
pan and toss it from time to time until the artichokes 
are done, and dish them. Add then a table-spoonful of 
bread-crumbs to the butter, one of chives and parsley 
chopped together, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the 
sauce with a wooden spoon, and pour it upon the 
artichokes. 

435. Artichauts d ritalienne. 

Cut the leaves very short, and boil the artichokes 
in salted water. Remove the choke and let them 
cool. Put six ounces of butter in a pan with small 
onions (three for every artichoke) and six ounces of 
stale bread-crumb; let the bread-crumb absorb the 
butter without taking colour, and fill up the insides of 
the artichokes with it and the onions. Put some but- 
ter in a dish and lay the artichokes upon it, sprinkle 
upon them some grated parmesan and gruy^re cheese, 
and set the dish in the oven. When the artichokes 
are of a nice colour, serve them in the same dish. 

436. Fonds d' artichauts au citron. 

Use for this dish only the bottom of the artichokes. 
Put in a pan four ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of 
flour, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir 
about with a wooden spoon, but do not let the flour 



LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. I /J 

become brown ; pour upon it a gill of hot water, stir 
until the sauce begins to thicken, then put the arti- 
chokes into it and lay upon each a slice of lemon free 
from pips ; cover the pan and let the artichokes boil 
slowly until they are done. 

437. Aubergines farcies. 

Cut them open by the middle and hollow them 
out, leaving about half of the pulp adherent to the 
skin. Take the pips out of the pulp which you have 
removed, and chop it with four ounces of beef-marrow 
and as much roasted fowl or roasted lamb (choose the 
white parts). Mix these ingredients with two ounces 
of bread-crumbs, four yolks of eggs (raw), a little grated 
nutmeg, salt and pepper. Fill up the insides of the 
aubergines with this forcemeat, and smooth the tops 
with a brush dipped in the white of an egg. Melt 
some beef-marrow and pour it upon the aubergines, 
through a fine tammie. Put them in a dish with some 
melted beef-marrow at the bottom, and set them in a 
slow oven until they are done. Serve them in the 
same dish. 

438. Aubergines frites. 

Cut them in slices, which you dip in flour after 
removing the pips. Fry them in hot lard or olive-oil ; 
they will be more delicate. Drain and salt them. 

439. Concombres d la sauce blanclie (Cucumbers). 

Choose them very white, and peel them carefully, 
for the skin is very bitter. Cut them in slices about 




176 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

half an inch thick and two inches long; remove the 
pips, and throw the cucumbers into boiling water, 
with a little salt and pepper. Let them boil until 
they are tender ; drain them, and put them in a white 
sauce (see No. 37, page 22), to which you add two 
yolks of eggs and a table-spoonful of thick cream, 
or half the juice of a lemon. 

440. Concombres farcis. 

Peel and cut off one of the ends; take out the 
pips with a spoon, and fill up the inside with 
chopped bacon, cold meat, chives, parsley, salt and 
pepper, mixed with two eggs. Shut the holes with 
the pieces that you cut off, and fasten them up. Put 
in a pan six ounces of butter and two table-spoonfuls 
of flour ; let the flour become of a light brown, and 
pour upon it a gill of broth, and three or four 
table-spoonfuls of gravy. Put the cucumbers into 
this sauce, and let them simmer slowly until they are 
done. 

If there is too much sauce, which may easily 
happen, for cucumbers are watery, take off the lid of 
the pan, and let the sauce boil very fast to evaporate. 

441. Concombres d la mattre cThdteL 

Peel, slice, and boil them in salted water; drain 
them, and put them in a pan with six ounces of fresh 
butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Toss them over the fire for five 
minutes. 



LfiGUMES — VEGETABLES. I J J 

442. Concombres en salade. 

Peel them and cut them in slices, extremely thin. 
Put them in a dish, with four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 
and a little salt ; let them remain so for two hours. 
Drain them, put them in a dish, and pour upon them 
a ravigote (see No. 63, page 31) ; turn them several 
times, and serve. 

443. Potiron d Voignon ( Vegetable Marrow), 

Peel some vegetable marrow and cut it in slices; 
throw them into boiling water, with a little salt. 
Let them boil until they are tender ; then take them 
out and drain them. Put in a pan six ounces of 
butter, and four onions cut in thin slices ; toss them 
over a moderate fire, and do not let them take colour ; 
when they are tender add the slices of vegetable 
marrow, with a little salt and pepper ; toss over the 
fire for ten minutes longer, and serve. 

444. Ptirie de potiron. 

Peel it and cut it in slices, which you boil in salted 
water. Take the slices out of the pan, drain them, 
and crush them through the moulin 4 pur6e, or rub 
them through a tammie. Put the pur6e into a pan, 
with four ounces of perfectly fresh butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and a little pounded sugar (or 
salt and pepper). Stir about with a wooden spoon, 
and add gradually half a gill of cream, and a little 
grated nutmeg. When ready to be served, add 

N 



178 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

two yolks of eggs, mixed with a spoonful of thick 
cream. 

445. Potironfrit 

Peel it and cut it in thin slices, which you salt and 
pepper on each side ; dip them in flour, and fry them 
in hot lard or olive-oil. 

446. Haricots verts sautes {French Beans), 

Choose them very green and tender, string them, 
and throw them into boiling water highly salted. 
Let them boil until they are tender, and drain them. 
Put them in a pan, with four ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of flour, some salt and pepper ; toss them 
over the fire, and add a tumbler of broth or a tumbler 
of the water in which the beans were boiled. Chop 
together some chives and parsley, and sprinkle them 
upon the beans. When ready to be served, remove 
the pan from the fire, and pour upon the beans two 
yolks of eggs, mixed with a tea-spoonful of vinegar ; 
toss again, and serve. 

447. Haricots d IViuv^e. 

Boil them in salted water and drain them. Put in 
a pan six ounces of butter and two table-spoonfuls of 
flour ; when the flour is of a light brown, pour upon it 
a tumbler of broth, and a tumbler of red Burgundy or 
Bordeaux wine ; stir it about with a wooden spoon, 
and let it boil slowly. Put in another pan four ounces 
of butter, with a spoonful of chopped chives and 



LEGUMES — ^VEGETABLES. 1 79 

parsley ; stir them about, and do not let them become 
brown ; add the boiled beans, with a little salt and 
pepper ; toss them over the fire, and add gradually 
the sauce prepared with wine and broth. Dish the 
beans in the form of a pyramid, and squeeze upon 
them the juice of a lemon. 

448. Haricots aux oignons. 

Boil them in water highly salted ; drain them. Put 
in a pan six ounces of butter, and four large onions 
cut in slices ; toss them over the fire until they are 
tender ; add the beans, a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley and garlic, salt, pepper, and a tea-spoonful of 
vinegar. Toss over the fire for five minutes, and serve. 

449. Haricots rouges d la crime (Red Beans). 

Throw them into boiling water, with a little salt, 
taking care that there is not too much water; when 
the beans are tender, take off the lid of the pan to let 
the water evaporate. When the beans are just moist, 
add a table-spoonful of flour and a little pepper. Then 
keep the beans warm, but prevent them from boiling, 
and add gradually a tumbler of thick cream. Stir 
them with a wooden spoon, and serve. 

450. Haricots rouges d la Bourguignonne. 

Throw the red beans into boiling water, with four 
ounces of butter, two large onions with cloves stuck 
in them ; a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a branch 
of thyme, tied together. Let the beans boil until 

N 2 



N 



1 80 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

they are tender, and drain them. Put them in a pan, 
with four ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, 
fifteen small onions, some salt and pepper, and half a 
pint of red Burgundy wine. Let the whole simmer 
together until the onions are done. 

45 1. Haricots sees au lard {Dried Beans), 

Let them remain in cold water for a day before 
using them. Then put them in a pan with cold water, 
enough to cover them, and half a pound of bacon 
cut in dice. Cover the pan and let the beans boil 
until they are tender ; add then two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, a little pepper, some parsley and garlic chopped 
together, and let the whole simmer slowly until the 
sauce is thick enough. 

45 2. Haricots d la moelle de boeuf. 

Boil them as above, but without bacon, and drain 
them. Melt six ounces of beef-marrow, and pass it 
through a fine tammie into a pan ; add the beans, a 
little salt and pepper, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. 
Toss over the fire for ten minutes, and serve. 

453. Fh)es {Windsor Beans), 

If they are new and small, cook them like French 
beans (see Nos. 446, 447, 448). 

If they are dried, take off the skin, and cook them 
like dried beans, No. 45 1, or like haricots d la moelle 
deboeufy No. 452. 



L1£GUMES — VEGETABLES. 1 8 1 

454. Petits pois au beurre (Green Peas), 

Choose them of a light green, they will be more 
tender and juicy than those of a dark green. 

Put the peas in a pan, with six ounces of butter and 
a table-spoonful of flour ; toss them over the fire, and 
do not let them take colour ; pour upon them half a 
tumbler of hot water ; add three small onions, a bunch 
of parsley, some salt and pepper. Cover the pan, and 
let the peas boil slowly until they are done. Remove 
the pan from the fire, take out the parsley and onions, 
and pour upon the peas two yolks of eggs mixed 
with a table-spoonful of thick cream. 

You may replace salt and pepper with sugar, 

455. Petits pois d la mattre d' hotel. 

Steam them ; take them out of the steamer and put 
them in a pan, with six ounces oi perfectly freskhutttVy 
some salt and pepper, and chopped parsley ; toss over 
the fire to melt the butter, and serve. 

456. Pois aujambon (Peas with Ham), 

Cut in dice six ounces of lean ham, previously 
boiled ; put it in a pan, with a table-spoonful of flour, 
and four ounces of butter, and let it become of a light 
brown ; throw upon it half a gill of broth, a little pepper, 
the hearts of two lettuces, and the peas. Cover the 
pan, and let the peas boil slowly until they are tender. 
Take the pan from the fire, and the lettuces out of 
the pan ; mix two yolks of eggs with the sauce, and 
stir it with a wooden spoon until it is thick enough. 



1 82 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

457. Pois au lard (Peas with Bacon), 

Put in a pan four ounces of butter, six ounces of 
bacon cut in dice, and a table-spoonful of flour ; when 
it is of a light brown, throw upon it a tumbler of hot 
water. Add a little pepper, a bunch of parsley, a 
small branch of thyme, and half of a bay-leaf tied 
together, and two small onions. Cover the pan, and 
let the peas boil slowly until they are done. Remove 
the seasonings out of the pan, and serve. 

458. Pois en salade. 

Boil them in salted water, drain them, and let them 
cool. Put them in a dish, with two table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar, four of olive-oil, some salt and pepper ; let 
them remain so for an hour, turning them from time 
to time, and serve. 

4S9. Lentilles (Lentils). 

Cook them like Haricots sees au lardy No. 451 
page 180. 




pAtes alimentaires. 183 



CHAPTER XVI. 



PATES ALIMENTAIRES. 



460. Macaroni au gratin {Macaroni), 

Choose the best kind ; for if you want to economize 
you will get a macaroni which is sure to lose all 
shape, and taste like dust. 

Put in a pan half a pound of macaroni, two quarts 
of water, a little salt, and two onions with cloves 
stuck in them. Let the macaroni boil for three- 
quarters of an hour ; take it out of the pan and drain 
it. Put four ounces of butter, divided in several pieces, 
at the bottom of a deep dish ; sprinkle upon it some 
grated parmesan and gruy^re cheese; put upon the 
cheese a layer of macaroni, sprinkle upon it some salt, 
pepper, and grated parmesan and gruy^re cheese, 
then another layer of macaroni, and finish by a layer 
of grated cheese ; pour upon it two ounces of melted 
butter, and set the dish in the oven ; when the top is 
of a rich light brown serve in the same dish. 

461. Macaroni d la crime. 

Boil and drain it as above ; then put it in a pan 
•with six ounces of butter and a little pepper; mix 



\ 



184 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

together three ounces of grated parmesan and three 
ounces of grated gruy^re cheese, sprinkle a portion of 
it upon the macaroni, and toss it over the fire ; add 
a little more cheese, toss again, and so on until no 
cheese remains ; then put the pan upon a very mode- 
rate fire, and pour gradually into the pan half a 
tumbler of thick cream ; do not let it boil, and toss 
the pan quickly over the fire for two minutes. Serve 
immediately. 

Taste the macaroni to see whether it requires any 
salt ; if the cheese is of a good quality no salt should 
be required. 

462. Macaroni d Vltalienne. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni in water, with a little 
salt, for three-quarters of an hour ; drain it. Put it in 
a pan with three ounces of grated parmesan and 
three ounces of grated gruy^re cheese ; add the cheese 
gradually, tossing the pan over the fire every time 
you put a little cheese into it; when no cheese 
remains, pour into the pan a gill of good gravy, and 
let the macaroni simmer slowly for half an hour. 

463. Macaroni en moule. 

Boil it and cook it like macaroni ati gratin^ No. 460, 
page 183. Make a stiff paste with half a pound of 
flour, three ounces of butter, the yolk of an egg, a 
little salt, and half a tumbler of cold water. Knead 
the paste very smooth, and roll it out thin ; fold it 
up, and roll it out a second time. Butter a mould, 



pAtes alimentaires. I 8s 

and line it with your paste, fill it up with the 
macaroni, and put the mould in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Take it out and dish it ; it looks very 
nice. 

464. Macaroni d la Milanaise, 

Cut some very thin slices of raw ham, and hang 
them up in a warm place until they are dry enough 
to be grated. Use half a pound of grated ham to 
a pound of macaroni. Boil the macaroni in broth 
until it has absorbed all the broth ; add gradually to 
it half a pound of grated ham, four ounces of grated 
parmesan, and four ounces of grated gruy^re cheese ; 
toss over the fire until the cheese melts, then dish 
it, and pour upon it a sauce tomate ct Tltalienne 
(see No. 57, page 30). 

465. Noudles, 

See how to make them. Index. 

They are to be cooked like macaroni, and are 
almost equal to it in point of delicacy. (See Nos. 
460, 461, 462, 463, 464). 



l86 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

ENTREMETS SUCRfe. (SWEET DISHES.) 

BEIGNETS. 

466. Beignets de pommes. 

Peel some nice large apples, slice them through and 
take out the core without breaking the slices, which 
ought to be a quarter of an inch thick ; lay them 
on a dish, and pour upon them sufficient brandy to 
cover them ; sprinkle some pounded sugar on the top, 
and let the apples remain so for an hour, turning 
them from time to time. 

Prepare a batter as follows. To a pound of flour 
add a table-spoonful of olive-oil, a little salt, a table- 
spoonful of orange-flower water, two table- spoonfuls 
of brandy, four yolks of eggs, two whites, and water 
enough to make it into a thin transparent paste. Let 
it stand for two hours. When ready to use it, whisk 
the whites of two eggs very stiff, and mix them 
thoroughly with the paste. Dip each slice of apple 
separately into the paste, and fry it in hot lard ; when 
of a nice colour on one side, turn it on the other 
drain it, dish it, and sprinkle pounded sugar over it 
Of course you do not fry each slice separately ; you 



SWEET DISHES. 1 8/ 

dip it into the paste and throw it into the frying-pan, 
then dip another and throw it, and so on, until all the 
surface of the frying-pan is covered with beignets. 

467. Beignets (Tabricots, 

Choose some large apricots, not quite ripe ; divide 
them into two, and proceed exactly as for beignets de 
pommeSy No. 466 ; only, when they are fried, sprinkle 
a good layer of pounded sugar on the top, and cover 
them with a salamander to glaze them. 

468. Beignets de piches. 

Choose some firm peaches, and brush them with a 
soft brush, or rub them with a rough towel; divide 
them into two, and proceed exactly as for No. 467. 

In France we choose the small kind grown in the 
vineyards. 

469. Beignets d' oranges. 

Peel some oranges, and quarter them, without 
breaking the skin which divides them, and proceed 
as for No. 467. 

470. Beignets de cerises. 

Take a pot of preserved cherries and empty it upon 
a tammie, to let the syrup run through it. Wrap up 
two or three cherries in a large wafer, just moist, and 
do the same until you have a sufficient quantity of 
prepared cherries, then dip them in the batter given 
in No. 466, page 186, and fry them, iw tVve. ^^xsv^^-a^^ . 



1 88 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

471. Beigfiets d' ananas. 

Choose a firm, ripe pine-apple, and slice it through. 
Put the slices in a dish, and cover them over with 
rum ; let them remain so for an hour. Cut a biscuit 
de savoie (see Index) in slices, which you put in the 
oven to dry. Pound them, and dip the slices of 
pine-apple into it ; then dip them in the batter given 
for No. 466, page 186, and fry them in hot olive-oil. 
Drain them, and put them in a clean towel, which 
will absorb all the remaining oil ; dish them, and sift 
plenty of pounded sugar over them. 

472. Beignets en surprise. 

Peel some golden pippin apples, cut off a piece 
near the stalk, and hollow it out, leaving only a thin 
sort of shell ; fill it up with orange marmalade, or 
apricot, or any other kind of marmalade. Put the 
piece back, to shut up the hole, and make it adhere 
with a little beaten white of egg. Proceed in the 
same way for all the apples, and dip them in the 
batter given. No. 466; fry them in lard moderately 
hot, and drain them. Dish them, and sift pounded 
sugar over them. The lard should not be too hot, 
for the apples will require about twenty minutes to be 
fried properly. 

473. Beignets de riz» 

Boil three ounces of rice in milk until it is very thick 
and easy to mash. Take it out of the pan and put it in 
a tureen, then work it with a wooden spoon until it is 



SWEET DISHES. 1 89 

smooth, like a paste ; add to it three ounces of per- 
fectly fresh butter, a table-spoonful of orange-flower 
water, and four yolks of eggs ; mix thoroughly, and let 
it become cold. Butter a large, strong sheet of paper, 
and drop upon it a teaspoonful of the rice paste; 
and do it again until all the surface of the sheet of 
paper is covered with small balls. Lift up the two 
edges of the sheet of paper and lay the middle in the 
frying-pan full of very hot lard ; the little balls will 
come off* the paper, and whilst they fry you will have 
to put more balls upon the paper, to fry them in the 
same way as the first, which you take out of the 
frying-pan with a skimming-spoon and drain upon 
a sieve. When no paste remains, dish all' the balls, 
which must be swollen and of a light brown ; sift 
plenty of pounded sugar over them, and serve very 
hot. 

474. Beignets de seinoule. 

Proceed exactly as for No. 473, only use semolina 
instead of rice. 

475. Beignets d' acacia. 

Choose some fresh and rather large bunches of 
acacia-flowers, dip them in the batter given for No. 
466, and fry them in very hot lard until they are of a 
light brown. Take them out of the frying-pan with 
a skimming-spoon; drain them; dish them in the 
form of a pyramid, and sift over them plenty of 
pounded sugar. 

This dish looks very pretty, and eats deliciously, on 
account oi the flavour of the acacia-flower. 



190 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

476. Beignets soufflh. 

Put in a pan a gill of water, the rind of a lemon, 
and three ounces of sugar. Let the water boil for 
five minutes and take out the lemon. Then with 
one hand drop gradually some flour into the water, 
whilst you stir it with the other to prevent it from 
getting into lumps. Put flour enough to make a 
very thick paste, and continue to stir it for twenty 
minutes, over a slow fire. Remove the pan from the 
fire and stir it to make it cool ; when it has ceased 
boiling, break an egg into it and mix it thoroughly 
with the paste, then break another, stir again, and so 
on until the paste has absorbed six eggs ; then pour 
it upon a dish and let it become quite cold. When 
you are ready to fry the beignets, take a piece of 
paste the size of a nut and drop it into the frying- 
pan, full of very hot lard, and do the same until the 
surface of the frying-pan is covered with beignets. 
When they are of a light brown on one side, turn 
them on the other, take them out of the frying-pan 
with a skimming-spoon, and be quick in sifting 
pounded sugar over them, for they must be very 
much swollen, and if allowed to cool they would 
flatten very soon. 

477. Cripes (Pancakes), 

Put in a tureen a pound of flour, a table -spoonful of 

orange-flower water, a table-spoonful of olive-oil, a little 

grated lemon-peel, and six eggs ; mix the whole and 

add as much milk as will make it into a thin batter. 



SWEET DISHES. I9I 

Let it stand for two hours. When ready to use it, 
put a little fresh butter in a small frying-pan over a 
quick fire ; when the butter is very hot, stir the batter 
and pour enough of it into the frying-pan to cover 
the bottom with a thin layer. When the crepe is 
solid, give a quick blow upon the handle of the frying- 
pan to turn the cr^pe quickly ; let it remain over the 
fire for a minute ; dish it ; sift pounded sugar upon it, 
and keep it warm whilst you fry the others. Serve 
very hot. 

478. Cripes atcx pommes. 

Proceed exactly as above, only when you are 
ready to fry the batter add to it some russet apples 
peeled and cut in slices. 

There should be four or five slices of apple in each 
pancake. 

POMMES — ^APPLES. 

479. Charlotte de pommes. 

Peel twelve large apples, slice them, take out the 
cores, and throw them into cold water, previously 
mixed with the juice of a lemon. When the apples 
are all peeled, put them in a pan, over a moderate fire, 
with half a pound of sugar and a little cinnamon. 
Cover the pan, and stir the apples occasionally. Let 
them simmer slowly until they are very soft, and all 
the water is evaporated. Rub them through a 
tammie. Cut some stale bread in thin slices, and 
pass them in melted butter ; Utve a twovjiVj^l n^^^ *^^ 



k 



192 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

slices of bread, and take care that they meet every- 
where, else the charlotte would stick to the mould. 
Pour your apples into the mould and make a hole in 
the middle with a wooden spoon ; fill up the hole 
with apricot-marmalade ; cover all the surface of the 
apples and apricots with thin slices of bread dipped 
in melted butter. Set the mould in a moderate oven, 
and let it remain for a quarter of an hour; take it 
out of the oven, dish the charlotte, and serve imme- 
diately. 

480. Charlotte russe. 

Cook twelve large apples as above ; butter a mould 
and line it with finger-biscuits put close to each 
other ; fill up the mould with your apples and make 
a hole in the centre which you fill up with red-currant 
jelly. Cover the apples and jelly with finger-biscuits, 
and put the mould in a hot oven for five minutes ; 
turn the charlotte upon a dish, and serve immediately. 

481. Croquettes de pommes. 

Peel six large russet apples, core them, and put them 
in a pan with a little water and cinnamon ; cover the 
pan and let the apples simmer slowly until they are 
quite tender. Rub them through a tammie ; add to 
them half of their weight of new bread, grated very fine, 
and as much red-currant jelly ; mix well. Beat two 
eggs. Take a small quantity of the apples and give it 
the form of a ball, dip it into the beaten eggs and roll 
it in bread-crumbs ; dip it a second time in the eggs 
and roll it again in bread-crumbs. Do the same until 



SWEET DISHES. 193 

no apples remain. Fry the croquettes in hot lard, 
drain them, dish them in the form of a pyramid, and 
sift pounded sugar over them. 

482. Pommes meringuies. 

Cook the apples exactly as for a charlotte (see No. 
479). Cut some thin slices of stale bread and dip 
them in melted butter ; line the bottom and sides of 
a pie-dish with these slices. Whisk four whites of 
eggs until they are very stiff, and mix them with the 
apples and four ounces of pounded sugar ; fill up the 
inside of the pie-dish with the apples and eggs, and 
sift pounded sugar over the top. Put the pie-dish in 
a hot oven, and when the top is of a nice colour ' 
serve in the same dish. 

483. Pommes au riz. 

Peel eight russet apples, not very large ones, and 
rub them over well with a lemon cut through the 
middle, to keep them white ; take out the cores and 
rub the insides with a lemon ; then put them in 
boiling water with a little cinnamon ; cover the pan, 
and let the apples boil very slowly so as not to break. 
At the same time boil some rice in milk with a little 
sugar and a few drops of orange-flower water. When 
it is well swollen and very thick, keep it warm, and 
see whether the apples are tender ; if so, take them 
out of the pan, skilfully, without breaking them, 
and dip them in pounded sugar. Arrange them on a 
dish (a silver one if possible) and fill up the insides , 

O 



194 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with the rice. Sift pounded sugar over the tops of 
the apples and put them in a hot oven until they arc 
of a light brown ; serve immediately. 

484. Pommes au beurre. 

Peel eight russet apples, not very large ones, and 
proceed exactly as above. When they are boiled, 
let them become cold ; cut some slices of stale bread 
about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in melted 
butter, then into pounded sugar, and lay them upon a 
flat dish. Dip the apples into melted butter, then into 
pounded sugar, and lay each apple upon a slice of 
bread. Fill up the insides of the apples with fresh 
butter, and set them in a hot oven ; when they are of 
a nice colour, take them out ; the apples should by 
this time have absorbed the butter and the holes 
should be empty ; fill them with red currant jelly» 
or preserved fruits, such as cherries or strawberries. 

485. Gdteau de pommes de terre. 

Choose six very large potatoes, peel them, and 
put them in a pan, cover them with milk, add font 
ounces of sugar, and either orange-flower water 
essence of lemon-peel to flavour the milk. Let th 
potatoes boil until they are perfectly done, and crus 
them through the moulin ^ pur6e, or mash them. Pi 
them in a tureen and mix with them six ounces ( 
perfectly fresh butter, four yolks of eggs, and a littl 
sugar to make it sweet enough. Whisk the white 
until they are very stiff", and mix them with th 
potatoes. Butter a mould and sprinkle a good laye 



SWEET DISHES. 1 95 

of bread-crumbs all round the inside of it ; pour the 
potatoes into it, and set it in a hot oven ; let it remain 
for twenty minutes, and turn the cake over upon a 
dish ; serve immediately. The mould should not be 
more than half-filled, for the heat will make the cake 
swell to the edges of it. 



486. Pommes de terre souffl^es. 

Steam six large mealy potatoes, mash them, and 
put them in a pie-dish, with six ounces of butter, a 
little salt and pepper, two ounces of grated parmesan 
and two ounces of gruyere cheese, four yolks of eggs, 
and the whites previously whisked very stiff. Mix 
the whole thoroughly, sprinkle upon the top some 
grated parmesan and gruyere cheese, and set the pie- 
dish in the oven. When the top is raised and of a 
rich brown, serve immediately. 



487, Boulettes de pommes de terre. 

Steam six large mealy potatoes and mash them. 
Mix them with four ounces of fresh butter, two eggs, 
a spoonful of orange-flower water, and some pounded 
sugar. Mix thoroughly. Roll it into balls about as 
large as an ^%% and dip them in flour. Every time 
you take some more potato rub the inside of your 
hands with flour, to prevent the balls from sticking. 
When all the potatoes are used up, fry the balls in 
very hot lard ; take them out of the frying-pan witl\ 
a skimming-spoon, and serve imtried\a.\.^\V. 

O 2 



196 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

You may omit the sugar and flavour, and replace 
it with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. 



CRIMES (custards). 

Custards are generally served in cups especially 
used for this purpose; there should be as many 
custard-cups as guests. I shall here make some 
observations which will be adapted to all sorts of 
custard, and refer the reader to them when required, 
so as to avoid repetition. 

Although there are a great many different custards, 
they are all prepared very much in the same manner; 
the ingredients used in their preparation may be 
different, but when those ingredients are mixed there 
are three ways of finishing custards. 

1st. They are allowed to thicken on the fire. 

2d. They are baked. 

3d. They are made to thicken au bain-marie. 

Observations on No, i. When the different ingre- 
dients are mixed together, set the pan on a very 
moderate fire, and never cease stirring with a wooden 
spoon until the custard is thick enough ; never 
allowing it to boil Then pour it through a fine 
tammie into the cups, and let it become cold. 

This is the way that I have adopted for my own 

use, but it requires a good deal of practice to seize 

the right moment for removing the pan from the fire ; 

if you do it too soon the custard will be too thin, 

if you wait a second loo \otv^ \t mil curdle. To 



SWEET DISHES. 1 97 

prevent the curdling, watch the sides of the pan in 
which your custard is, and soon as you see any lumpSy 
ever so tiny, remove the pan quickly from the fire, 
and immediately pour the custard out of the pan. 
Custards made in this way are never so thick as 
baked custards ; but, in my opinion, they are much 
more delicate. 

Observations on No. 2. As soon as the custard is 
thickish pour it into the cups, and set them in a 
moderate oven; ten minutes' baking should be suffi- 
cient ; try the top with your finger, and if you feel it 
firm, take the cups out, and let them cool. 

This is the easiest way of finishing custards ; the 
only necessary precaution is about the degree of heat 
in the oven ; if it were too hot the water contained 
in the different ingredients would come out of them, 
stand on the top of the custard, and leave the different 
parts separate. 

Observations on No. 3. As soon as the different 
ingredients are mixed together, pour the custard 
through a tammie into the cups, which you set in 
a pan containing boiling water to two-thirds of their 
height. Let the water boil for five minutes, then, 
to form a skin upon the custard, cover the pan with 
its lid, and put some hot ashes upon it. A quarter 
of an hour, in the hot water, should be sufficient to 
make the custard quite stiff. 




198 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

488. Crime au chocolat {Chocolate Custard). 

Take four ounces of the best chocolate, i la vanille, 
scrape it, and put it in a pan with six custard-cupfuls 
of milk, and sugar enough to make it very sweet 
Stir the milk with a wooden spoon, and when the 
chocolate is melted, wait until the milk boils. Take 
six yolks of eggs, and beat them well with a table- 
spoonful of cream. When the chocolate has boiled 
for five minutes, pour slowly into it the yolks, whilst 
you stir quickly the contents of the pan with a wooden 
spoon. Finish the custard like Nos. i, 2, or 3. The 
quantities given above will fill up eight custard-cups. 

489. Crime d la vanille ( Vanilla Custard). 

Take half a stick of vanilla, and cut it in four pieces, 
which you put in a pan with six custard-cupfuls of 
milk, and sugar enough to make it very sweet. Boil 
the milk, add to it six yolks of eggs well beaten, 
with a spoonful of cream. Stir to mix the whole 
thoroughly, and finish the custard like Nos. i, 2, or 3, 
page 196. 

490. Crime au caramel. 

Put in a pan three ounces of pounded sugar with 
tzvo drops of water, no more ; move it with a silver 
spoon until it becomes of a dark brown, pour upon 
it a tumbler of hot water, and let it boil to a 
liquor. Take it from the fire, and let it become 
qinte cold. Boil six custard-cupfuls of milk, four 
ounces of sugar, and a piece of lemon-peel. Beat six 



SWEET DISHES. 1 99 

yolks of eggs, and add them to the milk previously 
removed from the fire. Turn it about with a wooden 
spoon whilst you pour the caramel-liquor into it ; pass 
it through a tammie, and pour it into the cups, which 
you finish either like Nos. i, 2, or 3 (see page 196). 

491. Creme au thJ {Tea Custard). 

Boil a pint of milk until one-half is evaporated ; 
add to it a tea-cupful of strong tea, ten yolks of eggs 
and six whites; beat the whole together until it is 
thoroughly mixed ; pass it through a tammie ; beat 
it again, and pass it through a tammie a second time. 
Pour it into cups which you set in a bain marie 
(see No. 3, page 197). When the custard is very 
stiff, let it become half cold in the cups, then turn 
them over upon a dish. Put in a pan a gill of milk, 
four ounces of sugar, a table-spoonful of orange- 
flower water; when it boils, add to it four yolks 
of eggs well beaten ; stir the milk with a wooden 
spoon, and let it thicken over the fire (without 
boiling). When it is thick enough, pour it under 
the stiff custards which are upon the dish. Serve 
cold. 

» 
492. Crime au cafi noir (Coffee Custard), 

Prepare a cup of strong coffee (see Caf^y Index), 
boil five tea-cupfuls of milk ; add the coffee, and 
enough sugar to make it very sweet. Beat together 
six yolks of eggs, and add them to the milk and 
coffee. Mix thoroughly ; pass through a tammie, and 



^ 



200 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pour into cups. Finish like Nos. i, 2, or 3 (see 
page 196). 

493. Creme au caf^ blond {Another way). 

Boil eight custard-cupfuls of milk with four ounces 
of sugar. At the same time roast four ounces of 
coffee over a sharp fire, in an earthen pan ; when it 
is of a light brown, throw it into the boiling milk, 
which you remove from the fire, and cover with a 
plate. Let the milk stand until it is cold. Pass it 
through a tammie, add to it six yolks of eggs well 
beaten, and mix thoroughly. Pass it a second time 
through a tammie, pour it into cups, and finish like 
Nos. I, 2, or 3 (see page 196). 

494. Crime aux pistaches {Pistachio Custard), 

Peel and pound four ounces of pistachios and boil 
them with six custard-cupfuls of milk and six ounces 
of sugar. Add five yolks of eggs and two whites well 
beaten. Mix thoroughly. Pass through a tammie, 
pour into cups, and finish like Nos. i, 2, or 3 (see 
page 196). 

495. Crime aux. amandes {Almond Custard), 

Blanch and pound in a mortar three ounces of 
almonds. Boil them with six custard-cupfuls of milk 
and six ounces of sugar. Add to the milk six yolks 
of eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly ; pass through 
a tammie, pour into cups, and finish like Nos. i, 2, 
or 3 (see page 196). 



SWEET DISHES. 201 

496. CEufs au lait. 

Boil a pint of milk with a little lemon-peel or 
orange-peel. Beat together six eggs, and whilst you 
stir them with one hand, pour upon them the boiling 
milk. Add a spoonful of orange-flower water, and 
pounded sugar in sufficient quantity to make it very 
sweet. Beat the whole together, and set it in a hot 
oven. When the top is stiff, sift pounded sugar over 
it, and let it remain in the oven until it is stiff 
through. Then take it out, and serve either hot or 
cold in the same dish. 

497. CEufs au caramel. 

Prepare a caramel as for creme au caramel (see 
No. 490, page 198). Butter a mould and pour the 
liquor into it, making it run all round, and taking 
care to have it thick enough to make it adhere to the 
mould everywhere, for it should form a sort of crust 
upon the eggs. Prepare six eggs, as indicated above, 
only instead of putting them in the oven, pour them 
into the mould, which you set in a bain marie, like 
a custard (see No. 3, page 196) ; when the eggs are 
quite stiff (they require about half an hour) take the 
mould out of the water, and let it become half cold ; 
then turn it over upon a dish, and serve cold. 

If you want to have a very nice-looking dish, pro- 
ceed exactly as above ; and prepare, on the other 
hand, a cr^me au caramel (see No. 490, page 198), 
let it thicken a little over the fire, and use only three 



\ 



202 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

yolks of eggs ; pass it through a tammie, and pour it 
around the oeufs au caramel. 

498. Crime d la Tiirque, 

Peel and pound in a mortar four ounces of pista- 
chios ; add gradually two table-spoonfuls of milk, to 
make a sort of paste. Add eight yolks of fresh eggs, 
half a pound of pounded sugar, two table-spoonfuls of 
rice-flour, and a small piece of cinnamon. Put the 
whole over a moderate fire, and stir constantly with 
a wooden spoon ; add gradually a gill of new milk. 
When it is of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, 
and sprinkle upon it some candied lemon and orange- 
peel cut in small round pieces, some candied straw- 
berries, and cherries, sift pounded sugar over the top, 
and set the dish in the oven ; when it is of a very light 
brown serve, either hot or cold. 

499. Crime meringuie. 

Boil a gill of milk with six ounces of sugar and two 
table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat four yolks 
of eggs together, and whisk the whites of six very 
fresh eggs until they are very stiff*; mix the yolks and 
the whites, and whilst you stir them with a wooden 
spoon, pour slowly upon them the boiled milk. Mix 
thoroughly ; sprinkle some pounded sugar over the 
top, and set the dish in a hot oven. When it is of 
a light brown, run a straw through it, to know whe- 
ther the middle is stiff". Then take it out of the 
oven, and when it is cold put around it a cr^me fouett^e 
(see Index), and upon the cream drop a little red- 



SWEET DISHES. 203 

currant jelly, leaving an equal space between the 
red spots. 

This is a very good 6ntrem^ts, and, when tastefully 
arranged, it looks very pretty. 

500. Crime d la Napolitaine. 

Put in a pan eight yolks of eggs, half a pound of 
pounded sugar, two table-spoonfuls of rice-flour, and 
two wine-glasses of rum. Stir the whole over a mode- 
rate fire for twenty minutes. Add to it four ounces 
of peeled and blanched pistachios, and four ounces 
of candied cedrat, cut in small dice. Put the whole 
in a dish. Whisk eight whites of eggs and three 
ounces of pounded sugar; when the eggs are very 
stiff, lay them upon your custard, and set the dish 
in the oven until the top is of a light brown. Take it 
out, put some orange marmalade around the rim of 
the dish, and lay finger biscuits upon it. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

501. Gateau de pain. 

Boil a gill of milk and pour it upon half a pound of 
bread cut in thin slices. Let it soak in it for three 
hours. Pound it in a mortar, add two table-spoonfuls 
of orange-flower water, six ounces of pounded sugar, 
and six yolks of eggs. Whisk the whites until they 
are very stiff, and mix them thoroughly with the 
bread. Butter a mould, pour the preparation into 
it, and set it in a hot oven. Let it remain for twenty 
minutes, take it out, turn it over upon a dish, and 
serve with the following sauce. 



204 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

502. Sambayon, 

Put four yolks of eggs in a pan with four ounces 
of pounded sugar, and a little lemon-peel ; whisk it 
with a fork (or a whip made on purpose), and when it 
begins to froth add two wine-glasses of Malaga or 
any Spanish wine. Put the pan over a moderate fire, 
and continue to whip the sauce until it is thickish and 
frothy. Do not let it boil. If it should become too 
thick, add a little more wine. When it is ready, add 
a table-spoonful of rum, mix, and serve immediately. 

This sauce may be used to all sorts of puddings. 

503. Blanc manger chaud, 

Blanch and pound in a mortar a pound of sweet 
almonds and eight bitter ones. Boil a pint of milk, 
pour it upon the almonds, mix well and pass through 
a tammie. Put the milk over the fire, with six 
ounces of sugar, and stir it with a wooden spoon ; 
let it boil until it becomes thickish, pour it upon a 
dish, and place finger biscuits around it. Serve hot. 

504. Blanc manger froid. 

Blanch and pound in a mortar half a pound of 
sweet almonds and four bitter ones, add gradually 
two tumblers of cold water. Pass it through a towel, 
and squeeze as tightly as possible. Add six ounces of 
pounded sugar. Whip six whites of eggs until they 
are frothy, but not stiff; mix them with the almond- 
water and sugar, and put the whole over a very low 
fire. Whip it with two forks until it sets. Then 



SWEET DISHES. 20$ 

remove it from the fire, pour it into a dish, and when 
it is cold, place around it a crown of finger biscuits. 

505. Blanc manger en forme. 

Boil a calf's foot with a pint of water for three 
hours. When the water evaporates, add a little more 
to keep up the requisite quantity. Blanch and pound 
in a mortar half a pound of sweet almonds, and four 
bitter ones ; pour gradually upon them the water in 
which the calf's foot was boiled. Add six ounces of 
pounded sugar and a little pounded vanilla, or any 
other flavour. Pass the preparation through a towel, 
and squeeze it with all your strength. Put it in a 
pan, which you set into hot water to let it become 
tepid. Stir with a wooden spoon, and pour into a 
mould. Let it become, cold. Dip the mould into 
boiling water, take it out immediately, and turn it 
over upon a dish. 

506. Crime cuite. 

Put in a preserving-pan a quart of milk and six 
ounces of pounded sugar. Stir the milk over a mode- 
rate fire to prevent the formation of the skin on the 
surface. Let it evaporate until it becomes thick and 
of a salmon-colour. Then pour it upon a dish, and 
place finger biscuits around it. Serve cold ; iced if 
possible. 

507. Riz au caf^. 

Boil some rice, with milk and sugar, until it is very 
thick. Add to it a cupful of cofiee (see Index), and 



206 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

four yolks of eggs, well beaten. Mix thoroughly. 
Pour the preparation into a dish, sift pounded sugar 
over the top, and put it in the oven. When the top 
is of a nice colour, serve immediately. 

508. Riz au chocolate 

Proceed exactly as above, only use chocolate in- 
stead of coffee. 

509. Riz souffle 

Boil six table-spoonfuls of rice with a quart of milk, 
two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and six 
ounces of pounded sugar. When the rice is boiled 
enough and very thick, add six yolks of eggs and 
three ounces of perfectly fresh butter. Mix thoroughly. 
Whip the six whites until they are very stiff, and add 
them quickly to the rice. Mix well; sift pounded 
sugar over the top, and set the dish in the oven. 
When it is stiff through, which you ascertain by run- 
ning a straw through the rice, serve immediately, in 
the same dish. 

510. Riz souffle en forme. 

Proceed exactly as above, and when you have 
mixed the whites of eggs with the rice, butter a 
mould, and sprinkle bread-crumbs all over the inside, 
then pout the rice into the mould, and set it in the 
oven. Let it remain for twenty minutes, then turn it 
over upon a dish, and serve hot, with or without 
a sambayon (see No. 502, page 204). 



SWEET DISHES. 20/ 

511. Bitises, 

Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick and 
three inches long ; lay them upon a dish, and pour 
upon them some boiling milk perfumed with vanilla, 
lemon, or orange-flower water. Let the milk become 
cold. Beat six eggs together, and put half a pound 
of butter in a frying-pan, over a sharp fire. Dip each 
slice of bread into the beaten eggs, and fry it in the 
hot butter ; when done on one side, turn it on the 
other, take it out of the frying-pan, drain it, and sift 
pounded sugar over it. Do the same for all the 
slices, and serve them in the form of a pyramid. 

512. Ponding a la bonne femme. 

Cut in thin slices half a pound of bread, and put it 
in a dish, with half a pound of pounded sugar. Beat 
tog^ether four eggs, a little grated cinnamon and lemon- 
peel, a gill of warm milk, and two table-spoonfuls of 
rum. Pour this preparation upon the bread, and let 
it remain so till the morrow. Then rub it through a 
tammie, add half a pound of Malaga raisins (stoned) 
and four ounces of currants. Mix the whole thoroughly, 
Buttcrr a irould, and pour the preparation into it ; put 
it in a moderate oven, and let it remain for an hour. 
Then turn it o\'^ upon a dish, and ser\'e either cold 
or hot, -with a sambayon ^see No. 502, page 204), 

513. Ponding au vermicclle. 

^RcnL {rmr ouiices of vermicelli with a quart of milk, 
a little «r^«ace of lemon-peel, and four ounces of 



208 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pounded sugar. When the vermicelli is very thick, add 
to it a table-spoonful of rice-flour, three yolks of eggs, 
four table-spoonfuls of rum, four ounces of Malaga 
raisins, as much currants, and as much candied cedrat, 
cut in dice. Mix the whole thoroughly. Whip two 
whites of eggs until they are very stiff, and incorporate 
them in the preparation. Butter a mould, and sprinkle 
some fine bread-crumbs all over the inside. Pour the 
preparation into it ; tie a cloth over the mould and 
set it in boiling water. Boil it for two hours, take 
the mould out of the water and turn it over upon a 
dish. Pour a tumbler of rum over the pudding, and 
set fire to it. Serve it burning. 

514. Pouding an riz. 

Boil three ounces of rice in a gill of milk, with 
a small piece of vanilla and three ounces of sugar 
When it is very thick, let it become cold. Then 
melt into a gill of water half an ounce of isinglass ; 
let the water reduce to half a gill. Beat half a 
tumbler of cream and the white of a fresh ^^'g until 
the cream is stiff ; then mix the rice, isinglass, and 
whipped cream together. Mix thoroughly. Pour 
the preparation into a mould, and set it in a cold 
place for three hours. Then turn it over upon a 
dish and put around it some red currant jelly. 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 209 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 



I SHALL not give here all the receipts included in 
French pastry ; that in itself would require a volume. 
This chapter, like all the others in the book, will be 
adapted to an ordinary household. 

515. P&te feiiilletee {Puff Paste), 

Knead by itself twelve ounces of butter, until no 
butter-milk remains in it, and you feel that it is soft 
and easy to work. Put upon the pastry-board a 
pound of flour; make a hole in the middle, add a 
little salt and cold water enough to make it into 
a paste exactly as stiff 2J& the butter. Knead quickly, 
and roll thin ; give to the butter the shape of a ball 
and put it in the middle of the paste ; cover the 
butter with the corners of the paste, and flatten it 
first with your hands, then with the roller, and let 
it remain so for a quarter of an hour ; fold it in three 
and roll it thin ; let it remain so for an hour. Fold it, 
roll it, and let it stand four times ; then roll it the 
fifth time to the thickness you require for use. 

This is the way adopted by pastry-cooks, only they 
use a pound of butter to a pound of flour, and it 

P 



^ 



2ia HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

makes the paste much richer ; but it is rather difficult 
to manage, for the layers of paste over the layers 
of butter are very thin, and easily torn ; and this 
spoils the paste. 

The following is another way, with which the paste 
will be very good, although not quite so delicate. 

Take a pound of flour ; make a hole in the middle, 
add a little salt and water enough to make it into 
a soft, stiff paste. Knead it very smooth, and roll 
it thin. Knead a pound of butter until no butter- 
milk remains in it, and try to have it as stiff as your 
paste. Then, with a sharp knife, cut thin slices of 
butter, and lay them close to each other upon the 
paste ; fold the paste in three and roll it thin ; let 
it remain so for a quarter of an hour. Proceed 
exactly as you did the first time — that is, cut some 
slices of butter, lay them upon the paste, &c. Do it 
four times, always allowing a quarter of an hour to 
elapse between each time. Then roll it for the fifth 
time to a proper thickness. 

516. Pdte brisk. 

Take a pound of flour, and make a large hole in 
the centre ; add some salt, and water enough to make 
it into a stiff paste, and twelve ounces of butter, 
divided in pieces. Mix the water and butter quickly, 
and take gradually the flour to the centre of the hole. 
Make the water absorb all the flour, and knead 
quickly ; then roll the paste in the shape of a ball, 
and beat it with a roller ; then put it again in a ball 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 2 1 1 

until you use it. If you make this paste in winter, 
use tepid water ; in summer, use cold water. 

It is necessary to guess at once the requisite quan- 
tity of water ; for adding water after kneading the 
paste spoils it. 

517. Petits pdtds. 

Make a pound of puff paste like No. 515 (page 209) ; 
roll it very thin, and cut it in round pieces with a wine- 
glass. When you have used all the surface of the 
paste, knead together the pieces left between what you 
cut ; roll this paste very thin, and cut it out with 
a wine-glass ; do the same until no paste remains ; 
then chop together some cold meat, parsley, shalots, 
and sausage-meat, and mix two eggs with it ; take a 
portion of it, about as large as a nut, and put it upon 
one of the pieces of paste ; dip your finger into cold 
water, and run it all round the paste ; cover the meat 
with another piece of paste, and make the two adhere 
together by pressing lightly upon the edges. Do the 
same until all the paste and chopped meat are used 
up ; egg them over with a soft brush, and put them in 
a hot oven; let them take colour, and serve them 
very hot. 

518. Petits pdth frits. 

Proceed exactly as above, only these pitds do not 
require egging over ; turn up the edges of the paste at 
the bottom, and fry the p^tes in hot lard or olive oil. 
Drain them, and serve very hot. 

P 2 



£ 



^ 



212 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

519. Petits pdth it la reine. 

Line twelve small moulds about as large as an 
apple with a pite bris^e (see No. 516), and fill up 
the inside with the fillets of a fowl, cut in small dice, 
and warmed up in a b^chamelle (see No. 46, page 25) ; 
place a very thin piece of puff paste, like No. 515 
page 209, over the pAt^s, and set them in a moderate 
oven. They require about ten minutes* baking. 

Observation, — It is easy to see that many different 
petits pAt^s may be made in following the rules 
given above. If any meat remains, it may be cut 
in dice and warmed up in a thick sauce (see any 
of the sauces given in Chapter IV.), then put inside a 
mould, like Petits p&th d la reine, No. 519. Salmon, 
trout, lobster, cray fish, shrimps, turbot, pike, oysters, 
calf s brains, sweetbreads, &c. &c. may be cooked 
i la poulette (see No. 323, page 129), or in a bechamelle 
(see No. 46, page 25), and put inside petits pates; 
only be careful to remember that whenever you put 
sauce inside it should be thicky and be careful to use 
only pate bris^e, like No. 516. If you used puff paste 
all the sauce would run through. 

You may use preserves inside, and in that case use 
puff paste ; it will then be an entremets. 

If anything but sweets is put inside petits pites, 
serve them as entries. 

520. Pdtissons. 

Use half a pound of puff paste (see No. 515, 
page 209), roll it extremely thin, and let the i>aste be 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 2 1 3 

very stiff; cut it in pieces the size of a crown-piece, 
and give them the shape of a small cup. Chop 
together a quarter of a pound of beef marrow, a 
quarter of a pound of veal suet, two ounces of can- 
died citron, two ounces of candied cedrat, and two 
ounces of candied orange-peel. Mix the whole with 
two spoonfuls of orange-flower water and a spoon- 
ful of pounded sugar. Fill the inside of your cups 
with it, not quite to the top ; dip your finger into 
cold water, and run it inside the edges ; then put 
another cup over the first, and make the two adhere 
together. Let the pitissons dry in the open air, and 
keep them in a cold and dry place until the morrow ; 
then put them in a very hot oven for five minutes. 
Take them out, and serve them immediately as an 
entremets. 

521. Tartcs et tartelettes ( Tarts) . 

If the inside of the tart is to be filled up with pre- 
served fruit, puff paste may be used for the bottom ; 
but if you use fresh fruit, prepare a paste like No. 
516 for the bottom ; for the juice of the fruit would 
run through a rich and soft paste. I shall give one 
way of making tarts, which may be applied to all 
the different sorts of fruit. 

522. Tartes aux fruits. 

Prepare a paste like No. 516, page 210, for the 
bottom of the tart ; all around the edges place a 
small ribbon of puff paste (No. 515, page 209) nicely 



^ 



214 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cut out with a paste-cutter ; fill up the inside of th^ 
tart with cherries previously stoned and drained 
upon a tammie ; keep the juice. Sprinkle some 
sugar over the fruit, and set the tart in the oven. 
When well raised and quite firm, add the juice ; 
and when the tart is to be served, sift pounded 
sugar over it. Large fruit-tarts require half an 
hour's baking. 

If you use apricots, divide them through the middle, 
take out the stones, and add a large quantity of 
sugar. 

If you use plums, divide them through the middle, 
take out the stones, and put them upon a tammie to 
let the juice run out ; boil it separately with a little 
sugar until it is like a syrup, and when the tart is 
baked pour the syrup upon it. 

If you use pears, they should be previously cooked 
(see Compote de poireSy Index).- 

If you use apples, cook them first in marmalade 
(as for Charlotte^ No. 479, page 191). 

If you use strawberries, raspberries, or red currants, 
let the tart be half baked before you add the fruit. 

If you use gooseberries, add a large quantity of 
sugar. 

If you use grapes, very little sugar is required. 

If you use peaches, peel them, and divide them in 
eight slices. 

523. Tarte d la frangipane. 

Beat together five eggs and four table-spoonfuls of 
flour; add two ounces of perfectly fresh butter, a little 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 215 

pounded sugar, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, 
and a gill of new milk ; pound in a mortar twelve 
sweet almonds and two bitter ones ; add them to the 
other ingredients, and set the whole on a moderate 
fire ; stir it about with a wooden spoon until it is as 
thick as custard, then take it from the fire. Make the 
bottom of the tart with puff paste (see No. 515, 
page 209), and make the edges two inches high ; pour 
the frangipane inside, and smooth the top with a 
wooden spoon ; decorate the top with narrow ribbons 
of thin puff paste, nicely cut out with a paste-cutter ; 
make those ribbons cross each other in the form of 
small squares ; egg the tart over with a paste-brush, 
and set it in the oven for twenty minutes. Sift 
pounded sugar over the top, and let the tart become 
of a nice colour, and serve either hot or cold. 

5 24. TarU d la crSme. 

Proceed as above, and fill up the inside of the tart 
with a custard as follows: — Mix three table-spoon- 
fuls of flour with a gill of cold milk. Put the milk 
over a moderate fire, with half a stick of vanilla and 
four ounces of sugar; stir it with a wooden spoon, 
and when it is very thick take it from the fire, and 
let it become half cold, moving it frequently to pre- 
vent the formation of a skin on the surface. Beat 
together four eggs, and add them to the milk and 
flour, which you mix thoroughly with them. Pour the 
custard into the tart, which you finish as above. 



i 



2l6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

525. Tarte au riz. 

Proceed as for No. 523, page 214, only fill up the 
inside of the tart with rice boiled in milk, and very 
thick. 

526. Tarte meringu^e. 

Prepare a paste like No. 516, page 210, only add an 
egg to make it richer, and make the bottom of a tart 
with it ; make the edges with puff paste (like No. 515, 
page 209), and two inches high. Mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour with a tumbler of new milk, and 
put it over a moderate fire, with half a stick of vanilla 
(or any other flavour) and four ounces of sugar. Stir 
the milk with a wooden spoon, and when it is as thick 
as custard, take it from the fire. Let it cool, and 
add three yolks of eggs, which you mix thoroughly 
with it. Pour this custard into the tart, and whip 
the whites of eggs with a spoonful of pounded sugar 
until they are very stiff ; lay them on the top of the 
custard, and set the tart in a moderate oven. Let 
it remain in it for three-quarters of an hour, and 
serve hot. 

You may add to the custard, instead of vanilla, a 
cup of strong coffee or chocolate. 

Tarts may be filled with any sort of custard (see 
Chapter XVII). 

527. Gdteau d*amandes. 

Take eight yolks of eggs, and beat them with a 
pound of pounded sugar until they become almost 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 2 1 7 

white ; add gradually half a pound of melted butter, 
half a pound of flour, and four ounces of pounded 
almonds ; mix thoroughly. Whip the eight whites 
of eggs until they are very stiff, and mix them with 
the other ingredients. Butter a mould, and line it 
with an extremely thin puff paste ; fill it up with 
the preparation, and set it in a hot oven. It requires 
about an hour's baking. Turn it over upon a dish, 
and serve hot. 

528. Gdteau de savoie. 

Take eight yolks of eggs, and beat them with 
a pound of pounded sugar until they become white 
(it takes about half an hour) ; add gradually half 
a pound of potato-flour and a little grated lemon- 
peel. Beat the whites until they become very stiffs 
and mix them thoroughly with the preparation. 
Butter a large mould, and sift pounded sugar all 
over the inside; pour the preparation into it, and 
set it immediately in the oven. When done (the 
baking requires about an hour) take it out of the 
oven, and let it become half cold in the mould ; then 
turn it over upon a dish, and serve cold. The prepa- 
ration should not fill up more than one-half of the 
mould. 

The inside of a gdteau de savoie should be soft 
and elastic. The remains may be cut in neat slices 
about half an inch thick and two inches long ; you 
then put a thin layer of orange, lemon, or any other 
marmalade upon a slice of cake, you cover it 



2l8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

another slice, you sift pounded sugar over the top, 
and set it in a very hot oven. As soon as it is of a 
golden colour you take it out, and serve either hot 
or cold. Of course you proceed in the same way 
for all the slices. 



5 29. Gdteau manqui aux confitures. 

Proceed exactly as above, only use a pan instead 
of a mould ; choose the pan larger at the top than at 
the bottom, to take the cake easily out of it, and 
bake it as in a mould. Let it become quite cold, 
then cut it neatly through, with a sharp knife, in two 
different places; you have three flat cakes. Put a 
small layer of orange jelly upon the bottom cake, 
and cover it up with the second cake, upon which 
you place a small layer of raspberry jelly ; cover this 
second cake with the top, and put a thin layer of 
lemon jelly upon it, and all round the edges place 
some red preserved fruit, such as cherries, small 
pears cooked in red wine, or any kind of fruit. 

This cake is delicious, and looks very pretty. Any 
kinds of jelly may be used, provided the two kinds 
are different in colour. 

5 30. Biscuits en caisse. 

Make a preparation exactly like No. 528, page 217; 
make a great many small paper cases ; fill them up 
to one-half of their height with the preparation ; have 
ready some almonds, chopped very fine, and sift 
them over the tops of the cases, which you set im- 



PATISSERIE— PASTRY. 2 19 

mediately in the oven. A quarter of an hour*s baking 
is sufficient. 

531. Biscuits a la cuiller. 

Proceed exactly as for No. 528, page 217; butter 
some sheets of paper, fill up a spoon with the pre- 
paration, and make it run out and adhere to the 
paper ; then draw it quickly along, so as to make it 
about two inches and a half long. Proceed in the 
same way to use up all the preparation ; then sift 
pounded sugar over the top and set the biscuits in 
the oven. As they are very thin, ten minutes* baking 
is sufficient. 

When the biscuits are cold, take them from the 
paper and shut them up in a tin or wooden box, 
which you put in a dry place. They will keep for a 
fortnight. 

532. Pithiviers. 

Make a puff paste like No. 515, page 209. Blanch 
half a pound of sweet almonds and three bitter ones ; 
pound them in a mortar, with half a pound of 
pounded sugar and some grated lemon-peel ; add 
a few drops of lemon-juice, and from time to time 
a tea-spoonful of water. When all the above ingre- 
dients form a smooth paste, make the bottom of the 
tart, about a quarter of an inch thick, with puff 
paste ; lay the almonds upon it, and cover the whole 
with an extremely thin puff paste. Make the two 
layers of puff paste adhere together by wetting the 
edges, and trace some patterns on the top of the 



220 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cake with the back part of a knife's blade. Egg the 
cake over with a paste-brush, and set it in the oven. 
Half an hour's baking is sufficient. Serve either hot 
or cold. 

533. Madeleines, 

Melt, over a very moderate fire, half a pound of 
fresh butter ; add gradually a pound of flour and as 
much pounded sugar, with a little grated lemon peel; 
when it is warm, remove the pan from the fire and 
break into it eight eggs, which you mix thoroughly 
with the other ingredients. Fill up with this pre- 
paration some small buttered moulds, and set them 
in the oven. Twenty minutes* baking is sufficient. 

Madeleines when shut up in boxes and put in a 
dry place may keep for a month. 

534. Baba, 

Take four ounces of flour, a table-spoonful of 
yeast, and half a tumbler of tepid water; make a 
soft paste with those ingredients, and let it rise to 
three times its first volume. Then take fourteen 
ounces of flour,^ fourteen ounces of butter, ten eggs, 
and a tumbler of tepid milk. Knead the whole 
quickly together ; it should be very thin. Add then 
two ounces of pounded sugar, a wine-glassful of 
Madeira, Malaga, or rum, four ounces of stoned 
raisins, and two ounces of candied cedrat, cut in thin 
slices, a tea-spoonful of saff*ron, and the first paste. 
Knead quickly together, and try to incorporate the 
yeast in every portion of the second paste. Butter a 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 22 1 

mould, put the baba into it, and be careful not to fill 
up more than one-third of the mould. Put it in a 
warm place, and let it rise for six hours ; then bake 
it in a hot oven, and serve cold. 

It requires about an hour's baking. 

The proportions given above would give a very 
large cake ; the quantities may be reduced to one- 
half. 

535. Savarin. 

Take four ounces of flour, a spoonful of yeast, 
and half a tumbler of tepid water; make a soft 
paste with those ingredients, and let it rise to three 
times its first volume. Then knead it with fourteen 
ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of 
pounded sugar, and enough of tepid milk to make it 
into a very thin, light paste. Butter a mould and 
sift chopped almonds all over the inside; pour the 
preparation into it. Do not fill it more than to one- 
half, and let the savarin rise for four or five hours ; 
then bake it in a hot oven. Then prepare a syrup of 
sugar, second degree (see Index) ; add to it a wine- 
glassful of kirsch or rum ; dip a soft paste-brush into 
the syrup and lay it upon the savarin ; repeat the 
same operation until the cake has absorbed all the 
syrup. Serve cold. 

536. Brioche. 

Prepare your first paste as above, but double the 
quantity, and when it is well risen place it in the 



222 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

centre of two pounds of flour; add a spoonful of 
pounded sugar, some salt, and half a tumbler of tepid 
milk ; mix the milk with \ht first paste so as to make 
it very thin ; then add a pound and a half of butter 
divided in small pieces, and a dozen of eggs. Knead 
very quickly and not too long, for the brioche would 
not rise. When the paste is smooth, roll it with your 
hands into a ball, sift some flour over it, cover it up, 
and allow it to rise for twelve hours in winter and six 
in summer. When you are ready for baking it, give 
it either the shape of a crown, by making a hole 
in the centre, or make two balls of unequal size ; put 
the smaller one on the top of the other, and make 
the two adhere together with a little water. Egg the 
brioche over with a paste-brush, and bake it in a hot 
oven. 

Three-quarters of an hour are sufficient. 

The quantities given above are sufficient for twenty 
people ; they may be reduced to one-half, but it 
would be difficult to succeed with a third. 

The remains of a brioche may be cut in slices, 
egged over, and baked a second time ; in that state 
they will keep for a week, and may be served at 
tea-time. 

If the paste were divided into pieces about as large 
as pears they might form small brioches, which would 
only require twenty minutes* baking ; but they should 
not be baked close to each other, for they rise con- 
siderably. 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 223 

537. Nougat, 

Take half a pound of sweet almonds, throw them 
into boiling water, take the skin off, and cut them in 
thin slices; put them in a pan with twelve ounces 
of pounded sugar ; no water. The sugar will melt and 
become of a rich brown ; do not let it become too 
dark. Have ready a mould, well buttered, and pour 
into it a small portion of sugar and almonds ; have 
ready a lemon cut through the middle, and flatten the 
almonds and sugar with it ; then pour a little more 
sugar and almonds close to what you have already 
flattened, and so on until all the inside of the mould 
is lined with it. When done, it should form a sort of 
thin, hollow, transparent shell ; there should never be 
two slices of almonds upon one another. Let it 
become quite cold in the mould, and turn it over 
upon a dish ; if it sticks, turn the part where it 
adheres to a sharp fire, just to warm it, and it will 
come out easily. If you try this plan, do not let the 
sugar melt. 

The first time you try this nougat, use a very plain 
mould, for it is rather difficult to flatten the almonds 
to the shape of complicated patterns. 

538. Totfait, 

Beat eight yolks of eggs with four ounces of 
pounded sugar until they become white ; add four 
ounces of melted butter, and half a pound of flour. 
Beat the whites until they are very stiff" ; add them to 
the preparation, with a table-spootvfuV ol ot^.xv^<i-^<3^^x 



i 



224 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

water, or any other flavour. Butter a mould, and sift 
pounded sugar inside it ; pour the preparation into it, 
and set it in a moderate oven. It requires an hours 
baking ; when it is cold, turn it over upon a dish. 
The mould should not be filled to more than one- 
half. 

539. Flamusses, 

Have ready. a pound of cream cheese; mix eight 
eggs with it ; add a little salt. Take a table-spoonful 
of the preparation and drop it upon a vine-leaf; put 
it immediately in the oven. Take them out after ten 
minutes' baking, and serve them immediately with 
their leaves. 

If you have no cream cheese, take two quarts of 
new milk ; put it in a pan with a little rennet ; set the 
pan in warm water and let it remain until the milk 
curdles, then put it upon a tammie, and use it after 
two hours as cream cheese. 

540. Corniottes, 

Prepare a puff paste like No. 515, roll it half an 
inch thick and divide it into square pieces about as 
large as a sheet of note-paper. Mix half a pound of 
cream cheese with six eggs, a little salt, and two 
ounces of flour ; beat the whole together ; take a por- 
tion of it, about as large as an apple, and lay it upon 
a corner of the sheets of paste, not too near the 
edges ; cover it with the other corner, and make the 
edges stick together with a little water; turn the 



PATISSERIE— PASTRY. 225 

edges up, egg the cake over and set it in the oven. 
Half an hour's baking is sufficient. 

Of course, you do what is indicated above, until no 
paste remains ; and you serve the cakes together. 

541. Petit s choux. 

Make a paste as for beignets souffles, No. 476, 
page 190, and let it become cold; then cut it out 
with the rim of a tumbler into small round pieces. 
Butter a sheet of paper, and put them upon it, 
leaving a good space between, for they rise a great 
deal ; sprinkle upon the tops some chopped almonds, 
and set them in a hot oven. Five minutes* baking is 
sufficient. 

542. Petits choux aux confitures. 

Proceed exactly as above, and when the cakes 
are baked take off the tops with a sharp knife ; fill 
up the inside with some kind of marmalade, and 
replace the tops. 

543. Petits choux d la crime mite. 

Proceed exactly as above, only fill up the insides 
of the cakes with cr^me au chocolat (No. 488, page 
198), or cr^me au caf6 (see No. 493, page 200). 

544. Petits choux d la crime fouett^e. 

Proceed exactly as for No. 542, only fill up the 
cakes with a cr^me fouettde (see No. 559, page 232). 

Q 



^ 



226 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

545. Talmouses, 

Prepare a puff paste like No. 515, page 209, roll it 
very thin, and cut it into pieces, the size and form of 
a dessert plate. Place upon each a portion c^ the 
paste indicated for beignets souffles, No. 476, page 
190; let it be the size of an apple; lift up the three 
corners of the paste and make them adhere together 
over the top of the paste which is inside, and which 
ought to show between the puff paste. Do the same 
until no paste remains. Egg the talmouses over and 
set them in the oven. A quarter of an hour's baking 
is sufficient. Serve them as hot as possible. 

546. Croquets aux amandes. 

Beat together a pound of pounded sugar and eight 
yolks of eggs; add half a pound of melted butter 
and half a pound of flour ; mix thoroughly. Cut 
in slices four ounces of blanched almonds, add them, 
together with the whites previously beaten very stiff, 
to the paste. Knead quickly the whole together, roll 
it to half an inch and cut it in ribbons with a paste- 
cutter ; divide those ribbons into square pieces, which 
you set in the oven. A quarter of an hour's baking 
in a moderate oven is required. 

When cold, put the croquets in a tin box, which 
you put in a dry place, and they will keep for a long 
time. 

547. GAteau de manage pour le th^. 

Put four table-spoonfuls of thick cream and a table- 
spoonful of orange-flower water into a bowl, and make 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 22/ 

them absorb flour enough to make a very stiff paste, 
which you roll down very thin. Cut it out in small 
square pieces, sift pounded sugar over them and set 
them in the oven. From five to seven minutes' 
baking is required. 

Shut them in a tin box, and they will keep for a 
long time. 

548. Cressini pour k th^. 

Have ready some flour, make a hole in the centre, 
and put a little yeast into it with a little salt and tepid 
milk; mix the yeast and milk together; add four 
ounces of melted butter and a tumbler of tepid milk. 
Knead quickly to obtain a very stiff paste, which you 
roll down very thin. Then divide the paste in slices 
about four inches broad. Roll these slices to the 
thickness of the forefinger, and make as many sticks 
as you can. Let them rise in a warm place for two 
or three hours, and bake them in a hot oven with a 
good space between them. Twenty minutes' baking 
is required. 

Cressini will keep for a week. 

If you use sugar instead of salt, and no butter, 
they will keep for a month at least. 

549. Gdteaux atix anis verts. 

Take four eggs, a piece of fresh butter the size of 
an ^^%i two ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of 
fresh aniseed, and enough flour to make it into a 
very stiff paste. Knead it, and roll \1 ^et^ >2cCvc\.\ c\i5L 

Q2 



228 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it out with a wine-glass, egg it over with a paste- 
brush, and bake in a hot oven. Ten minutes' baking 
will be sufficient. 
These cakes will keep a long time. 

550. GAteaux sees pour le thi. 

Have ready a pound of flour ; make a hole in the 
centre ; put into it four ounces of fresh butter, three 
eggs, and a little pounded sugar ; knead it quickly 
and make into a very stiff paste, which you roll into 
the form of a ball. Cover it up with a floured napkin 
and let it stand for an hour. Roll it very thin, and 
cut it out with a wine-glass into small cakes ; let them 
dry on the surface for an hour. Egg them over with a 
paste-brush and bake them in a moderate oven. 
Twenty minutes' baking is required. 

These cakes will keep for a month. 

551. Gdteau moseovite pour le thi. 

Have ready a pound of flour, a little salt, yeast, 
and tepid water ; mix the yeast and the water 
together, add four ounces of butter, and four eggs ; 
knead quickly together, and put the paste in a warm 
place to rise. When it is well risen, give it a long and 
narrow shape, but do not use a roller. Egg the cake 
over, and bake it like a dough. When done, cut it in 
slices about half an inch thick and put those slices 
into the oven ; when they are of a golden colour 
take them out and let them cool. 

They may be buttered, and served at tea-time. 

These cakes will keep for a month. 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 22/ 

them absorb flour enough to make a very stiff paste, 
which you roll down very thin. Cut it out in small 
square pieces, sift pounded sugar over them and set 
them in the oven. From five to seven minutes' 
baking is required. 

Shut them in a tin box, and they will keep for a 
long time. 

548. Cressini pour k th^. 

Have ready some flour, make a hole in the centre, 
and put a little yeast into it with a little salt and tepid 
milk; mix the yeast and milk together; add four 
ounces of melted butter and a tumbler of tepid milk. 
Knead quickly to obtain a very stiff paste, which you 
roll down very thin. Then divide the paste in slices 
about four inches broad. Roll these slices to the 
thickness of the forefinger, and make as many sticks 
as you can. Let them rise in a warm place for two 
or three hours, and bake them in a hot oven with a 
good space between them. Twenty minutes' baking 
is required. 

Cressini will keep for a week. 

If you use sugar instead of salt, and no butter, 
they will keep for a month at least. 

549. Gdteatix atix anis verts. 

Take four eggs, a piece of fresh butter the size of 
an egg, two ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of 
fresh aniseed, and enough flour to make it into a 
very stiff paste. Knead it, and roll it very thin ; cut 

Q2 




\ 



230 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cut them up in thin slices, and put them back in the 
oven until they are quite dried. Let them cool, shut 
them up in a box, and serve them buttered, with 
coffee, chocolate, or tea. 

If no sugar is used, biscottes may be put in soups 
instead of rice, vermicelli, or Italian paste. 

Biscottes will keep a long while, and they are 
excellent in hot milk, or even boiled in water with a 
little butter and salt; they make a light food for 
infants or'invaHds. 



555. Biscottes de Bruxelles, 

Proceed exactly as above, only add four ounces of 
sugar and three eggs to the paste. 



556. Gdteau Russe pour le th^. 

Have ready a pound of flour, make a hole in the 
middle ; put into it two table-spoonfuls of yeast, four 
ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of butter, and a 
tumbler of warm water. Mix the yeast with the butter 
and water ; add four eggs, six ounces of stoned raisins, 
and two ounces of currants. Knead quickly, to make 
a soft, smooth paste ; if required, add a little more 
Water. Cover the cake with a well-floured napkin, 
and put it in a warm place to rise for two hours at 
least ; let it be very light before you put it into the 
oven. Egg it over with a paste-brush, and 'bake it like 
a dough. 

This cake will keep for five or six days. 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 23 1 

557. Macarons pour le ////. 

Beat two yolks of eggs with six ounces of pounded 
sugar, until they become white ; add gradually six 
ounces of flour, and make the paste very smooth with 
a wooden spoon. Beat the two whites of eggs until 
they are very stiff; mix them thoroughly with the 
paste. Take a small portion of it about the size 
of a nut, roll it in your hands, and flatten it upon 
a sheet of well-buttered paper. Proceed in the same 
manner until no paste remains. Egg the macarons 
over with a soft brush, and set them in the oven. 
Twenty minutes' baking in a moderate oven is 
sufficient. 

558. Meringues, 

Beat together eight whites of eggs until they are 
stiff enough to bear an egg ; add quickly eight ounces 
of pounded sugar, passed through a silk tammie, and 
a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Take a table- 
spoonful of the preparation and drop it upon a sheet 
of paper. Proceed in the same manner until all the 
preparation is used up. Be careful to put the meringues 
at a good distance from each other. Sift pounded 
sugar over them, and set them in a hot oven. When 
the tops are hardened, cover them with a sheet of 
paper, to prevent them from becoming brown. As 
soon as they are baked take them out of the oven, 
and keep them in a warm place until they are used ; 
for they would become spongy if they were left in a 
damp or cold place, and they should be crisp through. 



^ 



232 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

When you are ready to serve them, make a little hole 
in the centre of the flat side, fill it up with the follow- 
ing cream, and cover it up with another meringue, 
also hollowed out on the flat side. 

It is a good precaution to put a board under the 
sheet of paper previous to baking the meringues, the 
oven being generally too hot to leave them white as 
they should be. 

If you find any difficulty in removing them from 
the paper, wet it slightly where they stick. 

559. Crime fouett^e.pour meringices. 

Take about a tumbler of fresh cream, that is, a 
day old ; it should be thickish. Add to it one 
white of ^^^y and beat it with a fork until it is quite 
frothy. Take the froth from the top of the cream 
with a silver spoon, and put it upon a silk tammie. 
When you have got the requisite quantity, add to it 
some pounded sugar and a little pounded vanilla, or 
any other flavour. 

If you try to whip cream in summer you should 
have some ice and put the cream upon it, for if it is at 
all warm you will be unable to succeed. 

Some people add a small portion of pounded gum- 
arabic. 

560. Macarons aux atnandes, 

Blanch and pound in a mortar eight ounces of 
sweet almonds with three bitter ones ; add from 
time to time a little white of egg, and eight ounces 
of pounded sugar. Work the whole into a smooth 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 233 

paste, then beat the eight whites of eggs until they 
are very stiff; add them to the almonds, and mix 
thoroughly. Take a small portion of the prepara- 
tion with a spoon, and drop it upon a sheet of paper ; 
do the same until the preparation is used up, then 
bake the macarons like meringues (see No. 558, page 

231)- 

Macarons will keep for a month. 

561. Macarons aux noisettes. 

Proceed as above, only use Spanish nuts instead of 
almonds. 

562. Macarons atix pistaches. 

Proceed exactly as for No. 560, only use pistachios 
instead of almonds. 

563. Gaufres {dessert et tk^). 

To make gaufres, a particular kind of mould is 
required (see the drawing, 9, No. 1 1, page iii.). 

Put in a tureen eight ounces of flour ; make a hole in 
the centre ; put into it a little salt (very little), a table- 
spoonful of brandy, one of olive-oil, and three eggs ; 
mix the whole with a wooden spoon and make it very 
smooth, adding gradually the necessary quantity of 
milk to make it into a thin batter. Let it stand for 
two hours. Then take the mould and put it upon a 
hot fire (without smoke), and warm it on both sides ; 
open it and oil it over with a soft brush dipped 
either in olive-oil or melted butter ; butter both sides. 



^ 



234 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Stir the batter, and with a ladle pour enough of the 
preparation into the mould to fill it up quite to the 
rim ; shut it up and put it on the fire ; let it remain 
about a minute, turn it over quickly, and let the other 
side get hot. Then remove it from the fire, and take 
out the gaufre with a knife ; sift pounded sugar over 
it Butter the mould and proceed in the same way 
until all the batter is used up. 

Gaufres will not keep ; they get soft after a day. 
To prevent this some people add a little gum-arabic 
to the batter ; it makes them stiffer, no doubt, but 
still they lose the crispness and delicacy of taste 
which make them so much liked. 

It seems at first difficult to use a gaufrier (the 
mould), but with a little practice the requisite degree 
of heat is soon learned, and gaufres become easy to 
make. In France gaufre-making is a great amuse- 
ment, and it is not rare, on a winter evening, to see 
the family assembled for such a purpose. Gaufres 
are then very quickly made, for one person holds the 
mould, another pours the batter into it, a third takes 
the gaufre out of the mould, and a fourth sifts pounded 
sugar over it. I ought to add that on such occasions 
gaufres are eaten as quickly as they are made, and 
that is the way to have them perfect. White Bur- 
gundy wine is a necessary accompaniment to gaufres. 

564. Bitises. 

Mix together four ounces of flour, two eggs, a little 
butter, a little pounded sugar, and either a little 
pounded cinnamon or vanilla. Knead the paste, roll 



PATISSERIE — PASTRY. 235 

it thin, cut it out in narrow bands, to which you give 
all sorts of shapes, and fry them in hot olive-oil or 
lard. Drain them, and sprinkle pounded sugar over 
them. Serve either hot or cold. 



565. Fantaisies, 

Take six ounces of flour and three or four eggs^ a 
little pounded sugar, and orange-flower water. Knead 
it to a stiff" paste, and finish as above. 

566. Caprices, 

Beat together four eggs, four table-spoonfuls of 
cream, two of orange-flower water, a small piece of 
butter, and some pounded sugar. Add flour in suf- 
ficient quantity to make a smooth, soft paste. Roll 
it twice, and finish it like No. 564, page 234. 

567. Soupgons, 

Put in a tureen eight yolks of eggs and three whites, 
with sixteen ounces of pounded sugar and as much 
flour, two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and 
four ounces of butter. Make a soft, smooth paste ; 
cover it up with a well-floured napkin, and let it stand 
till the morrow. Then roll it very thin with a roller, 
and cut it to any shape you choose with a paste-cutter. 
Dip the soupgons into whites of eggs beaten very stiff", 
and dip them again in bread-crumbs ; fry them in hot 
olive-oil or lard ; drain them, and serve them hot. 




\ 



236 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

568. Pdtehfrire. 

Put in a tureen four table-spoonfuls of flour, two 
yolks of eggs, a little salt, and water enough to make it 
into a thick batter. Let it stand for an hour. When 
ready to use it, beat two whites of eggs very stifT, and 
add them quickly to the batter ; mix thoroughly. 

You may put the yolks and whites with the batter 
without beating the whites separately, but it will not 
be so light. If you want a very plain batter, use only 
flour, water, and salt. 



COMPOTES. 237 



CHAPTER XIX. 



COMPOTES. 



569. Compotes (Tabricots verts. 

Take some large unripe apricots (those which fall 
from the trees may be used), and throw them into 
boiling water for five minutes. Take them out and 
wipe them. Take a pound of sugar and put it in a 
preserving pan, with a tumbler of water. Let the 
syrup boil for five minutes, throw the apricots into 
it and let them boil until you can easily run a needle 
through them. Take them out. Squeeze the juice 
of an orange into the syrup and let it boil until it is 
of a proper thickness ; pour it upon the apricots, and 
serve cold. 

570. Compotes (Tabricots^ murs. 

Choose twenty large ripe apricots and prick them 
all over with a needle. Prepare a syrup as follows : 
to twelve ounces of pounded sugar add half a tumbler 
of water; as soon as it begins to boil throw the 
apricots into it, and let them simmer (not boil) over 
a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour ; take them 



i 



238 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

out of the syrup and lay them on a dish. Boil the 
syrup, for ten minutes, and pour it upon the apricots. 
Serve cold. 

571. Compote de reines-claude. 

Choose twenty large greengages, not quite ripe. 
Have ready some boiling water, into which you throw 
some salt and vinegar. Put the water on the corner 
of the fire and throw the greengages into it. Let 
them remain for five minutes. Prepare a syrup of 
sugar au petit boul6 (see 1st degree, page 251), and 
throw the greengages into it (having drained them 
previously) ; let them boil until they begin to soften ; 
take them out ; let the syrup boil to a proper thick- 
ness, and pour it upon the fruit. 

572. Compote de reines-claude dfroid. 

Choose some large ripe greengages, prick them 
through with a needle, open them and take out the 
stones. Lay the fruit at the bottom of a deep dish, 
and pour upon it some syrup of sugar au grand 
boul6 (see 2nd degree, page 251); add half a stick 
of vanilla. Serve cold, having previously removed the 
vanilla. 

Instead of vanilla you may use a wine-glassful of 
maraschino. 

573. Compote de /raises. 

Choose some large strawberries, and pour upon 
them some syrup of sugar au grande boul6 (see 2nd 
degree, page 251). 



COMPOTES. 239 

574. Compote deframboises. 

Choose some fine raspberries, and proceed exactly 
as for No. 573, page 238. 

575. Compote de groseilles. 

Choose some fine red or white currants, pick them 
from their stalks, and proceed exactly as for No. 573, 
page 238. 

576. Compote de cerises. 

Choose some large cherries, cut the stalk to one 
half Put the cherries into a syrup of sugar au petit 
boul6 (see ist degree, page 251) ; let them boil very 
slowly in it for ten minutes; remove them from the 
syrup, which you boil very fast for five minutes longer, 
and then pour upon the cherries. Serve cold. 

577. Compotes de poires d blanc. 

Choose some small pears, quite ripe. Have ready 
plenty of cold water, and squeeze into it the juice of 
two lemons. Peel the pears, scrape the stalks, and 
throw the fruit into the water. Put in a preserving 
pan sixteen ounces of pounded sugar, a gill of water, 
and the juice of a lemon. When the syrup is boiling, 
put into it twenty small pears, and let them boil 
slowly until they are soft through; then put them 
upon a dish, let the syrup boil to a proper thickness, 
and pour it upon the pears. 

If you use large pears divide them into slices. 



^ 



240 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

578. Compote de poires d la cardinale. 

Choose the largest kinds of pears. Peel them, and 
divide them in slices ; put them in an earthen pot, 
and cover them over with water and red Burgundy 
wine, in equal quantities. Add some pounded sugar, 
two cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Put the 
pears in a moderate oven, and let them remain 
for two hours. Then take them out of the juice with 
a skimming-spoon and lay them upon a dish. Put 
the juice over a sharp fire, and let it boil quickly to 
a proper thickness, then pour it upon the pears. 

Serve either hot or cold, after removing the cloves 
and cinnamon. 

579. Compote depommes. 

Peel a dozen of small rennets ; take out the core 
without breaking them ; cover them with cold water, 
to which you add the juice of two lemons. Put in a 
pan a pound and a half of pounded sugar, a gill of 
water and the juice of a lemon. Let the syrup boiJ 
for ten minutes ; throw the apples into it and let them 
simmer (not boil, for they would turn to marma- 
lade) for half an hour. Take them out with a skim- 
ming-spoon, and lay them upon a dish. Boil the 
syrup over a sharp fire until it sets to/i jelly, then 
pour it upon the apples with a wine-glassful of kirschen- 
wasser. When the apples are quite cold, put a 
cherry or a red strawberry in the middle of each. 

You may omit the kirschenwasser, or add a little 
vanilla. 



COMPOTES. 241 

580. Compote de piches. 

Peel some fine peaches, not too ripe, prick them 
through with a needle in different places, and proceed 
as for compote de pommes. No. 579, page 240. Let 
them remain in the syrup for a quarter of an hour 
only, for they break easily. 

581. Compote de coings. 

Peel some quinces, cut them in slices, and proceed 
exactly as for poires i la cardinale. No. 578, page 240. 

582. Compote de groseilles d maquereau. 

Choose the largest gooseberries, and proceed exactly 
as for reines-claude, Nos. 571 and 572, page 238. 

583. Compote de fnelon. 

Choose a melon not quite ripe ; peel it, remove the 
pips, and cut it in dice, which you throw into a 
syrup of sugar au grand boul6 (see 2nd degree, 
page 251), with a table-spoonful of orange-flower 
water. Let the melon boil for five minutes, take it 
out of the syrup with a wooden skimming-spoon, and 
lay it upon a dish. Boil the syrup to a good thickness 
and pour it upon the melon. Serve cold. 

584. Compote d^ ananas. 

Choose a fine, ripe pine-apple ; peel it and cut it in 
thin slices ; pour upon it a syrup of sugar au grand 
boul6 (see 2nd degree, page 251), and serve cold. 

R 



i 



242 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

585. Compote de grenade. 

Prepare a syrup of sugar au grand boul6 (see 2nd 
degree, page 251), and throw into it the seeds of a 
pomegranate ; let them boil in it for a minute, and 
pour them upon a dish with the syrup. 

586. Compote de piches d froid. 

Choose six large ripe peaches. Peel them and cut 
them in thin slices ; lay them upon a dish, sift pounded 
sugar over them, and pour a wineglassful of Kirschen- 
wasser upon them. 

You may use rum or brandy instead of Kirschen- 
wasser. 

587. Compote d'abricots dfroid. 

Peel some apricots, divide them through the middle, 
and proceed as above. 

588. Compote d' oranges. 

Peel and quarter six fine oranges, remove the white 
peel, and proceed as for No. 586, above. 

589. Cerises pelves. 

Peel thirty large cherries, cut off half of the stalks, 
dip the cherries in pounded sugar, and lay them upon 
plates ; leave a good space between the cherries. Put 
the plates in a place where the sun shines ; let them 
remain for a quarter of an hour. Then take them 



COMPOTES, 243 

into the cellar and let them remain there until you 
serve them. 

590. Groseilles per lees. 

Choose some fine bunches of red and white cur- 
rants, dip them first into cold water, then in pounded 
sugar, and finish them as cerises pel6es, No. 589, 
page 242. 



R 2 



244 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



\ 



CHAPTER XX. 

BOISSONS CHAUDES — (HOT DRINKS). 

591. Caf^au lait, 

I think that the best way for making coffee is to 
have it mixed. Mocha is the most delicious of all 
coffees, but it is weak, Martinique is strong and 
exciting, and the aroma of Bourbon is penetrating. 
I mix the three kinds together in equal quantity. 

Coffee, to be good, ought to be kept long, and 
only a small quantity of it should be roasted at a 
time, and you must grind it every time you require 
any: I have known gourmets who would have it 
roasted and ground every day, but as it would be a 
great deal of trouble, and that sometimes you require 
a cup of coffee at a moment's notice, it is better to 
roast coffee every fortnight, but to grind it only the 
moment you want it, else it will taste like dust. 

Roast your coffee, and when it is sufficiently done, 
pour it out into a porcelain vase and cover it ; let it 
become quite cold and put it in large glass bottles, 
hermetically corked, until wanted. Tin filters are not 
very well adapted for making coffee, because coffee 



BOISSONS CHAUDES — HOT DRINKS. 24S 

corrodes tin ; earthen filters or percolators are the 
best apparatus. 

Have ready some boiling water, put it in a pan, 
and set the filter into it to keep the liquor warm 
whilst it runs out of the coffee; put in the filter a 
table-spoonful of coffee for every cupful of water, 
add one table-spoonful of chicory to every three 
table-spoonfuls of coffee ; pour the boiling water upon 
it. Let it remain in hot water until all the liquor is 
in the lower part of the filter, take off the top part, 
put the lid upon the filter, and serve the coffee with 
boiled milk. 

In France we make this coffee very strong, for we 
fill up the cups to two-thirds with boiled milk and 
a third of coffee. 

If you do not like the taste of chicory, you may 
omit it and put in a little more coffe^, for chicory is 
only good with milk. 

592. Caf^ it reau. 

It is the custom in France to drink weak coffee, 
without any cream or milk in it, after the d6jeiiner i 
la fourchette, and frequently after dinner. 

For caf6 k Feau follow the above directions, only do 
not put any chicory ; and the quantity of coffee to be 
used is two dessert-spoonfuls for three cups of water.* 

As cafe k I'eau is generally served in a silver coffee- 
pot, pour some boiling water into it, to warm it, before 

* I mean French coffee-cups, which contain about as much as a wine- 
glass. 



246 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

you put in the coffee ; throw the water out, pour the 
coffee into it, and serve it as hot as possible. 

Brandy is generally served with caf6 k Teau. 

It should be remembered that coffee ought never 
to be warmed up on the fire ; it would be spoiled. If 
any coffee remains, put it in a coffee-pot, which you 
set in boiling water ; let it remain there until the coffee 
is sufficiently hot. 

593. TM 

I shall not venture to give any receipts for making 
tea, for my readers are sure to know better than I 
do. Tea is in England what coffee is in France — a 
national drink ; and I can say that I never drank tea 
in France comparable to English-made tea, although 
we have to pay exorbitant prices to get what is called 
a good quality. It may be that Russian tea at two 
guineas a pound is good, but i/ is dear, even for a good 
thing, and most people cannot give such a price ; so 
they buy a little green tea at a small grocer's shop, and 
not unfrequently at the apothecary's, and make with 
it a detestable drink ; for the tea is bad and the way 
of making it is bad. 

What I have just been saying might be thought 
exaggerated, but I shall prove it by a little anecdote. 
An English gentleman was one day complaining 
bitterly about the want of good tea that exists in 
France, and said that since he had left England 
he had not tasted a cup of really good tea. A 
Frenchman immediately offered to send him a small 
quantity which had been given to him by an English- 



BOISSONS CHAUDES — HOT DRINKS. 247 

man, and which was delicious. " How long is it 
since it was given to you ? ** asked the English 
gentleman. " Oh ! I don't know ; it may be ten or 
twelve years ago ! " 

594. Chocolat (Chocolate), 

It is difficult to get good chocolate. If it is old it 
will be rancid, and if it is good it is sure to be dear. 
It is impossible to get it good for less than three 
shillings a pound, and if you want the best quality 
you will have to pay from five to six shillings. 

Chocolate at three or four shillings a pound is quite 
good enough for boiling, or making custards. 

With a pound of chocolate you can prepare twenty 
cups. Break the chocolate in small pieces with your 
hands : never use a knife, for it gives it a disagreeable 
taste. Put it in a pan, with water enough to dissolve 
it ; stir it with a wooden or silver spoon ; when quite 
smooth, pour gradually into it the requisite quantity 
of milk ; mix well, add a little sugar, and let the 
whole boil together for five minutes. Serve very 
hot. 

If you have got a chocolati^re, whip the chocolate 
to make it frothy. 

You may use water instead of milk, but it will not 
be so rich. 

595. Th^ defleurs d'oranger. 

When orange-trees are in full blossom gather some 
of the flowers, and put the petals to dry in a shaded 



i 



248 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

place. Then, when required, put a table-spoonful of 
those dried petals in a tea-pot, and pour upon them a 
g^ll of boiling milk. Serve like tea, with sugar. 

This is a most agreeable drink. It may be given 
at an evening party. 

596. Lait d'amandes. 

Break five almonds, with their shells, and put them 
in a gill of new milk ; add a small piece of vanilla and 
some sugar. Boil the two together, pass it through 
a tammie, and serve hot in small glasses, at an 
evening party. 

597. Bavaroises d la liqueur. 

Boil a quart of milk with sugar, add to it two wine- 
glasses of rum, kirschenwasser, anisette, or any other 
liqueur, and serve hot in small glasses, for an evening 
party. 

598. Punch, 

Rub two pounds of sugar, cut in pieces, upon the 
rinds of three lemons : put the sugar in a punch- 
bowl ; add two quarts of strong hot tea ; stir, to make 
the sugar melt ; add gradually a bottle of rum. Mix 
thoroughly and quickly. Set fire to the punch, and 
serve in small glasses. 

599. Vin ckaud. 

Have ready two bottles of good red Burgundy 
wine ; put them over the fire with two cloves, a small 
piece of cinnamon, and half a pound of sugar. Let it 



BOISSONS CHAUDES — HOT DRINKS. 249 

become very hot, but do not let it boil. Pass it 
through a silk tammie, then add to it three oranges cut 
in slices. Serve hot in small glasses, with a slice of 
orange in each glass. You may use lemons instead 
of oranges, and increase the quantity of sugar. 

600. Cacao. 

Take a tumblerful of cocoa-bark, and put it in a 
pan with a tumblerful of water ; let it boil for twenty 
minutes, pour it through a sieve, and afterwards into 
a gill of boiling milk ; add a little sugar. Let the 
whole boil together for five minutes, and serve hot. 

This drink is very cheap and agreeable, but it 
would be dangerous for some persons to use it, 
for it is astringent and does not suit everybody's 
constitution. 



250 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



^ 



CHAPTER XXI. 



BONBONS DE MANAGE. 



Before giving receipts for making bonbons, I shall 
indicate how to make the different syrups of sugar : 
they are all made alike, and the only difference lies in 
the degree to which the sugar is boiled. Those degrees 
are very numerous, but I shall only give the requisite 
number for making preserves and bonbons de manage, 
for it is extremely difficult to succeed after a certain 
degree ; then, if you fail, the cost is very great, and it 
would be cheaper to buy bonbons ready made. 

60 1. Sucre clarifii {To clarify sugar). 

Break coarsely four pounds of sugar and put it 
in a preserving pan (not tinned inside) with two 
pounds and a half of water. Beat the white of an ^gg 
with a few drops of water, add it to the water and mix 
thoroughly with it, when the sugar is melted. Let 
the white remain with the sugar until it begins to boil, 
then remove the pan from the fire, and when it ceases 
to boil, skim it with a copper skimming-spoon ; being 
careful to remove all the egg. 

Sugar in this state is ready for making liqueurs. 



BONBONS DE MANAGE. 25 1 

Put the sugar back on the fire and let it boil for a 
while, dip your skimming-spoon into it and blow hard 
upon it ; if you see some bubbles on the opposite side 
it is then 1st degree, au petit bouU, If you leave it a 
little longer on the fire you will hear a noise, and see 
the surface covered with bubbles ; dip the skimming- 
spoon into it and blow hard upon it, the bubbles will 
detach themselves from the spoon and float in the air 
like soap-bubbles ; this is the 2nd degree, or grand 
bouU, When the syrup falls from the skimming- 
spoon as a smooth sheet, it is the 3rd degree, or d la 
nappe. When the syrup forms threads which solidify 
in cold water, it is the 4th degree, or cass^. When it 
becomes of a very light golden colour, 5th degree, or 
Sucre d'orge; and when it becomes of a light brown, 
6th degree, or caramel When it is arrived at this 
degree, remove it quickly from the fire, or it would 
burn. 

602. Souffle defleurs d'oranger. 

For all kinds of bonbons use a very shallow copper 
pan, not tinned inside, with a handle on each side. 

Boil au grand boul^, 2nd degree, four ounces of 
pounded sugar with three table-spoonfuls of water, 
throw into it a table-spoonful of petals of orange- 
blossoms, quite fresh ; let them boil to the 4th degree, 
au cass^; then drop upon a sheet of white paper a por- 
tion as large as a half-crown ; repeat, leaving a good 
space between each bonbon, until all the preparation 
is used up. Remove the bonbons as soon as they are 
cold, and put them in glass bottles, tightly corked. 



\ 



252 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

603. Souffle de violettes. 

Proceed exactly as before, only using violets instead 
of orange-blossoms. 

604. Fleur d' oranger pralinie. 

Have ready a pound of orange-blossoms, pluck the 
petals and throw them into cold water. Prepare a 
syrup with a pound of sugar and a tumbler of water; 
let the syrup boil to the 2nd degree, or grand bouU 
(see page 251), drain the petals and throw them into 
it ; mix them with syrup, and separate them from each 
other with the skimming-spoon ; let them boil for 
two minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir 
quickly the petals until the sugar adheres to each ; 
then pour them upon a sheet of paper, detach them 
from each other with your hands, and put them in a 
moderate oven to dry. When cold, put in glass 
bottles. 

605. Violettes pralin^es. 

Choose a pound of fresh violets and proceed as 
above. 

606. Jasmin candi. 

Choose a pound of fresh jessamin-flowers, and pro- 
ceed as for No. 604. 

607. Bouquets de violettes. 

Have ready some fresh, violets, put ten or twelve 
flowers in every bunch and tie the stalks. Boil some 



BONBONS DE MANAGE. 253 

sugar to the second degree (see page 25 i), grand bouU; 
let it become half cold. Dip the bunches of violets 
into the sugar, drain them upon a sieve, and lay them 
upon a sheet of buttered paper ; let them dry in a cold 
place. Cut out some papers and put them round 
the flowers, and serve them cold ; they will look like 
nosegays. 

Bouquets de violettes cannot be kept for more than 
three or four days. 

608. Tortillons, 

Clarify two pounds of sugar (see No. 601, page 250) ; 
add to it three table-spoonfuls of apple-jelly (see 
Index) and half of the juice of a lemon. Let the 
syrup boil to the 4th degree, au cass^ (see page 251), 
then drop it upon a piece of marble, previously oiled. 
Roll the syrup with your hands, previously oiled, 
,until it becomes whitish ; roll it very thin, and have 
ready another person to cut it in sticks and twist 
it. This last work should be done quickly, for if 
the sugar becomes cold you cannot do anything 
with it. 

609. Caramels, 

Prepare a syrup of sugar to the 2nd degree, au 
grand bouU (see page 251), throw into it some 
almonds, previously blanched and cut in slices. Stir 
them until the syrup arrives at the 6th degree, or 
carameL Remove the pan quickly from the fire, and 
drop the preparation upon a sheet of paper, in portions 



\ 



254 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

about as large as a crown-piece. Let the bonbons 
become cold, and keep them well shut up in boxes. 

6io. Macarons a la fleur (Tor anger. 

With a pound of sugar make a syrup, which you 
boil to the 2nd degree, ov grand bouU {see page 251), 
Chop coarsely four ounces of orange-blossoms and 
mix them well with the syrup, which you just keep 
warm, whilst you beat three whites of eggs very stiff. 
Add them to the syrup, and mix the whole thoroughly. 
Take the preparation from the fire, and with a spoon, 
drop it upon a sheet of paper in portions about as large 
as a crown-piece. Put them in a very moderate oven, 
and let them remain there for an hour. When you take 
them out they ought to be quite hard. Rub a little 
water upon the paper to detach the bonbons, and put 
them upon plates, topsy-turvy. Set the plates in the 
oven, and let the bonbons become quite dry. Take 
them out and keep them in boxes. 

Macarons so made will keep for a year. 

611. Macarons a la violette. 

Proceed exactly as above, only use violets instead 
of orange-blossoms. 

612. Bonbons au caf^au lait 

Put over a sharp fire half-a-pound of brown sugar, 
with three ounces of fresh butter ; let it boil for ten 
minutes, stirring it all the time. Add a cupful of 
strong coffee and a cupful of new cream, and let the 



BONBONS DE MANAGE, 255 

whole boil ten minutes longer. Keep stirring. When 
the preparation becomes frothy, it is ready. Remove 
the pan from the fire, but keep it warm. Take a small 
portion of the preparation, about the size of a walnqt, 
and roll it in your hands, then dip it in pounded sugar. 
Proceed in the same manner until all the preparation 
is in the shape of little balls. Lay them upon a sheet 
of paper, and let them dry in a cold place. 

If you allow the preparation to boil for five minutes 
longer, you may pour it upon a piece of oiled marble, 
and roll it to half an inch with a roller ; then, with the 
blade of a knife, trace squares upon the surface, and 
when it is quite cold, divide the squares with a sharp 
knife. 

The first bonbons are soft, and the second hard. 

613. Bonbons au chocolat. 

Proceed exactly as above, only use chocolate instead 
of coffee, and water instead of cream. 



2S6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 
CONFITURES — PRESERVES. 

There are a great many different kinds of preserves, 
and they afford a great resource in winter-time ; they 
are generally easy to make and easy to keep, provided 
the necessary quantity of sugar be not spared. Some 
persons think they are economical because they put 
very little sugar, or sugar of an inferior quality, in 
their preserves ; however, it is a great mistake : if you 
use sugar of an inferior quality, your preserves will 
have a taste of treacle, and you will lose a great deal 
with the jam ; besides, it is impossible to use brown 
sugar for jellies — it would be difficult to get them stiff 
and they would never be transparent. If you use a 
smaller quantity of sugar than that indicated in the 
receipts, you will have to boil the fruit for a longer 
time, which will make .it of a dark colour and take 
away the delicacy of taste. 

I shall only indicate preserves that I am accus- 
tomed to make. 



PROVISIONS DE MlfiNAGE — PROVISIONS. 257 

614. Gel^e de groseilles {Red-currant Jelly), 

Have ready six pounds of ripe red currants ; pick 
them from the stalks, and put them in a preserving 
pan (not tinned inside), over a moderate fire ; let them 
burst, and stir them frequently. When they begin to 
boil, put them over a brisk fire and let them boil for 
ten minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, pour the 
fruit upon a large tammie, and let the juice run 
through for three hours. Weigh the juice, add to 
it an equal quantity of sugar, coarsely pounded, and 
set the whole over a brisk fire. Stir, until the juice 
begins to boil, then leave it alone and allow it to boil 
briskly for a quarter of an hour. Skim the jelly, and 
put it in pots containing about half a pound, or a 
pound at the most (jelly does not set in large pots), 
and leave them for ten days, in a dry place, before 
covering them over. I generally add a pound of rasp- 
berries to six pounds of currants, to perfume them. 

615. Gel^e de groseilles blanches ( White-currant Jelly), 

Jelly made with white currants is very pretty. 
Proceed exactly as for red-currant jelly. No. 614, only 
when you add the sugar to the juice, add, at the same 
time, the rinds of two lemons previously boiled in 
water and cut in slices ; they give a very nice taste 
and are agreeable to eat. 

616. Gel^e Afroid. 

This is a delicious kind of jelly, preserving the 
taste and freshness of the fruit ; but it is rather diffi- 
cult to succeed. 

S 




2S8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Take four pounds of perfectly ripe white or red 
currants, pound them in a mortar and put them upon 
a tammie ; let the juice run through it. Weigh the 
juice, and add to it gradually two pounds of pounded 
sugar for a pound of juice. Stir until the sugar is all 
dissolved, which process will require about an hour. 
Then put the juice in a cellar and let it remain there 
for twelve hours ; bring it up again, stir it, and put it 
in pots containing half a pound ; put them in the 
cellar. After the usual time, cover them and keep 
them in the cellar, 

617. Groseilles rouges entikres. 

With four ounces of sugar prepare a syrup au petit 
boul6 (see No. 601, ist degree), throw into it four 
ounces of red currants picked from the stalks ; let 
them boil for five minutes, skim and put in small 
pots. 

618. Groseilles de Bar, 

This is a tedious kind of preserve to make, but 
when done, it looks very pretty. 

Choose a pound of large red currants. Cut the 
end of a quill very sharp and fine, and with it remove 
the seeds out of the currants, making the hole as 
small as possible; do not pick the fruit from the 
stalks. With two pounds of sugar prepare a syrup au 
petit boul^ (see No. 601, ist degree), and put the 
currants into it ; as soon as it begins to boil, cover the 
fire, and let the currants simmer very slowly for ten 
minutes ; skim, and put in small pots. 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 259 

619. Mamielade dabricots {Aprkot Marmalade). 

Choose some very ripe apricots ; open them through 
the middle and take out the stones. Put the fruit in 
a preserving pan over a moderate fire, and stir it 
frequently. When it is quite soft, rub it through a 
tammie and throw away the peel. Weigh the fruit, 
add to it an equal quantity of sugar, coarsely pounded, 
and let the whole stand for an hour, stirring it fre- 
quently to melt the sugar. Put the marmalade over 
the fire and let it boil for ten minutes. 

Apricot marmalade may be kept in large jars. 

620. Mannelade dabricots (Another way). 

Open the apricots through the middle ; weigh one- 
eighth of the stones, take the kernels out, blanch and 
peel them, cut them in slices, and add them to the fruit. 
Weigh the apricots, add to them an equal quantity of 
pounded sugar, and put them over the fire. Stir fre- 
quently, and let the marmalade boil for half an hour. 

This marmalade is not as pretty as the other, but, 
in my opinion, it is much better, the peel and kernels 
giving it a delicious flavour. 

621. Abricots entiers. 

Choose some small apricots, already yellow but 
not quite ripe ; prick them all over with a knitting 
needle to let the sugar get through. Prepare a syrup 
au petit boul^ (see No. 601, 1st degree), and put the 
apricots into it; let them boil fol" ten minutes, very 
slowly, so as not to alter their shape ; pour them and 

S 2 




26o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the syrup into a porcelain tureen and let them stand till 
the morrow. The day after, pour the syrup through 
a sieve into a preserving pan, so as to let the fruit 
drain upon the sieve. Boil the sugar au petit 
boul^ (see No. 60 1, ist degree), put the apricots into 
it ; let them boil for ten minutes, and pour them into 
a tureen. On the third day, proceed exactly as you 
did the day before, only when the apricots have boiled 
for ten minutes take them out of the syrup with a 
skimming-spoon, and put five of them into each pot 
of a pound ; when they are all in pots, put the syrup 
over a brisk fire and boil it au grand boul6 (see No. 
601, 2nd degree). Remove the syrup from the fire, 
skim it, and fill up the pots with it, 

622. Cerises {Oterries), 

Open the cherries through the middle, remove the 
stones and the stalks : put the fruit upon a tammie to 
let the juice run out ; throw the juice away, for if 
you did not, you would be obliged to let the cherries 
boil much longer, and their colour would be spoiled. 
Weigh the cherries, add to them an equal weight of 
pounded sugar, and put the whole over a brisk fire. 
Stir, until there is juice enough to prevent the fruit 
from burning. Let the preserve boil for three- 
quarters of an hour, and put it in pots ; when it is 
cold, lay upon each pot a little red-currant jelly to 
prevent the cherries from crystallising. 

I generally add a pound of red currant juice to five 
pounds of cherries ; their colour is much prettier, they 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE— PROVISIONS. 26 1 

set in a jelly, and they do not require any jelly on 
the top of the pots. 

623. Praises {Strawberries), 

Choose a large kind of strawberries, not quite ripe ; 
remove the stalks. Prepare a syrup of sugar au grand 
boul^ (see No. 601, 2d degree), throw the straw- 
berries into it and let them simmer (not boil) for half 
an hour ; take them out of the syrup with a skim- 
ming-spoon, and fill up the pots to one-half with 
them. Put the syrup on a brisk fire and boil it au 
petit boul^ (see No. 601, 1st degree), and fill up the 
pots with it. 

624. Framboises entiires (Raspberries), 
Proceed exactly as above. 

625. GeUe de framboises (Raspberry Jelly), 

Proceed exactly as for red-currant jelly, only let it 
boil ten minutes longer. 

626. Poires (Pears), 

Peel some pears of a good kind, cut them in four 
pieces ; remove the cores and pips. Weigh the fruit, 
and add to it six pounds of sugar coarsely pounded 
for eight pounds of fruit. Put the whole in a cellar 
for a day, to let the sugar melt; the day after put the 
pears over the fire, and stir them frequently at the 
beginning. Let them boil slowly for an hovit ^tA -a. 
half. 




262 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

627, Poires entiires. Another way. 

Choose some small pears, not quite ripe, peel them, 
and rub them over with half of a lemon, and throw 
them into cold water. Have ready some boiling 
water, squeeze into it the juice of two lemons ; add 
the pears, and let them boil until they are tender. 
Take them out of the water with a skimming-spoon, 
and put them to drain upon a tammie. On the other 
hand, prepare a syrup of sugar au petit boul6 (see No. 
601, 1st degree) ; add to it a stick of vanilla and the 
pears. Let the fruit boil very slowly for half an hour. 
Take the pears out of the syrup with a skimming- 
spoon, and put three of them in every pot of a pound 
Set the syrup over a brisk fire, and let it boil au petit 
boul^ (see No. 601, ist degree) ; remove the vanilla, 
and pour the syrup upon the pears. 

62^, Gel^e de pommes (Apple Jelly), 

Choose twenty large and ripe rennets, wipe them, 
cut them through the middle with a silver knife, and 
throw them into cold water, previously mixed with the 
juice of two lemons. When all the apples are cut, take 
them out of the water and put them in a preserv- 
ing-pan, with fresh water, to cover them ; squeeze 
upon the apples the juice of two lemons. Set the 
pan on, a brisk fire, and let the fruit boil, without 
stirring it, for half an hour. Pour the contents of the 
pan upon a tammie, and let the juice run through it 
for an hour. Boil in water the rinds of two lemons, 
in slices ; add them to the juice of the apples, which 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 263 

you weigh ; pound an equal quantity of sugar, mix it 
with the juice, and set the whole over a brisk fire, and 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour. This jelly does 
not set immediately. 

629. Gelie de coings {Quince Jelly). 

Proceed exactly as above, only peel the quinces, 
and remove the pips and cores with a silver knife. 

630. Confitures de coings. 

Peel some quinces with a silver knife ; remove the 
cores and pips. Divide the quinces in eight, and put 
them in a preserving-pan ; cover them over with cold 
water, and let them boil until you can easily run 
a straw through them. Take them out of the pan 
with a skimming-spoon, and put them upon a tammie. 
Prepare a syrup of sugar au petit boul6 (see No. 601, 
1st degree), and put the quinces into it. Let them 
boil for half an hour ; skim, and put in jars. 

631. Mirabelles {Mirabel), 

Proceed exactly as for abricots entiers (see No. 621), 
only boil them twice instead of three times, and let 
them remain in the syrup for five minutes each time. 

632. Reine-Claude {Greengage marmalade). 

Proceed exactly as for marmelade d*abricots (see 
No. 620). If the greengages are very ripe you may 
put half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, only 
the fruit must boil for two hours ; and it is difficult 
to prevent it from burning. 



264 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

633. Confitures de raisin (Grapes). • 

Peel the grapes, and proceed exactly as for con- 
fitures de bar (No. 618, page 258). 

634. Confitures de piches {Peaches). 

Brush the peaches with a soft brush, and choose 
them not quite ripe. Proceed then exactly as for 
abricots entiers (see No. 621). 

635. Maniire de couvrir les pots de confitures (Haw 

to cover Preserves). 

About ten or twelve days after making preserves, 
cut some papers the size and shape of the pots, dip 
them in brandy and lay them on the top of the 
preserves. Cut out some other papers, large enough 
to be tied round the rims of the pots, and fasten them 
with a small piece of string. Some persons use 
gummed paper dipped in water, to make the edges 
stick to the pot. Preserves should be kept in a cold 
and dry place. If they are in a warm place they 
ferment, if in a damp place they get covered with 
mould. 

Fruits en Bouteilles (Bottled Fruit). 

636. Praises en bouteilles (Bottled Strawberries). 

Choose some fine strawberries, not quite ripe, and 
fill up some small bottles with them. Prepare a 
syrup of sugar au grand boul^ (see No. 601, 2nd 



PROVISIONS DE MifiNAGE — PROVISIONS. 265 

degree), and when it is cold pour it upon the straw- 
berries. Cork the bottles and fasten the corks tightly. 
Place the bottles in a large pan — a preserving-pan is 
the best, and put cold water into the pan as high as 
the neck of the bottles ; put some hay between the 
bottles to prevent them from breaking when the 
water boils. Let the fruit boil for seven minutes; 
remove the pan from the fire and let the water become 
cold ; then take out the bottles, cut the corks close to 
the bottles, and dip the necks in melted sealing-wax. 
If you see air-bubbles on the top, dip them a second 
time. 

637. Cerises en bouteilles {Bottled Cherries). 

Proceed exactly as above, only let the cherries boil 
for twenty-five minutes. 

638. Abricots en bouteilles {Bottled Apricots), 
Proceed exactly as for No. 634, only prick the 
apricots all over to the core, and let them boil for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

639. Piches en bouteilles {Bottled Peaches). 
Proceed exactly as for apricots. No. 636. 

SiROPS (Syrups). 

640. Sirop de groseilles {Red-currant Syrup). 

Have ready half a pound of cherries (the acid kind 
are the best), take out the stones, and pound the fruit 



266 HOUSEHOLD COOKERV. 

in a mortar with eight pounds of red currants, picked 
from the stalks. Put the fruit upon a tammie, and 
let all the juice run through it into a porcelain tureen, 
which you take into the cellar. Let it remain till the 
morrow ; then stir it with a silver spoon, and let it run 
through a flannel bag previously washed in cold water. 
Weigh this juice, and add to it twenty-two ounces of 
pounded sugar to every pound of juice. Put the 
whole in a preserving-pan, on a moderate fire. As 
soon as the syrup begins to boil, remove it from the 
fire and pour it into a porcelain tureen, to let it cool. 
When it is quite cold bottle it, and keep it in the 
cellar. 

641. Sirop de framboises {Raspberry Syrup), 

Put the fruit over the fire, and stir it for ten minutes; 
pour it upon a tammie, and proceed exactly as for 
red-currant syrup. No. 638. 

642. Sirop de /raises {Strawberry Syrup). 
Exactly like raspberry syrup. No. 641. 

643. Sirop de gomme {Gum Syrup), 

Have ready a pound of white gum-arabic, pound 
it in a mortar, and put it in a preserving-pan with two 
pounds of water, over a slow fire. When the gum is 
all dissolved, pass it through a towel previously 
washed in cold water. Add to the gum twenty 
ounces of pounded sugar and two table spoonfuls of 
orange-flower-water. Stir from time to time, and 
when the sugar is melted, bottle the syrup. 



PROVISIONS DE M^AGE — PROVISIONS. 267 

This syrup is extremely useful for coughs and sore 
throat. 

644. Sirop d' oranges (Orange Syrup), 

Choose some fine oranges, peel them, pound 
the pulps, and squeeze the juice through a towel. 
Weigh the juice, and add to it twenty-two ounces of 
sugar for a pound of juice. Set the whole over a 
moderate fire in a preserving-pan. Put the peel into 
a flannel bag, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, 
throw it into the bag upon the peels. Let it become 
quite, cold and bottle it. 

645. Sirop de mAres (Blackberry Syrup), 

Pound in a mortar four pounds of perfectly-ripe 
blackberries ; add to them three pounds of sugar, and 
put the whole over a moderate fire in a preserving- 
pan. When the sugar is melted, put the syrup over 
a brisk fire and let it boil for three minutes ; pass 
it through a flannel bag, and when it is quite cold 
bottle it. 

A table-spoonful of this syrup in a cupful of 
bramble-leaves infusion is the best remedy for sore 
throats and quinsey. (It should be used as a gargle.) 

646. Sirop de vinaigre framboise (Raspberry Vinegar), 

Put in a tureen half a pound of perfectly ripe 
raspberries ; pour upon them a bottle of wine vinegar. 
A fortnight after, pass the vinegar through a flannel 
bag, and add to it twenty-four ounces of pounded 



268 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

sugar. Stir it frequently, and when the sugar is 
melted, bottle the syrup. 

Add a table-spoonful of this syrup to a glass of 
soda-water, and you will find it a most cooling drink 
for summer. 

647. Sirop cV Orgeat. 

Blanch a pound of sweet almonds and two ounces 
of bitter ones ; peel them and throw them into cold 
water, pound them in a mortar with a pound of sugar | 
and three ounces of water, which you add gradually. \ 
Pound the almonds and sugar into a thin, smooth 
paste, add to it two pounds of cold water and two 
ounces of orange-flower water; pass it through a 
towel and squeeze it as hard as ever you can, to get 
as much as possible from the almonds. Put the syrup 
in a preserving pan and add to it sixteen ounces of 
pounded sugar ; stir the whole until it begins to boiL 
Pour the syrup into a tureen and let it become cold ; 
stir it and bottle it. 

This syrup should be shaken before it is used, for 
the thick part sets at the bottom of the bottle. 



LIQUEURS PAR INFUSION. 

648. Liqueur d^ angdique. 

Cut in small dice a pound of fresh angelica, and 
pour upon it two bottles of alcohol, and let it 
remain for two days. To two bottles of cold 
water add four pounds of pounded sugar, and when 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 269 

it is melted, add it to the angelica. Stir the whole 
together, pass it through a flannel bag, and bottle it. 



649. Liqtceur de vanille. 

Take two sticks of vanilla and cut them in small 
pieces ; pour upon them two bottles of alcohol and stir 
frequently during half an hour. To two bottles of 
water add four pounds of pounded sugar. Pass the 
vanilla and alcohol through a flannel bag, add it to 
the sugar and water, and mix well. When the sugar 
is melted, bottle the liqueur. 

650. Liqueur de t/i^. 

Upon four ounces of tea pour two bottles of alcohol ; 
let it stand for two hours ; pass it through a flannel 
bag, add to it four pounds of pounded sugar and two 
bottles of water. When the sugar is melted, put the 
liqueur in bottles. 

65 1. Liqueur de cafi. 

Pound coarsely eight ounces of raw mocha and pour 
upon it two bottles of alcohol ; let it stand for two 
days ; pass it through a flannel bag, and finish it as 
above. 

652. Eau de noyaux de piches. 

Break the stones of fifty peaches, put the stoae% 
and kernels into a glass jar with fivebotVYes ol AccJasX 



2/0 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and thirty apricot kernels. Cork the jar and cover it 
with a piece of bladder well fastened. Put the jar in 
a place where the sun shines, and leave it there for 
two months. Then pass the liqueur through a flannel 
bag, add to it two bottles of water and five pounds of 
pounded sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, stir the 
liquor and bottle it. 

You may use apricot kernels instead of peaches. 

Liqueurs of all kinds become much better by keep- 
ing; it is a good precaution to prepare a lai^e 
quantity at once, and to replace every year what has 
been used, taking care to mark the year upon a 
label pasted on the bottle, so as to use always the 
oldest. 

Liqueurs should be kept at least a year before 
using them. 



CONSERVES DE LEGUMES (HOW TO KEEP 

VEGETABLES). 

653. Petits pois et haricots en bouteilles (Bottled Beans 

and Peas). 

Fill up some large-necked bottles with fresh peas 
or fresh beans, add two ounces of salt, and fill up the 
bottles with cold water. Be careful to have the best 
kind of corks. Cork the bottles and fasten the corks 
tightly ; put them in cold water to half of the 
neck, and place some hay between to prevent them 
from breaking ; then put the pan over the fire. 
Let the water boil for twenty minutes, remove the 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 27 1 

pan from the fire, and when the water is cold, take 
the bottles out of it and dip the corks to the neck 
into melted wax. If you see any air bubbles, cover 
the corks over with bladder well fastened. 

When you are ready to use these vegetables, do 
not be surprised at their strong smell ; wash them in 
cold water three times over, changing the water each 
time. Cook them like fresh vegetables, they will be 
very good. 

654. Autre manihe {Another way). 

Steam some fresh peas or French beans, a little 
underdone ; take them out of the steamer and season 
them with butter, salt, and pepper. Put them in 
bottles, cork them, and finish as above. 

655. Oseille {Green Sauce), 

In September or October gather a good quantity 
of green sauce ; pick it carefully, wash it, and throw 
it into boiling water highly salted. When it is tender, 
take it out and drain it upon a sieve, then chop it. 
Put it again over the fire with salt and pepper, and 
stir it constantly with a wooden spoon until it is very 
thick ; then put it in small earthen jars, unglazed. 
Let it become quite cold and pour on the top some 
olive-oil. Cover the jars with papers. 

656. Sauce tomate {Tomato Sauce). 

Choose some fine and quite ripe tomatoes; wipe 
them carefully, break them in two pieces and put 



272 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

them over a moderate fire ; stir them with a wooden 
spoon to prevent them from burning, and when they 
are quite soft, rub them through a sieve ; salt and 
pepper the pulp, and stir it to have it equally sea- 
soned ; then put it in small bottles. Cork them, 
and fasten the corks tightly. Put the bottles into 
cold water, place some hay between them, and set 
the pan over the fire. Let the water boil for twenty 
minutes ; remove the pan from the fire, and when the 
water is cold, dip the necks of the bottles in melted 
wax. 

Be careful to prepare this sauce in small bottles, so 
as to use the contents of one in a day ; for the sauce 
gets spoiled after a day or two when the bottle has 
been opened. 

When you want to use this sauce, add to it some 
fresh butter and a little broth, and warm the whole 
together over a moderate fire. 

657. Choux au vinaigre (Pickled Cabbage), 

Take the hearts of two cabbages (choose them quite 
hard), throw upon them some boiling water and cover 
them. Put in a preserving pan some vinegar, with 
cloves, cayenne pepper, salt, onions, cloves, garlic, and 
tarragon. When the vinegar is boiling, throw the 
cabbages into it, and let them boil until they are 
tender. Put them in a jar, and cover them over with 
fresh vinegar. 



HOW TO KEEP VEGETABLES. 2^^ 

658. CornicJions (Gherkins). 

Wipe with a rough towel some small gherkins ; lay 
them upon a clean towel, and cover them with salt ; 
roll them up in the towel, and let them remain so for 
two days ; on the third day, put them in a porcelain 
tureen, and throw upon them some boiling vinegar. 
Cover them, and let them stand till the morrow. Take 
the gherkins out of the vinegar, and put the vinegar 
over the fire with cloves, garlic, pepper, tarragon, bay- 
leaves, thyme, and onions. As soon as the vinegar 
begins to smoke, put the gherkins in it, and stir them 
frequently; they will become quite yellow, but as 
soon as the vinegar begins to boil, they become of 
a light and pretty green. Remove immediately the 
pan from the fire ; drain the gherkins upon a sieve, 
and put them in a porcelain tureen ; throw upon 
them plenty of cold vinegar. Put them in jars ; add 
to the vinegar two or three red roses and a few 
branches of tarragon. 

A preserving-pan not tinned inside should be used. 

Gherkins, so prepared, are excellent and very 
pretty ; but my directions should be minutely ob- 
served. If, for instance, it was thought too expensive 
to throw away the first vinegar, and if it were used 
to put in jars instead of fresh vinegar, the gherkins 
would lose their beautiful colour. 

659. Haricots et onions (Onions and French Beans), 

French beans and small onions may be boiled along 
with the gherkins ; only they should be previously 
J>lanched in salted water. 

T 



274 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

660. Conservation du beurre (How to keep buttei). 

When butter is cheap, it is a good precaution to 
melt a certain quantity of it to use in the winter time. 

Have ready a preserving-pan full of cold water; 
place in the water another preserving-pan into which 
you put the butter, divided in small pieces. Put the 
water over a brisk fire, and when the butter begins to 
melt stir it from time to time with a wooden spoon. 
As soon as it is melted do not touch it ; let it become 
quite transparent, and wait until no smoke arises from 
it, then all the buttermilk will be precipitated to the 
bottom of the pan. Remove the pan from the fire, 
pour the butter into earthen jars, leaving at the 
bottom of the pan all that is not perfectly transparent; 
add a little salt to every jar, and stir the contents to 
melt the salt. Let the butter become quite cold; 
coverthe jars with papers well fastened, and put them 
in a dry and cold place. 

The butter which remains at the bottom of the pan 
may be used for pies, tarts, etc. 

661. Beurre sal^ {Salted Butter), 

Some people prefer salted butter to melted butter ; 
it is a matter of taste, and as the two ways are 
equally good, I am going to give a recipe for salting 
butter. 

First of all, wash the butter carefully in cold water, 

and work it with a wooden spoon well rubbed with 

salt, to make all the buttermilk come out of it When 

jk this is done, ftattetv ^.bo\lt two pounds of butter upon 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 2/5 

a dish and sift some fine salt upon it ; work it 
together with a wooden spoon. Make it flat again 
upon the dish and add some more salt ; incorporate 
perfectly the salt with the butten Some water will 
then be visible upon the dish ; pour it out, so as to 
leave the butter as dry as possible. Have ready 
some earthen jars, put the butter in one of them, and 
press upon every part of it to make it adhere to all 
parts of the jars. Prepare other two pounds as you 
did the first, put them in the jar, and be careful to leave 
no empty space whatever. When the jar is nearly full, 
not quite, salt a quantity of water sufficient to fill it 
up. The water is sufficiently salted when it cannot 
dissolve any more salt ; when in this state, pour it 
upon the butter. 

The quantity of salt varies ; if you want to keep 
your butter for a month, use an ounce of salt to a 
pound of butter ; if it is to be kept the whole winter, 
use four ounces of salt to two pounds of butten 

662. Conservation des oeufs {How to keep Eggs), 

It is difficult to get eggs in the winter time, and 
those that we buy are frequently unfit for anything. 
Of course, it is impossible to eat eggs that have been 
kept a long time ; but, nevertheless, they are necessary 
for sauces, and those of my readers who will take the 
trouble of following my recipe will find that their eggs 
will be much better than those generally offered for 
sale. 

The important point for keeping eggs is to protect 
them from the contact of air. Have te^Ay ^. >LvcL\sQniL> 

T 2 



2/6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lay at the bottom some bran dried in a very moderate 
oven ; put some eggs upon it, leaving a good space 
between them ; add another layer of bran, another of 
eggs, and so on, and finish with a thick layer of bran. 
Keep the box shut and in a dry and cold place. 

There is another way, much better than everything 
else that has ever been tried ; it has only one incon- 
venience, and that is, to spoil the white part of the 
egg ; but it does not matter if the eggs are required 
for sauces or custards, for which the yolks only are 
used. 

Have ready some boiling water, put the eggs into 
it and let them remain a minute, no tnore. The white 
will by that time be solidified, and will prevent the 
air from getting to the yolk and spoiling it. 

(I am sorry to have forgotten the name of the 
person who found out this way of keeping* eggs. I 
read it somewhere, tried it, and it answered per- 
fectly.) 

663. Boeuf saU {Salted Beef ), 

Have ready a small cask, perfectly clean ; mix some 
salt, pepper, garlic, thyme, and bay-leaves together, 
and rub the inside of the cask with those ingredients ; 
leave a good deal of pounded salt at the bottom of 
the cask. When the beef is cut, rub each piece with 
salt and pepper ; lay those pieces at the bottom of the 
cask, close to each other ; cover them with salt, pep- 
per, sage, bay-leaves, juniper-berries, and branches of 
thyme ; add a second layer of beef, and cover it with 
the same ingredients as for the first, and so on until 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — ^PROVISIONS. 2^^ 

the cask is full : be careful to leave no empty space. 
Have ready a lid, large enough to fit exactly the inside 
of the cask ; wrap it up with old towels and put it 
upon the meat, with large stones on the top of it, so 
as to press heavily upon the meat After four days 
the salt will be melted ; take the meat out of the cask, 
and throw the water out of it, put the meat back into 
the cask, and pour upon it salted water in sufficient 
quantity to cover it ; throw it out after another week, 
and replace it by fresh salted water. Every week 
add some more salted water, so as to keep the meat 
covered. When six weeks have elapsed, take the 
meat out of the cask, and hang it up in a dry and 
cold place. If you like to smoke it, hang it up very 
high, so as to let the smoke be quite cold before it 
touches it Bum oak, heather, and juniper to give it 
a nice taste. 

664. Salaison duporc {How to salt Pork), 

Proceed exactly as above, only it is not necessary 
to change the salted water. 

665. Manikre de saler et de fumer les Jambons (How 

to salt aftd Smoke Hams), 

Cut the hams nicely ; wipe them with a clean towel, 
and hang them up in a dry and cold place ; wipe them 
carefully every day for six or seven days. You may 
omit this operation, but if you do it hams will keep 
much better, for the water running out of them prevents 
them from becoming rancid. When a week is over. 




ZyS HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lay the hams upon a table and rub them all over with a 
lemon cut through the middle ; then with salt, pepper, 
saltpetre, cloves, bay and sage leaves, and thyme. 
Place the ham at the bottom of a large earthen tureen^ 
with the skin underneath; powder it over with the 
same ingredients mixed for rubbing it ; put the second 
ham upon the first, with the skin uppermost, and fill 
up all the empty places with salt, saltpetre, juniper- 
berries, sage-leaves, cloves, bay, and thyme. 

Use about four ounces of saltpetre to two hams. 

Cover the hams over and put them in a cold and dry 
place, free from flies. When a fortnight -is over, hang 
them up and let them dry in a cold place for about 
another fortnight. Then if you like to smoke them 
proceed as follows. Hang them up in the chimney, 
at a distance of about five yards from the fire. Light 
up some branches of oak, juniper, bay, and sage; 
prevent the fire from burning fast, and try to get as 
much smoke a3 possible from it for half an hour. 
Take the hams down, and whilst they are warm rub 
them over with the ingredients used the first time 
Hang them up, and let them remain so for two days. 
Smoke them a second time for an hour ; take them 
out of the chimney for two days, and sriioke them 
a third time. Then when they are cold put them 
in a muslin bag to prevent the flies from getting at 
them, and hang them up in a dry and cold place. 

6$d Manihre defondre lagraisse (How to melt Lard). 

Cut it in small dice and put it in a preserving-pan, 

with a bottle oi waVet, on^t ^ moderate fire. Stir it 



PROVISIONS DE MANAGE — PROVISIONS. 279 

frequently with a wooden spoon. As soon as the lard 
begins to melt, put it over a brisk fire, and when no 
more smoke rises from it pour it into a tureen through 
a fine sieve. Add to it some salt and a few bay-leaves, 
and if you want to have it white beat it hard with a 
wooden spoon until it is half cold. Pour it in jars, 
which you must cover over, and keep in a dry and 
cold place. 

(:^T, Manihre de conserver Us Truffcs {How to keep 

Truffles). 

When you first get truffles they are covered with 
earth ; dip them in cold water, and brush them care- 
fully with a hard and narrow brush. Wash them 
again and wipe them. Throw them into boiling water 
highly salted, and let them boil for three minutes. 
Wipe them and put them in glass bottles, which you 
must fill up with olive oil. Cork the bottles, and dip 
the necks in melted sealing-wax. 

This is not the way generally employed for keeping 
truffles, but it is the one I always use ; the truffles so 
kept are delicious, and the oil, if used in salmis, bceuf 
k la mode, or salad, communicates its flavour, which is 
almost equal to that of truffles. I shall, however, leave 
the choice to my readers, and gfive the other way. 

668. Autre manihre {Another way). 

Proceed exactly as above for the cleansing of truffles ; 
but do not boil them. Put them in glass bottles, 
which you cork. Fasten the corks V.\^>\'y»'^^^ "^"^^ 



28o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

the bottles in cold water, with hay between them to 
prevent them from breaking. Boil the truffles for 
twenty-five minutes, and remove the pan from the 
fire. When the water is cold, take the bottles out of 
it, and dip the necks in melted sealing-wax. 

669. Champignons desskhJs {How to keep Mushrooms). 

Have ready some boiling water; add to it half a 
tumbler of vinegar and some salt, and throw into it 
some mushrooms, previously peeled. Let them boil 
for two minutes ; drain and wipe them. Pass a thread 
through each with a needle, and hang this sort of 
necklace in a warm kitchen. After a fortnight they 
are perfectly dry, and may be used for sauces, &c 
They will keep for four or five months. 

670. Artichauts dess^Ms {How to keep Artic/iokes). 

Cut the leaves of the artichokes and remove the 
choke, so as to leave only the bottom, which you boil 
in salted water and vinegar for half-an-houn Then 
finish them like mushrooms. (See No. 669.) 




Conserves de Fruits Frais (How to Keep 

Fresh Fruit). 

671. Conservation des raisins {How to keep Grapes). 

Let grapes ripen to perfection ; cut them carefully 
and put them upon trays, not quite close to each 
other^ and not above one another. Tie them at the 



HOW TO KEEP FRESH FRUIT. 28 1 

wrong end (opposite the stalk), and make a loop with 
the string. Have ready in a cupboard some laths, 
going from one side to the other, and hooks stuck in 
them. Hang the grapes by the loops upon the hooks. 
Shut the doors of the cupboard, and open them only 
when you want grapes ; then take them down, cut off 
with sharp scissors all the parts which might be spoilt, 
and serve the grapes upon fresh leaves. 

Grapes will keep for four months if hung as directed 
above. Of course they get a little shrivelled, but all 
their taste remains. The cupboard should be in a 
place where it does not freeze. 

^jz. Conservation des Poires {How to keep Pears), 

Choose the kinds grown on purpose for keeping, 
and be careful to have, all the fruit perfectly sound. 
Put a cupboard in the cellar, only instead of boards 
have some open basket-work, to let the air come 
under the fruit ; lay a few dried ferns upon the basket- 
work, and put the pears upon it, with a good distance 
between them. Shut the doors, and look after the 
pears every week, to remove those which get spoilt 

673. Conservatum des pommes (How to keep Apples). 
Proceed exactly as above. 

674. Conservation des grenades (How to keep 

Ponugranates). 

Cover entirely with tow the side opposite to the 
stalk ; fasten it so as to prevent the air {toih ^^eoaaofii^ 



% 



282 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

inside. Make a loop with a piece of string, tie it to 
the stalk, and hang the pomegfranates like grapes, and 
in the same sort of cupboard (see Conservation des 
raisins, No. 671, page 280), 

675. Conservation des nifies {How to keep Medlars). 

Put a thick layer of straw upon a shelf in the cellar, 
and place the medlars upon it Choose, week after 
week, those which ripen. 



SUR LES VINS— ON WINES. 283 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

SuR LES ViNS (On Wines). 

As a French dinner can hardly be given without 
French wines, I think it might be useful for my readers 
to know in what order they are to be served. 

For a d^jeiiner d la fourchette^ white wines are 
frequently served, both Bourdeaux and Bourgogne 
from beginning to end, and sparkling Champagne 
or sparkling Burgundy, with dessert ; but almost every 
kind of French wines may be offered at a d^jeAner d 
la fourchette. There are only two rules to be ob- 
served : if there are oysters, white wine is absolutely 
required at the same time, and so is dry sherry with 
horS'd*(euvre, 

ORDRE DES VINS POUR UN dINER i TROIS SERVICES. 

Before Soups. 

Alwpiithc 

Yennoiitli. 

Bitten. 

After Soups. 

¥«<l<OTi, Dry Sberry. 



Chablic. 

Ponilly- 

Menzasnlt. 

MoBtzadbet. 

Chtteaa-GriO^ 



With Oysters. 



Cvimmieaz. 
GiSTe. 



Time de CbsoiQiiQMb. 



284 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



Basse Bourgogne. 
Gdte Saint Jacques. 
Coalanges. 
La Chainette. 
Auxerre. 
Tonnerre. 



Beaujolais et 
McLConnais. 

Macon. 

Morgon. 

Julienas. 

Moolin ik vent. 

Thorins. 

Plenry. 



HaiUe 




Bourgogne. 


Bordeaux. 


Pomard. 


Ch&teaa-L6oviIle. 


Volnay. 


Chftteau-Larose. 


Nults. 


Haut Brion. 


Vosne. 


Ch&teau-Marganx. 


Vougeot. 


Monton-Tiafntte. 


Bichebouig. 


Laffltte. 


Mosigny. 


Latonr. 


Chambolle. 




Noits-Salnt- 




GeoTges. 




Gorton. 




Chambertin. 




Romance. 




Clos-vongeot. 





First Course. 

Haute 
Bov/rgogne. 
Beanne. 
Mercurey. 
Chassagne. 
Gevrey- 

Chamber- 

tin. 

Coup du Milieu. 

Madeira. | Bom. 

Second Course, 

Midi et Cdtes 
du Rhone. 
TraveL 
Bonssillon. 
Ch&teau-Neof 

dn Pape. 
Lanerthe. 
C6te-Botie. 
Ermitage. 
Jnrangon. 

PortngaL 
Porto. 



Bordeaua. 
Saint EstSphe. 
Saint Emillon. 
St. Jolien. 



Champagne 

Rouge. 
Bonzy. 
Versey. 
Versenay. 



Third Course, 



Bov/rgogne. 
Sparkling (Eil-de-Perdrix. 
Sparkling Vieux Ceps. 
Sparkling White Romance. 
Sparkling Rose Romance. 
Sparkling Red Romance. 

Liqueur Wines. 



CJutmpagne. 
Sparkling AL 
Still Ai. 
Sillery. 



Vins Blanes. 

Chablis. 

Menrsaolt 

PoTdlly. 

Montradiet 

Sauteme. 



\ 



Vina Blmus. 
Pouilly. 
Menrsanlt. 
Montradiet 
Ch&tean-Giilli 
Cdte-Rotiei 
EIrmitage. 
Saint Ptoiy, 
Jnrangon. 
Bhin. 
Grave. 
Langon. 
Barsac. 
Sauteme. 
Carbonnienx, 



Frangais. 


Etra 


ngers. 




Muscat Frontignan. 


Malaga. 


S^tural. 


Rancio. 


— Lnnel. 


Rota. 


Calabre. 


Samus. 


— Rivesaltes. 


Alicante. 


Syracuse. 


Sercial. 


Grenache. 


Pacaret, SecetDoux. 


Lacryrna-Chnsti. 


TokaL 


Vin de paille. 


X^rte, Sec et Doux. 


Constance. 






Mad^re. 


Cap, Rouge et Blanc. 






Malvoisie de Madere. 


Schiras. 






Chypre. 


Carcavello. 






Malvoisie de Chypre. 


Paphos. 






Canaries. 


Picole. 





SUR LES VINS — ON WINES. 28$ 

If it is necessary to have French wines, it is also 
necessary to know how to take care of them, and I 
have much pleasure in offering to my readers some 
directions given for this purpose by M. Rasse, the 
head of the firm of Ch. Rasse and Co., Burgundy, 
wine merchants to Prince Napoleon. 

(a) Cave (Cellar). 

The best cellars are vaulted. They should be cold 
and dry, especially for Burgundy wines. It is neces- 
sary to have very thick doors, and if there are any air- 
g^tes, they should be always covered with mats, so 
as to have the same temperature all the year round, 
and to prevent the deteriorating action of light and 
air upon wine. 

The floor of the cellar should be hard, smooth, 
and covered with fine sand. 

There ought to be two large stands, at a distance 
from the wall, to put the casks upon ; the space left 
between the casks and the walls should be sufficient 
to allow a man to walk between, and see from time 
to time if the casks are in good order, and that the 
ivine does not run out 

There should also be shelves, with holes, to receive 
the bottles after rinsing them, so as to let the water 
run out. 

(b) Vins en Umneauv ( Wines in casks). 

The casks should be frequently looked after, to see 
that the hoops are not broken; every month the 
bungs should be removed and the casks filled up with 



286 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the same wine that they contain. This is to prevent 
them from getting acid, for a small quantity of wine 
evaporates. After filling the casks, the bungs should 
be replaced. 

If the wine is new some holes should be made in 
the bung, to allow of the escape of the gas generated 
by fermentation. If this precaution were not taken, 
the cask might burst. 

If the wines are to be kept in casks for several years, 
they should be drawn out twice a year, in March and 
November, and put in other casks. This is to leave 
the lees at the bottom. 

When wines have been travelling in very hot weather, 
they should be taken to the cellar, put upon the 
stands, and the bungs taken off for two or three days, 
to stop the fermentation. If, on the contrary, they 
have travelled in cold weather, their colour darkens ; 
they should, in this case, be fined with white of eggs 
before bottling them (the whites of five eggs for a cask 
containing three hundred bottles). 

When wiijies taste of mould, or wood, roast in a 
frying-pan the kernels of twelve nuts. Put them, 
quite hot, in a little bag, which you introduce into 
the cask, having fastened it at the top, and leaving 
the string outside, to remove the bag after two or 
three days. Draw the wine out of the cask, and put 
it in a new one, or bottle it. Sometimes wines which 
have been kept for a very long time become bitter ; 
they should be mixed in equal quantities with new 
wines, drawn out, put in other casks, and used 
immediately. 



WIKESu 287 



it ries cm boMldlkj (Watcs ZM batOciy 

Scf asie putting Trine in bottles, it slioiild be fined 
ten or twehre days befofeiiand. There aie tvo vays 
of fining 'srines : — 

First — villi ianglasSp far idiite vii^s ; 
S^xind — villi viiites of eggs for red vines. 

First iray : — ^llakc a bole in tbe side of tbe cask 
vritli a gimlet, and draw out of it five bottles of vine 
fill up the hole vith a peg. Put some ianglass in a 
trmnKWr of vTzter. in the proportian of half an ounce 
for a cask, containing three hnndied bottles. Let it 
melt ; add it to a bottle of cold vater, and mix v^^ 
Pass it t hr o u gh a towel, and pour it into the cask. 
I>ivide a small stick in four pieces, introdnoe it into 
tBc ca^ and vilh it stir the contents, so as to 
f»»fir liioronghhr the isinglass vith the vine. 

Secxmd vay : — Make a hole in the side of tibe cade 
sritli a. gimJct, dxav oat of it five bottles of vine, and 
fill vp tiie hole vith a peg. Whip some viutes of 
eggs vritii a little vater <the propotdosi is one viute 
for tvreiit>-five bottles)- Pour the eggs into the raA- 
32sd stir vitli a stick divided in four. 

Sef ore bottUng the vine, the bottles should be caxe- 
fuUy rinsed two or three days before using iju^m .a^wi 
put the Jiecks downwards in the bottle-boards. Soa^ 
persons keep the bottle-boards in some otho- p^ar^ 
^23X1 the cxOlar : it is ^ fault Tbe bottls bong 
in the cellar a few days beforehand, arrive at lie 
same tenrperature as the vine, wbich is a very good 



288 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

The best months for bottling wines are March, July 
(if it is not very hot), and October ; however, if need- 
ful, it is possible to bottle wines at any time, provided 
the weather is dry. 

A very important item for the keeping of wines 
is the quality of corks, and the way the bottles are 
corked. Always choose the best and finest kinds of 
corks, and never use them twice ; they should also 
be dipped in cognac before being introduced into the 
bottles. 

Some persons bury their bottles in sand or bran : 
— ^both ways are bad ; sand spoils the corks, and bran 
keeps wine so warm that it makes it ferment. The 
best plan is to pile up bottles upon laths, that is, to 
put two laths upon one another on the ground to sup- 
port the necks of the bottles, which must be on the 
side of the wall for the first line, leaving between the 
necks of the bottles a space sufficiently large to place 
the second line in the opposite direction. Before 
beginning the second line, place a lath upon the larger 
parts of the bottles of the first line, to support the 
necks of the second, and so on. 

Some of the wine-merchants in Burgundy export 
directly to English customers. Messrs. Charles Rasse 
and Co., of Meursault and Vougeot, do so. I mention 
this house more particularly because they supply me 
satisfactorily. 




ADDENDA. 



Balls of Forcemeat, 

Chop very fine about a quarter of a pound of roasted 
or boiled meat (fowl or game are the best), add to it half 
a pound of sausage meat, four ounces of bread crumbs 
soaked in broth, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix 
the whole together. Divide this forcemeat into small 
portions, and, after giving them the shape of a ball, 
roll them in flour, and poach them in broth. 

If the balls are to be used for soup, let them remain 
in the broth ; if they are to be served separately, drain 
them and pour upon them a sauce piquante. (See 
No. 54, page 29.) 

If you want the forcemeat to be more delicate, 
add to it two or three truffles and a few mushrooms 
chopped together. 

Bisctiit de Savoie. 
See Gdteau de Savoie, page 217. 

Frittire, 

There are a great many ways of frying : some people 
use butter, others grease or lard — ^1 pt^l^t ^\n^-q\\ 

U 




290 ADDENDA. 

it gives a beautiful colour, and a more delicate taste. 
(See the note, page 5.) To fry even the smallest fish 
a pound and a half of oil is required ; for the fish, 
vegetables, or eggs must never touch the bottom of 
the pan, but remain on the surface of the oil. 

If you do not like the taste of olive-oil, use fresh 
lard, to which you may add the grease taken oflT the 
roasts, stews or soups, suet and fat of any kind, pro- 
vided it is melted first, then boiled with water and 
allowed to cool on the surface — when perfectly cold, 
take it off the top of the water with a skimming spoon 
and add it to your lard. 

Friture should be kept in an earthen jar. 

Noudles {How to make). 

Knead a pound of flour with three eggs and a little 
salt ; try to obtain a paste as stiff as possible. Take 
a small portion of it and roll it very thin. Put a towel 
upon the back of a chair and lay your sheet of paste 
upon it to dry. Do the same until no paste remains. 
When the sheets seem to be half dried, divide them in 
narrow ribbons with a paste-cutter, lay them out till 
they are quite dry. 

CEufs en matelote. 

Boil hard a dozen of eggs ; let them become cold. 
Break off the shells, and cut the eggs through, length- 
wise, with a sharp knife. Prepare a sauce matelote 
(see No. 52, page 27), put the eggs into it, let them 
simmer for five minutes, and serve. 



ADDENDA. 29 1 

Pig's Head. 
Cut open the throat, and remove the teeth. Wash 
carefully the ears and mouth with tepid water, and 
let the head remain in cold water for half an hour, 
changing the water every ten minutes. Then put it 
in a large pot, with four large carrots, four onions, three 
bay-leaves, two branches of thyme, four juniper-berries, 
six cloves, a good deal of salt and cayenne-pepper. 
Cover the whole with cold water, and let it boil slowly 
for six hours ; adding a little boiling water from time to 
time to keep up the requisite quantity. When the flesh 
IS perfectly tender, take the head out of the pot and 
put it upon the table. Remove carefully the outer 
skin and lay it upon a deep dish, previously covered 
with a wet towel ; if it breaks, put the pieces close to 
each other. Then pick all the flesh from the bones, 
and chop it very coarsely together with the brains, 
tongue, ears, etc. ; season it highly with spices. Then 
take three truffles and cut them in thin slices, pound 
the peel and chop a quarter of a pound of fat bacon ; 
put this mixture into a pan with salt and pepper, 
and let it simmer over a slow fire for twenty minutes ; 
add it to the pig's head, and mix the whole tho- 
roughly. Then place it upon the skin in the deep dish, 
cover it with the comers of the towel and place upon 
it another dish of the same shape, but rather smaller. 
Put a weight of a pound on the top, and let it remain 
till the morrow. Then add to the water in which the 
pig's head was boiled, a little burnt onion or burnt 
sugar, and boil it quickly over a sharp fire ; when it is 
reduced to one half, beat the white of an egg with half 




292 ADDENDA. 

the shell and three drops of water, until it is very stiff; 
pour it into the boiling water ; mix well ; skim, and 
pass through a fine sieve into a tureen. Take it into 
the cellar, and on the morrow arrange this jelly around 
the pig's head. % 

A pig*s head will keep for a fortnight in winter. 

Riz au lait (Rice with milk). 

Wash carefully in cold water a quarter of a pound 
of rice. Boil a quart and a half of milk, add to it the 
rice, previously drained, a table-spoonful of orange- 
flower water, and four lumps of sugar. Let the whole 
boil slowly for half an hour ; remove the pan from the 
fire, and pour into it four table-spoonfuls of cream, 
mixed with two yolks of eggs. Mix thoroughly and 

serve. 

Sausages. 

Choose the smallest intestines of a pig ; clean them 
well, outwardly and inwardly. Before salting your 
pork, choose the lean parts about the neck, add a 
third of fat bacon, and chop the whole together ; salt 
and pepper; then fill up the intestines with this 
preparation, and fasten them across with coarse thread, 
leaving a space of about two inches between the ties ; 
each tie must be double, to allow the division of the 
sausages. 

In France it is now the custom to take a small por- 
tion of sausage meat (about the size of an ^^'^ and 
to wrap it up in a piece of caul, and then to flatten it : 
it is much easier than to clean intestines, and the 
sausages look better when fried. 



INDEX, 



Abricots a froid, compote d', 242. 

beignets d*, 187. 

en bouteilles, 265. 

entiers, 259. 

marmelade d', 259. 

murs, compote d', 237. 

verts, compote d*, 237. 
Acacia, beignets d', 189. 
AcCESSOiRES, 32. 
Agneau (Lamb), 146. 

carre d', k la bourgeoise, 147. 

cotelettes, pieds, tete d*, 149. 

croquettes d*, 148. 

epauled', k la proven9ale, 147. 
en daube, 148. 

r6ti, 146. 
Almond custard, 200 (see Aman- 

des). 
Alose aux fines herbes (Broiled), 

67. 

en matelote (Boiled in Wine), 
68. 

r6tie (Roasted). 68. 
Alouettes, Grives, &c. (Larks, 

Thrushes, &c.), 90. 
Aloyau roti (Roast Beef), ill. 
Amandes, cr6me aux, 200. 

croquets aux, 226. 

gateau d', 216. 

kit d', 248. 

macarons aux, 232. 
Ananas, beignets d', 188. 

compote d', 241. 
Anchovy sauce, 30. 
Angelique, liqueur d', 268. 
Anguille de mer (Conger £el), 64. 



Anguilles (Eels), 73. 

k la minute, 75. 

k la poulette, 75. 

k la tartare, 74. 

en matelote, 74. 

frites, 74. 
Apparatus for cooking, i ; its ad- 

vantage over an open fire, I. 
Apple jelly, 262. 
Apples, 191. 

contrivance for taking out the 
cores, 3. 

how to keep, 281 {seeVommes), 
Apricot marmalade, 259. 
Apricots, bottled, 265. 

preserved, 259 {see Abricots). 
Arrowroot soup, 12. 
Artichauts k la barigoule, 173. 

k ritalienne, 174. 

au beurre, 174. 

bouillis, 172. 

dess^ches, 280. 

frits, 173. 

fonds d*, au citron, 174. 
Artichokes, 172-174. 

how to keep, 280 {see Arti- 
chauts). 

Jerusalem, 155 (j^if Topinam- 
bours. 
Asparagus, i62--i64(j'^^Asperge8). 
Asperges k la Pompadour, 1 74. 

k la sauce blanche, 162. 

k Thuile, 163. 

en petits pois, 163. 
Auber^nes farcies, 175. 

fhtes, 175. 



X 



294 



INDEX. 



^ 



Baba, 220. 

Balls of Forcemeat, 289. 
Barbeau (Barbel), 71. 
Barbel, 71. 
Barbae (Brill), 56. 
Barley soup, 12. 
Bavaroises k la liqueur, 248. 
Beans, bottled, 270, 271. 

dried, 180. 

French, 178, 179. 
pickled, 273. 

red, 179. 

Windsor, 180. * 

Bean (white) soup, 19 {s^ Hari- 
cots). 
Becassine et Becasse (Snipe and 

Woodcock), 90. 
B^cassines k la minute, 91. 
B^chamelle grasse, 25. 

maigre, 25. 
Beef, how to choose, 1 10, 

k la mode, 113. 

fillet, roasted, 112. 

with tomato sauce, 114. 

ribs, 114. 

rump, boiled, 113. 

salted, 276. 

soup (Pot-au-feu), 8. 

(Consomme), 10 {see 
Boeuf). 
Beefsteak, with potatoes, 115. 

baked, 116. 
Beetroots, 159, 160 {see Better- 

aves). 
Beignets d'abricots, 187. 

d' acacia, 189. 

d' ananas, 188. 

de cerises, 187. 

d'oranges, 187. 

de peches, 187. 

de pommes, 186. 

de riz, 188. 

de semoule, 189. 

en surprise, 188. 

souffles, 190. 
B^tises, 207, 234. 
Be tteraves ( Beetroots) ,159. 

k la poulette, 160. 

au vin, 160. 



Beurre, conservation du, 274. 

said, 274. 
Bifteck au four, 116. 

aux pommes de terre, 115. 
Birds, small (Larks, Thrushes, &c), 

99. 
Bbcottes, 229. 

de Bruxelles, 230. 
Biscuits k la cuiller, 219. 

en caisse, 218. 

de Savoie {see Gateau de Sa- 
voie, 217. 
Blackberry syrup, 267. 
Black pudding (Boudin), 109. 
Blanc Manger, chaud, 204. 

en forme, 205. 

froid, 204. 
Boar, wild, 77. 

boiled leg of, 77 {see Sanglier). 
Boeuf (Beef), how to choose, iia 

k la mode, 113. 

k Tetuvee, 113. 

cervelle de, 177. 

cervelle de, frite, 117. 

c6te de, k la Flamande, 1 14. 

filet de, k I'eau, 115. 

k la sauce tomate, 114. 
r6ti, 112. 

langue de, en daube, 1 16. 
en sauce piquante, 117. 

queue de, panee, 117. 

rognons sautes, 118. 

sale, 276. 
BoissONS CHAUDES (Hot Drinks), 

224. 
Bonbons au cafe au lait, 254. 

au chocolat, 255. 

DE MANAGE, 250. 

Bottles, directions about, 287. 

how to arrange in cellars, 288. 
Boudin (Black pudding), 109. 
Bouilli en boulettes, no. 
Bouillon hatif (Soup quickly 

made), 9. 
Boulettes de pommes de terre, 195- 
Bouquets de violettes, 252. 
Brass pans, remarks on, 2. 
Bread soup (Pannade) 20. 
3rill, 56. 



INDEX. 



295 



Brioche, 221. 

Brochet (Pike), how to choose and 
prepare, 69. 

k la maitre d'hotel, 70. 

au bleu, 69. 

frit, 70. 
Bnissells sprouts, 170. 
Butcher's meat, i 10. 
Butter for sauces, 5. 

how to keep, 274. 

melted, 22. 

salted, 274. 

Cabbages, 168, 169 {see Choux). 
Cabbage soup, 16, 17. 
Cabbage soup with cheese, 16. 
Cabillaud (Cod Fish), 59. 

au gratin, 59. 

au naturel, 59. 
Cacao, 249. 
Cafe (Coffee) k Teau, 245. 

au lait, 244. 

blond, creme au, 2CX). 

liqueur de, 269. 

noir, creme au, 199. 

rizau, 205. 
Caille (Quail), 89. 

au chasseur, 90. 
Cake mould, design for, 3. 
CalTs brains, 130. 

ears, 137. 

feet, 135. 

head, boiled, 132, 

fried, 134- 

kidneys, 1.28. 

liver, roasted, 135. 

paunch, 131. 

sweetbreads, 129. 

tongue, 137 {see Veau)« 
Canard (Duck), 86. 

aux choux, 89. 

aux navets, 88. 

aux onions, 89. 

aux olives, 88. 

aux petits pois, 87. 

en daube, 88. 

r6ti, 87. 
Caper sauce, 22, 
Caprices, 235. 



Caramel, creme au, 198. 

oeufs au, 201. 
Caramels, 253. 
Cardons, 165. 

k la moelle, 165. 
Carottes (Carrots) k la maltre 
d'hotel, 156. 

k la menag^re, 157. 

k I'Andalouse, 157. 

k la poulette, 1 56. 

aujambon, 156. 
Carpe (Carp), how to choose and 
prepare, 70. 

au court-bouillon, 71. 

au gratin, 71. 

en matelote, 71. 

frite, 71. 
Carrots, 156, 157 {see Carottes). 
Casks, directions about, 285. 
Cauliflowers, 170 — 172 (see Choux- 

fleurs). 
Celeri (Celery), 164. 

k la bonne femme, 165. 

frit, 165. 
Cellars, the best arrangement for, 

285. 
Cerises (Cherries), 260. 

beignets de, 187. 

compote de, 239. 

en bouteilles, 265. 

pelees, 242. 
Champignons (Mushrooms), 34. 

aujambon, 35. 

desseches, 280. 

en ragodt, 34. 

panes, 35. 
Charlotte de pommes, 191. 

Russe, 192. 
Cherries, bottled, 265. 

preserved, 260 {see Cerises). 
Chevreau (Kid), 149, 
Chevreuil (Deer), 78, 

civet de, 78. 
Chicoree (Chicory), 167. 
Chocolat (Chocolate), 247. 

cr^me au, 198. 

riz au, 206. 
Chou farci, 169. 

fricass^, 168, 



296 



INDEX. 



k 



Chou lard^, 168. 
Choux (Cabbages), 168. 
au vinaigre, 272. 
de Bruxelles (Sprouts), 170. 
fleurs (Cauliflowers), 170. 
k la Louis XIV. 170. 
au gratin, 171. 
aujus, 171. 
en salade, 172. 
frits, 172. 
Cod fish, 59 {see Cabillaud). 
Coffee custard, 199, 200. 
Coffee, how to make, 244, 245. 
Coings (Quinces), gel^e de, 263. 
compote de, 241. 
confitures de, 263. 
Compotes, 237. 

Concombres (Cucumbers) 4 la 
mattre d'hotel, 176. 
k, la sauce blanche, 175. 
en salade, 1 77. 
farcis, 176. 
Confitures (Preserves), 256. 
de coings, 263. 
de p^ches, 264. 
de raisin, 264. 

mani^re de couvrir les pots, 
264. 
Cogger eel, 64. 
Coiisomme (Beef Soup), 10. 
Cooking APPARATUS, pans, &c. i. 
its advantage over an open 
fire, I. 
Copper pans, remarks on, 2. 
Corks, how to choose, &c. 288. 
Coraichons (Gherkins) au vinaigre, 

Comiottes, 224. 
Cos lettuce, 167. 

soup, 18. 
Courses, three, at diimer; wines 

to serve at, 284. 
Court-bouillon for live fish, 54. 
Crabs, 50. 
Cray-fish, 48, 49. 

soup, 21 (j^^ ficrevisses). 
Grecy grasse, 12. 
CrSme k la Napolitaine, 203. 

k la Turque, 202, 



Creme k la Vanille, 198. 

au cafe blond, 200. 

au cBf6 noir, 199. 

au caramel, 198. 

au chocolat, 198. 

au the, 199. 

aux amandes, 200. 

aux pistaches, 200. 

cuite, 205. 

fouettee pour meringues, 232. 

meringuee, 202. 

tarte kla, 215. 
Cremes (Custards), 196. 
Crapes (pancakes), 190. 

aux pommes, 191. 
Cressinis pour le the, 227. 
Croquettes aux amandes, 226. 

d'agneau, 148. 

de pommes, 192. 
Croquignoles k la Chartres, 229. 

autres, 229. 
Crodte aux champignons, 35. 
Croutons, 32. 
Cruelty in cooking unnecessarr, 

76. 
Crustac^s, Coquillages (Shell 

fish), 46. 
Cucumbers, 175 — 177 (see Con- 
combres). 
Currant jelly, red and white, 257. 

red, syrup, 265 {see Groseilles). 
Custard, silmond, 20a 

chocolate, 198. 

coffee, 199, 200. 

pistachio, 200. 

tea, 199. 

vanilla, 198 (see Cremes). 

Decoration of dishes, contrivances 

for, 3. 
Deer, leg of, 78. 
cutlets, 78. 
Dejedner k la fourchette, wines to 

serve at, 283. 
Dinde (Turkey), bow to choose 

97. 

au pot, 98. 

aux champignons, 98. 

aux marrons, 98). 



INDEX. 



297 



Dinde en daube, 98. 
tniffee r6tie, 97. 
Dindonneaux en salmis, 99. 
Dinner of three courses, wines to 

serve at, 284. 
Dorade (John Dory), 63. 
en court bouillon, 63. 
Drinks, Hot, 244. 
Duck, wild, 86. 
roasted, 87. 

with green peas, 87. 
with olives, 88 {^see Ca- 
nard). 

fecrevisses (Cray-fish), 48, 49. 
Eel, Conger, 64. 
Eels, to prepare, 73. 

boiled, 74. 

fried, 75 {see Anguilles). 
Eggs, as a variety of diet, 45. 

new-laid, how to know, 37. 

how to keep, 275. 

boiled soft, 37. 

fried, 38. 

poadied, 40. 

salad o^ 39. 

with asparagus, 38. 

with wine, 39 {see CEufs). 
Entremets sucr£s, 186. 
£perlans (Smelts), 65. 

au gratin, 65. 

frites, 65. 
£pinards (Spinach), 167. 

au Sucre, 167. 
Escargots (Snails), 5a 

^ la poulette, 51. 

&rcis, 52. 
Essences, objections to their use, 5. 

Faisan (Pheasant), 83. 

^ TetoufFee, 84. 

en salmis, 84. 

r6ti,83. 
Fantaisies, 235. 
F^es (Windsor beans), 180. 
Fish, court-bouillon for, 54. 

cruelty and mistake of frying 
them alive, 76. 

FRESH-WATER, 66. 



Fish, pan for boiling, 3. 

SALT-WATER, 54. 

how to clean, 54. 

SHELL, 46. 

Flamusses, 224. 
Fleur d'oranger pralinee, 252. 
Flour for sauces, 6. 
Forcemeat, Balls o^ 289. 
Fowl, boifed, 95. 

fricassee, 92. 

roasted, 92 

with celery, 96. 

with rice, 97. 

with white wine, 93 {see 
Poulet). 
Fowls, young, how to cook^ 94. 
Praises (Strawberries), 261. 

compote de, 238. 

en bouteilles, 264. 

sirop de, 266. 
Framboises (Raspberries), compote 
de, 239. 

gel^e de, 261. 

endures, 261. 

sirop de, 266. 

vinaigre, sirop de, 267. 
French beans, 178, 179 {see Hari- 
cots). 

wines, how to take care of, 

the order of serving, 283. 
Fricandeau ^ la chicoree, 126. 
a I'oseille, 126. 
glace, 125. 
Friture, 289. 

frogs, 52 {see Grenouilles). 
Fruits en bouteilles (Bottled fruits), 

264. 
Fruits frais, conserves de (How to 

keep fresh fruits), 280. 
Frying, French system oi, 5. 
Frying-pan, the best kind of, 3. 

Game, flying, 83. 

RUNNING, 77. 

Game sauce, 28. 
Giteau d'amandes, 216. 

de menage pour le the, 226. 

de pain, 203. 



298 



INDEX. 



GUteau de pommes de terre, 194. 

de Savoie, 217. 

de viande, 1 1 1. 

manque aux confitures, 218. 

Moscovite pour le the, 228. 

Russe pour le the, 230. 

sees, pour le the, 228. 
Giteaux aux anis verts, 227. 
Ga\ifres (Dessert et the), 233, 
Gelee k froid, 257. 

de coings, 263. 

de framboises, 261. 

de groseilles, 257. 

de groseilles blanches, 257. 

de pommes, 262. 
Gherkins, pickled, 273. 
GiBiER A PLUMES (Flying game), 

83. 
A FOIL (Running game), 77. 

Gigot (Leg of mutton), a la bour- 

geoise, 138. 

k la Bourguignonne, 139. 

k r Infante, 139. 

marin^, 138. 

r6ti, 137. 
Gomme, sirop de, 266. 
Goose, 99. 
Graisse la, mani^re de fondre, 

278. 
Grapes, how to keep, 280. 

preserved, 264. 
Greengage marmalade, 263 (see 

Reine claude). 
Green peas, 181, 182 {see Petits 

pois). 
Green-pea soup, 19. 
Green sauce, 166,271. 

soup, 18. 
Grenades (Pomegranates), com- 
pote de, 242. 

conservation de, 281. 
Grenouilles (Frogs), 52. 

k la poulette, 53. 
Gridiron, the best kind of, 3. 
Groseilles (Red Currants), compote 
de, 239. 

kmaquereau, compote de, 241. 

de Bar, 258. 

gel^e de, 257. 



Groseilles perl^es, 243. 

rouges enti^res, 258* 

sirop de, 265. 
Goujons (Gudgeons), 73. 
Gum syrup, 266. 

Ham, how to salt and smoke, : 

boiled, 105, 106. 

fried with wine, 107. 

roasted, 107 (see Jambon) 
Hare, how to choose, 79. 

roasted, 79. 

soup, 13 (see Li^vre). 
Harengs (Herrings), 64. 

sales, 65. 

saur, 64. 

au four, 65. 

sur le gril, 64* 
Haric6t de mouton, 141. 
Haric6ts k la moelle de boeuf, 

k I'etuvee, 178. 

au vinaigre, 273. 

aux oignons, 179. 

rouges k la bourguignonne 
k la creme, 179. 

sees au lard, 180. 

verts sautes, 178. 
Herbs for seasoning, 5. 
Herrings, 64 (see Harengs). 
Homards (Lobsters), k la '. 
landaise, 58. 

au court-bouillon, 50. 
Hops as a vegetable, 164. 
Hot Dmnks, 244. 
Houblon (Hops), 164. 
Huitres (Oysters) k la poulette 

au vin blanc, 47. 

en hachis, 46. 

frites, 46. 

Ingredients used in Cc 

ING, 5. 

Italian pastes soup, 11. 
tomato sauce, 30. 

Jambon (Ham) k la boui 
gnonne, 106. 
au naturel, 105. 
auvin, 107. 



INDEX. 



299 



Jambon de sanglier bouilli, 77, 

roti, 107. 
Jambons, le maniere de saler et 

de fumer, 277. 
Jasmin candi, 252. 
Jerusalem artichokes, 155 {see To- 

pinamboms). 
John Dory, 63 (see Dorade). 
Julienne soup, 13. 

Kid, 149. 
Kidneys, calfs, 128. 

ox, 118. 

pigfs, 108. 

sheep's, 143. 

Lait d'amandes, 248. 

Laitue et Roraain (Lettuce and 

Cos-Lettuce), 167. 
Laitues farcies, 167. 
Lamb, cold, how to use up, 147. 

cutlets, 149. 

roasted, 146. 

shoulder of^ 147. 
Lamb's head and feet, 149 {see 

Agneau). 
Lamproies (Lamprey), 75. 
Lapereau k la poulette, 81. 

saute, 82. 
Lapin (Rabbit), 81. 

gibelotte de, 81. 

roti, 81. 
Lard, how to melt, 278. 
Larding contrivances for, 3. 
Larding game, objections to, 83. 
Larks and other small birds, 9a 
LEGUMES (Vegetables), 150. 

conserves de, 270. 
Lentil soup, 19. 
Lentilles (Lentils), 182. 
Lettuce, 167 (see Laitne). 

soup, 18. 
Levrant (Leveret) unte, 9o. 
Liaison, 32. 
Litvre fHare), 79. 

civet de, 79. 

en danbe. 81. 

'^^ 79- _ . 

X ,]rf%9nAs^ (Dutch PSajce/, 5& 



Liqueurs, how to keep them, 270. 

par infusion, 268. 
Liqueur wines, 284. 
Lobsters, 50 {see Homards). 

Macaroni k la cr^e, 183. 

k la Milanaise, 185. 

^ritalienne, 184. 

au gratin, 182. 

en moule, 184. 

soup, II. 

the best kind, 6. 
Macarons k la fleur d'oranger, 254. 

k la violette, 254. 

aux amandes, 232. 

aux noisettes, 233. 

aux pistaches, 233. 

pour le th^ 231. 
Mackerel, 61 (/^;r Maquereau). 
Madeleines, 220. 
Maquereau (Mackerel), 61. 

k Feau salee, 61. 

k la maltre dHiotel, 61. 
Marmelade d'abricots, 259. 
Meat Cake, iii. 
Medlars, how to keep, 282. 
Melon, compote de, 241. 

soap, 2a 
Mdted butter, 22. 
Meringues, 231. 
Merlans (Whitings), an gratin, 62. 

frits, 62. 

grilles, 62, 
Mirabdles, 263. 
Mooks (Mcssds), 47. 

k la poaktte, 47. 

i la proven^ale, 48, 
Monie secfae (Stock fish), 6a 

a la bechamelle, 61. 

an coiut-booillon, 6a 
Mootoa (Mutton), 137, 

o^rtdettesde, Mntett, 143. 
grillecs^ 142. 
panecx, 143. 

Epaalede, 142. 
farde, 142. 

filet de, aox hsmeHnurtnt, 14a 
r6ci« I40. 



300 



INDEX* 



\ 



Mouton, Ungues de, 145. 

pieds de, k la poulette, 145. 
au gratin, 146. 
frits, 146. 
queues de, bouillies, 145. 
endaube, 145. 
a la Bourguignonne, 144. 
rognons de, k la brochette, 

143- 
au vin de champagne, 

144 (see Gigot). 
Mulets (Mullets), 62. 
Miires (Blackberry), sirop de, 267. 
Mushrooms, 34. 

how to keep, 280 {see cham- 
pignons). 
Mussels, 47 {see Monies). 
Mutton, how to choose and keep, 

cold, how to use up, 138. 
breast of, roasted, 140. 

with French beans, 140. 
cutlets, broiled, 142, 143. 
haric6t, 141. 

leg of, roasted, 137 (j^;? Gigot). 
shoulder of, 142 

stuffed, 142 (j^*^ Mouton). 

Navets (Turnips), k la Picarde, 
158. 

k la poulette, 158. 

au jambon, 158. 

au vin blanc, 159. 
N^fles (Medlars), conservation des, 

282. 
Noisettes, macarons aux, 233. 
Noudles, how to make, 29a 

how to cook, 185. 
Nougat, 223. 
Noyaux de peches, eau de, 269. 

CEUFS (Eggs), 37. 
k la coque, 37. 
k la niege, 40. 
k la poulette, 39. 
au caramel, 201. 
au lait, 201. 
au vin, 39. 
brouiUes au naturel, 38. 



CEufs, brouill^ aux asperges, 

38- 

conservation des, 275. 

en matelote, 290. 

en salade, 39. 

farcis, 39. 

frits, 38. 

poches, 40. 

sur le plat, 38, 
Oies (Geese), 99. 
Oil, the best for frjring, 5. 
Omelette k la viande, 43. 

au fromage, 43. 

au naturel, 41. 

au rhum, 44. 

au Sucre, 44. 

aux confitures, 44. 

aux ^crevisses, 43. 

aux fines herbes, 42. 

aux oignons, 43. 

aux trufies, 43. 

soufSee, 44. 
Omelette pan, the best kind of, 4. 
Onion soups, 14, 15. 
Onions au vinaigre (pickled), 273. 
Open fires, their disadvantages in 

cooking, I. 
Oranges, beignets d', 187. 

compote d*, 242. 

sirop d*, 267. 
Oreilles de pore (Pig's ears), 107. 

f rites, 107. 
Orgeat, sirop d*, 268. 
Oseille (Green Sauce), 166, 271. 

aujus, 166. 
Ox brains, 117. 

kidneys, 118. 

tail, 117. 

tongue, n6, 117. 
Oysters, 46. 

chopped, 46. 

fried, 46. 

with white Burgundy, 47. 
Oyster soup, 21. 

Oysters, wines to serve with, 283 
{see Hultres). 

Pancakes, 190, 191 {see Cripes). 
Pannade (Bread Soup), 2a 



INDEX. 



301 



Pans for cookmgy Tarioas kinds 

of^ 2. 
Partridges, old, to cook, 26. 
trnffled, 84. 

roasted and cold, 85 {set 
Perdrix). 
Pastry, 209. 
Pate k frire, 256. 
brisee, 210. 

feuilletee (Puff Paste), 209. 
Pates aumentaires, 185. 

d'ltalie an gras, 11. 
Patisserie (Pastry), 209. 
Patissons, 212. 
Peaches, bottled, 265. 

preserved, 2^ {sf^ Peches). 
Pears, how to keep, 281. 

preserved, 261,262 (jarPoires). 
Peas green, 181. 

bottled, 270, 271. 
with bacon, 182. 
withham, 181 (j»rPetits pois). 
Pea soup, green and dried, 19. 
Peches (Peaches), betgnets de, 187. 
compote de, 24 1. 
k froid, compote de, 242. 
confitures de, 264. 
en bouteilles, 265. 
Perches (Perch), how to prepare, 
72. 
an blen (boiled in wine), 73. 
an gratin, 73. 
frites (fried), 73. 
Perdrix (Partridge), 84. 
k I'etonfiee, S$. 
aux choox, Soi 
en salmis, 85. 
Petits choux, 225. 

k la creme coite, 225. 
k la creme fonettee, 225. 
aux confitures, 225. 
Petits pites, 211. 
k la reine, 212. 
frits, 211. 
Petits pois (Green Peas), k la 
mattre d'hotel, 181. 
au beurre, 181. 
aujambon, 181. 
au lard, 182. 



Petits pob en salade, 182. 

et haricots en bouteilles, 270^ 
271. 
Pheasant, how to prepare, 83. 

roasted, 83 {see Faisan). 
Pheasant soup, 12. 
Pickles, 272, 273. 
Pig'shead, 291. 

earsy boiled, 107. 
firied, 107. 
feet, 108. 
kidne3rs, 108, 
tail, 108 {see Pore). 
Pigeons k la ciapaudine (bcnled), 
100. 
k la minute, loa 
k la proven9ale, loa 
au vin (with wine), loi. 
aux petits pois (with green 

peas), 99. 
en compote, loi. 
rods (roasted), 99. 
sur le gril (broiled), loa 
Pike, how to prepare, 69. 
boiled, 69. 

firied, 70 {see Brochet). 
Pistaches^ creme aux, 20a 

macarons aux, 233. 
Pithiviers, 219. 
Plaice, 58 {see Limandes). 
Pluvier (Plover), 89. 
Poached ^gs, 40. 
Poires (Pears), k blanc, compote 
de, 239. 

k la cardinale, compote de, 240. 
enti^res, 261, 262. 
conservation des, 281. 
PoissoNS DE Mer (Salt-water 
fish), 54. 
d'eau Dolxe (Fresh-water 
fish), 66. 
Pomegranates, how to keep, 281 

{see Grenades). 
Pommes (Apples), 191. 
au beurre, 194. 
an riz, 193. 
beignets de, 186. 
Chariotte de, 191. 
compote de, 240s. 



302 



INDEX. 



\ 



Pommes, conservation des, 281. 
crapes aux, 191. 
croquettes de, 192. 
gelee de, 262. 
meringuees, 193. 
Pommes de terre (Potatoes) k la 
Hambourgeoise, 152. 
k la maftre d'hotel, 151. 
k la poulette, 151. 
k I'etuv^e, 153. 
de terre au lard, 152. 
boulettes de, 195. 
en robe de chambre, 151. 
en salade, 154. 
frites, 153. 
gateau de, 194. 
purees de, 154. 
sautees, 152. 
soufflees, 195. 
Pore (Pork) cotelettes de, aux 
truffes, 104. 

braisees, 104. 
en papiUotes, 104. 
frais, a la minute, 103. 
epaule de, k la marini^re, 105. 
filet de, k la bolonaise, 103. 
frais, r6ti, 102. 
oreilles de, 107. 
frites, 107. 
pieds de, farcis, 108. 
sur le gril, 108. 
queues de, 108. 
rognons de, 108. 
salaison du, 277. 
Pork, how to choose, 102. 
cutlets, 103. 

with truffles, 104. 
roasted, 102. 

shoulder, 105. 
how to salt, 277 {see Pore). 
PoTAGES (Soups), 8. 
Potage k la Marie Louise, 10. 
aux ecrevisses, 21. 
aux huitres, 21. 
Potatoes, 151 — 154. 

contrivance for curling, 3. 
Potato soup, 19. 

flour soup, 12 {see Pommes de 
terre). 



Pot-au-feu (Beef soup), 8. 
Potiron (Vegetable Marrow), a 
I'oignon, 177. 

frit, 178. 

puree de, 177. 
Ponding k la bonne femme, 207. 

au riz, 208. 

vermicelle, 207. 
Poularde au celeri, 96. 
Poule au p&t, 95. 

au riz, 97. 
Poulet (Fowl) k la Marengo, 94. 

k la minute, 94. 

k I'estragon, 95. 

au vin blanc, 93. 

en daube, 95. 

en gibelotte, 95. 

fricassee de, 92. 

r&ti, 92. 
Poultry, 92. 
Preserves, 256. 

how to cover them, 264. 

the sugar for, 6 {see Confi- 
tures). 
Provisions de Manage, 256. 
Pudding, black (see Boudin), 109. 
Punch, 248. 
Puree de haricots sees, 19. 

de lentilles, 19. 

de pois sees, 19. 

de pois verts, 19. 

de pommes de terre, 19, 154. 

de potiron, 177. 

Quail, 89 {see Caille). 
Quince jelly, 263 {see Goings). 

Rabbit, to prepare, 81. 

roasted, 81 {see Lapin). 
Raie (Skate), 58. 

k la sauce blanche, 59. 

au beurre noir, 59. 
Raisins (Grapes), confitures des, 
264. 

conservation des, 280. 
Raspberries, preserved, 261. 
Raspberry jelly, 261. 

syrup, 266. 

vinegar, 267. 



INDEX. 



303 



Red Mullet, 62 {see Rouget). 
Reine claude (Greengage), marine- 
lade de, 263. 

compote de, 238. 

k froid, compote de, 238. 
Rice soup, 10. 
Riz au cafe, 205. 

au chocolat, 206. 

au gras, 10. 

au lait, 292. 

beignets de, 188. 

ponding au, 208. 

souffle, 206. 

en forme, 206. 

tarte au, 216. 
Roasting, contrivances for, 3. 
Rouget (Red Mullet), 62. 

au court-bouillon, 63. 

grille, 63. 
Roux (Sauce), 23. 

Salad, beetroot in, 160. 

of eggs, 39. 

salmon, 67. 
Salmon, how to prepare, 66. 

boiled, 66. 

in ^vine, 67. 

broiled, 66. 

salad of, 67. 

with gravy, 67 {see Saumon). 
Salsifis, 161. 

k la sauce blanche, 161. 

au gras, 161. 

frits, 162. 
Sambayon, 204. 
Salt, or Stock fish, 60 {see Morue 

s^che). 
Sanglier (Wild Boar), 77. 

jambon de, bouilli, 77. 
Sauces, 22. 
Sauce k la maitre d'hotel, 24. 

matelote, 27. 

k la menag^re, 27. 

k la Sainte Menehould, 26. 

k ritalienne, 26. 

au beurre noir, 23. 

aux anchois, 30. 

aux truffes, 30. 

k la P^rigueux, 30. 



Sauce, Bechamelle grasse, 25. 
maigre, 25. 

blanche, 22. 

d'oignons, 24. 

blonde, 22. 

d'oignons, ou sauce Sou- 
bise, 24. 

mayonnaise, 31. 

piquante, 29. 

Portugaise, 26. 

Proven9ale, 26, 

ravigote, 31. 

remoulade, 31. 

Robert, 25. 

roux, 23. 

salmis, 28. 

Soubise, 24. 

tomate, 29, 271. 

k ritalienne, 30. 
Sauces, butter for, 5. 

the flour for, 6. 
Saucisses (Sausages), how to cook, 
109. 

aux pommes, 109. 
Saumon (Salmon), 66. 

au jus, 67. 

bouilli, 66. 

en salade, 67. 

sur le gril, 66. 
Sausages, 29. 

how to cook, 109. 

with apples, 109. 
Savarin, 221. 
Seasoning, ingredients for, 5, 

rules regarding it, 6. 
Semoule au gras (Semolina 
Soup), II. 

beignets de, 189. 
Sheep's feet, 145, 146. 

kidneys, 143. 

tails, boiled and stewed, 145. 

tongues, 145. 
Shell-fish, 46. 
Silver dishes, when desirable, 2. 
Sirops (Syrups), 265, 
Skate, 58. 

with white sauce, 59 {see Raie). 
Smelts, 65 {see fiperlans). 
Snails^ 50 {see Escargots). 



304 



INDEX. 



Snipes and woodcocks, 9a 
Soles, 56. 

au blanc (boiled), 57. 

au gratin, 57. 

aux huitres, 58. 

en matelote, 58. 

frites (fried), 57. 

sur le gril, 58. 
Souffle de fleuis d'oranger, 25 1. 

de violettes, 252. 
Soup9ons, 235. 
SouPES (Soups), 8. 

arrowroot, 12. 

barley, 12. 

bean (white), 19. 

beef (Pot-au-feu), 8. 

beef (Consomme), 10. 

bouillon h^tif (Soup quickly 
made), 9. 

bread (Pannade), 20. 

cabbage, 16, 17. 

cabbage, with cheese, 16. 

consomme (Beef Soup), 10, 

cos lettuce, 18. 

crav-fish, 21. 

Crecy grasse, 12. 

green pea, 19. 

green sauce, 18. 

hare, 13. 

Italian paste, 11. 

Julienne, 13. 

lentil, 19. 

lettuce, 18. 

macaroni, 11. 

melon, 20. 

onion, 14, 15. 

oyster, 21. 

pannade (Bread Soup), 20. 

pStes d'ltalie, 1 1. 

pea (dried), 19. 

pea (green), 19. 

pheasant, 12. 

potage k la Marie I^ouise, 10. 

potage aux ecrivisses, 21. 

potage aux huitres, 21. 

potato, 19. 

potato flour, 12. 

pot-au-feu (Beef Soup), 8. 

puree de lentilles, 19. 



Soupes, pur^e de pois sees, 19. 
verts, 19. 
pommes de terre, 19. 

riz au gras (Rice Soup), la 

sago, 12. 

semolina, 11. 

k la puree de legumes, 17. 

k la reine, au gras, 15. 
au maigre, 16. 

k I'oignon, 14. 

a I'oignon au maigre, 15. 
Soup k Toseille, 18. 

au li^vre, 13. 

au melon, 20. 

au potiron, 19. 

aux choux au fromage, 16. 
au maigre, 17. 
grasse, 16. 

aux faisans, 12. 

aux laitues, 18. 

aux navets, 18. 

aux romaines, 18. 

quickly made, 9. 

tapioca, 12. 

turnip, 18. 

vegetable (Julienne), 13. 

vegetable marrow, 19. 

vermicelli, 11. 
Soup, wines to serve with, 283. 
Soyer on seasoning, objections to,6. 
Spinach, 167 {see fipinards). 
Stew pans, the best kind ofi 3. 
Stock-fish, 60 {see Morue seche). 
Strawberries bottled, 264, 

preserved, 261. 
Strawberry svrup, 266. 
Sucre clarifie, 250. 
Sugar for preserves, 6, 256. 

how to clarify, 250. 

syrups of, 251. 
Sweetbreads, calfs, 129. 
Sweet dishes, 186. 
Syrups, 265. 

Talmouses, 226. 
Tanches (Tench), 71. 

aux fines herbes, 72. 

frites, 72. 
Tapioca soup, 12. 




I^EBZmiBL 



Xdca. 3KJW 11 z 



3=i 



^1 ' BV*** ^'•^ 

1 1 tr^w..- ^ 



.sxuaisB. 



la ii»— It- fttj. ^!#V 




^rf-WTi;^ - 



jrarimr os:. 2tn^ 



S& JX TSUI 



in- 13^ 



Arr- 



l«^ 






T 
T 



Viiitf*:!, -Slip. 

iit .5« Tti 



Pt'tit- i Jb. 



Xlt. 






fur ix3>3«cnii{; li«!nx> 



■asrveleai tit, i 






t y: 









r, :lrt«F -ii 



3o6 



INDEX. 



Veau, oreilles de, k la sauce pi- 
quante, 137. 
pieds de, k la poulette, 135. 
ragout de, 119. 
ris de, k la poulette, 129. 

au gratin, 130. 

aux fines herbes, 130. 

en caisses, 129. 

glaces, 129. 

sautes, 129. 
rognon de, saut^, 128. 

k la Bourguignonne, 128. 
r&ti, 118. 

r6ti aux fines herbes, 119. 
rouelle de, aux onions, 127. 

au vin, 127. 

farcie, 126. 

dans son jus, 126. 
tetede, ^laSainte-M^n^hould, 

134. 
au naturel, 132. 

en tortue, 133. 

frite, 134. 

Vegetable Marrow, 177, 178. 

soup, 19 {see Potiron). 

Vegetables, 150. 

contrivances for cutting, 3. 

washing, 4, 

French method of cooking 

and serving, 150. 



Vegetables, how to preserve, 270. 
Vegetable soup, 13. , 
Vermicelle au gras, ii. 

ponding au, 207. 
Vermicelli soup, 1 1. 

the best kind of, 6. 
ViANDE deBoucherie( Butcher's 

meat), no. 
Vin chaud, 248. 
Vinegar, the best kind of, 6, 
Vins en bouteilles. 287. 

tonneaux, 285. 
Vins, sur les, 283. 
Violettes, bouquets de, 252. 

praUnees, 252. 

soufHe de, 252. 
VoLAiLLES (Poultry), 92. 

White bean soup, 19. 
White sauce, 22. 
Whitings, 62 {see Merlans). 
Wines, French, how to bottle and 
keep, 287, 288. 

how to fine, 287. 

how to keep in casks, 285, 

how to take care of, 285. 

the order of serving them, 
283. 
Woodcocks and snipes, 90. 



THE END. 




JR. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, LONDON. 



A PAINTER'S CAMP IN THE HIGHLANDS, 

AND 

THOUGHTS ABOUT ART. 

BY P. G. HAMERTON. 
Two vols. Crown 8vo. 2iJ. 

" A book of substantial value . . . Mr. Hamerton deserves the praise 
of having written the most sensible book on landscape painting that has 
yet proceeded from a practical painter ; and has given to lovers and 
critics of art, as well as artists, the benefit of a very uncommon expe- 
rience, full of instruction to both." — Reader, 

"The whole book is strongly marked with the individuality and 
enthusiasm of its author, who is a cultivated English gentleman, 
thoroughly devoted to the art which he adopted as his profession. " — 
Saturday Review. 

** We are not exaggerating the charm of these volumes . . , written 
with infinite spirit and humour, and abounding in those touches of 
minute and faithful detail, which transport the reader with the sense oi 
reality." — Nonconformist, 

"His pages sparkle with happy turns of expression — not a few well- 
told anecdotes — and many observations which are the fruit of attentive 
study and wise reflection on the complicated phenomena of human life, 
as well as unconscious nature.** — Westminster Review, 

" His book proves him to be a man of many talents and tastes, of 
quick and keen perception, considerable originality and energy of 
character, and a sense of humour, so keen that nothing escapes it, but 
so well regulated that it is never exercised at the expense of good 
taste or good feeling.'* — Morning Post, 

MACMILLAN & CO. LONDON & CAMBRIDGE. 



GUIDE TO THE UNPROTECTED 

IN EVERY-DAY MATTERS RELATING TO 

PROPERTY AND INCOME. 

BY A BANKER'S DAUGHTER. 

Second Edition, Revised, Price 3J. 6d. 

" An admirable little book containing simple explanations of various 
business operations, some of which every one possessed of property 
must now and then transact. " — London Review, 

"There is a fund of useful information in this little work. . . . The 
directions contained in its pages are simple and direct, and will he 
found of the highest service by those for whose most especial benefit 
the work has been prepared. " — Midland Counties HeraJd, 



Uniform with the above, Price Jj. (id, 

GUIDE IN THE SICK ROOM, 

BY RICHARD BARWELL, F.R.C.S. 
Assistant Surgeon to the Charing Cross HospitaL 

"The book is one of great value in the sick-room, the rules are 
excellent ; the description of diseases, especially those of children, 
lucid ; and the receipts for invalid cooking, very usefiiL'' — Churchman. 

MACMILLAN & CO. LONDON & CAMBRIDGE. 



WOBES B7 THE AUTHOR OF '' THE HEIB OF BEDCLTFFE." 
THE TRIAL : MORE LINKS OF THE DAISY CHAIN. 

Two Vols. Crown 8vo. I2j. 

HISTORY OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. 

Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 21s, 

THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE. 

Fourteenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s, 

IV. 

THE DAISY CHAIN. 

Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s, 

DYNEVOR TERRACE; OR, THE CLUE OF LIFE. 

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s, 

VI. 

HEARTSEASE; OR, THE BROTHERS LIFE. 

Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

VII. 

HOPES AND FEARS ; 

OR, SCENES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPINSTER. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. dr. 

VIII. 

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER; 

OR, A CHRONICLE OF MISTAKES. 

Crown 8vo. 6s, 

IX. 

THE LANCES OF LYNWOOD. 

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. B. 
New Edition. 3J. 6d, 

X. 

THE LITTLE DUKE; 

OR, RICHARD THE FEARLESS. 

New Edition. Reprinting, 

XI. 

MARIE THERESE DE LAMAROUS. 

A Biography abridged from the French. \s. M, 

Y 



POPULAB NOVELS. 



tHE WATER BABIES. A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. 

By the Rev. CHAllLES KINGSLEY, M.A. Rector of Eversley and 
Cnaplain in Ordinary to the Queen, and Professor of Modem History 
in the University of Cambridge. New Edition, with two Illustrations 
by Noel Paton. Crown 8vo. price 6s, 

"We do not remember that any one had before ventm^ on telling^ the history of a 
Water Baby. Mr. Kingsley must have the credit of having revealed to us a new order 
of life. Neither Undine, nor Lurline, nor the Siren which tempted Goethe's Fi^erman, 
nor the strange beings in the EUistem Tale, who walked about at the bottom of the sea, 
and built palaces there, and dwelt in them, are of the same kin as Tom and Ellie. Tom 
and Ellie must rank by themiselves."— TVxwAr. 

WESTWARD HO! By the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A. 

Crown 8vo. cloth, dr. 

" Mr. Kingsley has selected a good sut^ect, and has written a good novel to an 
excellent purpose." — Times. 

". We thank Mr. Kingsley heartily for almost the best historical novel, to our mind, of 
the day." — Fraser's Magazine, 

TWO. YEARS AGO. By the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A. 

Crown 8vo. doth, 6j. 

" In *Two Years Ago ''Mr. Kingsley is, as always, genial, large-hearted, and humoroos: 
with a quick eye and a keen relish alike for what is beaudfuT in nature and for what is 
genuine, strong, and earnest in man." — Guardian, 

ALTON LOCKE, TAILOR AND POET. By the Rev. 
CHARLES KINGSLEY, M.A.. Crown 8vo. cloth, 4?. 6d, With 
a new Preface. 

JANET'S HOME. A Novel. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 

df. 

". .. Never did a more charming family appear on the canvas; and, mostskilfuDy 
and felicitously have their characters been portrayed. Each individual of the fireside is 
a portrait distinct and lifelike. Janet Scott, the eldest daughter, is the narrator of the 
history, and very simply and very naturally and very delightfully has she fulfilled htf 
task."— 5'««. 

THE MOOR COTTAGE. A TALE OF HOME LIFI^ 

By MAY BEVERLEY, Author of " Little Estella " and other Faiiy 
Tales for the Young. Crown 8vo. price dr. 

" The whole plot of the story is conceived and executed in an admirable manner; * 
>vork which when once taken up it is difficult to put down."— y<7A« Bull. 

ARTIST AND CRAFTSMAN. Crown Svo. cloth, 6x. 

"Its power is unquestionable, its felicity of expression great, its plot fresh, and « 
characters very natural. . . . Wherever read it will be enthusiastically admired a** 
cherished." — morning Herald, 



POPULAR NOVELS. 

Third Edition. 

AUSTIN ELLIOT. 

By HENRY KINGSLEY. 

2 Vols. Crown 8vo. cloth, i/. is, 

'• Mr. Henry Kingsley's novels have so much fulness of life in them, such a strong, 
unding pulse, that there are few books of the kind pleasanter to read." — Spectator. 

RAVENSHOE. 

By HENRY KINGSLEY. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6j. 

** Admirable descriptions, which place * Ravenshoe' almost in the first rank of novels. 
r the story itself it would really be difficult to speak too highly. The author seems to 
ssess every essential for a writer of fiction." — London Review. 

Second Edition. 

RECOLLECTIONS OF GEOFFRY HAMLYN. 

By HENRY KINGSLEY. 

Crown 8vo. cloth, dr. 

*• Mr. Henr^r Kingsley has written a work that keeps up its interest from the first page 
the last — it is full of vigorous stirring life. The descriptions of Australian life in the 
rly colonial days are marked by an unmistakeable touch of reality and^ personal 
perience. A book which the public will be more inclined to read than to criticize, and 



TOM BROWN AT OXFORD. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s, 

** A book that will live. In no other work that we can call to mind are the finer 
alities of the English gentleman more happily portrayed."— Z^at/j^ News. 
»* The extracts we have given can give no adequate expression to the literary vividness 
d noble ethical atmosphere which pervade the whole book." — Spectator. 

Twenty-ninth Thousand. 

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. 

By AN OLD BOY. 
Fcap. 8vo. 5^. 

'* A book which every father might well wish to see in the hands of his son:'— Times. 

Eighth Thousand. 

SCOURING OF THE WHITE HORSE. 

By the Author of " Tom Brown's School Days." 

With numerous Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Imperial i6mo. 

Printed on toned paper, gilt leaves, &$•. dd, 

"The execution is excellent. . . . Like 'Tom Brown's School Days.' the 'White 
-«^' eives the reader a feehng of gratitude and personal esteem to^orVi. Iif .J 
Author could not have a better style, nor a better teWr uar^^c^? ^^x*" *"*?•''•. 
Mr Doyle to adorn his }x>o\l:* -Saturday RevieiS ^' ^^ '^^''^'' ««.^\\«xx«v.v^x 



le 



\ 



THE GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES. 

Uniformly printed in i8mo. with Vignette Titles by T. Woolner, 
W. HoLMAN Hunt, J. Noel Paton, &c. Bound in extra cloth, 4s, 6d. ; 
morocco plain, Js, 6d, ; morocco extra, los, 6d, each Volume. 

1. THE GOLDEN TREASURY of the best Songs and 

Lyrical Poems in the English Language. Selected and arranged, 
with Notes, by Francis Turner Palgrave. 

2. THE FAIRY BOOK: the best Popular Fairy Stories. 

Selected and rendered anew by the Author of "John Halifax.'' 

3. THE JEST BOOK. The choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. 

Selected and arranged by Mark Lemon. 

4. THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND from the best Poets. 

Selected and arranged by Coventry Patmore. 

5. THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS FROM THIS WORLD 

TO THAT WHICH IS TO COME. By John Bunyan. 

%* Large-paper Copies, crown 8vo. cloth, *js. 6d.\ or bound in half 

morocco^ lOr. 6d, 

6. THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hymn 

Writers. Selected and arranged by Roundell Palmer, 

V ROYAL EDITION, dr. Morocco Extra, 12s, 6d, LARGE-TYPE 
EDITION, demy 8vo. handsomely printed and bound, lar. 6d. ; or best 
Levant Morocco by Riviere, 2&r. 

7. BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND 

EVIL. With Notes and Glossarial Index by W. Aldis Wright, 
M.A. Librarian of Trinity College, Cambridge. 

%** Large-paper Copies, crown 8vo. Js. 6d, ; or bound in half morocco, 

los. 6d. 

8. THE BALLAD BOOK. A Collection of the choicest 

British Ballads. Selected and arranged by William Allinghaj*. 
With a Vignette by J. Noel Paton, R.S.A. 

9. BURNS' POEMS. Edited from the Original Edition, 

and from unpublished MSS. with copious Glossarial Index, and a 
Memoir by Alexander Smith. 

[Nearly ready- 

MACMILLA^ and CO. LONDON AND CAMBRIDGE. 



CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

FUBUBHED BT 

ACMILLAN AND CO. 



ACROSS THE CABPATHIAKS. In 1858-60. 

With a Map. Cnnrn Sro. clotfa, 7*. M. 

JESCHTLI Enmeiiides. 

The Greek Text with English Notes, and an Introduction, containing an 
Analysis of Mailer's Dissertations. By BERNARD DRAKE, M.A. late 
Fellow of King's College, Cambridge. 8to. cloth, 7$. 6d. 

AIBY.— Treatise on the Algebraical and Mnmerical Theory of 

Errors of Obserrations, and the Combination of Obserrations. By GL B« 
AI&Y, M.A. Crown Sto. dotb, 6t. fid. 

ALLINGHAli.— Laurence Bloomfield in Ireland. A Modem 

Poem. By WILLIAM ALLINGHAM. Fc^. 8to. doth, 7«. 

ANDEBSON.— Seven Months in Bnssian Poland. 

By the Rct. FORTESCUE ANDERSON, Worcester College, Oxford 
Crown Sro. doth, 6s. 

ANSTED.—The Great Stone Book of Natnre. 

By DAVID THOMAS - ANSTED, M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S. te. Late Fellow 
of Jesna CoDcge, Cambridge ; Honorary Fellow of King's College, Lcndon. 
VcMp, 8TO. doth, 5s. 

ARISTOTLE on the Vital Principle. 

Tranalated* with Notes. By CHARLES COLLIER, M.D. F.R.8. Fellow 
of the Royal College of Pliy^kians. Crown Sro. cloth, ts. M. 

ARTIST AND CRAFTSMAN; A NoveL 

Crown Sro. doth, Cs. 

BACON'S ESSATS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND EVIL. 

With Notea and Gloesarial Index by W. ALDI8 WRIGHT. M.A. Trinitr 
College, Cambridge. With Vignette of Woouxa's Statue of Lomo B acos 
4,. 6d,i moioeco, 7#. 6d.; extcs. Its. M. Laige p^er cor^ doth. 7s M ' 
lialf mofoeeo, 10*. 6d. '• 



iSLEY.—AR Elementary Treatise on Plane Trigonometrv* 

with annaBenmsCoIleetionef Examples. By R.D.BEASLET M_A_l'klw 
«f 8t. John's College, Cambsidge, Hcad^Master of Gnatham Gnm^^f? 
Ciovn Sto. doth, 2s. M. o«nooi. 







'Sf^^' 



w 



2 MACMILLAl^ & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 

BLAKE— The Life of William Blake, the Artist. 

By ALEXANDER GILCHRIST, Author of '* Tbe Lif9 of William Etty." 
Medium 8to. with numeront Illuatnitioikt from Blake'f Design* and Fac- 
umiles of his Studies of the " Boole of Job/' 2 toIs. 32$, 

BLANCHE LISLE, aud Other Foawis. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d, 

BOOLE.— A Treatise on Differential Eqoationf. ' ^ 

By GEORGE BOOLiB, D.C.L. Crown 8to. elotn, 14«. ... - 

BOOLE.— A Treatise on the Galcnlos of Finite Bifferences. 

By GEORGE BOOLE, D.C.L. Crown 8to. doth, H)#. 6d, 

BBIMLE7.— Essays, by the late GEORGE BBIHLBT^ MA. 

Edited by W. G. CLARK, M.A. Tutor of Trinity College, and Public Orator 
in the University of Cambridge. With Portrait. Beeond IMttlon 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5$, 

BBOGE.— Daily Readings on the Passion of Our Lord. 

By Mrs. H. F. BROCK. Fcap. 8to. cloth, red leaves, 4«. 

BROKEN TROTH, The.— A Tale of Tuscan Life. From the 

Italian. By Philip Ireton. 2 vols. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 12«. 

BROOK SMITH.— Arithmetic in Theory and Practice. . 

For Advanced Pupils. Part First. By J. BROOK SMITH, M.A. of BU 

John's College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth, St. 6d. 

BUNTAN.— The Pilgrim's Progress from this World to that 

which Is to Come. By JOHN BUNYAN. With Vignette, by W. Holm av 
Hunt. ISmo. cloth, 4$. 6d. ; morocco plain, 7«. 6d. ; extra, 10«. 64. The same 
on large paper, crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. 6d. ; half-morocco, 10s. 6d. 

BUTLER (Archer).— WORKS by the Rev. WILLIAM 

ARCHER BUTLER, M.A. late Profeasor of Moral PhUoaophy.in the 

University of Dublin : — 

1. Sermons, Doctrinal and Practical. 

Edited, with a Memoir of the Author's Life, by the Very Rev. 
Thomas Woodward, M.A. Dean of Down. With Portrait. Sixth 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 

2. A Second Series of Sermons. 

Edited by J. A. Jeremix, D.D. Regius Professor of Divinity In the 
University of Cambridge. Third Edition. 8to. doth, 10«. 6d, . 

3. History of Ancient Philosophy. 

A Series of Lectures. Edited by William HsFWoaTH Tbompsov, 
M.A. Regius Professor of Greek in the Univenity pt Cambridge. 
2 vols. 8vo. cloth, I/. 5$, 

4. Letters on Romanism, in Reply to Mr, Newman's Sssaj 

on Development. Edited by the Very Rev. T. Woodward, Dean of 
Down. Second Edition^ revised by the Ven. ArohdeaooA Hakd- 

wicK. 8vo. cloth, lOf. 6d. 

BUTLER (Montagu).— Sermons Preached in tho Chapel of 

Harrow School. By the Rev. H. MONTAGU BUTLER, Head Master«f 
Harrow School, and late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Gmwn 8vo. 
cloth, ft, €d. 

BUTLER.- Family Prayers. 

By the Rev. GBX>IIQ% "fiTSTlAlKVi, >K..k. N\n^ll^AB«^^«i af CtieltciJMaB 
Collage { laU VeUow otlLx«JV«tCo\in^tO-kS»t^. ^^^^'i^^'^^^it^^^V^C^Ii. 



MiCMUMN ft O0.*a fUi»LlCATI0K8. | 

BUTLBR,--Sennon8 Preached in Cheltenham College Chapel. 

By tlM a«y. QEOBO£ BUTLEE, M.A. Crown 8tq. olotb, red fdgM, 7$, td, 

CAIRNE8.— The Slave Power; its Character, Career, and 

Probabl* DMigna. Being «n Attonpt to EzpUin the Real Ittuee InroWed 
tA tbe Ameviean Conteet By J. £. CAIBNE8, MA. ProfSneor of Juriipjru- 
denee and Political fcooomy In Queen's College, Oalway. Seeoiid Bditlon. 
8fo, cloth, 10«. 6d. 

CALDEBWOOD.— Philosophy of the Infinite. A Treatise on 

Men's Knowledge of the Infinite Being, in answer to Sir W. Hamilton and 
Dr. ManseL By the Bar. HBNUT CALDEBWOOD, M.A. SfOMiA 
Hettion. 8yp. doth, 14«. 

OAMBRIBGB SENATE-HOUSE PB0BLEM8 and BIDEBS, 
with SOLUTIONS :- 

184a— IMl.— Problems. By M. M. FERRERS, M.A. and /. S. JACK> 

SOV, M.A. or Cains ColUge. li«. 6d, 

lt4t^)Ml.-<.Riders. By F. J. JAMESON, M.A. ot Cains College. 

7«. M. 

1854— Problems and Riders. By W. WALTON, M.A. of Trinity College, and 

C. F. MACKENZIE, M.A. of Caius Col- 
lege. lOt, 6d. 

1817— Problems and Elders. By W. M. CAMPION, M.A.of Oueen's College 

and W.WALTON, M.A. of Trinity College. 
Ss.6d. 

1860— Problems and Riders. Bj H. W. WATSON, M.A. Trinity CoUege, 

and E. J. ROOTB, M.A. St. Petal's 
College. 7#. M. 

OAMBBIDaE. — Camhrldge Scrap Book: containing in a 

Pictorial Form a Report on the Manners, Ctutonis, Humours, and Pastiflsea 
of the Unirersity of Cambridge. With nearly SM Illustrations. Seeend 
Bditien. Crown 4te. haU-bonnd, 7#. 64I. 

CAtfBBJDGE.— Cambridge and Dublin MathematicalJoamaL 

Tk4 CompMe W^rk, in NineVols. Svo. eloth, 7/. it, 
ovLT A vsw conns ow thx eoiirLBTS wonn nsM am on HAirn, 

CAMBBIDOE SENATE-HOUSE EZAHINATION PAPEB9, 

1860-dl. Being a CoUeetion of all the Papers set at the Examination for the 
Degrees, the various Triposes and the Theological Examination, down 8to. 
limp cloth, 2s. 6d, 

OAMBRIDaETEAS-BOOKandinnVEBSITT ALMANACK, 

FOR 1864. Containing an aeeonnt of all Seholarships, Exhibitions, and 
Examinations in the University. Crown 8to. limp cloth, it. 6d. 

CAMPBELL-'Thonghts on Bevelation, with special refer- 
ence to the Preeent Time. By JOHN M'LEOD CAMPBELL, Author of 
" The Nature of the Atonement and its Relation to the Remission of Sins 
•ad Eternal Life." Crown Sve. cloth, i«. 

CAMPBELL.— The Nature of the Atonement and its Bela- 

tion to Renission of Sfas and Eternal LiCe. Bj JOflM M'LBOD 
CAMPBELL, ftnaerlyMialater of Row. 8to. eloth, lile. M. 

CATHEBINES, The Two ; or, Which is the Heroine ? A 

NoreL 2 vols, crown 8to. cloth, lit, 

CHALIiIS.'-Creatton in Plan and in PiQerai&\ ^^k&% ^o^ 

Eeeaqraathaftotflwff offleMiits. Bf i^U«^.vbi»hC:«Lh&2Uia^v ' 
P.R.jr. f:e.A.J!, Ciova Sto. dkh, Ss. W. 

AS 



\ 



i MICMILLAN & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS 

CHETNE.— An Elementary Treatise on the Planetary Theory. 

With a Collection of Problems. By C. H. H. CHEYNE, B. A. Scholar of St. 
John's College, Cambridge. Crown 8to. doth, 6$. 6d. 

CHILDE.— The Singular Properties of the Ellipsoid and 

Associated Surfaces of the Nth Degree. By the Rct. O.P. CHILDE, M.A. 
Aathor of *' Ray Surfaces," " Related Caustics." 8vo. half-bound, 10«. 6J. 

CHILDEEN'S GARLAND. From the Best Poets. Selected 

and Arranged by COVENTRY PATMORE. With a vignette by T. Woomizb, 
18mo. cloth. 4«. 6d. ; morocco plain, 7s. 6d. ; extra, 10«. 6d, 

CHBETIEN.— The Letter and the Spirit Six Sermons on 

the Inspiration of Holy Scripture, Preached before the Uuiversity of Oxford. 
By the Rev. CHARLES P. CHRETIEN, Rector of Cholderton, Fellow and 
late Tutor of Oriel College. Crown 8to. cloth, 5«. 

CICEBO.-THE SECOND PHILIPPIC ORATION. 

With an Introduction and Notes, tranalated fk-om Karl Halm. Edited with 
conrections and additions. By JOHN £. B. MAYOR, M.A. Fellow and 
Classical Lecturer of St. John's College, Cambridge. Fcap. Svo. doth, 5*. 

CLARA VAUGHAN. A Novel. 

S vols, crown Svo. cloth, Sl«. 6d, 

CLARE.— Four Sermons Preached in the Chapel of Trinity 

College, Cambridge. By W. G. CLARK, M.A. Fellow and Tutor of Trinity 
College, and Public Orator in the University of Cambridge. Fcap. Svo. limp 
cloth, red leaves, 2$, 6d, 

CLAT.— The Prison Chaplain, A Memoir of the Rev. John 

CLAY, B.B. late Chaplain of the Preston Gaol. With Selections fh>m his 
Reports and Correspondence, and a Sketch of Prison-Discipline in En^^d. 
By his Son, the Rev. W. L. CLAY, M.A. Svo. cloth, 15«. 

CLAY.— The Power of the Keys. 

Sermons preached in Coventry. By the Rev. W. L. CLAY, M.A, Aathor of 
" The Prison Chaplain." Fcap. Svo. cloth, 8#. 6d. 

Clergyman's Self-Examination Concerning the Apostles' 

Creed. Crown Svo. limp cloth, Is. 6d, 

CLOUGH.— The Poems of Arthur Hugh Clough, sometime 

Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. Reprinted and Selected firom his impub- 
lished Manuscripts. With a Memoir by F. T. PALGRAVE. Second 
Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 6#. 

CLOUGH.— The Bothie of Toper -Na-Puosich. A long 

Vacation Pastoral. By ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH. Royal Sro. cloth 
limp, 3#. 

COOPER.— Athenae Cantabrigienses. 

By CHARLES HENRY COOPER, F.S.A. and THOMPSON COOPER, 
F.S.A. Vol. I. Svo. cloth, 1500—85, 18#. Vol. II. 1586—1609, 18*. 

COLENSO.-WORKS by the Right Rev. J. W. COLENSO, 

D.D. Bishop of Natal :— 

1. The Colony of Natal. A Journal of Ten Weeks' Tour 

of Visitation among the Colonists and Zulu Kafirs of Natal, With a 
Map and Illustrationt. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 5s, 

2. Village Sermons. 

Second Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 2s, 6d. 

3. Four Sermons on Ordination, and on Missions. 

ISmo. sewed, U, 



MACMILLAN k CO.'S PXTBUCATIOlfS. $ 

WORKS by COLEMSO-eoiumiiai. 

4. Companion to the Holy Communion, containing the 

Serrice, and Select Readiagi from the writiogi of Mr. MAURICK 
Fine Bdiliom, rubricated and boond in morocco, antiqiie stjle, %§, 
or in cloth, U. M. CoaiaMS Prnptr, limp cloth, U. 

5. St. Paul's Epistle to the Bomans. Mewly Translated 

and Exphdned, from a Miationaiy point of Yiev. Crovm Ho. docb, 

^. Letter to His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbnrji 

vpon the Qnestion of the Proper Treatment of Caaea of Pdypna j, aa 
found already existing in ConTcrta from H f i lhriiia i, Seeond Kilftiiwi, 
Crown 8to. lewed. Is, fid. 

COTTON.-'Sermons and Addresses delirered in MarOxmnigh 

CoUege dnring Six Tears, by GEORGE EDWARD LTITCH COTTOV, D,D. 
Lord Biahop of Calcutta, and Metropolitaa of India. Crown Siro. clotk, llo. M» 

COTTON.-'A Charge. To the Ctogy of the Diocese and 

ProTince of Calcutta at die Second Dioeesaa and Pint SCetropoiitaa Tiaita* 
tion. By GEORGE EDWARD LT5CH COTTO^T, D.D. Lord Biahot of 
Calcntta, Metropolxtaa of In£a. tvo. is. €d» 

COTTON.— Sermons : chiefly connected with Poblic ETesto 

of 1854. Feap. Sto. cloth , U, 

CBOCEEB.— A New Proposal for a Geographical System of 

Measmcs and Weig&ts cenTenSentlj IzwAzxihUt, nenealif ^ ntaiafmg 
familiar notions bj £un£iar nasies. To which are awMed rtmirlu t» wytlUm^ 
of Coinage. Bj JAMES CROCKER, M.A. Cir/wnit^ U,U. 

CBOSSE.— An Analyns of Pale/s ^lidenceu 

By C. H. CROSSE, U. A. of Cains Cc^Ief e, CttbhiiApt. 14m0, h^tU, U, €^ 

OAYIES.— St Paol and Modem Thooi^: 

Remarks on some of the Tiews advancisd in Pr'xCesMr iowetfs ^iiwimasf 
OB St. FaaL Bj Rer. J. LL, DATJ£S, ICA. lUtU^ of CMoC CkmUk^ 
Marylebone. Sto. sewed, 1*. WL 

DAYIES.— Sermons on the ICanifestati^ii of th^ir ton of GoC 

With a Pre£aee adifzaaed to LsynKB «• ?*.* |»r*«*«4 f^^afV/M ^f Amp CSn^ffy of 



the CHwrefa of Ejtf*asil; a»i aa Afc«S4(;r v* 

the Chnzeh aa to the poMKhijrj << Ym^^m \h tM Ifnt^t^ fim^, 

Rer. J. LL DATIEJ, k-A. Crwra tr, '>yt*. 

DAYIES.—The Work of Christ; or th4 W<r/ld S^eondled ti 



God. SerBMoa Pjea rt cd fcs C!:;.-te//A-ir^x t"* Umy^.^^^, WmH a f- 



«m the AtoBcsc&: C«tr»ttrty. U7 5^^ fc*7 /. IX UX^itM, HJL. ftaf, 
Sto. dbth. St. 

DAYIES.— BaptisBL Cocftmat^^ 4i;ul tU Ij:;r€t 

as interpreted, by tiassr virwart t-^y-* 7j.-f* f^ty^g^jcj *^. __ 
Parochial Cse. -Bj ^ae »*▼- / i- /^>t '';^'*, i< 4. >-*.> ojta, ^. W;. 

DAYS OF OLD: St»i« U^/^ C;4 l^u^sCMi Uk^Uuj 

Drnids, tie Aajpi'S^^ox-JW sai4 «* '^^mu>^^ fc/ ^^^ A.i«Mr 
her Jriends.* R^a^ ;4a<». «/s«» i;;^ .a»«^, U. C<^ 



PEMOSTHEHES DE COI//JIA. 

The Greek TrrX •jes* *^i«U* »^^ A-/ * ^JtlCX Jf 1. 



9- MAOMILLAN h CX).*8 FUBUCATIONB. 

DE TEISSIER.— Village Sermoiii, by 0. F. De Tefaisidr* BJt. 

^ - Rector of Brampton, near Northampton; late Fellow and Tutor ci Cerpna 
Chrlatl College, Cambridge. Crown 8ro. eloth, 9g. 

DtOET.— Six Months in the Federal States. 

By EDWARD DICEY, Aathor of *' CaYOur, a Memoir}" *< Rome in 1860," 
Ice. &c. 2 Vols, crown Svo. cloth, lit, 

DICET— Borne in 1860. 

By EDWARD DICEY. Crown 8ro. eloth, 6«. ed. 

DREW.— A Geometrical Treatise on Conic Seotions, ivith 

Comoua Examples flrom the CamJbridge Senate Houae P^ara. By W. H. 
DREW, M.A. of St. John's College, Cambrldgt> Second Maiter of Black- 
heath Proprietary School. Second fidltloiia Crown 8to. eloth, 4$. 6d. 

DREW.— Solutions to Problems contained in Mr. Drew's 

Treatiae on Conic Sectiona. Crown 8to. cloth, 4«. (kt. 

EABLT EGYPTIAN HISTORY FOB THE YOUMO. With 

Descriptions of the Tombs and Monuments. By the Auihor of ''Sidney 
Orey," etc. New Bditloi&i with Frontiapieee. Feap. 8fo. cloth, 5c. 

FMRT BOOK, THE— The Best Popular Fairy Stories Selected 

and Rendered Anew. By the Author of "John HaUfkx, Gentleman." 
Fcap. 8to. cloth, 4«. 6d, 

*0* This forms oHe of the Golden Treasury Seriea. 

FAWCETT.— Manual of Political Economy. 

By HENRY FAWCETT, M.A. FeUow of Trinity HaU, Camhrldgd. Cf6Wfl 
Svo. cloth, 12«. 

FERRERS.— A Treatise on Trilinear Co-ordinateSi the 

Method of Reciprocal Polars, and the Theocy of Projections. By the B«?t 
N. M. FERRERS, M.A. Fellow of GonvUle and Caius College. Crown Srtf. 
cloth, 6#. ed. 

FORBES.— Life of Edward Forbes, F.R.S. 

Late Regius Professor of Natural History in the Unirwaity of Edinburgh. 
By GEORGE WILSON, M.D. F.R.S.E. and ARCHIBALD GEIKIB, F.G^S. 
of the Geological Survey of Great Britain. 8to. doth, with Portrait, lis. 

FREEMAN. — History of Federal Government, £i*om tb4 

Foundation of the Achaian League to the Disruption of the United Statea. 
By EDWARD A. FREEMAN, M.A. late Fellow of Trinitjr College, Ozfbid. 
Vol. I. General Introduction. —History of the Greek rederaiioaa. 8to. 
cloth, 21«. 

f ROST.— The First Three Sections of Newton's Prindda, 

With Notes and Problems in illustration of the subject. By PSRClvAL 
FROST, M.A. late Fellow of St. John'a Collese, Cambridge, and Mathe- 
matical Lecturer of Jesus College. Second Edition. 8?o. cloth, 10«. Bd, 

FROST & WOLSTENHOLME.— Plane Co-ordinate Geometiyi 

By the Rer. PERCiVAL FROST, M.A. of St. John's College, and the Her. 
J. WOLSTENHOLME, M.A. of Chriat's College, Cambridge. 8to. cloth, ISt. 

GALTON.— Meteorographica, or Methods of Mapping the 

Weather. Illustrated by upwards of 600 Printed Lithographed DUuRtmt: 
By FRANCIS GALTON, F.R.S. 4to. 9#. 

GARIBALDI AT CAPRERA. By COLONEL VECCHJ. 

With Preface by M rs. G ASRELL, and a View of Caprera. Feap« tvo. \§, M 

. GEIKIE.— Story of a Boulder; or, Gleanings by a Field 

^ ; Oeolo^at. By ARCHIE KIA^ (kUVL\l£. Ulua^atSl wit& Woodcuts. 

I • - ' • ^fo^Q gyo^ cloth, 5t. 



MAOHHiLAN ft 00.*S PUBUCATK^ . 7 

aOIiDEN TBEA8UB7 SERIES. 

Unifoxinly printed in 18mo. with Vignette Titles by J. Nobl Patov, T. Wook- 
WMMt W. HoucAV HuvT, J. £. MxLLAig, &c. Bound in extra doth, 
4i.6d.; morocco plain, 7m. fid, ; morocco extra, 10«. 6d. eadi Volome. 

1. The Golden Treasury of the best Songs and Lyrical 

Poems In the Knglish Language. Selected and arranged, witii Notes, 
bjF&ANClS TURNER PALGRAVE. 

2. The Fairy Book : the Best Popular Fairy Stories. 

Selected and Rendered Anew by the Author of " John Halifax." 

3. The Children's Garland from the Best Poets. 

Selected and ammged by COVENTRY PATMORE. 

4. The Pilgrim's Progress from this World to that which 

is to Come. By JOHN BUNTAN. 
*•* Large paper Copies, crown 8to. cloth, 7«. 6d. ; or bound in half 
morocco, 10«. 6d. 

5. The Book of Praise. From the best English Hymn 

Writers. Sdected and arranged by Rouitdkll Palm am. 

6. Bacon's Essays and Golonrs of Good and EviL 

With Notes and Glossarial Index by W. ALDIS WRIGHT, M.A., 
Trinity College, Cambridge. Large paper Copies, crown Sva 7«. 6d.; 
or booad in hidf mwocco, 10«. 6d. 

GOBST.— The Maori Sng; or, the Story of onr Qnarrel 

with the Natires of New Zealand. By J. £. GuRST, 3I.A. late Fellow of 
St. John's College, Cambridge ; and recently Conunitsiooer of the Waikato 
District, New Zealand. With a Portrait of William Thompson, and a Map of 
( the Seat of War in Waikato. Crown 8to. eloth, 10«. 6d. 

GBOVES.—A Commentary on the Book of Genesis. 

For the Use of Students and Readers of the English Version of the Bible. 
By the Rer. U. C. GROVES, M. A. Perpetual Curate of MullaTilly, Arma|^. 
Crown 8to. cloth, 9s. 

HAM£BTON.~A Painter's Camp in the Highlands; and 

ThoughU about Art. By P. O. HAMERTON. 2 toIs. crown 8to. cloth, 
iU. 

HAMILTOM.— The Besonrces of a Nation. A Series of 

Essays. By ROWLAND HAMILTON. 8to. cloth, 10«. M. 

HAMILTON.— On Troth and Error : Thoughts, in Prose and 

Verae, on the Principles of Truth, and the Causes and Effects of Error. 
By J OflN HAMILTON, Esq. (of St. Eman's), M. A. St. John's College, Cmm* 
brtdge. Crown 8to. cloth, S«. 

HA&DWICK.— Christ and other Ifasters. 

A Historical Inquiry into some of the chief Parallelisms and Contxasta 
be t ween Christianity and the Religfous Systems of the Ancient World. WitH 
special refnence to prerailing Difficulties and Otifections. By the Ver. 
ARCHDEACON HARD WICK. MewBditlon.reTiscdwiththe Antliors 
. latest Conections and a Prefatory Memoir by Rer. PmAacis Pnocrxa. Tva 
^ TOls. crown 8to. cloth, ISs. 

HABDWICK.— A History of the Christian Church, during 
the Middle Ages and the Bef6rmation« <AJ). 590-1600.) 

By ARCHDEACON HARDWICK. Two voU. crown 8to. cloth, lU. 

Vol. 1. ItCOBd Baitian. Edited by FRANCIS PROCTER, ]f.A. 
Vicar of Witton, Norfolk. Hbtory from Gregory the Great to tbe Ezcmb- 
uunieation of Luther. With Maps. 
VoL II. History of the Reformation of the Church.. 

Each ToismeaMyba had stpanUiy. ¥tVt«\;u.%4. 
% • ThsM Volumes fatm pmn of tba S«itea «C T ttmiUi^iX 'VLwvui^i^ 



% 



S MACM1LLA.N & CO/S PUBLICATIONS. 

HARDWICK.— Twenty Sermons for Town Congregations. 

Crown 8to. cloth, 6$. Gd, 

BABE.-WOBES by JULIUS CHARLES HABE, M.A. Some* 

time Archdeacon of Lewes, and Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen. 

1. Charges delivered daring the Tears 1840 to 1854. With 

Notes on the Principal Events affecting the Church during that period. 
With an Introduction, explanatory of his position in the Church with 
reference to the parties which divide it. 8 vols. 8yo. cloth, II. 11#. M, 

2. Miscellaneous Pamphlets on some of the Leading Qae8< 

tions agitated in the Church during the Tears 1845—51. 8¥0. doth, lis. 

3. The Victory of Faith. 

Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5#. 

4. The Mission of the Comforter. 

Second Edition. With Notes. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 

; 5. Vindication of Luther from his English Assailants. 

Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7«. 

6. Parish Sermons. 

Second Series. 8 vo. cloth, 12#. 

7. Sermons Preached on Particular Occasions. 

8vo. cloth, 12«. 

8. Portions of the Psalms in English Verse. 

Selected for Public Worship. ISmo. cloth, 2s. 6d» 

•»* The two following Books are included in the Three Volumes of Charges, 

and may still be bad separately. 

The Contest with Rome. 

With Notes, especially in answier to Dr. Newman's Lectures on Present 
Position of Catholics. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10«. 6<f. 

Charges delivered in the Years 1843, 1845, 1846. 

Never before published. With an Introduction, explanatory of his 
position in the Church with reference to the parties which divide it. 
6«. 6d, 

HA7NES.-0utlines of Equity. By FREEMAN OLIVEB 

HAYNES, Barrister-at-Law, late Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge. 
Second Edition. {Preparing, 

HEARN.— Plutology ; or, the Theory of the Efforts to Satis^ 

Human Wants. By W. E. HEARN, LL.D. Professor of History and Political 
Economy in the University of Melbourne. 8vo. cloth, H«. 

HEBERT.— Clerical Subscription, an. Inquiry into tha Real 

Position of the Church and the Clergy in reference to — I. The Articles; 
II. The Liturgy; III. The Canons and Statutes. By the Rev. CHARLES 
HEBERT, M. A. F.R.S.L. Vicar of Lowestoft. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7$. 6d. 

HEMMING.— An Elementary Treatise on the Differential 

and Ifitcgral Calculus. By G.W. HEMMING, M.A. Fellow of St. John's 
College, Cambridge. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth 9«. 

HERVEY.— The Genealogies of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 

Christ, as contained in the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. Luke, reconciled 
■with each other and with the Genealogy -of the House of David, from Adam to 
the close of the Canon of the Old Testament, and shown to be in harmony with 
the true Chronology of tt\«s Tauv^*. 'B's \.qx^ K».TH.Ull IIERVEY, M.A. 
Archdeacon of 8ud\>uty, aii^ ^^cxw ^t \Ol^wi\\v« ^^^, ^^"Cfi^A'^^x^'i^ 



HACMILLAN k CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. » 

HISTORICnS.— Letters on some Questions of International 

Law. Reprinted from the Tiwus, with Considerable Additions* 8to» elothf 
7$, 6d, Also, ADDITIONAL L£TT£RS, 8vo. 2s. ed, 

HODGSON.— Mythology for Latin Versification: a Brief 

Sketch of the Fables of the Ancients, prepared to be rendered into Latin Verse 
for Schools. By F. HODGSON, B.D. late ProTost of Eton. New Edition, 
reyised by F. C. Hodgsov, M. A. Fellow of King's College, Cambridge. 18mo* 
bound in cloth, 3#. 

HOMER.~The Iliad of Homer Translated into English Verse. 

By I. C. WRIGHT, M.A. Translator of ** Dante." Vol. I. containing Books 
I. — XII. Crown 8yo. cloth, 10«. 6d., also sold separately, Books I. — YI. in 
Printed Cover, price 5$. also. Books YII.— XII. price 5s. 

HOBNEB.— The Tuscan Poet Giuseppe Giusti and his Times* 

By SUSAN HORNER. Crown 8to. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

HO WARD.— The Pentateuch ; or, the Five Books of Moses. 

Translated into English from the Version of the LXX. With Notes on its 
Omissiens and Insertions, and also on the Passages in which it differs firom 
the Authorised Version. By the Hon. HENRY HOWARD, D.D. Dean of 
Lichfield. Crown 8to. cloth. Gskxsis, 1 vol. Ss. 6d. ; Exodus avd Lxtx« 
Ticns, 1 TOl. 10«. 6d.', NuM BEKS AKD Deutskokoht, I YOl. 10«. 6d» 

HUIIPHBY.— The Human Skeleton (including the Joints). 

By GEORGE MURRAY HUMPHRY, M.D. F.R.S. Surgeon to 
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Lecturer on Surgery and Anatomy in the Cunbridg* 
University Medical School. With Two Hundred and Sixty Illustrations 
drawn from Nature. Medium 8to. cloth, 1/. Ss. 

HUMPHBY.— The Human Hand and the Human Foot. 

With Numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8to. cloth, is. 6d. 

HTDE.— How to Win our Workers. An Account of the 

Leeds Sewing School. By Mrs. HYDE. Dedicated by permission to the 
Earl of Carlisle. Fcap. 8to. cloth. Is. 6d. 

JAMESON.— Life's Work, in Preparation and in Betrospect. 

Two Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge. By the Rev. 
F. J. JAMESON, M.A. Rector of Coton, Late Fellow and Tutor of St. Catha* 
rine's College, Cambridge. Fcap. 8vo. limp cloth, Is. 6d, 

JAMESON.— Brotherly Counsels to Students. Four Sermons 

preached in the Chapel of St. Catharine's College, Cambridge. Bj F. J, 
JAMESON, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. limp cloth, red edges, U. 6d, 

JANET'S HOME. 

A Novel. Vew Edition. Crown 8vo. 

JUVENAL.— Juvenal, for Schools. 

With English Notes. By J. E. B. MAYOK, M.A. Fellow and Claaslcal 
Lecturer of St. John's CoUege, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth, 1 0«. 6d» 

EINGSLE7.-W0BKS by the Bev. CHABLES KINGSLET, 

M.A. Rector of Eversley, Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen 'and the Prince 
of Wales, and Professor of Modem History in the University of Cambridge :-• 

1. The Boman and the Teuton. A Series of Lectures 

delivered before the University of Cambridge. 8vo. cloth, 12«« 

2. Two Tears Ago. 

Third Bdition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 6s, 

3. " Westward Ho !" 

Tanrtb Edition. Crown 8vo. cloVh, U, 

A3 



i 



,10 .MICBULLILK k CX).'S FUBLICATI0K6. 

WORKS by IKmOrBLEY-amUnued. 

4. Alton Looke, Tailor and Poet. New Edition^ with a 

New Preface. Crown 8to. olotb, Ai. Bd, 

6. Hypatia; or, New Foot with an Old Face. 

Fonrth Bditlon. Crown 8to. cloth, 6«. 

6. Teast. 

Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8to. cloth, 5«. . 

7. Miacellanies. 

Second Sdition. S Toh. crown Bro. doth, 1S«. 

8. The Saint's Tragedy. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8yo. doth, 5«. 

0. Andromeda, and Other Poems. 

Third Edition. Fc»p. 8to. 6$, 

. 10. The Water Babies, a Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. 

With Two Illustrations hy J. Nobl Patom, R.S.A. Mew 
Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 6«. 

11. Glancus ; or, the Wonders of the Shore. 

New and lUustrated Edition, containing beantlftOly Coloured 
Illustrations of the Ohjects mentioned in the Work. Elegantly hound 
in eloth, with gilt leaves, 5*, 

12. The Heroes ; or, Greek Fairy Tales for my Children. 

With Eight Illustrations, Engrared hy Whtm pbh. New Edition, 
printed on toned paper, and elegantly bound in cloth, with gilt leaves. 
Imp. 16mo. 3s. 6d. 

1£L Village Sermons. 

Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8to. cloth U. M. 

14. The Gospel of the Pentateuch. 

^ • Second Edition. Fcap. 8ro. cloth, is. Bd. 

15. Good News of God. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6«. 

16.. Sermons for The Times. 

Third Edition. Fcap. cloth, St. M, 

• 17. Town and Country Sermons. 

•Fcap. 8to. cloth, 6«. 

18. Nationd.1 Sermons. 

First Series. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. eloth, t. 

19. National Sermons. 

Second Series. Second Edition. Fcap. 8to. 6#. 

'" do. Alexandria and Her Schools: being Four Lectures 

delivered at the Philosophical Institution, Edinburgh. With a Prafac*. 
Crown 8vo. cloth. 5«. 

21. The Limits of Exact Science as Applied to Hiatoiy. 

An Inaugural Lecture delivered before the University of Cambridge. 
Crown 8V0. boards, 2«. 

22. Phaethon; or Loose Thoughts for Loose Thinkers. 

Third Edition. Crown 8 vo. boards, 8#* 

EINGSLET.— Austin EUiot. 

By HENRY KIIIGSL^Y , X\x\\vot o\ ''^v(«u%VtAV' tto. Third BdlllOB. 

2 vols, crown 8vo. c\ot.\t, 2\t. 



MAG1I1U.AN k CO.'S FUBUCATIDNS. 11 



DN 6SLBT.— The BecolltctloiiB of Oeoifry Hamlyn. 

By HENRT K1NG8LET. ■•coad Bdltttm. Crown tro. elotli, U. 

KINCrSLET.^Baveiishoe. 

By HENRT KINOflLET, Antlior of '< Geoflry Hamlyn." 

■tttkm. s ToU. ns. m. 

KDIGTON.— mstorj of Frederick the Second, Emperor of 

the RoDMOt. By T. L KIKGTON. M. A. of BaDiol College, Oxford, and fhe 
Inner Temple. S rris. demy tvo. cloth, 32*. 

KIBGHHOFF.— Researches on the Solar Spectrom and the 

. Spoetra of the Chemieo] Elements. By G. KIRCHHOFF. PrafesMr of Physieo 
« in fhe Vni^enttj of Hefidelberf . Translated by HENRT E. R08C0E, B.A. 

ProfeflMir of Chemistry in Owen's Collie, Mandiester. 4to. hoaids, ftc. Also 
- the Second Fart. 4to. 5s. with 2 Platesw 

XANCASTEB.— PrsBterita : Poems. 

By WILLIAM LAKCASTER. Royal feap. 8to. it, U. 

LATHAM.— The Constroction of Wronght-Iron Bridges, 

embraMnf die Piactieal Application of the Princiiries of Mechanics to 

Wiongfat-Iraa Girder Work. By J. H. LATHAM, Esq. Ciril Engineer, trou 

' - eloCh. With nnmenms detail Plates. Second Edition. [Prtparinf. 

liECTUBES TO LADIES ON PBAGTICAL SUBJECTS. 

niSrd Bdition^ rerised. Crown 8to. doth, 7r. M. By Rererends ¥. D 
MAURICE, PROFESSOR E1NG8LEY, J. Ll DA VIES, ARCHDEACON 
ALLEN, DEAN TRENCH, PROFESSOR BREWER, DR. GEORGE. 
JOHNSON, DR. SIEVEKING, DR. CHAMBERS, F. i. STEPHEN, Eao. 
and TOM TAYLOR, Esq. 

LUDLOW and HUGHES.— A Sketch of the History of the 

United States from Independence to Secession. By J. M. LUDLOW, Anthw 
of ** British India, iu Kaees and its History,** " The PoUcy of the down 
towards India," Blc 

To which is added, Tho Stmnle for Kanams. By THOMAS 
HUGHES, Anthor of *« Tom Brown^ School Days," ** Tom Brown at 
( Oxford," Arc. ■ Crown 9to. cloth, 8«. M. 

LUDLOW.— British India; its Baces, and its Historr 

down to 1857. By JOHN MALCOLM LUDLOW, Barrister-at-Law. 2 vols, 
fcap. 8to. cloth, 9s. 

LUSHIKaTON.— The Italian War 1848-9, and the Last 

Italian Poet. By the late HENRT LUSHINGTON. With a Biogiaiihical 
Preface by G. S. Vsvables. Crown 8to. cloth, 6f. M. 

LTTTELTON.— The Conras of Milton rendered into Greek 

Verse. By LORD LYTTELTON. Royal fcap. 8yo. 5#. 

MACKENZIE.— The Christian Clergy of the first Ten Cen- 
turies, and their Infloeoee on European Cirilization. By HEHRT 
MACKENZIE, B.A. Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. Crown Sro. 
cloth, 6s. M. 

MACLABEN.-^Sermons Preached at Manchester. 

By the Rev. ALEXANDER MAGLAREN. Crown 8to. cloth, 7s. 6if. 

MACLEAB.— A History of Christian Missions dnrinir the 

i Middle Ages. By G. F. MACLEAR, M.A. Formerly Scholar ofTrinitT 

College, and Classieal Master at King's CoUege School. London. Crown 8vo 
•loth, It*. M. 

MAGMILLAN.— Footnotes from the Page of Mature. A 

Popular Work on Algs, Fund, Mooset, and lichens. Br the Rev RUGS. 
MlCMILLAN, F.R.S.E. With mmmwia IVL^ia^ssetawI mLTlT \S«»^ 
Frontispiece. FcMp. 8to. cloth, Ss. 



12 UACMILLIN & CO;S PUBLICATIONS. 

MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE. PubUshed MonUily. Price 

One Shilling. Volumes I. to IX. are now ready, handtomelj bound in clothi 
7«. 6d. each. 

MABTIN.— The Statesman's Year Book. A Statistical, 

Genealogical, and Historical Account of the States and Soyer^gna ci the 
Civilized World for the year 1864. Crown 8to. cloth, lOs, 6d, 

McCOSH.— The Method of the Divine Government, Phjrsical 

and Moral. By JAMES McCOSH, LL.D. Professor of Lode and Meta- 
physics in the Queen's University for Ireland. Eifrhtli fiditton. Svob 
cloth, 10«. 6d. 

McOOSH.— The Sapematnral in Relation to the NatoraL 

By the Rev. JAMES McCOSH, LL.D. Crown Svo. doth, 7«. 6tf. 

UcCOT.— Contributions to British Palaeontology; or, First Be* 

seriptions of several hundred Fossil Radiata, Articulata, Mollasea,and Pisces, 
from the Tertiary, Cretaceous, Oolitic, and Palaeozoic Strata of Great Britain. 
With numerous Woodcuts. By Frederick McCot, F.O.S. FrofeMOf CiT 
Natural History in the University of Melbourne. Svo. cloth, 9«* 

MANSFIELD.— Paraguay, Brazil, and the Plate. 

With a Map, and numerous Woodcuts. By CHARLES MANSFIELD, K.A. 
of Clare College, Cambridge. With a Sketch of his Life. By the Bev. 
CHARLES KINGSLEY. Crown Svo. cloth, 12«. 6d. 

MABBINER.— Sermons Preached at Lyme Regis. By 

E.T. MA RRINER, Curate. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 4#. 6rf. * 

MARSTON— A Lady in Her Own Right. 

By WESTLAND MARSTON. Crown Svo. cloth, 6$. 

MASSON.— 'Essays, Biographical and Critical; chiefly on the 

English Poets. By DAVID MASSON, M.A. Professor of EngUsh 
Literature in University College, London. Svo. cloth, I2t. 6d. 

MASSON.— British Novelists and their Styles ; being a 

Critical Sketch of the History of British Prose Fiction. By DAVID MASSON, 
M.A. Ciown Svo. cloth, 7«. 6d. 

MASSON.—Life of John Milton, narrated in Connexion 

with the Political, Ecclesiastical, and Literary History of hia Time. Vol. I. 
with Portraits. 18«. 

MAURICE.-WORKS by the Rev. FREDERICK DENISON 

MAURICE, M.A. Incumbent of St. Peter's, St. Marylebone:— 

1. The Claims of the Bible and of Science; a Coire* 

spondence between a LAYMAN and the Rev. F. D. MAURICE, on 
some questions arising out of the Controversy respecting the Pentateuch, 
Crown Svo. cloth, i$. 6d. 

2. Dialogues between a Clergyman and Layman on 

Family Worship. Crown Svo. cloth, 6#. 

3. Expository Discourses on the Holy Scriptures: 

I.— The Patriarchs and Lawgivers of the Old Testa- 
ment. Second Edition. Crown Svo. cloth, 6s, 
This volume contains Discourses on the Pentateuch, Joshua, 
Judges, and the beginning of the First Book of Samuel. 

II.— The Prophets and Kings of the Old Testament. 

Second Edition. Crown Svo. cloth, 10«. 6d. 
This volume contains Discourses on Samuel Land II., Kings I, 
and 11.) Amos, Joel, Hosea, Isaiabi Micah^ Nahumi Habak* 



XACMILLAN & C0.*3 PUBLICATIONS. 18 

WORKS by the Bev. P. D. MAURICE— conftntced 

III.— The Gospel of St. John ; a Series of Discourses, 

Second Bdition. Crown Br: cloth, lOt, 6d» 

IV.— The Epistles of St. John ; a Series of Lectures 

on Christian Ethics. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. 6d. 

4. Ezpositonr Sermons on the Prayer-Book: 

I.— The Ordinary Services. 

Second Bdition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Si,$d, 

II.— The Church a Family. Twelve Sermons on the 

Occasional Services. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4», 6d, 

5. Lectures on the Apocalypse, or, Book of the Revela- 

tion of St. John the Divine. Crown 8vo. cloth, I0«. 6d, 

6. What is Revelation P A Series of Sermons on the Epi« 

phany ; to which are added Letters to a Theological Student on the 
Bampton Lectures of Mr. Mansel. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10«. 6d, 

7. Sequel to the Inquiry, "What is Revelation?" 

Letters in Reply to Mr. Mansel's Examination of *' Strictures on the 
Bampton Lectures." Crown 8to. cloth, 6*. 

8. Lectures on Ecclesiastical History. 

8to. cloth, 10«. 6(2. 

9. Theological Essays. 

Second Edition^ with a new Preface and other additions. Crown 
8vo. cloth, 10t,6d. 

10. The Doctrine of Sacrifice deduced from the Scriptures. 

With a Dedicatory Letter to the Young Men's Christian Association. 
Crown 870. cloth, 7«. 6d, 

11. The Religions of the World, and their Relations to 

Christianity. Fonrth Edition. Fcap. 8to. cloth, 5«. 

12. On the Lord's Prayer. 

Fonrih Edition. Fcap. 8to. cloth, 2«. Gd, 

13. On the Sabhath Day: the Character of the Warrior; 

and on the Interpretation of History. Fcap. 8to. cloth, 2s. 6tf. 

14. Learning and Working.— Six Lectures on the Founda- 

tion of Colleges for Working Men, delivered in Willis's Rooms, 
London, in June and July, 1854. Crown 8to. cloth, 5«. 

15. The Indian Crisis. Five Sermons. 

Crown 8to. cloth, 2«. 6d, 

16. Lav7's Remarks on the Fable of the Bees. 

Edited, with an Introduction of Eighty Pages, by FREDERICK 
DENISON MAURICE, M.A. Fcp. 8vo. cloth, 4«. 6d. 

UATOR.— Cambridge in the Seventeenth Century: Auto- 
biography of Matthew Robinson. By JOHN E. B. MAYOR, M.A. Fellow 
and Classical Lecturer of St. John's College, Cambridge. 

,•»• The Autobiography of Matthew Robinson may be had separately, price 5s, 64. 

MATOR.— Early Statutes of St John's College, Cambridge. 

Now first edited with Notes. Royal 8yo. 18*. ® 

*,• The First Part is now ready for delivery. 

HELIBCEnS IN LONDON. 

By JAMES PAYN, M.A. Trinity CoWege, Cvai\s€v^^«. 'C^v^.Vi^.^'siC^Av 



^ 



U MAOmiiLAN k 00.*S PUBLIOATIOXtt; 

MERIVALB.-Balln8t for Bohoolfl. 

. ■ By C. MERIVALE, B.D. Author of ''History of Rome." Second Edition. 
Fcap. 8to. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
*»* The Jugurtha and the Catillna may be had separately, price 2s. 6d. each, 

bound in cloth. 

ft£&IV ALE.— Keats' Hyperion rendered into Latin Verse 

By C. MERIVALE, B.D. Second Bdltlon. Royal fcap. 8to. St.ltf. 

MILLER.— Virgil's iEneid translated into English. 

By JOHN MILLER. Crown 8to. cloth, 10«. 6d, 

MOOB COTTAGE.— A Tale of Home Life. 

By the Author of "Little Estella." Crown 8to. cloth, 6«. 

MOOBHOUSE. — Some Modem Difficulties respecting ihe 

iPacts of Nature and Revelation. Considered in Four Sermcms preached 
before the University of Cambridge, in Lent, 1861. By JAMES MOOR- 
HOUSE, M.A. of St. John's College, Cambridge, Curate of Homsey. *Fcap. 
8vo. cloth, 2#. 6d. 

MORGAN.— A Collection of Mathematical Problems and 

Examples. Arranged in the Different Subjects progressively, with Anaweri 
to all the Questions. By H. A. MORGAN, M.A. Fellow of Jesus Col- 
lege. Crown Svo. cloth, 6«. 6d. 

MORSE.— Working for God, and other Practical SermdAs. 

By FRANCIS MORSE, M.A. Incumbent of St. John's, Ladyhood, Bir- 
mingham. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 5$. 

MORTLOCE.— Christianity agreeable to Reason. To which 

is added Baptism from the Bible. By the Rev. EDMUND MORTLOCK, B.D. 
Rector of Moulton, Newmarket Second Bdition. Fcap. 8vo. oloth, 
8«. 6d. 

NOEL.— Behind the Veil, and Other Poems. By the Hon. 

ROD EN NOEL. Fcap. Svo . cloth, 7#. 

NORTHERN CIRCUIT. Brief Notes of Travel in Sweden, 

Finland, and Russia. With ft Frontispiece. Crown Svo. cloth, 5i. 

NORTON.— The Lady of La Garaye. By the Hon. Mrs. 

NORTON, with Vignette and Frontispiece, engraved firom the Author's 
Designs. New and cheaper Edition, gilt cloth. 4«. 6d. 

O'BRIEN.— An Attempt to Explain and Establish the Doc- 
trine of Justification by Faith only, in Ten Sermons on the Nature and 
Effects of Faith, preached in the Chapel of Trinity College, Dublin. By 
JAMES THOMAS O'BRIEN, D.D. Bishop of Ossory. Third Edition. 

Svo. clotti, 12«. 

O'BRIEN.— Charge delivered to the Clergy of the United 

Dioceses of Ossory, Ferns, and Leighlin« at the Visitation in 1868. Second 
Edition. Svo. 2«. 6d. 

ORWELL.— The Bishop's Walk and the Bishop's Times. 

Poems on the Days of Archbishop Lelghton and the Scottish Covenant. By 
ORWELL. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 5$, 

PALGRAVE.— History of Normandy and England. 

By SIR FRANCIS PALGRAVE. Vol. I. Svo. cloth, 1/. l#. Vol. II. SrOf 
cloth, II. l«. 

• *it* These Vdumes can still be had separately. y 

PALGRAVE.— History of Normandy and England. 

By SIR FRAlNCIS PALGRAVE. Completing the History to the Death af 
William RufUs. Editeei ^)y Y. T. ^ M.o'a.K-vib^ M.A. late Fellow of Sxeter 
College, Oxford. NeatVy te«flcY,%^<i.No\%%\\\.wA\H» 



lUCMILLUr ft OO.'S FUHElOATIOllt. U 

PALMER.— The Book at Fniia : from the best Engligh 

Hynui Writeim. Bt^tttU wad arraaced bj ROUKDELL PALMER. With 
by Wooursa. Itaw. axtn claCJi, 4«. W. ; BMXoeco, 7«, M.; extra. 



10«. &f. 

Alao a &MrM TfM gJiHOM I>nB7 tvo. doUi* It*. M. 
Moyal BdHfcWi. Cms 9f. dock, C». ; mavoeeo, lt», M. 

PARKINSON.— A Trettiee on Elementary Mechanics. 

For the Uw of tke Jvtfv Claaaaa at the UaiTonity, aad tke Hifber Claases ia 
Schoola. Witk a CaUoetlaB mi RxaMplas. BjS. PARKIKftOK , B.D. Pellov 
and AattstaatTotorof tt.Jeka** Collcfe, Cambridfe, Third Sdlttom. 
Crowii 8to. elatk. 9#. €d. 

PARKINSON.— A Treatise on Optics. 

CrowB »T0. dotb, 19*. M. 

PATER80N— Treatise on the Fishery Lmtb of the United 

Ktnyiiwn, iaeiadiBf fhe Ummi Ai^liaf. Sy JAMES PATERSOV, M.A. 
oTtlieMiiileTtaple.Barriater'at'LOTr. Crws Ho. elotk. l«w. 



PATMORE.— The Angel in the Hoose. 

Book I. Tho BetraCkal^Boek II. TU E«poBM]i^^B«ftk IIL PMCkM 
TaaMstoa Chvrk Tever. 



Bj COYXirrRT PATMORE. 2 veia. fe^. (re. ek<]>, 12#. 

PATMORE.— The Yictories of Lore. 

Bj COYESTRT PATMORE. Pcap. Iro. i$. U. 

PAULL— Pictores of En^and. By Dr. BEINHOLD PAULL 

Tiaaalaled bf E. C. OTTIL Ciovb (v«, t'MA, U. %4, 

PHEAK— Klememtary Hydrostatics. 

By 1. B. PHEAR, M.A. FeJov «^ Clar* Cv-ktpt. CmthtUfM. Thtod 
BittiaM. A rr i— f a aif i kf BsaBcrvu Exaac>>ft, vitk ti*« Se)vtM«o. 
Crovm fro. cSotk. U, M. 

PHIUilMORE.— Fniate Law among the Romans. From 

PHILLIl 



PHILLIPa.— Life OB the Earth: Its Origin and Soecession* 
By jonv rmhisn, ma. u.d. f.rji, P/vSm»-^ « eM««fr to «• 

UaJrcErisy of Oxford. Wati I "nwntjwr J. C/wx ^« t>Mu, t«. W. 

PHILOLOGY.— The Jonnal of Saonsd and Oasaieal PhOolon, 

Fo«r Tola, kra, cuoci., ]2c <•«. cmSl. 





PLATO.— The RepiMic of Plato. 

iaao Wm^kA. wttb %¥m. Bjr Tv» FtOWvt ♦? T _ 
M. Li- Oairjm M-A- ao« ». J, rM<k«i« M.A ,. 

PLATONIC mALOOUES, THE.— For English fffidtn 

B7 W. WHEWttL Ji;I> P R-t Maas-ef *f T i^^ C 

FcaaL frr«.. tGro^ Tr W Tu> Jl. fwu^auauu' TiM J^^L^ 
ij^mn^ r rr Tul. UL ^woiaauic Tte B«p«bme F 

POTTER.— A Toitt from the Onreh in AHlzaSt : 
ntSTERITA: tmmly WILUAK taiSCfcSta^ 





i 



16 MACMILLA.N & CX).*S PUBLICATIONS. 

PRATT.— Treatise on Attractions, La Place's Functions, 

and the Figure of the Earth. By J. H. PRATT, M.A. Archdeacon of 
Calcutta, and Fellow of Gonville and Caiui College, Cambridge. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 6«. 6d, 

PBOGTER.— A History of the Book of Common Prayer : with 

a Rationale of its Offices. By FRANCIS PROCTER, M.A. Vicar of Witton. 
Norfolk, and late Fellow of St. Catharine's College. FifUi Bditlon, 
revised and enlarged. Crown 8to. cloth, 10«. Od. 

PROCTER.— An Elementary History of the Book of Common 

Prayer. By FRANCIS PROCTER, M.A. 18mo. bound in cloth, 2«. 6d. 

PROPERTY AND INGOME.-Gnide to the Unprotected in 

matters relating to Property and Income. Second Editim, Cxown 8to 

cloth 3«. 6d, 

PUCKLE.— An Elementary Treatise on Conic Sections and 

Algebraic Geometry. With a numerous collection of Easy Examples pro- 
gressively arranged, especially designed for the use of Schools and Beginners. 
By 6. HALE PUCKLE, M.A. Principal of Windermere College, Second 
Edition^ enlarged and improved. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7». 6d, 

BAMSA7.— The Catechiser's Manual; or, the ChnrchCate* 

chism illustrated and explained, for the use of Cleigymen, Schoolmastent 
and Teachers. By ARTHUR RAMSAY, M.A. of Trinity College, 
Cambridge. Second Edition. 18mo. 1«. 6d. 

RAWLINSON.— Elementary Statics. 

By G. RAWLINSON, M.A. late Professor of the Applied Sciences la 
Elphinstone College, Bombay. Edited by EDWARD STURGES, H.A. 
Rector of Kencott, Oxon. Crown 8vo. cloth, is. 6d. 

RAYS OF SUNLIGHT FOR DARE DATS. A Book of 

Selections for the Suffering. With a Preface by C. J. VAUGHAN, D.D. 
Vicar of Doncaster and Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen. 18mo. elegantly 
printed with red lines, and bound in cloth with red leaves. Zfe^ir Edition. 
3t.6d. morocco. Old Style, 9s, 

BOBY.— An Elementary Latin Grammar. By H. J. ROBY, M.A. 

Under Master of Dulwich College Upper School ; late Fellow and Classical 
Lecturer of St. John's College, Cambridge. ISmo. bound in cloth, 2s, 6d, 

tlOBY.— Story of a Household, and Other Poems. By 

MARY K. ROBY. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s, 

ROMANIS.— Sermons Preached at St. Mary's, Reading. 

By WILLIAM ROMANIS, M.A. Curate. Fcap. 8yo. cloth, 6s. 

ROMANIS.—Sermons Preached in St. Mary's, Reading. 

Second Series. With a Speech-day Sermon preached at Christ Church, 
London, before the Governors, Masters, and Scholars of Christ's HospitaL 
By WILLIAM ROMANIS, M.A. Vicar of Wigston Magna, Leicestershire, 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s, 

ROSSETTL— Goblin Market, and other Poems. 

By CHRISTINA ROSSETTI. With Two Designs by D. G. Rosssnx. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

ROUTH.— Treatise on Dynamics of Rigid Bodies. 

With Numerous Examples. By E. J. ROUTH, M.A. Fellow and Asiistant 
Tutor of St. Peter's College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6d. 

ROWSELL.-THE ENGLISH UNIVERSITIES AND THE 

ENGLISH POOR. Sermons Preached before the University of Cambridge^ 
By T. J. ROWSE.LL,lll.k. "Rfttlot i>t %\..U«c%arct'8, Lothbury, late Jncom- 
bent of St. Petet'a, Sle^jivcy. "Ecvp. ^-^o. tiViX\i'toK^^T^^\few%%,«U, 



HACIilLLAX k CO/S FUBLICATIOKS. 17 

BOWSELL.— Man's Labour and God's Harvest 

SeanoBS ^eaehed befim the Uaircnity of Caaalnidge ia Lent, IWI. Peay* 
Sto. Ump dotii, red lesvet, S«. 

Bu jrriNL— T incen zo ; or, Sunken Bocks. 

By JOHN RUFFIKI, Author of " I/nenxo Beooid,'' fte. J Tole. ctomm. 
8t«. doth, Sl«. 6A 

BUTE AND HEB FBIEKDS. A Story for Giils. 

Widi a FioBtispiecc. Fowth ISdttlan. Royal ItaM. ezta cloth, gilt 
lemveo, Sc M. 

SC0UBIN6 OF THE WHITE HOBSE; or, The Long 

Yaeatioii Ramhle of a Loadea Oak. By the Anthor of ■* Tom Bveva'a 
School Doya." DlQstzated hy Doixs. F't^'t*' ThiriillBJ Ispu Mna. 
cloth, dc^at, V. M. 

8EEMAHN.— Titi: an Aeconnt of a GoYemment Mission to 

the Yitiaa or F|^aa Groap of Iilaads. By BERTHOLD SEEMAn. 
Ph.D. FXjB. With M^ and Ufautzatiou. Deaay 8to. doth, 14«. 

8ELWTN.— The Work of Christ in the Woiid. 

SemoBS picad ied hei;Ke the Uaircnity of Cambridge. By the Right Rer. 
GEORGE AUGUSTUS SELWTS, D.D. Bishop of Srv Zealaad, fiawirij 
Fdloar of St. J^a's College. TUrd Bditkw. Civra Sto. U. 

8ELWTN.— A Verbal Analysis of the Holj Bible. 

Inteaded to iJMTlifate the tn— lifina of the Holy Scriptares iato Forciga 
Laagaigas. CoapOed f or the ase of the MeUaeiiaB Miasioa. SaaB fabob 
doth,li«. 

8HAKESFEABE.— The Works of WUhsLBt Shakespeare. 

E^tad hy WIIXIAM GEORGE CLARK, M.A. aad JOHX GLOTER, JfJI. 
Yola.l,3,3,*4,8TO. c:oth,lttLMLeacta. To hs completed ia Eight TotEaoea. 

SHAIBP,— yjhnahoe : A Highland Pastoral and other Poems^ 

By J. CAMFBELL SHAIRP Tcap. tro. cloth ^. 

SIMEON.— Stiaj Notes on flihing and on Hatoral Histoiy. 

By CORKWALL SIMEOS. Ciava tro. doth, 7«. €4, 

SIMPSON.— An Epitome of the History of the Chrislaan 

ChuehdaziBgttetrstThxaeCeatsnesasd dBriartheReft 
RzaadBatioaP^cn. By WILLIAM SUCFSOB, JJLA. 
Fc^. St«. deth, Sc. €d. 

SMITH.— A Life Dmna, and other Poems. 

Bf ALEZASDER SMITH. Fea^ tro. ckAh, U. W. 

SMITH.— City Poems. 

Br ALEXASTDER SMITH, Asth«T of "A Life Zhzx^" a&£ other : 
Fc^. tra. doChu S«. 

SMITH.— Edwin of Deira. MeeomA EdBtson. By at.^taw, 

DEB SMITH, Asthor of ^GSTFocau." Fc^. »tc. c5c&, la. 

SMITH.— Aiithnietie and Algebra, in their Prindyks axd 

Appiif itina: vith acmemu tyftcacat^aJ^j crra.fei Exaarjm 
theCaat!bhd9tZ%mmaaejmmr990tn, By BAKVAlLZf SMITH, 

of St. Peter's C«dk«e, CaaOsidge. STiartk 

clath, 1««.M. 

SMITH.— Aiithaetie tar ih/t rue of Schools. 

Cvrva l^ou e»otJL, 4<. W. 





SMITH.— A Key to the Aiithaetie foe StCbsrikL. 



19 MACHILLAN k CO.'S PUBLIOATiONS. 

SISITH.— EzerciBes in Arlthmetio. 

:By. BARNARD SMITH. With Annren. Crowu 8yo. limp elothi is.6d. 
Or sold separately, as follows:— Fart I. U^ Part II. U* Answers, 6d. 

SNOWBALL.— The EleibentB of Plane and Spheric&I 

Trigonometiy. By J. C. SNOWBALL, M.A. Fellow of St. Jobii's College, 
Cambridge. Ninth Edition. Crown 8to. cloth, 7«. 64. 

STEPHEN.— General View of The Criminal Law of Bnglaai: 

By J. FITZJAMES STEPHBN, Barrlst«r«t-law, Reeordcr 6f Ntwark-on- 
Trent. 8to. cloth, 18«. 

9TOBT.^Memoir of the Rev. Bobert Story, late Minister 

of Roseneath, inclading Passages of Scottish Religious and EoelMiasticsI 
History during the Second Quarter of the Pxtsent Century. ByR.H.8TPRT 
Crown 8vo. cloth, 7i. 6d. 

SWAINSON.—A Handbook to Butler's Analogy. . . 

By C. A. SWAINSON, M.A. Principal of the Theological CoUtge, andf 
Preb.endary of Chichester. Crown 8to. sewed, 1«. 6rf. 

SWAINSON.— The Greeds of the Ghnrch in their Relations, 

to-HolyScripture and the Conscience of the Christian. 8to. cloth, 9«. 

SWAIN80N.-THE AUTHORITY OF THE NEW TESTA- 

MENT; The Conyiction of Righteousness, and other Lectures, delivered 
before the University of Cambridge. 8yo. cloth, 12«. 

TAGITnS.~The History of Tacitus translated into English! 

' By A. J. CHURCH, M.A. of Lincoln College, Oxford; and W. J. BROD* 

RIBB, M.A. late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. With a Map and 
Notes.' 8to. cloth, 10«. 6d. 

TAIT and STEELE.—A Treatise on Dynamics, with nume- 
rous Examples. By P. G. TAIT, Fellow ef St. Peter's College, Cambridge, 
and Professor of Mathematics in Queen's College, Belfast, and W. J. STEELE, 
late Fellow of St. Peter's College. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10«. 6d. 

TAYLOR.— Words and Places ; or, Etymological IllustrationB 

of History, Ethnology, and Geography. By the Rev. ISAAC TAYLOB. 
With a Map. Crown 8vo. cloth, 12*. 6d. 

TAYLOR.— The Restoration of Belief. 

New and Revised Edition. By ISAAC TAYLOR, Esq. Crovm Bvo. eloth, S«. 6tf- 

TAYLOR.— Geometrical Gonics, including Anharmonic Ratio 

and Projection. With numerous Examples. By C. TAYLOR, fi.A. Scholsi. 
of St. John's College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. 6d. 

THEOLOGICAL Manuals. 

I.— History of the Church during the Middle Ages. 

By ARCHDEACON HARDWICK. Second Edition. With Four 
Maps. Crown 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6d. 

II.— History of the Church during the Reformation. 

By ARCHDEACON HARDWICK. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6d, - 

III.— The Book of Common Prayer: Its History and' 

Rationale. By FRANCIS PROCTER, M.A. Fifth fidition. 
Crown Bvo. cloth, 10*. 6tf. 

IV.— History of the Canon of the New Testament. 

By B, F. WESTCOTT, M.A. Crown 8vo. cloth, 12*. 

V.—Introduction to the Study of the Gospels. 

By B. F. Vf^aiCOTT , "tt-.K. ^wwxv^^q . tVoth, V)». M. 
♦^« O tHets axe Vn ptO(Te%% > a>Tv^ -ttViXXift wl\w>ww»^\si ^^a* tnsoM. » 




MACIIILLA]! ft 00.'S FUBUGAXIONa. 1% 

TEMFLE.Smmaim preached in the Chapel of Bn^fixj 

Im lasi. 1U9, ami 18Ct. Bj F. TEMPLB, D.D. Cha|a«te te 
to ker Maitatr, Head Master af Kugby School. ChapUia to Karl 
Sto. clock, IttL W. 

fHSDia.— A Constanmig Book. 

Compiled bjr the Rcr. EDWARD THRINO, It.A. Boad Matter of Vp« 
ytaghMi Biwmar l ei i ealt lata Fellow of Kiaff *a College, CambrMfe. Fca|k 
Sto. doth, i«.M. 

THBIN6.— A Lttin GiaduaL 

▲ FintLatiBCoiutniiiig Book Iter Boi^Biiers. By EDWARD THR1KQ«M,.V 
Fcap. 8ro. 1m. Cd. 

THBING.'-The Elemente of Grammar taught in Englieh. 

TIdrd Bditlom. ISmo. bound In cloth, U. 

THKIMG.-'The Child's Grammar. 

Being the sabttaaee of the aboTe, with Examples tor Practice. Adapted fto 
JvBior dasaee. A Ifeir Bditton. ISmo. limp cloth »U. 

THRIKG.— Sermons delivered at Uppingham School, 

By EDW^lBD THRIKG, M.A. Head Master. Crown 8yo. cloth» 5«. 

THBING.—School Songs. 

A CoUectkMi of Songs for Schodlt. With the Music arranged Ibr Ibur V«)ce«« 
Edited by EDWARD THRING, M.A. Head Master of Uppingham SehooU 
and H. RICCIUS. Small foUo, 7». 6d, 

THBUPP.— The Song of Songs. 

A New Translation, with a Commentary and an Introduction, By the He t« 
3, F. THRITPP, Yicar of BarrinRton, late Fellow of Trinity C<41«^t 
Cambridge. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. 6d. 

THBUPP.— Antient Jerusalem : a New Investigation into the 

History, Topography, and Plan of the City, EuTirons, and Temple. l>e«tAned 
principally to illustrate the records and prophecies of Scripture* With Map 
and Plans. By JOSEPH FRANCIS THRUPP, M.A. 8vo. cloth, ll«. 

THBUPF.— Introdnddon to the Study and Use of the 

Psalms. By the Rev. J. P. THRUPP, M.A. S vols. 8to, S1«. 

THBlJPP.-~Psalms and ^rmns for Public Worship, 

Selected and Edited by the Rev. J. F. THRUPP, M.A. 18mo, cloth, U. 
limp cloth, U. 4d. 

TOCQUBVILLE.— Memoir, Letters, and Remains of Alexia 

De TocqueviDe. Translated from the French by the Translator of** Na|>oltiK'4>'« 
Correspondence with King Joseph." With Nuinerous.addittons, I Yola« ert^H 
8va 21«. 

70DHUMTEB.-W0BES by ISAAC TODHUNTER, VtJi, 

F.R.S. Fellow and Principal Mathematical Lecturer of St. John** (\^lef«» 
Cambridge : — 

1. Euclid for Colleges and Schools. 

18mo. bound in cloth, S«. 6d» 

2. Algebra for Beginners. 

With numerous Examples. 18mo. bound in cloth, 2«. 8d. 

3. A Treatise on the Differential Calculus. 

With numerous Examples. Third Bditlon. Crown 8to. cloth. 
10«. Cd. 



4i A Treatise on the Integral CsleuVu%% 

IFItibiiuiMfoaf JlxanipleB. Croim %^o% c\<^\^ A^««^4« 



20 MACMILLAN & CO/S PUBLICATIONS. 

WORKS by ISAAC TODHUNTER-con«i»««d. 

5. A Treatise on Analytical Statics, with nnmerons Ex- 

amples. Second Edition. Crown 8yo. cloth, 10«. dd. 

6. A Treatise on Conic Sections, with nomerons Examples. 

Third Edition. Crown 8to. cloth, ft. 6d* 

7. Algebra for the use of Colleges and Schools. Third 

Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7», 6d. 

8. Plane Trigonometry for Colleges and Schools, second 

Edition. Crown Svo. cloth, 5s, 

9. A Treatise on Spherical Trigonometry for the Use of 

Colleges and Schools. Second Editiosn. Crown Svo. cloth, 4«. 6d, 

10. Critical History of the Progress of the Calcnlos of 

Variations during the Nineteenth Century. 8to. cloth, 12«. 

11. Examples of Analytical Geometry of Three Dimensions. 

Crown 8to. cloth, is, 

12. A Treatise on the Theory of Equations. 

Crown 8to. cloth, 7s. 6d, 

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. 

By AN OLD BOY. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8to. cloth, 5«. 
Copies of the Lahob Papeb Editioh mat be HAn, pbicx 10«. 6d, 

TOM BROWN AT OXFORD. 

By the Author of " Tom Brown's School Days." Second SditiOSt 
3 vols, crown 8to. £1 Us.6d, 

TRACTS FOR PRIESTS AND PEOPLE. 

By VARIOUS WRITERS. 

The First Series, Crown Svo. cloth, 8s. 
The Second Series, Crown Svo. cloth, 8s. 

Supplementary Number to the Second Series, price It, Koncon- 
formity in the Seventeenth and in the Nineteenth Century. I. £ngli<li 
Voluntaryism, by J. N. LANGLEY. II. The Volunury Principle in 
America. By an English Clergyman* This number can be bound np 
with the Second Series. 

The whole Series of Fifteen Tracts may be had separately, priee 0n« 
Shilling each. 

TRENCH.-WORKS by RICHARD CHENEVIX TRENCH, 

D.D. Archbishop of Dublin. 

1. Notes on the Parables of Oar Lord. Nintii sdiuom 

8vo. 12«. 

2. Notes on the Miracles of Onr Lord, seventii Edition. 

8vo. \2t. 

3. Synonyms of the New Testament, riftii Edition. Fe«p. 

8vo. 6s. 

4. Synonyms of the New Testament, second part. Fctp. 

8vo. 5s, 

5. On the Study of Words. Eieventii Edition. Fcap. doth, 4«. 

6. Englisli Pa^\. aa^ 'Si^^^iit, nctiL Edition. Fcap. sto. h. 

7. Proverbs and l\iev£ 'L^^^ou'?^* i^vwoLT^jWtfns.. ^^^^.V(<i,3». 



MACMILIAN & CO/S PUBLICATIONS. 21 

WORKS by ABGHBISHOP TBENGH-^tm/muecf. 

8. Select Glossary of English Words used Formerly in 

Senses different from the Present. Second Edition, it, 

9. On Some Deficiencies in our English Dictionaries. 

Second Edition. Sto. Zs. 

10. Sermons preached in Westminster Abbey. 

Second Edition. 8to. 10«. 6d, 

11. Five Sermons preached before the University of 

Cambridge. Fcap. 8to. 2s, 6<f. 

12. The Subjection of the Creature to Vanity. Sermons 

preached in Cambridge. Fcap. 8vo. Zs, 

13. The Fitness of Holy Scripture for Unfolding the 

Spiritual Life of Man: Christ the Desire of all Nations; or, the 
Unconscious Prophecies of Heathendom. Hulsean Lectures. Fcap. 
8yo. Fovirtli Edition. Ss, 

14. St. Augustine's Exposition of the Sermon on the 

Mount. With an Essay on St. Augustine as an Interpreter of Scrip- > 
ture. 7s, 

15. On the Authorized Version of the New Testament 

In Connexion with some recent Proposals for its Revision. Second 
Edition. 7s, 

16. Justin Martyr and Other Poems. Fifth Edition, ss, 

17. Poems from Eastern Sources, Genoveva, and other 

Poems. Second Edition. 5s. 6d. 

18. Elegiac Poems. TUrd Edition. 2s. ed. 

19. Calderon's Life's a Dream: the Great Theatre of the 

World. With an Essay on his Life and Genius, is. 6d, 

20. Remains of the late Mrs. Richard Trench. Being 

Selections firom her Journals, Letters, and other Papers. Second 
Edition. With Portrait, 8vo. 15s. 

21. Commentary on the EpisUes to the Seven Churches 

in Asia. Second Edition. Ss, 6d. 

TUDOR.— The Decalogue viewed as the Christian's Law, 

-with Special Reference to the Questions and Wants of the Times. By the 
Rev. RICHARD TUDOR, B.A. Curate of Hclston. Crown 8vo. cloth. 
10s. 6d. 

VACATION TOURISTS; or, Notes of Travel in 1861. 

Edited hy F. 6 ALTON, F.R.S. With Ten Maps illustrating the Routes. 
8to. cloth, Hs, 

VAUGHAN.— Sermons preached in St. John's Church, 

Leicester, during the years 1855 and 1856. By DAVID J. VAUGHAN, M A 
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, and Vicar of St. Martin's, Leicester^ 
Crown 8to. cloth, 5s. 6(2. 

VAUGHAN.— Sermons on the Resurrection. With a Preface 

By D. J. VAUGHAN, M. A. Fcap. 8 vo. cloth, 3*. «**«•** ciawo. 

VAUGHAN.— Three Sermons on The Atonement With a. 

Preface. By D. J. VAUGHAN, M. A. Limp cloth, red e^JesT Is. 6A 

VAUGHAN— Sermons on Sacrifice andPro^Uiaid<w^.^\^'w&&.^ 

in St. Martin's Church, Leicester, during Lent wvei 'EaAVw* \%&\. -ftn \i,"\^ 
VAUGHAy,M.A. Fcap. 8vo. cloth Ump. t^A «0.^%V^Vf J*. ^^1^^^- 



i 



M JIAOMIUilN k 00/8 FUBU0ATI0N8. 

VAUGHAN.-WOBES by CHABLXS JOHN VAUQHAM.OJI). 

Viow of DonoMter, ChanoeUor of Yorici mid ClupUiB in QrdiBlury to the 
Queen:— 

^ 1. Notes for Lectures on Confirmatioii. With gnitable 

Prayers. Fifth Bditlon. Limp cloth, red edgei, 1«, 6d, • 

2. Lectures on the Epistle to the FhUippiws. 

Crown 8to. cloth, red leaveg, 7«. 64» 

8. Lectures on the Revelation of St, John. 

2 Tols, erown 8vo. cloth, 15«. 

4. Epiphany, Lent, and Easter, A Selection o( Ex- 

pository Sermons. Seoond BdltlOII* Crown 8?0. doth, red leayesi 
I0s.6d. 

5. The Book and the Life: and other Sermons Preached 

before the University of Cambridgo. 8«eond B4ltt0m« Fcap. 8vo. 
cloth, 48. 6d. 

6. Memorials of Harrow Sundays. 

A Selection of Sermons preaohed in Harrow School Chapel. With a 
View of the Chapel. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. aloth, \0i, 6d, 

7. St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans. 

The Greek Text with English Notes. Seoond Edition. Crown 8to, 
cloth, red leaves, 5«. 

8. Revision of the Liturgy. Four Discourses. With an 

Introduction. I. Absolutxoit. II. RBesNaaATiov. III. Avhava- 
siAK Crred. IV. Burial SsRVioa. V. Holy OnDnni. Second 
Bdition. Crown 8 vo. cloth, red leaves, 4«.6<<. 

9. Lessons of Life and Godliness- A Selection of Sermons 

Preached in the Parish Church of Doncaster. SecOttd Xdlikm. 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth, it. 6d, 

10.—- Words from the Gospels. A Second Selection of 

Sermons Preached in the Parish Church of Doncaster. Feap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

VILLAGE SERMONS BT A NORTHAMPTOMSHIBE 

RECTOR. With a Preface on the Inspiration of Holy Scripture. Crown 
8vo, 6«. 

VIRGIL.— The JEneid translated into English Blank Terse. 

By JOHN MILLER. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10«. 6d» 

VOLUNTEER'S SCRAP BOOK. 

By the Author of **Tha Cambridge Scrap Book." Crown 4to, haV^oond; 
7«. 6d* 

WAGNER.— Memoir of the Rev. George Wagner, late of St 

Stephen's, Brighton. By J. N. SIMPKINSON, M.A. Rector of Bringtoii 
Northampton. Third and (Cheaper Sdition, Fcap. 8vo. doth, <'• 

WATSON AND ROUTH.-CAMBRIDGE SENATE-HOUSE 

PROBLEMS AND RIDERS. For the Year I860. With SolutioBS byH. 
W. WATSON, M.A. and £. J. ROUTH, M.A. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. Bd. 

WARREN.— An Essay on Greek Federal Coinage. 

By the Hon. J. LEICESTER WARREN, M.A. 8vo. cloth, 2«. 6d. 

WESTCOTT.— History of the Canon of the New Testament 

during the First Vour Ceut\it\««. By BROOKE FOSS WESTCOTT, UX 
Assistant Maatei of Haxiow f^0&oo\\ \ix% ^€Ci.v« tA Ttitdtf Coltoff , Csn- 
bridge. Crown 8vo, o\otYi> \%t. W. 



MACldlliAN k C0.'8 fUBLICATIONS. M 

WESTGOTT. — Characteristics of the Gospel Miracles. 

Semoaia preached before the Univertity of Cambridge, witli Notes. By 

&. F. WESTGOTT, M.A. Aathov of ^'Hiftory of the New Testament 

Cuion." Crown 8vo. cloth, is. 6d. 

WESTGOTT.— Introdaction to the Stndy of the Four Oos- 

pela. By B. F. W£STCOTT, M.A. Crown 8to. eloth, lOs. M. 

WESTGOTT.— The Bible in the Ghurch. A Popular Account 

of the Collection and 
Churches. 18mo. cloth 



of the Collection and Receptiaii of the Holy Scriptures in the Christian 



WESTMINSTER FLAYS.--Sive Prolog! et Epilog! ad 

Fabulas in S^i Petri CoUeg : actaa qui Exstabant collecti et Justa quoad li^uit 
annorum serie ordinati, quibus aooedit Declamationum qui TOoantar et 
• Epigrainmatum delectus cur. F. MURE, A.M., H. BULL, A.M., CAROLO 
B. SCbTT, B.D. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 6<f. 

WILSON.— Counsels of an Invalid: Letters on Religious 

Pttbjeets. By GEORGE WILSONtM.D. late Regius Professor of Technolofiry 
in the University of Edinburgh. With Vignette Portrait, engraved by G. B. 
Shaw. ' Fcap. 8vo. cloth, is. 6d. 

WUiSON.— Beligio Ghemici. 

iBy GEORGlS WILSON, M.D. With a Vignette beautiftOly engraved after 
^ aD^ign by Nosl Paton. Crown 8vo. cloth, Ss. 6d. ^ 

WILSON— Memoir of George ll^Hlson, M.D. F.R.S.E. 

Regius Professor of Technology in the University of Edinburgh. Bj hfs 
Sister. Third Thousand. 8vo. cloth, with Portrait, 10«. 6d, 

WILSON.— The Five Gateways of Knowledge. 

By GEORG^ WILSON, M.D. P.R.S.E. Regius Professor of Technology in 
the University of Edinburgh. BftOOmd Bdition, Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2«. 6tf. 
or in Paper Covers, U. 

WIL&ON.— The Progress of the Telegraph. ' 

Fcap. 8vo. 1«. 

WILSON.— Prehistorie Annals of Scotland. 

By DANIEL WILSON, LL.D. Professor of History and English Literature 
in University Collegn, Toronto; Author of *' Prehistorie Man," Uc 2 vols, 
demy 8vo. Seeoiul Bdition. With numerous lUustrationfl. 96$, 

WILSON.— A Treatise on Dynamics. 

By W. P. WILSON, M.A. Fellow of St. John's, Cambridge, and Professor of 
Mathematics in the University of Melbourne. 8yo. bds. S«. Hi, 

WILTON.— The Negeb; or, "South Country" of Seilptare. 

By the Rev. E. WILTON, M.A. Oxon. Incumbent of Soofton, Notta, pmA 
Chaplain to the Earl of G^oway. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7«. 6d. 

WOLFE.— ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY OBiaiNAL 

PSALM AND HYMN TUNES. For Four Volees. By AETHUH 
WOLFE, M.A. Fellow and Tutor of Clare College, Cambridge. ObUmg 
royal 8vo. extra eloth, gilt leaves, 10«. 6d. 

WOLFE.— Hymns for Public Worship. 

Selected and Arranged by ARTHUR WOLFE, M.A. 18mo. cloth, red 
leaves, 2». Common Paper Edition, limp cloth, It. or twenty*five for 11. 

WOLFE.— Hymns for Private Use. 

SeleetMf and Atnag^ by ARTHUB, VTOLVB^ IL.Al. \%nft« ewRb.^ 
Je»we0, U. 



94 MACMILLAN & CO.*S PUBLICATIONS. 

WOOLLET.— Lectures Delivered in Australia. 

Bj JOHN WOOLLEY, D.C.L. Principal and Professor of Logic and Clattlst 
in the UniTersity of Sydney, Late Pellow of UniTersity CoUqje, Oxford. 
Crown 8to. cloth, 8s. 6<f. 

WOOLNEB.-My BeautiM Lady. 

By THOMAS WOOLNER. Fcap. 8to. St, 

WRIGHT.— Hellenica ; or, a History of Greece in Greek, 

as related by Diodorus and Thucydides, being a First Greek Readiag 
Book, with Explanatory Notes, Critical and Historical. By J. WRIGHT, 
M.A. of Trinity College, Cambridge, and Head-Masterof Sutton Coldfleld 
Grammar School. Seoond Bdiitlon, wnu a Yocabu&abt. ISae. 
cloth, U. dd, 

WBIGHT.— A Help to Latin Grammar; 

or, the Form and Use of Words in Latin. With Progressive Exeidscf. 
Crown 8vo. cloth, 4«. 6d, 

WBIGHT.— The Seven Kings of Rome: 

An easy Narrative, abridged from the First Book of Livy by the omission of 
difficult passages, being a First Latin Reading Book, with Grammatical 
Notes. Fcap. 8to. cloth, St. 

VTRIGHT.—A Vocabulary and Exercises on the '' Seven 

Kings of Rome." Fcap. 8to. cloth, 2«. 6d, 
*»* The Vocabulary and Exercises may also be had bound up with <*The Seveii 

Kings of Rome." Price 5t, cloth. 

Tes and No ; or, Glimpses of The Great Conflict. 

8 vols, crown 8to. cloth, U. lit, 6d, 



WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF 

"THE HEIR OF REDCLYPPE." 

History of Christian Names. Two vois. crown 8vo. u. u. 

The Heir of Redclyffe. Fonrteentli Edition. Crown 8vo. 6«. 

Dynevor Terrace. Third Edition, crown svo. 6«. 
The Daisy Chain, crown svo. 6«. 

Heart's Ease. Elsbth Edition, crown 8to. 6s. 

Hopes and Fears, second Edition, crown 8to. e*. 
The Toung Stepmother, crown 8vo. los. ed. 
The Lances of Lynwood. lemo. cioth, ss. ed. 

The Little Duke. Fonrtb Edition. Limp cloth. Is. Cd. 

Maria Therese de Lamorons. Limp cioth, i«. ed. 



\ 



&. CLAT, SOV I A-UD TAi'Y1.0&) t^l^Tt^t^'B'Mt.Ma Vt^^Y.*^ TftXV^.* 



K 



