NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



V 3433 07736264 2 




MICR ILMED 



. 






. 



TIT-BITS; 



OR, 



HOW TO PREPARE A NICE DISH AT 
A MODERATE EXPENSE. 



BY 

MRS. S. G. KNIGHT. 



BOSTON: 

CROSBY AND NICHOLS. 

NEW YORK: 0. S. FELT. 

1864. 






THE NEW YOEI 



PUBLIC 



T TT~> T). 



ARY 



89739B 



ASTOR, LENOX AND 

-EN FOUNDATIONS- 
B 1940 L 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by 

CROSBY & NICHOLS, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 



ELECTROTYPED AT THE 

BOSTON STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY, 

No. It Spring Lane. 



CONTENTS. 



PART PAGE 
FIRST. MEATS, 7 

SECOND. FISH, SOUPS, &c., 19 

THIRD. PICKLES, KETCHUPS, &c., 29 

FOURTH. BREAD, CORN CAKES, &C., 34 

FIFTH. PUDDINGS, 45 

SIXTH. PASTRY, 61 

SEVENTH. CAKE, 68 

EIGHTH. PRESERVES, JELLIES, &c., 87 

NINTH. SAUCES, .99 

TENTH. MISCELLANEOUS, ... .103 



INTRODUCTION 



IN presenting this book to the public the compiler 
wishes it to be understood that it is not designed to 
supersede any of the valuable " Cook Books " already 
in the market, but as an accompaniment to them ; 
being intended to fill a place which is not yet filled. 

The universal cry among the less wealthy classes 
is, " We can do nothing with Cook Books, the receipts 
are so extravagant ! y 

For the last twenty years the writer has been col- 
lecting receipts for her own private use. 

Many of these were so valuable, combining economy 
with excellence, she was constantly giving them to her 
friends. One lady remarked that one single receipt 
given her was worth five dollars to her. 

A year or two since a friend suggested that these 
receipts should be given to the public, and that as 
many new ones as possible should be gleaned from 
private sources and added to those already in pos- 
session. 

A large majority of cake receipts are for common 



6 INTRODUCTION. 

use, and made by cup measure, to avoid the trouble 
of weighing. 

A small space is given to meats, it being deemed 
unnecessary to fill the book with receipts for plain 
cooking, which it is to be supposed all housekeepers 
are familiar with, and thereby make it a more costly 
one. Two of the receipts are from the Washington 
family in Virginia ; a number from the private manu- 
script of a deceased relative, collected with great care ; 
but the large majority are from the stray leaves of 
friends, who love a nice dish, and have found a way 
to prepare it, without spending all their substance in 
riotous living. 



TIT-BITS 



PART FIRST, 
MEATS. BEEF. 

To Select Beef. 

Nice beef may be known by its color ; the fat will be 
of oily smoothness, and incline to white, rather than 
yellow, while the lean will be of an open grain, bright 
red. Yellow fat is a sure sign of an inferior quality. 

Spiced Beefl 

Cover a round of beef, weighing about sixteen pounds, 
with a pound of salt, and turn it every day for a week. 

At the end of that time, wash it in cold water, rub it 
well with two ounces of black pepper and quarter of an 
ounce of mace. 

Fry three or four onions sliced, add a few cloves, then 
put in the meat, cover it with water, and bake in a stone- 
covered stewing pan for five hours. 

To be eaten cold, for breakfast or supper. 

Beef Steak (Ste^ved). 

Take a steak a little more than an inch thick, fry it to 
a light brown, with two or three sliced onions. After it 

(7) 



8 MEATS. 

is fried, put it in a stewpan, with a turnip cut up small, 
and carrot also, if you fancy, a little celery, salt, and 
pepper ; cover it with water, and stew gently for two 
hours. It is said to be very delicious. 

Beef" Heart. 

"Wash it carefully, and stuff it nicely ; roast or bake 
it, and serve with the gravy, which should be thickened 
with some of the stuffing. It is very nice hashed, with a 
little port wine added. 



-AJLamocle 

Make a stuffing of rich herbs, spice, suet, and stuff 
the beef with it ; one and a half bottles of port or 
claret wine, according to the size of the beef, and five 
quarts of water. Do not let it boil, but simmer until 
it is done. 

Bouilli. 

To a tender piece of beef, about ten pounds, put three 
pints of water, a little pepper, salt, and an onion. Boil 
the beef gently for three or four hours ; the beef should 
be turned, and the water renewed as it boils away. 
Crumbs of bread should be put in to thicken the gravy. 

About half an hour before it is to be taken up*, the 
fat should be carefully skimmed off, then a little cabbage, 
carrots, turnips, and celery, cut small, are to be put in, 
and boiled till quite tender. 



Beeft 

The brisket is the best. A piece of eight pounds will 
require four hours slow boiling. Put it into cold water, 
and take off the scum as it rises ; the slower it boils the 



MEATS. 9 

better. The liquor which the beef is boiled in is very 
nice for gravies and soups, and should be saved for that 
purpose. 

Boileau.. 

Take a piece of beef, weighing six or eight pounds ; 
have the bone taken out, then rub it well with a mixture 
composed of ground cloves, allspice, black pepper, sweet 
marjoram, and salt, one spoonful of each, rubbed fine. 

After the mixture is well rubbed in, roll it up tightly 
and tie it ; put it into a pot half full of water, with three 
or four potatoes, a carrot, two turnips, if small, and two 
onions, and let it stew for six hours. 

Beef Stew. 

Take a pound and a half of nice beef, and cut it into 
small pieces. 

Place in the bottom of your saucepan a layer of sliced 
potatoes, a few slices of onion, a pinch of pepper, one of 
salt ; then a layer of meat, another layer of potatoes, 
onions, salt, and pepper, with a layer of meat, and con- 
tinue in this way till you have disposed of all of your 
meat ; let the top layer be of potatoes, onions, and season- 
ing. Cover all with water, and let it stew for an hour 
and a half. 

Beef" Tongue. 

If it is corned, it should be soaked for twenty-four 
hours before boiling. 

It will require from three to four hours, according to 
size. The skin should always be removed as soon as it 
is taken from the pot. An economical method is to lay 
the tongue, as soon as the skin is removed, in a jar, 



10 MEATS. 

coiled up, with the tip outside the root, and a weight 
upon it. When it is cold, loosen the sides, with a knife, 
and turn it out. The slices being cut horizontally all 
round, the fat and lean will go together. 

StuiTed Beefsteak. 

Take a rump steak about an inch thick. Make a stuff- 
ing of bread, herbs, &c., and spread it over the steak. 
Roll it up, and with a needle and coarse thread sew it 
together. Lay it in an iron pot on one or two wooden 
skewers, and put in water just sufficient to cover it. Let 
it stew slowly for two hours ; longer if the beef is tough ; 
serve it in a dish with the gravy turned over it. To be 
carved crosswise, in slices, through beef and stuffing. 



Take a shin of beef from the hind quarter, saw it into 
four pieces, put it in a pot, and boil it until the meat 
and gristle drop from the bones ; chop the meat very fine, 
put it in a dish, and season it with a little salt, pepper, 
clove, and sage, to your taste ; pour in the liquor, in which 
the meat was boiled, and place it away to harden. 

Cut in slices and eaten cold. 



PORK. 

To Select Pork. 

In fresh pork the flesh is firm, smooth, a clear color, 
and the fat set. Dairy fed pork bears the palm over all 
others. In young pork, the lean, when pinched, will break. 

Excellent bacon may be known by the lean being ten- 
der and of a bright color, the fat firm and white, yet 



MEATS. 11 

bearing a pale rose tinge, the rind thin, and the lean 
tender to the touch. Rusty bacon has yellow streaks in 
it. The test of a sweet ham is to pass a sharp knife to 
the bone, and when drawn out smell it ; if the knife is 
daubed greasy, and the scent disagreeable, it is bad. 

Ooimed Pork. 

It should be soaked a few hours before boiling, then 
well washed and scraped, and put into a fresh water. It 
must not be boiled fast, but put into cold water, and 
gradually warmed through ; skim frequently while boiling. 

A leg or shoulder, weighing seven or eight pounds, 
should boil slowly for four hours. When taken up it 
must be skinned carefully, though some prefer the skin 
remaining on, as it loses much of the juice by skinning. 

It is very nice cold. 

\ 

To Fricassee Pork. 

Cut a small sparerib or chine of pork into pieces, 
cover with water and stew until tender ; remove the 
meat, and flavor the gravy with salt, pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Serve in a deep dish, in the gravy, 
and garnish the dish with rice. 

Pork Pie. 

Prepare your pork as above, or take any nice bits of 
cold roast pork. Line a deep dish with paste, fill in with 
the meat, pour the gravy over it, and cover all with the 
paste ; make a small hole in the middle of the paste, and 
bake until nicely browned. 



Feet. 

Boil four pig's feet until the bones drop out. Draw 
out the long bone and place them in a dish to cool. 



12 MEATS. 



Split each foot, take the liquor in which it is boiled, add 
the juice of a lemon and some salt, and turn over the 
feet. They may be dipped in batter, and fried in salt 
pork. 



Head. 

Have the head nicely cleaned, and boil it till very ten- 
der. Chop it very fine, and season with salt, pepper, 
sage, and a little clove, while hot. Put in a deep dish, 
and cover with a plate that is smaller than the dish, that 
it may rest on the meat. Place on the plate a very heavy 
weight, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. This 
makes the famous " Pig's Head Cheese." 



VEAL. 

To Select Veal. 

When the kidney is well surrounded with fat, you 
may be sure the meat is of good quality. Always 
choose that which is whitest and fattest. 

If the vein in the shoulder, which is very perceptible, 
is a bright red or blue, it is a sure sign that the meat 
is fresh. 



Knuckle of* "Veal 

Break the bone in two or three places, put to it five 
pints of water, some sweet herbs, whole black peppers, a 
little salt and mace. 

When the meat is done, take it out with the herbs and 
spices, and thicken the liquor with a little flour, and boil 
it up well ; then put back the meat, add two glasses of 
Madeira wine, and the juice of a lemon. Let it come 



MEATS. 13 

to a boil, but be careful that it does not burn. It is 
much more apt to after the flour is added. 

To I^oast a billet of* Veal. 

Make a stuffing of a little beef suet, chopped fine, the 
same quantity of bread crumbs, a little sweet marjoram, 
the rind of two lemons, grated, a table spoonful of grated 
horseradish, a little pepper and salt ; if you please, add 
the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, cut up fine. 

Introduce the stuffing through the fillet, secure it with 
skewers and twine ; baste it well while it is roasting, and 
make a gravy of the drippings, thickened with flour. 



"Veal 

Take two or three fresh sweetbreads, parboil them for 
a few minutes, then take them from the hot water, and 
put them into cold. Take some bread crumbs, and add 
the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, to the crumbs. 

When the sweetbreads are perfectly cold, place them 
on a skewer, and roll them in the prepared crumbs, lay 
them in a stew-pan with a small bit of butter and a lit- 
tle veal gravy, and cook them a nice brown. 

Take the gravy in which they are cooked, add the 
juice of a lemon, a little salt and pepper ; toast some 
slices of bread, dip them into the gravy, and lay the 
sweetbreads on. 



HCead. 

Let the butcher split the head in halves. Take out 
the eyes and the snout bone ; then lay it in cold water, to 
soak two hours before boiling ; take out the brains, and 
wash them well in several waters, then lay them in cold 
water. Put the head together, and lay it in a good sized 



14 MEATS. 

pot, cover it with cold water, and throw in a table 
spoonful of salt. Let it boil slowly for two hours and a 
half, or three hours, according to size. 

When it has boiled a little more than an hour, take 
some of the liquor, about a quart, and put into a stew- 
pan for the gravy ; add to this liquor some salt, pepper, 
a little parsley chopped fine, a table spoonful of lemon 
pickle, and put over the fire to boil. 

Beat up an egg lightly, with two table spoonfuls of 
flour, then remove carefully the skin from the brains, 
and beat them up with the egg ^nd flour. When well 
beaten, thicken the gravy with it, and stew about ten 
minutes. 



Calf s Live*-, 

Cut the liver into small slices, about three inches 
square. ^Into your sauce-pan place two onions, sliced 
fine, a ta.ble spoonful of sage, one of summer savory, 
a little pepper and salt ; then add your liver, and cover 
with water, and let it stew for two hours. Just be- 
fore you serve it, dredge on a little flour, and add a 
table spoonful of butter. 



Broth. 

Pick and wash a tea cup of rice, and put into your 
dinner pot ; cut up three or four small onions, and add 
to the rice ; next, add your meat, which should be cut 
in pieces of about a quarter of a pound each ; let the 
whole be covered with water from two to three inches 
above the meat. When it has boiled an hour, add a 
few small turnips and carrots, sliced, with a table spoon- 
ful of salt ; a little before it is served add some parsley. 
This is a favorite broth with many people. It is very 



MEATS. 15 



nice without the carrots. Some prefer it thickened with 
flour instead of rice. 



!Rag-oTit of Oolcl 

Cut the veal into slices ; put a large piece of butter 
into a frying-pan, and as soon as it is hot, dredge the 
meat well with flour, and fry a nice brown. Remove the 
meat, and put into the pan as much of your cold gravy as 
you think proper, season with pepper and salt, and a 
wine glass of tomato ketchup ; then cut a few slices of 
cold ham, lay into the gravy, and add your slices of veal. 
It must be sent to the table hot. 

To Dress Oalf s Head lilce Turtle. 

Let them boil an hour and a half, with salt in the 
water ; tie the brains in a cloth bag, and boil half an hour ; 
when all is done, take out the bones and cut up in pieces. 
Add to your liquor a litt" sweet marjoram, a nutmeg, 
grated, clove, mace, and pepper, to taste, half a pint of 
ketchup, half a pound of butter, and a pint of claret, or 
port wine ; then put in the meat, and boil a few minutes, 
and it is done. 

Salem Forced IMeat Balls. 

Take a piece of veal and an equal quantity of salt 
pork, chop them together fine ; pound two hard crackers, 
and add to it a little salt, sweet marjoram, pepper, and 
nutmeg ; mix together well ; flour the hands, and roll 
into little balls ; fry them in butter. Very nice, if added 
to the mock turtle soup. 



Oalfs Liver. 

Put the heart and harslet on to cook in just water 
enough to cover them. Put the liver, in the mean time, 



16 MEATS. 

in cold water, with a little vinegar and salt ; slice up two 
onions, and boil with the heart and harslet for half an 
hour, skim it well, then strain off the liquor. Put a 
little summer savory, with a fresh sliced lemon in the 
bottom of the stew-pan, and on this place the liver, 
(which must be cut into square pieces, of about three 
inches square), pour over it the gravy made by the 
heart and harslet, put in about a dozen allspice, six or 
eight cloves ; let it simmer slowly, tightly covered, for an 
hour and a half, then pour off the gravy and mix with it 
a large spoonful of flour ; when smooth, stir it into the 
gravy, pour it into the sauce-pan, add a wine glass of 
tomato or mushroom ketchup, let it simmer for live 
minutes. Take up the liver, pour over it part of the 
gravy, and the remainder put into your gravy boat. 
This is a very nice dish if carefully prepared. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

The best mutton is of a fine grain, the fat firm and 
white. 

Lamb should be eaten very fresh. In the fore quarter, 
the vein in the neck being any other color than blue, 
betrays it to be stale. 

Siionlcler of" M/utton. 

Take out the bone, and fill the space with a stuffing 
made of bread crumbs, salt pork, chopped fine, pepper, 
salt, and sage, or sweet marjoram. A shoulder, weigh- 
ing eight pounds, requires an hour and a half, good 
fire. 



MEATS. 17 

M/ntton a la "Venison. 

Take a fat loin, remove the kidney, and let it hang a 
week, if the weather permits. Two days before dressing 
it for cooking, take ground allspice, clove, and pepper, 
mix them, arid rub into the meat a table spoonful of each 
twice a day for two days. Before cooking, wash it off, 
and roast as a leg. To preserve the fat and keep it in, 
make a paste of flour and water, and spread thickly over 
the meat. Over this tie a double sheet of coarse paper, 
well buttered. About a quarter of an hour before it is 
done remove the paper and paste, return to the oven and 
baste, and dredge with flour. It is equal to venison. 

Mutton Kidneys. 

Take half a dozen fine mutton kidneys, clear them 
of fat and skin, and cut them into thin slices, powder 
them immediately with sweet herbs in fine powder, a 
little cayenne and salt. 

Put into a stew-pan two ounces of clarified butter or 
fresh lard ; put in the slices of kidney, and fry them 
nicely ; dredge a little flour over them, and moisten with 
lemon juice, and in five minutes they will be done ; lay 
them on a hot dish, around which are slices of fried 
bread. 

Pour into the gravy two glasses of white wine, give it 
a boil, pour over the kidneys, and serve hot. 



of M!iitton. 

Make a nice stuffing of finely-chopped beef suet, bread 
crumbs, an onion chopped finely, pepper, salt, and a little 
ground clove. Make incisions in the leg, and stuff it 
well ; tie a little bundle of basil and parsley together, 
lay in the bottom of the dinner pot, and on it place the 

2 



18 MEATS. 

mutton ; just cover with water, and stew slowly. Two 
hours steady cooking will be all that is required ; when 
tender, take out the mutton and add to the liquor a large 
spoonful of flour, made smooth with a little water, stir it 
well, and in five minutes take it off and strain it ; pour it 
back into the pot, and add a wine glass of ketchup, and 
lay the mutton in till it is served. 



of 

Boil it in water to cover it ; when half done add two 
cups of milk to the water, with a large spoonful of salt. 
It should be served with spinach and caper sauce. It 
will cook in an hour and a quarter, or half, according to 
size. 

To ITiry Lainl> Steaks. 

Dip each piece into well-beaten egg, cover with 
bread crumbs or corn meal, and fry in butter or new 
lard. Mashed potatoes and boiled rice are a necessary 
accompaniment. It is very nice to thicken the gravy 
with flour and butter, adding a little lemon juice, and 
pour it hot upon the steaks, and place the rice in spoon- 
fuls around thejiish to garnish it. 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 19 



PART SECOND. 
FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 



Wash them very clean ; make a stuffing of bits of 
salt pork, pounded biscuit, thyme, or summer savory, a 
little salt, and one or two eggs. Stuff the breasts suffi- 
ciently to make them look plump, lay them in a stew-pan 
or pot, cover them with water, add a little thyme, and 
half a pint of red wine. 

If young, two and a half hours moderate stewing is 
sufficient ; if old, three or four hours. Add more season- 
ing before you take them off, if required. 



Put into your kettle about half a pound of good butter ; 
make it quite hot, and after cutting your fish in small 
square pieces, of three or four inches in size, flour them 
and fry them brown ; take them out, and place in a deep 
dish, in a warm, not hot, oven. Add to the butter two 
double handfuls of chopped onions, fry your onions brown, 
some sweet herbs, shred fine, three table spoonfuls of 
ketchup, half a pint of red wine, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, with pepper and salt to taste ; a tea spoon- 
ful of clove, the same of mace. If your gravy is too 
thick, add a little boiling water ; if too thin, a small piece 



20 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

more butter and a little flour. When sufficiently boiled, 
pour over the fish and serve. 



lEIoilecl 

Prepare your turkey as for roasting ; put it in a cloth, 
and boil it slowly, if from, eight to nine pounds, an hour 
and a half. Throw into the water a few cloves, a little 
black pepper, sweet marjoram, and salt. It is to be 
served with oysters. 

Skim the turkey well while boiling, or it will not be 
white. 

Oyster Sauce for Tnrlceys, <&-o. 

Strain fifty oysters, put the juice into a sauce-pan, add 
one pint of new milk, let it simmer, and skim off* any 
froth which may rise ; then rub a large spoonful of flour 
and two of butter together ; stir this into the liquor ; add 
a little salt and pepper. Let it simmer five minutes, 
but do not add your oysters till just as they are to be 
sent to the table, as if they are too much cooked they are 
hard. 



Fried 

Place in your fry-kettle half a dozen slices of fat pork ; 
fry to a brown, then remove them to a deep dish ; 
add to the fat three table spoonfuls of fresh lard ; when 
boiling hot, put in your halibut, which should be cut in 
pieces about three inches square, and dipped in sifted 
meal ; sprinkle over it a little salt ; fry a good brown. 
After the fish is all fried (it may be necessary to add 
more lard if it is a large one), put it in the dish with the 
slices of pork, pour the boiling fat over it, and add one 
table spoonful of boiling water ; cover with a plate tightly, 
and stand in the oven for twenty minutes. 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 21 



Boiled ITo^vl ox- 

They should be cleaned and stuffed as for roasting. A 
young fowl requires an hour ; if tough and old, three 
hours. A chicken will boil in three quarters of an hour. 
They may be served with oyster, caper, or egg sauce. 



" Sauce. 

Boil a pound of beef in water enough to cover it, with 
a slice of toasted bread. When boiled, remove it from 
the water, and add four or five anchovies, and a glass of 
claret wine, with a little clove ; boil up, and strain into 
your tureen boiling hot. 

Baltimore Tvurlce^r. 

Take out the breastbone, and cut off the legs, not the 
thigh part, of a small, fat turkey. Clean it thoroughly, 
and fill the inside with oysters sew it up, lay in a floured 
eloth, place it in cold water, and boil one hour and a 
half, very slowly ; take it out, lay on a dish, and draw 
out the thread w r ith which the turkey was sewed. Make 
a jelly of calf's feet, without sugar, but flavored with 
lemon and wine ; when cool, but not cold, pour over the 
turkey, and set it aside to jelly. 

Serve with celery. 



I?ea 

Soak a quart of split peas over night. In the morning 
add to them, a gallon of water, in which a piece of beef 
or mutton has been boiled the day previous, and strained, 
and let them boil slowly for four hours, with the addition 
of half a pound of salt pork. Strain through a sieve 
before serving, and season with salt and pepper to your 
taste. 



22 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 



Oysters, JTa.ii.cy 

Toast a few slices of bread, and butter them ; lay them 
in a shallow dish ; put on the liquor of the oysters to 
heat, add salt and pepper, and just before it boils add 
the oysters ; let them boil up once, and pour over the 
bread. 



Hoasit 

When cleaned and ready for roasting, fill the bird with 
a stuffing of bread crumbs, a spoonful of butter, a little 
salt and nutmeg, and three oysters to each bird (some 
prefer chopped apple). They must be well basted with 
melted butter, and -require thirty minutes careful cook- 
ing. In the autumn they are best, and should be full 

grown. 

* 

Roast Duck. 

Prepare your duck for roasting, and use the following 
stuffing : Chop fine, and throw into cold water, three 
good sized onions, one large spoonful of sage, two of 
bread crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a 
little salt and pepper, and the onions drained. Mix well 
together, and stuff the duck. 

An hour is enough for an ordinary sized duck. The 
gravy is made by straining the drippings ; skim off the 
fat, then stir in a large spoonful of browned flour, a tea 
spoonful of mixed mustard, a wine glass of claret. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes. 

ITorceiiieat Balls. 

Take one pound of tender lean beef, and half a pound 
of nice beef suet, chopped very finely, the crumbs of a 
stale loaf of bread, soaked in cold water for a few ino- 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 23 

merits, and squeezed very dry, the grated rind and juice 
of a lemon, half a tea spoonful of ginger, the same of salt 
and summer savory, with a little cayenne. Mix well 
together, and add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. 
Divide in halves ; put one half in a stew-pan, with a 
wine glass of ketchup ; stew half an hour. The other 
half make into balls, the size of a walnut, and fry brown. 
Place round the dish in which the stew is served. 

Cream. Baked Trout. 

Clean the trout, put in pepper and salt, and close them. 
Place the fish in the pan, with just cream enough to 
cover the fins, and bake fifteen minutes. 



Tomato 

Put on a piece of beef, mutton, or lamb, to boil ; skim 
off all the fat before seasoning, then add two sliced 
.onions, a little pepper and salt, two cloves, and about a 
dozen tomatoes ; boil three hours, then add a little thick- 
ening of flour. If the tomatoes are very sour, add a 
table spoonful of sugar. 



Take a fresh haddock, of three or four pounds, clean 
it well, and cut in pieces of three inches square. Place 
in the bottom of your dinner-pot five or six slices of salt 
pork, fry brown, then add three onions sliced thin, and 
fry those brown. Remove the kettle from the fire, and 
place on the onions and pork a layer of fish ; sprinkle 
over a little pepper and salt, then a layer of pared and 
sliced potatoes, a layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is 
used up. Cover with water, and let it boil for half an 
hour. Pound six biscuits or crackers fine as meal, and 



24 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

pour into the pot ; and, lastly, add a quart or pint of 
milk ; let it scald well, and serve. 



Break six eggs, leaving out the whites ; put them in a 
cold place until required. Add to the yolks a little 
powdered sugar, the peel and juice of half a small lemon, 
a little nutmeg, and beat all together ; add four table 
spoonfuls of cream ; beat up the six whites stiff. Put a 
piece of butter in your pan, upon a slow fire ; when hot 
pour in the omelet, mix in the whites gently, turn it on 
your dish, glaze with pounded sugar, put in the oven for 
a few minutes, and send to the table hot. 



Pare two pounds of potatoes, cover them with hot 
water, and. let them simmer till done; mash them, and 
add a little cream and salt ; lay them in the style of paste 
in a dish ; place on thin slices of underdone meat, either 
mutton, beef, or veal ; lay them in thickly ; pour over 
them some gravy, a wine glass of ketchup, then cover 
thick with mashed potatoes, and bake moderately for 
about forty minutes. 

Baked Oodiisli. 

Clean the fish inside and out : flour it ; make a stuff- 

<* 

ing of bread crumbs, bits of salt pork, sage, and one egg. 
Stuff the fish well, put on one or two slices of pork, and 
bake a nice brown. To be eaten .with egg or caper 
sauce. 

Boiled Ham. 

Boil in a large pot, giving it plenty of room and enough 
of water ; let it be an hour coming to a boil. A ham of 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 25 

fifteen pounds requires three hours steady boiling. It 
should then be taken from the pot, the skin removed, and 
fine pounded cracker sifted thickly over the top ; put in 
the oven and baked from one hour to an hour and a half. 
Many people prefer the ham boiled only ; in the latter 
case it should boil, if the above size, for five hours, and 
remain fifteen minutes in the pot after the pot is removed 
from the fire. 

Ohiolcen. Fie. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, and parboil for three quar- 
ters of an hour. Remove the chicken, and add to the 
water in which it is boiled a little salt, pepper, and a tea 
cup of milk thickened with a table spoonful of flour. Line 
a deep dish w r ith nice paste, put in the chicken, and turn 
over it the gravy which you have prepared. Cover it 
with paste immediately, make a small hole in the centre, 
ornament with strips of paste, and bake for forty-five 
minutes. 

Boiled. Salmon. 

A piece of six pounds should be rubbed with salt, tied 
carefully in a cloth, and boil slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. It should be eaten with egg or caper sauce. 
If any remains after dinner, it may be placed in a deep 
dish, a little salt sprinkled over, and a tea cup of boiling 
vinegar poured upon it. Cover it closely, and it will 
make a nice breakfast dish. 



The eggs should be fresh. Have the boiling water in 
a shallow pan, break the eggs separately in a saucer, and 
slip gently into the boiling water ; when all are in the 



26 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

water, place the pan over the fire, until the white of each 
is perfectly set ; remove with a slicer, and lay on buttered 
toast or broiled ham. 



Veal. 

Break the shank bone, wash it clean, and put into two 
quarts of water an onion peeled, a few blades of mace, 
and a little salt ; set it over a quick fire, and remove the 
scum as it rises. Wash carefully a quarter of a pound 
of rice, and when the veal has cooked for about an hour 
skim it well and throw in the rice. Simmer for three 
quarters of an hour slowly. When done put the meat in 
a deep dish, and the rice around it. Mix a little drawn 
butter, stir in some chopped parsley, and pour over the 
veal. 



Clean and wash the fish with care, and wipe it perfectly 
dry ; put into a stew-pan two table spoonfuls of butter, 
dredge in as it melts a little flour, grate half a nutmeg, 
a few blades of mace, a little cayenne, and a tea spoon- 
ful of salt ; mix it all together, then lay in the fish, let 
it brown slightly ; pour over some veal gravy, a lemon 
thinly sliced, stew very slowly for forty minutes, take 
out the fish, and add two glasses of wine to the gravy. 
Lay the fish on a hot dish, and pour over it some of the 
gravy. Serve the rest in a sauce tureen. 

Scolloped Ousters. 

Line a pudding dish with bread crumbs, put in a layer 
of oysters, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a dozen small 
bits of butter, next a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer 
of oysters, and a layer of cracker crumbs, with pepper, 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 27 

butter, and salt, as before ; a layer of oysters, and so on, 
using every other layer, cracker pounded fine, instead of 
bread crumbs. Lastly strain the liquor, and pour over 
the whole, and bake ; if there is not enough liquor to wet 
it thoroughly, use a little milk. 



Ousters. 

Strain the oysters, and put the juice in a sauce-pan on 
the fire ; add a large spoonful of butter and the same of 
flour, well braided together ; add a cup of cream if you 
have it, if not, milk, a little salt and nutmeg ; stir into 
the hot juice, and let it simmer for five minutes. Squeeze 
over the oysters the juice of a lemon, and just before 
they are required for table throw them into the boiling 
juice. 

Oysters are very nice flavored with celery ; this is 
done by cutting the celery stalks into the juice instead 
of the spice, and taken out before the oysters are added. 



Put the juice into a sauce-pan and let it simmer, skim- 
ming it carefully, then rub the yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs and one large spoonful of flour well together, and 
stir into the juice. Cut in small pieces quarter of a 
pound of butter, half a tea spoonful of whole allspice, a 
little salt, a little cayenne, and the juice of a fresh lemon ; 
let all simmer ten minutes, and just before dishing add 
the oysters. This is for two quarts of oysters. 



a, la IMocle (ver^r nice). 

Remove the skin from a dozen tomatoes, medium 
size, cut them up in a sauce-pan, add a little butter, 
pepper, and salt ; when sufficiently boiled, beat up five 



28 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

or six eggs, and just before you serve turn them into the 
sauce-pan, with the tomato, and stir one way for two 
minutes, allowing them time to be well done. 

Griiiral>o 5 (a farvorite Soirtlieim. Dish). 

Cut up a pair of good sized chickens, as fora fricassee, 
flour them well, and put into a pan with a good sized 
piece of butter, and fry a nice brown, then lay them in a 
soup pot, pour on three quarts of hot water, and let them 
simmer slowly for two hours. Braid a little flour and 
butter together for a thickening, and stir in a little pepper 
and salt. Strain a quart or three pints of oysters, and 
add the juice to the soup. Next add four or five slices 
of cold boiled ham, and let all boil slowly together for 
ten minutes. Just before you take up the soup, stir in 
two large spoonfuls of finely powdered sassafras leaves, 
and let it simmer five minutes, then add your oysters. 
If you have no ham, it is very nice without it. Serve in 
a deep dish, and garnish tlie dish w r ith rice. 



Boil a pair of chickens with great care, skimming 
constantly, and keeping them covered with water. When 
tender, take out the chicken and remove every bone from 
the meat ; put a large lump of butter into a frying-pan, 
and dredge the chicken meat well with flour, lay in the 
hot pan ; fry a nice brown, and keep it hot and dry. 
Take a pint of the chicken water, and stir in two large 
spoonfuls of curry powder, two of butter, and one of 
flour, one tea spoonful of salt and a little cayenne ; stir 
until smooth, then mix it with the broth in the pot ; when 
well mixed, simmer five minutes, then add the browned 
chicken. Serve with rice. 



FICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 29 



PART THIRD. 
PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 



Tomato 

Eight pounds peeled tomatoes, four of powdered sugar, 
cinnamon, ^cloves, and allspice, each one ounce. Boil 
one hour, and then add a quart of boiling vinegar. 

Pickled Ou-curnlbers (very nice). 

To a gallon of water add a quart of salt, put in the 
cucumbers, and let them stay over night. In the morning 
wash them out of the brine, and put them carefully into 
a stone jar. Boil a gallon of vinegar, put in, while cold, 
quarter of a pound of cloves and a table spoonful of 
alum ; when it boils hard, skim it well and turn over the 
cucumbers. In a week they will be fit for use. 



Olion. 

A peck of tomatoes, two quarts of green peppers, half 
a peck of onions, two cabbages cut as for slaw, and two 
quarts of mustard seed. Have a large firkin, put in a 
layer of sliced tomatoes, then one of onions, next one of 
peppers, lastly cabbage ; sprinkle over some of the mus- 
tard seed, repeat the layers again, and so on till you have 
used up the above quantity. Boil a gallon of vinegar, 
with a bit of alum, two ounces of cloves and two of all- 



30 PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 

spice tied in a little bag, and boiled with the vinegar ; 
skim it well and turn into the firkin. Let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then pour the whole into a large ket- 
tle, and let it boil five minutes ; turn into the firkin, and 
stand away for future use. 

Toiraato Oli.o>vcler. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, six green peppers, and 
four onions ; strew a tea cup of salt over them. In the 
morning turn off the water, and put them in a kettle with 
vinegar enough to cover them, a tea cup of sugar, one of 
grated horseradish, a table spoonful of cloves, allspice, 
and cinnamon, each. Boil until soft. 



TMcklecl 

Cut a cabbage in about eight pieces ; soak it in cold 
water two or three hours ; strain it thoroughly from the 
water, put it into the jar, sprinkling a little salt on each 
layer, add a few cloves, a little allspice and pepper, and a 
few slices of onions. Pour boiling vinegar sufficient to 
cover it. After standing twenty-four hours scald the 
vinegar again. In two or three days it is fit for use. 



Oyster 

Take a gallon of fresh oysters, drain off the liquor, 
and pound or mash them well with a pestle. To a quart 
of the oysters add a quart of wine, one half ounce of 
mace, one of ground allspice, quarter of a pound of salt, 
simmer all together for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain 
through a sieve, and when cold bottle and seal. 

Ficollilly. 

Of cut cucumbers, beans, and cabbage, each four quarts, 



PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. . 31 

of cut peppers and onions two quarts each, celery and 
nasturtions four quarts each. Pour on boiling vinegar, 
flavored strongly with mustard, mustard seed, and ground 
cloves. 

IPielcle for dLaily TJse. 

A gallon of vinegar, three quarters pound of salt, 
quarter pound of ginger, an ounce of mace, quarter 
ounce of cayenne pepper, and an ounce of mustard seed, 
simmered in vinegar, and when cold put in a jar. You 
may throw in fruits and vegetables when you choose. 



Oysters. 

Take two quarts of oysters, put them in a sauce-pan, 
and if they are fresh, salt them ; let them simmer on the 
fire, but not boil ; take out the oysters, and add to the 
liquor in the sauce-pan a pint of vinegar, a small handful 
of whole cloves, quarter of an ounce of mace, and two 
dozen peppercorns. Let it come to a boil, and when the 
oysters are cold in the jar pour the liquor on them. 

IPieltlecl Peppers. 

Do not pick them till just as they begin to turn red ; 
then soak them for ten or twelve days in strong salt and 
water ; take them from the brine and soak them in clear 
water for a day. Wipe them dry, and put them away in 
cold vinegar ; or if you wish them milder, remove the 
seeds and scald the vinegar, not boil. 

Cold Slaw. 

A white, hard head of cabbage, cut in halves and laid 
in cold water, then shave it very fine. Boil from a half 
to a pint of vinegar, stir into it the well-beaten yolk of an 
egg, and then turn over the cabbage, but not till a short 
time before using. 



32 PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 



I3ostoii. Oolcl 

Shave the cabbage as above, and use the following 
dressing : The yolks of two eggs, a little sweet oil, a 
good pinch of salt, two tea spoonfuls of mustard flour, a 
bit of pepper, mixed together thoroughly, then stir into 
it gradually half a pint of vinegar, and turn over it as it 
goes to the table. 

Oliicken Oelery. 

Chop the remains of chicken or turkey, and mix with 
it an equal proportion of celery, a little salt and vinegar 
only, although some like a dressing as for slaw, but this 
takes away too much of the celery taste. It may be 
prepared with lettuce instead of celery. 

Tomato !etelru/p. 

One peck of tomatoes, one great spoonful of cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg each, half a large spoon- 
ful of black pepper, half a tea spoonful of cayenne, and a 
pint and a half of vinegar. Stew the tomatoes and strain 
them, and then add the spice and vinegar. This will 
make three bottles. 

IPielclecl 3?ea.clxes. 

Boil together one gallon good vinegar and four pounds 
of brown sugar for a few moments, and skim it well. 
Take ripe clingstone peaches, remove the down with a 
flannel cloth, and stick a few cloves in each. Put them 
in a glass or earthen vessel, and pour the liquor upon 
them boiling hot. Cover them, and let them stand in a 
cool place a week or ten clays ; then pour off the liquor, 
and boil it as before ; after which, return it boiling to the 
peaches, cover carefully and place away for . future use. 



PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. S3 

Salad. 

May be made as chicken salad, and dressed, if you like, 
as slaw. Some people stew the meat and serve hot. 
The best way is to remove from the shell, being sure to 
remove the poison vein, which may be found in the body 
of the creature, by drawing a sharp knife gently through 
the middle of the back lengthwise, not cutting entirely 
through, but open the gash with the fingers, when a single 
black or dark-colored vein may be seen, which must be 
removed, and then the meat will be perfectly harmless. 
Arrange the meat handsomely on a dish, decorating with 
small claws, and let each one dress according to fancy. 

Tomatoes ITriecl (very nice). 

Do not pare them, but cut in slices, as an apple ; dip in 
cracker, pounded and sifted, and fry in a little good butter. 



Maryland Oold. 

Lay the cabbage in halves into cold water for one hour ; 
shave down the head into small slips with a sharp knife. 
Put in a sauce-pan a cup of vinegar, and let it boil ; then 
add a cup of cream, with the yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten ; let these boil up, and pour over the cabbage. As 
soon as the cabbage is cut, and before the vinegar, &c., is 
poured on, it should be sprinkled with a little salt and 
pepper. 

3 



34 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 



PART FOURTH. 

BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN 

CAKES, &c. 

!M:rs. Hunter's Holls. 

Into three pints of flour, rub a little butter ; add three 
eggs, half a pint of yeast, and a sufficiency of warm milk 
to mix these ingredients well. Make it in the evening for 
next morning's breakfast. 



Biscuits. 

Into a quart of flour, rub one table spoonful of lard and 
one of butter, with two tea spoons of cream of tartar. 
Dissolve a tea spoon of soda, and one and a half of salt 
in half pint of water, and if this will not wet the flour 
sufficiently add a little more cold water ; roll it out, 
handling as little as possible, and cut with a tin into 
rounds. Bake in a quick oven, quarter of an hour 
should bake them. Everything depends on a quick oven. 
Many use milk instead of water, but if made and baked 
properly water is nice enough to render them fit for any 
epicure. 



Sour IMCiHc Biscuits. 

To be made as the above, with the exception sour milk 
is used in the place of cream of tartar, and the soda is 
dissolved in the milk. Tea spoon of soda to a pint of sour 
milk. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 35 

Mrs. King-'s Tea Oakes. 

Three cups of flour, one of milk, one egg, small bit of 
butter, half cup of sugar, one and a half tea spoons 
of yeast powder. 

Mrs. Heed's Bro^vn Bread. 

Two cups of Indian meal even full, three cups of flour 
or Graham meal heaped, a pint and a half of sour milk, 
a cup of molasses, tea spoon and a half of soda, one of 
salt, steamed four hours. Brown lightly in the oven 
afterwards. 

Mrs. ITalbens' Economy- Oalces. 

Rusked bread, or that which is old and sour, can be 
made into very nice fritters. The bread should be cut in 
small pieces, and soaked in cold water till very soft. 
Drain off the water and mash the bread fine. 

To three pints of bread thus prepared, add two eggs, 
four table spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, one tea spoon of 
soda in a cup of milk, which must be stirred into the 
bread, and a little more milk added, until thin enough to 
fry. 

Muffins. 

Mix a quart of flour with a pint and a half of luke- 
warm milk, half a cup of yeast, two eggs, tea spoon 
of salt, two table spoonfuls of lukewarm melted butter, 
set it in a warm place and let it rise. Butter cups, and 
bake a light brown. 

Potato Rolls. 

Boil four good sized potatoes, with their skins on ; 
squeeze them in a towel, to make them dry and mealy, 



36 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 

then remove the skin, and mash them perfectly smooth, 
with a spoonful of butter and a little salt ; add the yolks 
of three eggs, well beaten, and stir into the potatoes, then 
add one pint and a half of milk, and a large spoonful of 
yeast ; beat in flour enough to make a stiff dough ; set it 
to rise, and when risen make it into cakes the size of an 
egg ; let them rise again, and bake a light brown. 

Potato Thread. 

Sift four pounds of flour into a pan ; boil one pound of 
potatoes, skin, and mash them very carefully through the 
cullender ; mix this with equal quantities of milk and 
water, stir with a knife, add a table spoon of salt, and beat 
well ; a cup of yeast. 



Take one quart of dough from the bread at an early 
hour in the morning ; break three eggs, separating yolks 
and whites, both to be whipped to a light froth ; mix them 
into the dough, and gradually add milk- warm water, until 
it is a batter the consistency of buckwheat cakes ; beat it 
well, and let it rise till breakfast time. Have the griddle 
hot and nicely greased ; pour on the batter in small round 
cakes, and bake a light brown. 



s Bread. 

Take two quarts of flour, put before the fire to dry ; 
make a hole in the middle, and put in half a pint of yeast ; 
cover it and let it stand till morning, then take a pint of 
milk-warm water with two tea spoonfuls of salt, and stir 
into it, and in half an hour it will be ready for baking. 

tye Oakes (nice). 

Six heaping table spoonfuls of rye and six of Indian 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 37 

meal, three of flour with two tea spoons cream tartar, mix 
well, then add two table spoonfuls of molasses, tea spoon of 
salt, and a tea spoon of soda in a scant pint of water, stir 
well, and if this quantity of water does not thin the bat- 
ter sufficiently, add a little more. They are very nice 
made of sour or buttermilk instead of cream tartar and 
water. They should be about as thick as the batter for 
pancakes. Grease the griddle well to prevent them from 
adhering, and fry to a nice brown. 

Very nice for breakfast or supper, and may be eaten 
with butter or syrup. 



Brcrwn. 

One quart of Indian and one quart of rye mixed well 
together ; half a cup of molasses, one table spoonful of 
salt, table spoonful of cream of tartar, two thirds of 
a table spoon of soda, dissolved in a pint of cold water. 
When dissolved wet the mixture with it, and if it does not 
thoroughly wet it, add a little more. -It should be 
nearly as stiff as bread. Bake moderately from four to 
five hours. Some people add raisins, which makes it very 
nice. 

I>roj> Biscuits. 

One pint sour milk, tea spoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, table spoonful of butter, table spoon of white sugar, 
a little salt, and flour enough to make it stiff enough to 

' O O 

drop. 



Drop Oakes. 

One pint of sour milk, tea spoon of soda, tea spoon of 
salt, three eggs, and rye meal to make a batter, not quite 
thin enough to run. Drop with a spoon on a tin sheet, 



33 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &o. 

and bake in a quick oven. They are very nice baked in 
muffin rings, but will take longer to cook than a griddle 
cake. 



Gri'iclclle Oalces. 

Boil a cup of rice, soft, in four cups of milk ; while 
warm add a little flour, when cold add three eggs and a 
tea spoon of salt. Fry as other griddle cakes. 

Slapjacks. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, tea spoon of soda, tea 
spoon of salt, flour enough to make a thin batter. Butter 
your griddle, and fry them the size of a plate ; when one 
is done turn it on the dish, sprinkle on a little white 
sugar, and continue in this way till they are all fried. 
Always fry them with butter. Some people grate over a 
little nutmeg with the sugar on each one. The charm is 
to eat them while hot. 



Oake. 

One quart of buttermilk or sour milk, one quart Indian 
meal, one quart of flour, one cup of molasses, tea spoon 
of soda (two scant tea spoons if the milk is soui\), tea 
spoon of salt. 



Oliloe's 

One pint of rich milk, one tea spoon of soda dissolved 
in it, tea spoon of salt, two table spoonfuls of molasses, 
two eggs, Indian meal to make a batter to fry. 



Hong-ht on's Inxlian Oake. 

One pint of sour milk, two thirds of a cup of butter, 
cup of sugar, tea spoon of soda dissolved in the milk, one 
egg, and one pound of Indian meal. To be baked in a 
moderately quick oven. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 39 

IMalden Indian Galte. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in the milk, three cups of meal, three 
cups of flour, tea spoon of salt. To be baked. 

Old Times Johnny Oalie (very nice). 

A quart of Indian meal, tea spoon of salt, scalded well 
with boiling water. Baked about half an inch thick. 
When done split through the middle, cut in pieces for 
table, and dip in melted butter. 

"Var let ie s . 

Two eggs beat light, tea spoon of salt, the egg thick- 
ened with flour to roll out thin as a wafer ; cut in strips 
one inch wide and four inches long, wind it round your 
finger, and fry them as you do doughnuts. 

Mrs. Oonrtney's TVaifles. 

A pint bowl of cold boiled rice, thin it with cold milk, 
beaten well, one egg, a small piece of butter, and flour 
to make a batter stiff enough to bake. 

Use pork to grease your waffle iron, not butter. 

Third Bread. 

One and a half pints each Indian, rye, and flour ; one 
cup of molasses, two heaping spoonfuls cream of tartar, 
one heaping spoonful of soda, one table spoonful of salt. 

"Wet it with equal quantities milk and water, not too 
stiff, but so that it will stir easily. Bake from one and a 
half to two hours. 

Hoe Oake. 

One pint of Indian meal, tea cup of flour, two table 



40 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 

spoonfuls of molasses, a quart of cold milk, tea spoon 
saleratus, tea spoon salt. 

Bake with a good fire, half an hour. 



y Tea Oalte. 

Two cups of sour milk, half a cup of white sugar, 
one egg, tea spoon of soda, tea spoon of salt, flour enough 
to make it a stiff douh. Beat it well and fill with ber- 






ries. To be eaten with butter. . 

IBerry Oorn Calce. 

Two cups Indian meal, one cup of flour, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, tea spoon of salt, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in a pint of sour milk, or, if the milk 
is sweet, use two tea spoons of cream of tartar. To be 
filled with berries, and baked till a nice brown. 



Mrs. Knigli.-t's Xioe GJ-ricicile Oalses. 

Into a cup of cold boiled rice work two eggs, a tea 
spoon of salt, a tea spoon of soda with a pint of milk, 
and add flour enough for a good batter. Fry them, and 
as they are cooked sprinkle a little white sugar over 
them. 



Corn 

Two cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, two eggs, 
piece of butter size of an egg, melted, two tea spoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one tea spoonful of soda, and one pint 



of niilk. Baked in muffin rings. 



Stirrecl Bread. 

To four table spoonfuls of Indian meal, add three tea 
spoonfuls of salt, a bit of lard the size of an egg, pour 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 41 

on two quarts of boiling water ; let it stand until blood 
warm ; stir into one cup of yeast one tea spoonful of 
soda, and pour to the mixture, then add flour enough 
to make it as stiff as you can stir it. Rise and bake. 

Indian Oalce. 

One cup of cold milk, two thirds of a cup of sugar, 
one egg, half a tea spoonful of saleratus, stir in Indian 
meal to form a thin paste. 



Pindar's Dyspepsia Bread. 

One pint bowl of Graham flour, dissolve one half tea 
spoonful of soda in two thirds of a cup of homemade 
yeast, and add to the mixture one tea cup of molasses ; 
pour in sufficient warm water to make it somewhat 
thinner than flour bread. 



Parsons' 

One pound of flour, small piece of butter big as an 
egg, one egg, quarter pound white sugar, gill of milk, 
two great spoonfuls of yeast. 

M!rs. Olarke's Bread. 

Two quarts of flour, one tea spoonful salt, butter, size 
half an egg, one cup of homemade yeast, or half a cup 
of baker's yeast ; add lukewarm water and knead ten 
minutes ; stand over night and knead fifteen minutes in 
the morning ; put in pans, and let it rise for an hour. 
This will make a pan of biscuit, and one or two loaves. 

* 

M/tiffins. 

Beat one egg lightly, add a quart of warm milk, cut 
up into it a spoonful of lard and a spoonful of butter, 



42 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 

with a little salt ; let it be of the consistency of rather 
a thick batter ; set it to rise and bake in rings. 

Rice "Waffles. 

Beat three eggs very light, stir them into one pint and 
a half of flour, adding by degrees, as you mix in the 
flour, two pints of milk, then add a pint of boiled rice, 
with a table spoonful of butter stirred in while the rice 
is hot ; salt to the taste, and one table spoonful of good 
yeast ; if they are made at noon they will be fit for 
baking at tea time. 

Baltimox'e Delicious Bread. 

Two tumblers of rice flour, two tea cups of wheat 
flour, three tea spoonfuls of cream of tartar stirred in, 
two large spoonfuls of butter cut up finely, a little salt, 
two well-beaten eggs, two tea spoonfuls of soda dissolved 
in two tea cups of new milk ; mix well together, and 
bake in a pan like pound cake. 



Breacl. 

Warm one pint of milk, cut in small pieces one table 
spoonful of butter ; when cool add one egg beat light, and 
flour enough like other bread, a gill of yeast ; knead 
well, rise over night, and bake in pan. 

Waffles. 

* 

To two tea cups of hot hominy add a spoonful of 
good butter, when cold a cup of flour, a little salt, three 
well-beaten eggs, milk to make a stiif batter, mix well, 
and bake in waffle irons. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 43 



Olarke's Grraham Bread. 

One quart of water, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
yeast, mix in Graham flour to make a thin dough, stand 
over night to rise, stir in the morning, put in pans, let it 
rise in the pan and bake. 

Delicate Wafers. 

Rub into one pint of flour half a tea spoon of cream 
of tartar, quarter of a tea spoon of soda, bit of butter 
size of an egg, rub the butter into the flour, dissolve soda 
in water enough to roll out thin, little salt. 

Indian. Fritters. 

Scald one quart of corn meal with milk (half milk 
and half water will answer), stir in half pint of flour, 
half pint of yeast, and a little salt ; let it rise, and 
fry on griddle. 



Fritters. 

Turn a quart of boiling milk on a pint of Indian 
meal, stir in three large spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, 
tea spoon of salt. 

Jamaica Plains Indian Cake. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups of flour, one cup of 
molasses, tea spoonful of soda in a large pint of sour 
milk. 



Bread. 

One pint of boiling water, one pint of new milk, one 
tea spoon soda, the same of salt, flour enough to form a 
batter ; let it rise, and add sufficient flour to form a 
dough, and bake immediately. 



44 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 

Batter Galtes. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one table spoon of 
sugar, one pint of flour, and a little salt. To be fried 
on a griddle. 

Tea Oalce. 

Three cups of sugar, four of flour, one of butter, one 
of milk, three eggs, one tea spoonful of soda. If it is 
so stiff it will not stir easily, add a little milk. 



s. ITal>ens' Indian Oalce. 

Three cups corn meal, two cups flour, butter size 
of an egg, half cup of molasses, pint and a half of sour 
milk, tea spoon soda. 



PUDDINGS. 



PART FIFTH. 
PUDDINGS. 

General Directions. 

If you intend to boil a pudding, always have the water 
boiling before you put in the pudding. 

Many people use a pudding cloth, kept expressly for 
the purpose, made of the thickest twilled cotton, and 
always, before using it, wash it out in clean water, and 
flour it well, before pouring in the pudding, allowing 
room for the pudding to swell according to the size 
designed. 

I much prefer the tin pudding boiler, which is hollowed 
in the centre, that the pudding may be thoroughly cooked. 
This should be well buttered before the pudding is turned 
in, which will prevent it from adhering to the boiler. 
The cover should be tied on, and a thick cloth tied 
tightly over the cover. 

All puddings in which berries are used require more 
flour than those without ; and it must be remembered 
fruit should always be added the last thing. In baking 
puddings, always be sure and butter the dish well before 
the pudding is turned in. 



Yankee 

One quart of milk boiled, one pint Indian meal, two 



46 PUDDINGS. 

cups of molasses, a dozen sweet apples cut in small 
pieces, and bake it with a steady fire three hours. 



. Freeman's Ooeoamit 

To a grated cocoanut, pour a quart of boiling milk ; 
when cool, add six eggs well beaten, a coffee cup of 
granulated sugar, a table spoonful of butter (which 
should be put into the milk while hot) , two table spoon- 
fuls of rose water, and half a tea spoonful of salt. Line 
your dishes with a nice paste, turn in the pudding 
and bake. 

Or-een Oorn 3?u.clclinsf. 

^^^ 

Three cups of grated sweet green corn, two quarts of 
milk, eight eggs, half a cup of melted butter, one nut- 
meg, tea spoon of salt. 

Bake it one hour, and eat with nice sauce. 

Potato IPiiclcliiig'. 

Boil six or seven good sized potatoes, and when 
thoroughly done, peel and mash with milk to a thin 
batter ; add half a pound of white sugar, four eggs, the 
grated peel and half the juice of a lemon. Bake three 
quarters of an hour. 



M!r-s. Fall's 

Six table spoonfuls of butter, six of sugar, six of 
cream, six of wine, six of egg after beaten up, six of 
sifted apple. To be baked in shallow dishes lined with 
paste, and narrow strips of paste across the pudding' 
after it is in the dish. 



PUDDINGS. 47 

Orantoerry Pudding-. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, and flour enough to make 
a thick batter, then add one pint of cranberries, and boil 
two hours. It must be eaten with nice sauce. 



Boiled Oracker 

Split four soft crackers, pour a pint of boiling milk 
over them, and add immediately a cup of suet well 
chopped ; when cool, add five eggs well beaten, a little 
mace, and as many raisins as you like. Boil three 
hours, and eat with sauce. 

IMtrs. Jackson's Pancakes (very nice). 
Three pints of milk, eight eggs, and flour enough to 
make a thick batter, tea spoon of salt, add six or eight 
apples chopped fine, and fry in lard. 

Mlrs. Hooper's Sago Pudding'. 

Take h-alf a pound of sago and wash it well, put it 
into a sauce-pan with a quart of new milk and a stick of 
cinnamon, and boil it gently till it thickens, stirring it 
often, as it is apt to burn. When it has thickened, take 
out the cinnamon, and stir in half a pound of butter 
until it is melted, then add one coffee cup of white sugar ; 
when cool, the yolks of nine eggs and whites of five well 
beaten, a gill of wine, half a nutmeg grated ; mix all 
well together, put over a slow fire, and stir till it is 
thick. Bake three quarters of an hour, and send to the 
table hot. 



Pudding 1 . 

Pare and core ten or twelve apples and place in your 
pudding dish, put a little sugar and cinnamon in the 



48 PUDDINGS. 

centre of each apple (from which the core has been 
taken), take a cup of tapioca, soak it well in water, and 
when properly soaked, pour it over the apples and bake. 
To be eaten with sauce. 



Poverty 

Soak your bread in milk the night before using ; when 
ready, butter your pudding dish, and place in a layer of 
the bread. Have a dozen apples pared and sliced, and 
place a layer of apples on the bread, another layer of 
bread, then of apples, and so on, till your dish is filled ; 
let the last layer be bread, and bake it an hour. To 
be eaten with sauce. 



M!ar"l>leli.eacl I3erry IPriclcliiig- (Very nice). 

One pint of molasses, flour enough to make a very 
stiff batter, so that the spoon will stand up in it, tea 
spoon of salt, and as many berries as you can possibly 
add to it ; boil three and a half or four hours. To be 
eaten with butter. 



Currant 

^^J9 

Half a pint of milk, fourteen table spoonfuls of flour, 
four eggs, a little salt, and last your currants ; boil three 
hours. To be eaten with a rich sauce. 

MJTS. lEJrougliton's Arro^vroot Pud- 
ding-. 

A tea cup of arrowroot, mixed thin, with cold milk ; 
pour to it a quart of boiling milk, constantly stirring the 
while, then add, while hot, a piece of butter as large as 
an egg, a coffee cup of sugar, and when cold add eight 
eggs well beaten, the peel of a lemon grated, with the 



PUDDINGS. 49 

juice ; an hour will bake it. It is nicer when cold ; bake 
in shallow dishes. 



Mrs. Russell's Batter 

One quart of milk, fourteen table spoonfuls of flour, 
six eggs ; mix the flour and milk together, let it be well 
beaten, and then add the eggs after they are whipped to 
a froth. Boil it two hours, and eat with rich sauce. 

Baked A/pple Pudding?. 

Six apples well stewed, quarter of a pound of butter, 
half of it stirred into the apple while hot, and sugar to 
your taste. When cold add six eggs, well beaten, to the 
apple. 

Pound and sift six crackers, butter your dish, and put 
in a layer of cracker, and a layer of your prepared 
apple, and thus until you have filled your dish ; let the 
cracker be the upper layer, and put the remainder of 
your butter in small bits upon it. Bake in two shallow 
dishes for half an hour. 



Mrs. Knig^lrt's BakedL Indian 

Place a quart of milk to boil, butter a deep earthen 
dish, and on the bottom place a tea spoonful of salt. 
Have your meal ready sifted, and when your milk boils, 
turn it into the dish, and stir one way, as fast as possible, 
a large cup of meal into it, then add a table spoonful of 
butter, one of cinnamon, a cup of molasses, and after 
stirring well, let it stand till perfectly cold. When you 
place it in the oven, turn a half pint of milk on the top 
of the pudding without stirring it, and let it bake three 
or four hours, moderate fire. It should be taken from 
the oven two hours before it is used, that the whey may 

4 



50 PUDDINGS. 

cool, which makes a most delicious jelly. It is best to 
be made over night, and put into the oven the first thing 
in the morning. 

Tapioca Pudding 1 . 

To one quart of milk add eight table spoonfuls of 
tapioca, place it in a deep dish or pail, and set it in a 
kettle of boiling water till it thickens, then stir in two 
table spoonfuls of butter till it has melted, and put the 
whole to cool. When cool enough add four eggs, a little 
cinnamon, four table spoonfuls of sugar, white, and a 
glass of wine. Turn the whole into a pudding dish that 
has a lining of pastry, and bake immediately. 



Delicate 

One quart of milk ; while boiling, stir in one pint of 
flour after it is sifted, six eggs, six table spoonfuls of 
white sugar, one spoonful of butter, grated peel and 
juice of two lemons. All the ingredients must be w r ell 
beaten together, before they are stirred into the milk ; 
stir one way, without stopping, till it has boiled for a 
minute or two ; take it off and turn into your pudding 
dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar and cream if 
you like. 



. Eaton's Apple 

Pare and chop fine some of the best cooking apples, 
butter a pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides half an 
inch thick with grated bread and small lumps of butter, 
then add a layer of apple, w T ith sugar sprinkled and nut- 
meg grated over, another layer of crumbs and butter, 
and a layer of apples, until the dish is filled, and pour 



PUDDINGS. 51 

mi 

over the whole a cup of niilk, and bake it. Eaten with 
sauce. 

Mrs. Knight's Sago IPridding. 

Put seven eighths of a cup of sago to a quart of cold 
milk, add half a tea spoon of salt, and turn into a tin 
sauce-pan ; place a large pan with boiling water on the 
stove, and place the sauce-pan in it ; let it remain till the 
sago is thick, then remove it from the sauce-pan to your 
pudding dish, and while hot add half a cup of butter ; 
when cool add four eggs, well beaten, a cup of white 
sugar, a gill of rose water, and half a glass of wine, or 
the grated peel and juice of a lemon, as you prefer. 
Bake until a nice brown. 

Baked Bread r*ndding. 

Soak all your nice bits of bread the evening previous ; 
in the morning add half a cup of butter and four eggs. 
Raisins if you like. 

Bake an hour and a half, and eat with sauce. 



Boiled Indian 

Take one quart of Indian meal and two tea spoonfuls 
of salt, scald with boiling water enough to swell the meal, 
then add half a pound of suet, chopped fine, raisins or 
apple, as you choose, and boil for four hours. 

This is very nice to eat with roast pork. 



Lemon 

Peel of three lemons grated, and juice of two, one 
pound, of, sifted white sugar, half a pound of melted but- 
ter, a pint of cream or milk, eight eggs, a gill of rose 
water, and bake until you think it is done. 



52 PUPDINGS. 



A pint of milk, three table spoonfuls of the best flour, 
six eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. 

Fill your cup two thirds full, and bake about a quarter 
of an hour. Eat with rich sauce. 



One pint of milk, three eggs, tea spoon of salt, half 
a tea spoon of soda, and flour enough to make a thick 
batter. When this is well beaten, add your berries, as 
many as you can conveniently, and boil three hours. To 
be eaten with sauce. 



I > iiclcliiig > . 

Pick and wash a coffee cup of rice, and put into your 
sauce-pan, with three and a half cups of water, and a 
tea spoon of salt. Place it on the fire, and let it boil very 
slowly. It is best it should boil on the outside of the 
stove or range. Do not stir it, but when it is done take 
it from the fire. Whip two eggs, and just before you 
turn the rice into the pudding dish stir the egg into it, 
which, if well and quickly stirred, will turn the rice to a 
beautiful gold color. It is to be eaten with sauce. 



One quart of milk, eight eggs, and eight table spoonfuls 
of flour. Boil it one hour, and eat with sauce. 



Boil half a squash, good size, and sift through a 
sieve, add to it two table spoonfuls of butter, a cup and 
a half of white sugar, six eggs, a quart of milk, three 
table spoonfuls of rose water, one biscuit, pounded very 



BUDDINGS. .53 

fine. -Cover the bottom of your pudding dish with a nice 
paste, fill with the squash, and bake till done. 



Four ounces of butter, with four ounces of sugar, 
worked to a cream, the peel grated, and juice of one 
lemon, half a cup of cream, and four eggs, well beaten. 
To be baked. 



Grate the rind of two large lemons, and add to the 
juice of one the yolks of twelve eggs, a pint of cream, 
sweetened to vour taste with white sugar, and baked. 

ti <~j 



.Applet on's 

Half a baker's white loaf, nine eggs, half a pound of 
suet chopped fine, half a pint of rose water, glass of wine. 
Sugar and spice to your taste. Raisins chopped as you 
please. Baked. 



Take one quart of milk, and warm it enough to re- 
move the chill ; in summer it does not need warming at 
all ; stir into it three table spoonfuls of granulated sugar, 
two of rose water, and four of rennet wine, stir it gently, 
not more than a minute, let it stand, and do not move it 
till it is curdled, then place it gently in the ice chest, and 
grate nutmeg on the top. Be careful not to shake it in 
moving, for if the curd is disturbed it will turn to whey. 



Boiled .Ajpple 

Take one quart of flour, two tea spoons of cream of 
tartar, rubbed into it. Dissolve one tea spoon of soda 



54 PUDDINGS. 

and one of salt in a cup of water ; rub into the flour one 
table spoonful of lard and one of butter ; when well rubbed 
in, wet the flour with the water in which the soda is dis- 
solved, and roll out an inch thick. 

Have some greenings pared, cored, and cut in pieces, 
and fill the paste with the apples, then gather up the 
edges of the paste, and cover the apple entirely over. 
Dredge your pudding-cloth with flour, put the pudding in 
and tie it, allowing a very little room for it to swell, and 
boil three hours. It must be eaten with sauce. 



JElalced Batter 

One pint of milk, three eggs, two cups of flour, two 
cups of apple cut small. Bake one hour, and eat with 
sauce. 



Baked IPliiixi I?ud" 
ding*. 

Two white loaves (baker's) broken into two quarts of 
milk the night previous to using ; add also your raisins, 
and let them soak with the bread, either one or two 
pounds of raisins, as you like. Ill the morning cut in 
half a pound of butter in small pieces, beat a dozen eggs 
and add with the butter to the bread, and bake from an 
hour and a half to two hours. 

To be eaten with rich sauce. 



Hooper's Bird's ISTest 

Pare and core as many apples as will stand in a dish, 
and fill the holes with sugar. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, eight eggs, and 
quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour it over the apples, 
grate a nutmeg over the top, and bake one hour. 



PUDDINGS. 55 



Oottag"e 

Two cups of flour, one of sugar, one of milk, two 
table spoonfuls of butter, one tea spoon cream of tartar, 
and one egg.; beat all together, then add a tea spoon of 
soda, and lastly the juice of a lemon ; bake half an hour 
in a moderate oven, and eat with wine sauce. 



ISice Pudding:. 

Boil a tea cup of rice in three and a half cups of water, 
with tea spoon of salt ; when cooked add a cup of sugar, 
and half a cup of butter, and let it cool ; beat three eggs 
well, and add with a pint of milk. 

Flavor to suit vour taste, and bake till done. 

* 



' Rice PTidding- (Ver;v nice). 

Boil a large cup of rice in three cups of water and a 
little salt ; when cooked add one cup of molasses, table 
spoonful of cinnamon, three pounded soft crackers, and 
a pint of milk. Put in two table spoonfuls of butter while 
the rice is hot. To be baked until browned. 



. ITa/bens' Mia.i'H^or-oii.g'li Puddings 

Six large sour apples, pared, sliced, and stewed. When 
cooked, add six eggs, six ounces of butter, half pound of 
sugar, the peel, grated, with juice of one lemon, two soft 
crackers pounded and sifted, a little rose water, one gill 
of cream, and a little nutmeg. To be baked in shallow 
dishes. 

Macaroni Pudding 1 . 

Break one pint of macaroni into short pieces and boil 
till soft ; when cool, add four eggs, half pound of sugar, 



$6 PUDDINGS, 

half cup of butter, nutmeg, and pint and a half of milk. 
Bake till nice brown. 



Pudding (delicious). 

Three quarters of a cup of sago, washed and put into 
one quart of milk ; put into a sauce-pan, and stand in 
boiling water on the range until the sago has well swelled. 
AVhile hot put in two table spoonfuls of butter with one 
cup of white sugar. When cool add the well-beaten 
yolks of four eggs, put in a pudding dish, and bake from 
a half to three quarters of an hour, then remove it from 
the oven and place it to cool. Beat the whites of the 
eggs with two table spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, till 
they are a mass of froth ; spread your pudding with either 
raspberry or strawberry jam, and then put on the frosting ; 
put in the oven for two minutes to slightly brown. If 
made in summer, be sure and keep the white of the eggs 
on ice till you are ready to use them, and beat them in 
the coldest place you can find, as it will make a much 
richer frosting. 

State Ship Pudding (very nice). 

Three cups of flour, one of molasses, one of water, one 
of suet chopped fine, one of raisins also chopped, tea 
spoonful of allspice, half a tea spoon of soda dissolved in 
the molasses. TO be boiled three hours and a half, and 
eaten with butter or sauce. The same pudding is very 
nice taking four instead of three cups of flour, and using 
apples instead of raisins. 

]Marl>lehead Curr-ant Pudding., 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one tea spoon of salt, one 



PUDDINGS. 57 

tea spoon of soda, dissolved in milk flour enough for a 
stiff dough, and currants to taste. 
Boil two and a half hours. 



Mrs. "Woleott's 

Pare and quarter some apples, sprinkle a little sugar 
and cinnamon over them, cook them in the oven till soft, 
cool and pour over them a batter made of three eggs, a 
pint of milk, and flour to thicken sufficiently ; bake it, 
and eat with wine sauce. 



.Apple 

One quart of boiling water turned upon a cup of pearl 
sago. Have your pudding dish filled with apples pared 
and quartered, stir the sago well, and turn over the apple ; 
bake, and eat with sauce. 



Pound twenty crackers fine, add five cups of milk, and 
let it swell. Beat well fourteen eggs, a pint bowl of 
sugar, tea cup of molasses, two small nutmegs, two tea 
spoonfuls of ground clove, three of ground cinnamon, two 
of salt, and half a tea spoonful of soda, and add to the 
cracker lastly a pint bowl heaped of raisins, and citron 
if you like. This quantity will make two puddings. 



Mrs. Oooliclg-e's Cream. 

One pint of cream, seven eggs, and half a pound of 
flour, a little salt. Stir your cream and flour together, 
and add the eggs after they are well beaten. 

Bake half an hour, and eat with sauce, 



58 PUDDINGS. 



Com 

Twelve ears sweet corn grated to one quart of sweet 
milk ; add a quarter of a pound of good butter, quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and four eggs ; bake it from three 
to four hours. 



Jamaica Plain Tapioca 

A cup not quite full of tapioca to a quart of milk ; let 
it stand on the side of the range till it swells ; add while 
hot a table spoonful of butter, cup of white sugar, and let 
it cool ; then add five eggs, well beaten, and flavor to your 
taste. To be baked from three quarters to an hour. It 
is very nice with wine sauce, but for every-day purposes it 
may be eaten without, and three instead of five eggs used. 

Salem. Pudding-. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of chopped suet stirred 
into the flour, one cup of molasses, one of milk, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in the milk, a little salt, tea spoon of 
allspice, tea spoon of cinnamon, and raisins or not, as you 
please. 

Boil in a tin boiler for four hours, and eat with sauce 
less sweet than common. 



Mai~l>lehead Apple 

Eight table spoonfuls of apple, after it is stewed and 
strained through a sieve, five eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter (cream the butter and sugar to- 
gether, add eggs) , the peel of an orange or lemon grated, 
with the juice, and one nutmeg. To be baked in a dish 
lined with paste. 

Carrot Pudding-. 

Boil six large carrots, strain them through a sieve, and 



PUDDINGS. 59 

add half a pound of melted butter, half a pint of cream, 
eight eggs, cinnamon, rose water, wine and sugar to your 
taste ; allow one hour to bake it. 

To be baked in a dish lined with paste. 



Mrs. T^anclall's I^emon 

One pound of grated lemon, half the juice ; one 
pound of sugar, half pound of melted butter, a pint of 
cream, nine eggs, and a gill of rose water. 



Boiled Onstard 

Eight eggs to one quart of milk, five spoonfuls of flour, 
and boil three quarters of an hour. To be served as 
soon as done. To be eaten with sauce. 

. Maizena Pudding-,, 

Four table spoonfuls of maizena, stirred into two eggs, 
and milk enough to make it smooth. Set a quart of milk 
to boil, and just before it boils stir in the above, con- 
* stantly stirring the same way till it thickens ; remove 
from the fire, and flavor. To be cold, and eaten with 
milk or cream, and sugar. It is very nice to omit the 
eggs, and take six table spoonfuls of maizena to a quart 
of milk (stirring the same way), and eaten warm with 
wine sauce. 

Pancake s . 

Beat four eggs very light, add three table spoonfuls of 
good brown sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a table spoonful 
of orange or rose water, and a quart of milk. Cut into 
nice slices, an inch thick, a stale loaf of bread ; remove the 
crust from the sides, and cut each slice into halves and 
lay them in a deep dish, on them pour the above custard, 



60 PUDDINGS. 

and let the slices absorb it. Butter your frying pan, and 
when quite hot lay in your bread, and brown both sides ; 
lay them on a hot dish, and sprinkle over them a little 
loaf sugar. Serve hot. 



To one pint of milk add little more than half a pint of 
flour, three eggs well beaten, and a little salt. Fry 
brown on the griddle. As there is a great difference in 
flour, it is w r ell to fry one only at first, and if not quite 
stiff enough, add a little more flour, according to your 
judgment. 



Add to one quart of flour milk enough to make a stiff 
batter, one large spoonful of good yeast, and set to rise. 
When risen, add the grated rind of two lemons and two 
well beaten eggs to the batter. Pare and slice your 
apples one inch thick, dip into the batter, and drop into 
boiling lard. 

Brown on both sides, sift sugar over, and send to 
table. 



PASTRY. 61 



PART SIXTH. 
PASTRY. 

PASTRY should be handled as lightly as possible. Many 
people mix the flour and butter with a knife or an iron 
spoon. It should be baked as soon as possible after it is 
made, and in a hot oven. A nice pie will be brown, ten- 
der, and flaky. Never put in the filling, such as mince, 
apple, custard, &c., until you are ready to bake them. 

Common I?aste 

Rub half a pound of butter and one spoonful of lard 
into a quart of flour, add a little salt, and cold water 
enough to make a dough ; flour your moulding board and 
roll out the dough. Be sure and not mould it, but 
handle as little as possible. 



IPaste. 

One quart of sifted flour ; cut into this three quarters 
of a pound of nice butter ; then wet it with cold water, 
mix it with a knife, then flour your pie board and turn 
out your paste. Cut up into small, thin pieces a quarter. 
of a pound more butter, and spread it over the paste, 
flouring well, and rolling lightly. If made in summer, 
place it on the ice an hour before using it. 



62 PASTRY. 



Paste. 

Into three pounds of flour rub one even spoonful of 
lard, and cut a pound of butter into it ; wet with cold 
water and stir with a knife. Take it then on the mould- 
ing board, flour it and roll out lightly, and spread into it 
half a pound of butter ; flour it well and roll out again, 
spreading in another half, making two pounds of butter to 
three of flour. 

MjLnoe Pie. 

Two pounds of beef, boiled and chopped ; half a pound 
of suet, chopped fine ; six large apples, pared and chopped ; 
two pounds of currants, half pint of wine, glass of rose 
water, sugar and spice to your taste. 

Beverly Pie. 

Pare and grate some sweet mellow apples, about a 
dozen. To a pint of the grated pulp put a pint of milk, 
two eggs, two table spoonfuls of melted butter, the grated 
peel of a lemon, and half a wine glass of brandy ; 
sweeten to your taste. To be baked in a deep plate, with 
only a lower crust. 



3L<em.on Pies. 

One dozen apples, stewed and strained, on half a 
pound nice butter, nine eggs, the juice and peel grated of 
four lemons, sweetened with white sugar, nutmeg, and 
rose water. 



Mince Pies. 

Three pounds of beef, three pounds of suet, three 
pounds of apples, one and a half chopped raisins, one 
and a half of currants, half pint of wine, half tumbler 



PASTRY. 63 

of brandy, half tumbler of rose water, spice and sugar to 
your taste ; citron or not, as you please, and cider 
enough to wet it well. 

Oreain. Pies. 

Put on a pint of milk to boil. Break two eggs into a 
bowl, and add a cup of white sugar, half a cup of flour, 
and after beating well, stir into the milk just as it 
commences to boil ; keep on stirring one way till it 
thickens ; take it off, and flavor with vanilla, or any other 
flavor you may prefer. 

Previous to making the cream, make the paste for 
three pies, roll out and cover your plates, then roll out 
and cover a second time, and bake. When baked, and 
while warm, separate the edges gently with a knife, and 
lift the upper from the lower paste ; fill in the cream, and 
put on the upper paste. 

Mince Pies, Tvithou.t 3Teat or Apples. 

Six crackers, pounded and wet with milk, two cups of 
sugar, cup and a half of chopped raisins, half a cup of 
vinegar ; spice to your taste, and one glass of wine. 
Makes three pies. 

Apple Pie (Very nice). 

Stew a dozen good-sized greenings ; when done, add a 
table spoonful of butter, a cup of white sugar (more if 
you like them sweet), half a glass of rose water, and a 
grated nutmeg. Make and bake your paste as for cream 
pie, and fill with apple instead of cream. 

Boston Apple Pie. 

Line your plate with paste, slice your apples very thin 
into the plate, sprinkle on as much sugar as you would 



64 PASTRY. 

think the apple required (apples vary so in sweetness you 
cannot be governed by any rule), a little rose water, and 
nutmeg to taste ; cover with the upper paste, make 
a small incision in the middle of the upper crust, and 
bake. Many people think these the nicest kind of apple 
pie. 



I*ie. 

Take a deep earthen pudding pot, fill it with slices of 
apple, then pour on as much molasses as the apple 
requires to sweeten it ; sprinkle over a little cinnamon, 
put over a paste, with a small slit in the middle, and place 
in the oven. After the first paste is baked it may be 
taken oif, and another put on in its place. This should 
be taken off, and the apple remain long enough to be a 
deep red. When cooked enough, take from the oven, and 
immediately break the paste in small pieces, and stir into 
the sauce while hot. To be eaten cold. It is a favorite 
dish with many people, and very nice. 



. GJ-loveir'ss Pan Pie. 

Make a quart of nice apple sauce, flavored as above, 
but sweetened with sugar (nutmeg may be used for 
flavoring if preferred) . Bake the paste very thin on a 
tin sheet, mark it into squares, and when baked break it 
into the apple, and be sure that all the paste is well 
covered in the sauce, for at least two or three hours be- 
fore it is used. 

IMTrs. Jenkins 9 Mlncc Fie. 

A beefs tongue boiled, and chopped finely ; two quarts 
of chopped apple, one quart of beef suet after it is 
chopped, two bowls of stoned raisins, one bowl of cur- 



PASTRY, 65 

rants, quarter of a pound of citron cut very small, half 
pint of sherry wine, two table spoonfuls brandy, three 
table spoonfuls of molasses, two grated nutmegs, two 
table spoonfuls of allspice, one of clove, one of cinnamon, 
a pint of sweet cider ; if sour, sweeten it well with sugar. 
Lastly, add sugar according to your taste. 



l Pie. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, six eggs, well beaten, 
a cup of white sugar not heaped, and a tea spoon of 
vanilla. Line your plates with paste, pour in the custard 
and bake immediately. If you wish pudding, line your 
pudding dish with paste, and bake thick. 



Boil a squash that weighs about six pounds, sift it 
through a sieve, add two quarts of milk, four eggs, well 
beaten, with three soft crackers, pounded as fine as meal. 
If the squash is watery, add another egg or a cracker as 
you prefer. Flavor with ginger or nutmeg, and sweeten 
to taste. A table spoonful of butter, while the squash is 
hot, is a great improvement. Bake in pie plates lined 
with paste. It may be baked deeper in a pudding dish, 
and is very much liked as a pudding by most people. 



Fie. 

One quart of pumpkin to one quart milk, two cups 
sugar, two table spoonfuls of rose water, one of ginger, 
if you like, and four eggs. Baked in deep plates lined 
with paste. One or two eggs less may be used by sub- 
stituting two or three table spoonfuls of maizena, or a soft 
cracker finely powdered. 

5 



66 PASTRY. 



Pie 

Make a rich paste, line a deep dish and bake it. Pare 
and core as many apples as will fill the dish (one layer) , 
put them into a stewpan with four table spoonfuls of 
white sugar, a wine glass of sweet wine, and a little thin 
lemon peel or rose water as you please. Cover the stew- 
pan and let them stew until tender, then let them cool. 
Make a rich, boiled custard ; when quite cold put the ap- 
ples into the dish in which is the paste, and pour over the 
custard. 

Baltimore Fie. 

Roll out some rich puff paste, not quite an inch thick ; 
cut into any shape you please, making each piece of the 
same shape, but smaller than the preceding one, till the 
last is about the size of a cent. Between each piece 
spread some rich preserve or jam ; turn up the edges 
of the paste, and brush the sides and top with the beaten 
yolk of an egg. Lay the pyramid on a tin sheet, and 
bake light brown. Serve hot. 



Fill a pudding dish with pared peaches (stones left 
in), sprinkle over as much sugar as the peaches require, 
a very little water, and cover with puff paste. 

Baltimore -A_p;ple I?ie. 

Fill a pudding dish with pared and cored apples, 
the tart baking-apple ; fill each hole of the apple with 
good brown sugar ; cut the rind of two lemons in very 
thin strips, and lay on top of the apples ; squeeze the 
juice of the lemons into a cup, and add a little cold water ; 



PASTRY. 67 

pour this over the apples, and sprinkle with sugar quite 
thickly ; cover the whole with a nice puff paste, and bake 
slowly one hour. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Rice's Lemon. Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, seven table 
spoonfuls of sugar, six eggs, leaving out the whites 
of four, one tumbler of milk, one table spoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in a paste, and when baked, take the 
whites of the four eggs, with four table spoonfuls of sugar. 
After they are whipped to a froth, put it on the top, and 
bake to a light brown. 



y J?ie. 

Bake the pie in a deep plate, without any lower crust. 
Fill "the plate with berries, and sugar sprinkled over 
them ; cover with paste a small hole in the centre of the 
paste, and bake a light brown. 



68 CAKE. 



PART SEVENTH. 
CAKE. 



Directions for 

The flour used for making cake should always be dried 
and sifted ; always break the eggs separately in a cup. It 
is a good plan to lay the eggs, to be used, for a few hours 
in very cold water before breaking ; they whip better for 
being cold. 

When soda is used, always dissolve it before adding it 
to the general mixture. 

In. winter, soften but do not melt the butter in the milk 
used. 

Never add the fruit to cake until it is ready for baking. 

In baking cake which requires long baking, take white 
paper and lay on the sides, bottom, and top ; it is easily 
removed when the cake is done. 

To ascertain when a loaf of cake is done, take a fine 
knitting-needle and insert in the thickest part of the loaf; 
if it does not stick to the needle, the baking is finished. 

In whipping the whites of eggs, always use a shallow 
dish, and whip them in a cool place. 

Never stop after you commence until they are light, and 
whip them until you can turn the dish over without their 
slipping. 

It is better to beat the yolks and whites of eggs 
separately, except in cake that contains yeast or soda. 



CAKE. 69 

The ingredients of the cake should be -well beaten to- 
gether before the flour is mixed in, for it does not benefit 
the cake by beating after all the flour is added. 

I find by experience that the granulated sugar is purer, 
sweeter, and better in every respect for cakes and all 
pastries than brown sugar. 

The butter and sugar should always be worked to a 
cream, and the other ingredients added afterwards, the 
flour always the last. 

The cake should be turned from the tins as soon as it 
comes from the oven. It requires a much hotter oven 
for cake with soda in it, than for that which is raised 
with yeast. 



Four pounds of flour, one half pound of butter, one 
half pound of sugar, five eggs, half pint of yeast, two 
gills of wine, two tea spoons of ground allspice, one of 
clove, one of cinnamon. Beat it well. 



Oake. 

Seven cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one and a half 
cups of butter, one of molasses, four eggs, a cup and a 
half*of sour milk, a tea spoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, two grated nutmegs, half a pound of raisins 
chopped well, and two ounces of citron cut in rather 
small pieces. 

]>JLrs. Hooper's Spong-e Oalte. 

Beat six eggs together thoroughly ; when well beaten, 
stir in two cups of granulated sugar, two cups of flour, 
and half a tea spoonful of soda dissolved in a table spoonful 



70 CAKE. 

of milk ; beat all well together, then add the grated peel 
and juice of a good-sized lemon or two small ones. Bake 
immediately with a quick oven. 

Mrs. Proctor's iFTimi Cake. 

Two heaping pint bowls of flour, one pint bowl of 
milk, two cups and a half of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, four eggs, one tea spoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the milk, one tea spoon each of cinnamon, clove 
and allspice, one pound of raisins chopped. Bake three 
hours slowly. 

Cream Cake. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of cream, one cup of sugar, 
two eggs, and half a tea spoon of soda. 

Cup Cake. 

Five cups of flour, three of sugar, one and a half of 
butter, six eggs, one cup of milk, with a scant tea spoon 
of soda, one grated nutmeg, and three quarters of a pound 
of currants. It is very nice without the currants. 

Melrose Cake. 

Three cups of flour, one and a half cups of sugar, half 
a cup of butter, half a cup of milk, one tea spoon of 
soda, three eggs, one nutmeg, and a table spoonful of rose 
water. 

Miss Slackler's Roxlmry Cake. 

One and three quarters of a pound of flour, one and a 
half pounds of sugar, three quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, five eggs, half a pint of wine, half a pint of milk, a 
pound and a half of raisins well chopped, a scant 
tea spoonful of soda. 



CAKE. 71 

This will make two loaves, and should be baked two 
hours. 

Tea Oalce. 

Three and a half cups of flour, two of sugar, one of 
butter, four eggs, tea spoon of soda in table spoonful of 
milk or wine, half grated nutmeg. Bake carefully. 



Cake. 

One cup of butter, and two of white sugar, well 
creamed ; add whites of six eggs, which have been beaten 
to a froth, one cup of milk, with half a tea spoon of soda 
dissolved in it, two cups and a half of flour, with 
one tea spoon of cream of tartar. Flavor as you please. 



Oalte. 

The yolks of eighteen eggs, well beaten for two hours, 
two pounds of sugar, one pound of flour, and beat well 
together ; the whites of eighteen eggs, whipped to a froth, 
and put into the cake the last thing before putting it into 
the oven. 



IVXaple^voocl 

One pound of white sugar, three quarters of a pound 
of butter, well creamed, nine eggs beaten to a froth, juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, one pound of flour the last 
thing, with one pound of stoned raisins. 



Oalies. 

Three quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, half a 
pound of flour, six eggs, with yolks and whites beaten 
separately, tea spoon of mace, two table spoonfuls of rose 
water. When dropped upon the tin they must be 
sprinkled with rose water, and sugar grated over them. 



72 CAKE. 



One pound of flour, half pound of butter, half pound 
of sugar, four eggs, a little mace, six table spoonfuls of 
cream, beaten well together. Flour your tins well, and 
drop them on with a spoon. 



Cake (g-ooi). 
Five cups of flour, two of sugar, one of molasses, one 
of butter, half cup of lard, tea spoon of salt, tea spoon of 
soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk, two tea spoons of 
ground clove, two of allspice, one of mace, one pound 
chopped raisins, two ounces of citron sliced thin. 



IPoirk Oake 

Half pound of salt pork chopped fine, two cups 
of molasses, half pound raisins chopped well, two eggs, 
two tea spoons each of clove, allspice, and mace, half a 
table spoonful of saleratus or soda, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Oake. 

One egg, a piece of butter the size of an egg, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, two tea spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one of soda. Divide the milk, 
and dissolve the cream of tartar in one, and the soda in 
the other, and pour one into the other to effervesce, then 
add to the other ingredients, 

ISi^ookline Cake. 

Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three 
pounds of sugar, three dozen eggs, leave out the 
whites of four, four pounds of currants, one ounce 
of mace, three nutmegs, one pound of citron, half pint of 
brandy, one gill of wine. 



CAKE. 73 

Mialclen J?luiiii. Oake. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, three of butter, three 
of sugar, three dozen eggs, one and a half pounds 
currants, one and a half pounds of raisins well chopped, 
one ounce of spice, half pint of brandy, half pint of wine, 
gill of rose water. 



Oake 

One cup of sugar, one egg, butter as large as an egg, 
three cups of flour, one tea spoon of soda, two tea spoons 
cream tartar, one cup milk, one nutmeg. 



Hooj3er-'s FTum. Gake (ricli). 
Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three 
pounds sugar, thirty-six eggs, two table spoonfuls of 
mace, three nutmegs, four pounds currants, two pounds 
stoned and chopped raisins, one pound of citron cut 
in small pieces, half pint of brandy. Three hours good 
oven will bake it. 



Oake. 

Two pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter, six eggs, three gills of yeast, 
two gills of milk, two wine glasses of rose water, a little 
brandy, two tea spoons of soda ; spice to your taste. 

Bread Oake. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, one 
nutmeg, grated, tea spoon of soda dissolved in a table 
spoon of milk, half pound of chopped raisins. 

Three cups of very light dough ; work together sugar, 
butter, eggs, and spice ; put your milk and soda into the 
dough, and then add the other ingredients ; lastly, the 
raisins. Beat it well, and let it stand in the pans a short 
time, to rise it well before baking. 



74 CAKE. 



Gake. 

Nine eggs, one pound sugar, half pound of flour. 

stei* Loaf" Gake. 

Three pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of butter, 
one and a half pounds of sugar, one pound of currants, 
two nutmegs, table spoon of clove, two table spoons of 
cinnamon, half pint of rose water, half pint of wine, half 
pint of yeast, and eight eggs. 



Three pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of sugar, 
one pound of butter, six eggs, cup of rose water, cup of 
ginger. 

Diet Oake. 

One pound of flour, fourteen eggs, three of the whites 
left out, one pound of sugar. 

Saleirn. Loaf" Gake. 

Two and a half pounds of flour, one and a half of but- 
ter, one of sugar, five eggs, gill of wine, two table spoon- 
fuls of rose water, half pint of yeast, table spoonful of 
clove, two table spoonfuls of mace, two of cinnamon. 



. fag-e's GJ-old Oake. 

Yolks of one dozen eggs, five cups of flour, three of 
white sugar, one of butter, one and a half of cream or 
sour milk. 

If the milk is sour, one tea spoon of soda dissolved in 
it ; if cream, half a tea spoon of soda. 



Oake. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of granulated sugar, 



CAKE. 75 

two pounds of butter, twenty eggs, one glass of brandy. 
This should be beaten hard for half an hour, and needs 
a steady, rather quick heat. 



. ISlee's FrilT Oalie. 

Three cups of flour, two and a half cups of sugar, one 
of milk, three eggs, piece of butter large as an egg, one 
tea spoon of cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, half 
tea spoon of salt. 

Plum. Oalte (nice). 

One pound flour, one pound granulated sugar, one 
pound butter, two pounds raisins chopped, two pounds 
currants, one nutmeg, twelve eggs, one tea spoon clove, 
two tea spoons of cinnamon, one glass wine, one glass of 
brandy, one pound of citron. After beating it well, add 
a little more flour, about two cups, and bake well in 
a moderate oven for five hours. 



Oalte (vei*^- nice). 

Four cups of flour, two cups of sugar, two cups of but- 
ter, four eggs, half a cup of molasses, tea spoon of soda 
in a cup of milk, pound of raisins. 

"Waltliam Oake. 

Two cups flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three 
eggs, three quarters of a tea spoon of cream of tartar put 
in the flour, half a cup of milk with half a tea spoon of 
soda dissolved in it, essence of lemon, and a little spice. 



Oake. 

Four and a half pounds of flour, four and a half 
pounds of butter, four and a half pounds of sugar, one 



76 CAKE. 

, 

and a half pounds 01 box raisins stoned, one and a half 
pounds of citron, six and a half pounds of currants, 
twenty-two eggs, half ounce of ground mace, half ounce 
of clove, half ounce of cinnamon, one gill of wine, one 
gill brandy, half gill of rose water, one and a half 
tea spoons of soda, one table spoonful of molasses. 



One pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
granulated sugar, half pound of butter, five eggs, and a 
gill of rose water. 



(nice). 

Rub six ounces of butter in two pounds of flour, beat 
one pound of sugar with eight eggs, gill of rose water, 
one nutmeg ; beat all well together, and roll out. 

The more lard they are fried in the less they will soak 
fat. 



.Allen's 33oug:IiiiTits (very nice). 
Four eggs, eight table spoonfuls of sugar, butter big as 
an egg, a little salt, one nutmeg, half a cup of milk, half 
tea spoon of soda, and flour enough to roll out. 



Cake. 



Four pounds of flour, two and a half pounds of sugar, 
one and a half pounds of butter, ten ounces of lard, one 
and a half pints milk, one pint of yeast, two pounds of 
raisins, two ounces of mace, one ounce of cinnamon, two 
nutmegs, four eggs, half pint of wine. 

Beat the butter, lard, and sugar together, then take 
half of it with the milk and yeast and half the flour, beat 
it well and let it rise over night. In the morning mix in 
the other part of butter, sugar, and lard with the eggs, 
spice, wine, and flour. 



CAKE. 77 

Oake. 

One cup molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
two eggs, two thirds of a cup of milk, with one tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in it. Two tea spoons of cream tartar, 
and flour enough to make it as other loaf cake, one tea 
spoon of salt, one of clove, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg. 



IVXrs. King's Oake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
three eggs, one and a half tea spoons of cream tartar, 
one tea spoon soda, four cups of flour, not heaped. Fla- 
vor with lemon or nutmeg. 

Mrs. Flag-g-'s I?cm.nd Oake. 

Nine eggs, their weight in sugar, the weight of eight 
in flour, and of seven in butter, with one nutmeg grated. 

IMrs. Barker's Grinder "bread. 

One and three quarter pounds of flour, three quarters 
of a pound of butter, two eggs, one cup of milk with 
tea spoon of soda dissolved, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, two table spoonfuls of best ginger. 

IMrs. Freeman's Tum"bler Oake. 

Five tumblers of flour, three of sugar, two of butter, 
four eggs, one of milk, pint and a half of raisins stoned, 
one nutmeg, one tea spoon of allspice, tea spoon of soda 
dissolved in the milk. 

OookieSo 

Six cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, tea spoon of soda, flavored with cinnamon or nut- 
meg, as you like. 



78 CAKE. 



Election. Oake 

Lay a sponge over night with milk, next morning add 
to the sponge a pint of flour, one coffee cup of sugar, one 
of butter, one nutmeg, tea spoon of soda, and fruit if you 
choose. 

Harrison Oake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, four eggs, one of 
butter, one of molasses, one of milk, half a tea spoon of 
soda, half a tea spoon of ground clove. 



. Knig-lit's Fruit Oake. 

Ten cups of flour, six of sugar, three of butter, three 
of milk, eight eggs, tea spoon of soda, half pint of wine, 
two table spoonfuls of brandy, half cup of molasses, table 
spoonful of cinnamon, two tea spoonfuls of ground all- 
spice, one of ground clove, pound and a half of raisins 
well chopped, three ounces of citron cut in small pieces. 
Bake, in deep pans, till you can put a knitting-needle into 
the cake and it will come out clean. 



HMrs. Uria^^'s iDougiiniits. 

Nine eggs, pint bowl of white sugar, one cup of milk, 
one of butter, two teaspoons even of soda, spice to your 
taste, and flour enough to roll out. The more fat the 
nuts are fried in the less they will soak fat. 



Jenny Lincl Oake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, five eggs, one tea spoon cream tartar, half tea spoon 
of soda. Flavored with rose or lemon. 



CAKE. 79 

Oakes. 

Three eggs, half a pound of sugar, one cup of butter, 
pint and a half of flour, rolled thin in sugar. 

Railroad Cake. 

One cup sugar, one table spoon of butter beaten to 
a cream, three eggs beaten to a froth, one cup flour, three 
table spoonfuls sweet milk, one 'tea spoon cream tartar, 
half tea spoon soda, half tea spoon salt. 



Oake. 

One cup of squash, after it is sifted, three of flour, one 
of milk, and if the squash is very dry a little more, two 
table spoonfuls of sugar, one of butter, one egg, two tea 
spoons yeast powder. 

Boston Soiit Gring-erbreacl (nice). 

Nine eggs, a pound and a half of sugar, three quarters 
of a pound of butter, a scant pound of flour, and ginger 
to your taste. 

Caraway seeds are a great improvement. 

M!rs. Smith's Oing'erbread. 

Two pounds of flour, three quarters of butter, a large 
pound of sugar, one tea spoonful of soda dissolved in a 
table spoonful of milk, six eggs, teacup of ginger. 

M!rs. Hooper's Gring'er'breacl. 

Three pounds of flour, one and a half of sugar, one of 
butter, six eggs, cup of rose water, cup of ginger, half 
tea spoon of soda dissolved in a spoonful of milk. 

Mrs. Glover's Oake. 

One pound of flour, three quarters pound of sugar, two 



80 CAKE. 

ounces of butter, half a nutmeg, six eggs, table spoonful 
of wine, same of rose water. 

Marlhlelieacl Oirp Oake- 

Five cups of flour, three of white sugar, one and a half 
of butter, six eggs, cup of milk with tea spoon of soda, 
pound of raisins chopped, half glass of wine, nutmeg. 

Mrs. Broug:lit<m 9 s Pound Gake. 

One pound of butter, worked back to a cream ; then 
add slowly, beating the while, one pound of powdered 
sugar, ten eggs beaten to a froth, added gradually, half a 
glass of brandy, one glass of wine, and one pound of 
flour ; after which beat well for half an hour, and bake 
with an even heat. 



Biscuit. 

Take twelve eggs, and the weight of them in sugar, the 
weight of seven eggs in flour, the whites and yolks beat 
separately, then mix with them a spoonful of flour and 
sugar till all is mixed, and beat them well together ; grate 
the peel of three large lemons, and the juice of two, fill 
your cake pans half full, and sift sugar on the top. Your 
oven must not be too hot. 

\ 

Mrs. Wlxittemore's .AJinond Cheese 
Cake. 

Make a curd of the yolks of two eggs, a glass of wine, 
and a quart of new milk ; strain it, then beat a quarter 
of a pound of butter, take the skin off a quarter of a 
pound of almonds, and pound them very fine ; beat one 
glass of wine and one glass of rose water in it, half a 
pound of loaf sugar, with a tea spoon each of mace and 



CAKE. 81 



cinnamon, one nutmeg, nine eggs, six large spoonfuls of 
cream, and a handful of currants. 

This can be baked in paste, if you please, like squash 
pies. 



Martolelieacl Harcl 

Three pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound 
of butter, ten eggs, half a pint of rose water, and two 
ounces of ginger. 



Two pounds of flour, one and a half of sugar, one and 
a quarter of butter, ten eggs, cup of ginger, cup of rose 
water. Caraway seeds if you like. 



Five pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound 
of butter, a pint and a half of milk made blood warm, 
a gill of yeast, ten eggs ; the butter and sugar should be 
melted in the warm milk, then mix all together, work it 
well, and let it stand to rise. 



Six cups of flour, two of molasses, one of milk, half 
cup of butter, large spoonful of soda, two large spoonfuls 
of ginger, tea spoon of salt. 



3L<iiTLeolM.'s 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, cup and a half of milk, 
half a tea spoon cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, 
butter size of an egg, flour to roll out thin*. 



One cup lard and butter mixed, one of molasses, one 

6 



82 CAKE. 



of sugar, three eggs, half a cup of sour milk, tea spoon 
of soda, spice to your taste, and flour enough to make it 
as stiff as loaf cake. 



One pound white sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, five eggs, leaving out the yolks of two, and nearly 
two pounds of flour. Spice if you like. 



Oake. 

Take ten eggs, separate them, a pound of granulated 
sugar, half pound of flour, the grated peel of two lemons, 
and the juice of one ; beat the yolks with the sugar, and 
the whites alone ; then add them, and sift in the flour by 
degrees ; beat well, and bake with a quick heat. 



Cake. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, three cups of sugar, one 
of butter, cup of milk, tea spoon of soda. 



Oake. 

Two quart bowls of flour after it is sifted, one bowl 
of sugar not quite full, quarter of a pound of butter, pint 
of milk, with heaping tea spoonful of soda dissolved in the 
milk, table spoonful of allspice, two of cinnamon ; raisins 
if you please. 

Miss Hull's Martole Oake. 

Three and a half cups of flour, three cups of white 
sugar, one cup of butter, half a cup of cream or milk, 
whites of seven eggs, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tar- 
tar, one of soda. 



CAKE. 83 

Five cups of flour, two brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one cup butter, tAvo table spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of 
clove, one of allspice, and one nutmeg, half a cup of 
cream or milk, sour if you have it, half a tea 
spoon of soda, yolks seven eggs. Butter your pans, put 
in a layer of the last or dark, then a table spoonful of 
light (the first), and alternate with the dark and light 
throughout. 



Soak half a pound of sweet almonds in boiling water, 
till the skins will rub off easily, wipe them dry, then 
pound them fine, with rose water to taste. Beat the 
whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gradually a 
pound of powdered white sugar, then add the almonds ; 
when they are well mixed in, drop the mixture in small 
parcels on baking tins, several inches apart ; sift sugar 
over them, and bake in a slow oven. 



One heaping cup of sugar, two cups milk, one of but- 
ter and lard mixed, one of bread sponge, four eggs, and 
spice to taste ; stirred up over night, moulded, and fried 
in the mornin. 



Common 

Two cups of sugar, one and a half of milk, two eggs, one 
nutmeg, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda. 



Oake. 

Two cups of flour, three of sugar, half of butter, one 
of milk, three eggs, and one grated lemon. Butter and 
sugar worked to a cream, eggs added, and rind of lemon 



84 CAKE. 

grated in with flour. The juice of the lemon must be 
put into the milk, after which half a tea spoonful of soda 
must be added, and turned into the other ingredients ; 
then add two more cups of flour, making four in all, and 
bake. 



Hull's 

Two cups of sugar, two of butter, two eggs, one cup 
of yeast, two cups of milk ; let it rise over night, make 
up in the morning with flour, and roll out rather soft in 
small cakes ; set to rise ; let them get perfectly light, and 
bake ; take the white of an egg and pulverized sugar, 
beat well, and spread over the tops, and dry a little in 
the oven. 



. Emerson's Spong-e Oake. 

The weight of six eggs in sugar, the weight of four in 
flour, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the 
eggs and sugar together for half an hour, stir in the 
flour, and bake twenty minutes. 



Mirs. 

Two cups of milk, one of sugar, one of yeast, and 
flour enough to thicken ; rise over night ; in the morning 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg, another cup 
of sugar, one cup of Sultana raisins, or other raisins, 
chopped ; roll out to bake, cut in rounds, and rise again 
before baking. 



Common 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, one tea 
spoon of soda, two table spoonfuls of ginger, glass rose 
water, flour enough to roll out. 



CAKE. 85 

Claj- M!onnt Sponge Galce (Miss "Wash- 
ing-ton). 

Twelve fresh eggs, their weight in sugar ; beat the 
eggs separately -till very light, then sift in sugar. After 
it is well beaten stir in the weight of seven eggs in flour. 
Do not beat it. After the flour, add juice and grated peel 
of a lemon. 



Mrs. BTii-ragre's GofFee Oalte. 

Five cups of flour, one cup of made coffee, one cup 
sugar, half cup molasses, one cup of butter, tea spoon 
soda, two tea spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of clove, raisins 
or currants. 



Rice's Molasses 

One cup of molasses, into which beat one tea spoonful 
of soda, one third cup of milk, one third cup of butter, 
one egg, one tea spoonful of ginger, one of salt, and two 
cups of flour. 

Heaclville Oalie. 

One and a half cups of flour, one of sugar, half cup 
of milk, three eggs, butter size of an egg, tea spoonful 
of cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, flavor with tea 
spoon of peach. 

Jamaica IPlain 3L*eiw.on OaLce. 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, five of flour, one lemon rind grated, half tea spoon 
soda dissolved well in milk, and after all is well beaten, 
add the juice of the lemon, and bake immediately. 



CAKE. 



Gorn.in.oi3. IPluin OaJU:e. 

Three cups of flour, one of sugar, one of sour cream, 
if you have not cream, half of butter, and half of milk, 
two eggs, tea spoon of soda, cup of raisins, little spice. 



PRESEEVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 87 



PART EIGHTH. 
PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

MJL-S. Curtis' Velvet Oream. 

Half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in one and a half 
cups of white wine ; then add the juice and grated peel 
of a lemon, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; 
simmer all together until mixed well ; strain and add one 
and a half pints of rich cream, and stir until cool ; pour 
it into moulds, and let it stand till stiff enough to turn 
out. 

Ourrant Jelly. 

Three pounds of juice of red currants, one pound of 
juice of white currants, boil quickly for fifteen minutes ; 
then take from the fire and stir in two pounds of gran- 
ulated sugar, stirring till dissolved ; place again on the 
fire, and boil hard for eight minutes. 

After it is put in the glasses, set it for two or three 
days in a hot sun. 



Hice Oustaircl. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, half a cup of rice, ono 
lemon, tea spoonful of salt, and thirteen tea spoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. 

Boil the milk, rice, and salt together, until the rice is 



88 PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

soft. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, and 
beat the yolks with three tea spoonfuls of sugar and tho 
grated peel of the lemon ; beat the whites with ten tea 
spoonfuls of sugar, and the juice of the lemon. When 
the rice is soft take it from the fire, and stir to it tho 
beaten yolks till it thickens, turn into your pudding dish, 
put whites over the top, place in oven to color the top.. 
To be eaten cold. 



JESeverly 

One quarter box gelatine wet with a little cold water, 
then put the mould full of boiling water on the gelatine, 
add half a cup of sugar and the juice of a lemon ; strain 
through a sieve and set away to cool ; when quite stiff, 
stir in the whites of two eggs, pour it into the mould, 
and set it on the ice to cool. Stir the yolks of two eggs, 
two cups of milk, a little sugar and vanilla, over the fire ; 
when the jelly is turned from the mould, turn the custard 
over and serve. 

Soft Custard. 

One quart of milk, nine eggs, taking out the whites cf 
five , boil a stick or two of cinnamon in the milk, re- 
moving it before you add the eggs, and one cup of pow- 
dered white sugar. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and turn 
into the boiling milk, stirring one way, until it thickens, 
and remove quickly before it turns to whey. 



.A.p-ple Onstarcl. 

Six tart mellow apples to be pared, quartered, and 
cored ; put them in a pan with half a tea cup of water, 
set them on the stove ; when they begin to grow tender 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 83 

turn them into a pudding dish, sprinkle sugar on them ; 
beat eight eggs with a tea cup and a half of sugar, mix 
with three pints of milk, flavor as you like, and pour 
over the apples. 

Bake from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Floating- Island. 

Take a large glass of currant jelly, whites of three 
eggs, a little lemon juice and peel grated ; whip it up 
with a rod, and put into the middle of a dish of cream. 

MJTS. Hooper's TV"hip Syllabubs. 

One quart of rich cream, the juice of three lemons, 
three quarters of a pound of sugar, and wine to your 
taste ; whip all well together, put the froth in your 
glasses as fast as it rises. 

Boiled Custards. 

Nine tea cups of cream, nine eggs leaving out the 
whites, and sugar to your taste ; flavor with vanilla or as 
you please ; put it into cups, and stand in a large pan of 
boiling water in the oven. Care must be taken that they 
are not overdone. 

Preserved Quinces. 

A pound of sugar to each pound of quince (after 
paring, coring, and quartering) ; take half of the sugar and 
make a thin syrup ; stewing a few of the quinces at a 
time till all are finished, make a rich syrup of the re- 
maining sugar and pour over them. 



M!rs. Hooper's 

One quart of new milk, one ounce of isinglass cut fine 



93 PRESERVES, JELLIES, ELAXC-MAXGE, &c. 

into the milk, with a stick of cinnamon or vanilla, sim- 
mered over the lire till the isinglass is dissolved, then re- 
move the stick, sweeten to your taste with loaf sugar, 
strain it, and when nearly cool wet the moulds with rose 
water, and turn it in. 



Calf's Foot 

Take one pair of feet, and put them into a gallon of 
water, let it boil half away and skim constantly, strain it 
when cold, take the fat from the top and bottom, then 
warm it, add sugar, the juice of three lemons, a pint of 
Madeira wine, and the whites of seven eggs ; boil it half 
an hour, strain through a flannel bag. 



Three pints of cream boiled well and flavored and 
sweetened to taste, one and a quarter ounce of gelatine, 
or half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in warm water 
enough to cover it ; when dissolved cover with cream 
and boil up once or twice till rather thick, then pour it 
on the seasoned cream ; stir it well and put it in the 
moulds. 



Blanc-mange. 

May be made as the above, but the gelatine strained 
on to custard instead of cream. 

Mrs. Eaton's Trifle. 

Soak a dozen sponge drops in sweet wine ; after they 
are well soaked, drain off any of the wine that may re- 
main ; make a custard of a pint of cream, the yolks of 
four eggs and white of one, flavored and sweetened to 
your taste ; when cool, pour over the cakes, then beat 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLAXC-MAXGE, &c. 91 

the whites with sugar and lemon, and put on the custard 
as high as you can. 



Jelly. 

Take sound plums, put them in a stone jar, cover the 
jar with bladder, put it in a deep pan of water over the 
fire, and let the water boil gently till all the juice has 
come from the fruit, strain through a jelly bag, and boil 
with an equal weight of loaf sugar, stirring all the time. 

Damsons should have a slight incision. 

331aelt Currant Jelly. 

Boil the currants till the juice flows, then strain 
through a jelly bag, and set it over the fire for twenty 
minutes, after which add half a pound of sugar to a 
pound of juice, and boil for about ten minutes. 

3Jrs. Barrett's G-reen G-ag-c Jam. 

Rub ripe green gages through a sieve, put all the 
pulp into a pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar 
pounded and sifted. Boil the whole till sufficiently thick, 
and put into pots. 



!M!art>lclieacl IProseirvecl IPeaoli.. 

Take a peck of ripe peaches, stone and pare them, 
allow a bowl of white sugar to a bowl of peach ; put a 
layer of peach into the stone jar, then a layer of sugar, 
and so on till they are used up. 

Let them stand for two days ; drain off the syrup, boil 
and skim and turn over the peach, stand two days ; drain 
off the syrup, scald and skim, and again return to the 
peach, and it is fit for use. 



92 PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLAXC-MANGE, &c. 

Blaeltberry Jam. 

To four bowls of blackberries add four bowls of sugar, 
boil thoroughly, and turn into jars with a paper dipped 
in brandy over it. 

A.p;pl3 Jam. 

Core and pare a good quantity of apples, chop them 
well, allow equal quantity of weight, apples and sugar, 
make a syrup of your sugar by adding a little water, 
boiling and skimming well, then throw in some grated 
lemon peel, a little white ginger with the apples, boil 
until the fruit looks clear. 



rj' Jain. 

Pick them carefully, take equal quantities of berries 
and sugar, stir it continually ; put the fruit first into a 
sauce-pan, and when the watery particles are evaporated 
add the sugar, simmer slowly for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 



rir Jam.. 

A bowl of fruit to three quarters of a bowl of sugar, 
boiled thoroughly, and constantly stirred. 

Sag-0 Jelly. 

To one quart of water put six large spoonfuls of sago, 
the same of sugar, boil to a jelly, stir it all the time 
while boiling, flavor to your taste, put into moulds, and 
eat with cream. 



IPre served 

Pick off all the stems, and to every quart of fruit add 
a quart of sugar ; mix well with the sugar and put them 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 93 

over a slow fire till the syrup commences to form, then 
put them over a hot fire, and let them boil quickly for 
fifteen minutes, skimming it well. Put them boiling hot 
into stone jars, seal up tightly. 

3?i*e seirvecl Olierries. 

The bright red cherry is the best ; do not take off tho 
stems ; wash and drain them, weigh them, and allow three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of cherries ; 
put them into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them lightly, 
place the bottles in a kettle of water, cold (keep the 
bottles apart to prevent them from striking), put the 
kettle on the range, and let it boil for nearly three hours. 
As the water boils away, replenish it ; after the bottles 
are taken from the water and cooled a little, cement tho 
corks closely, and put in a dry place. 

Preserved. Fine Apple. 

A pound of sugar to a pound of pine apple ; put the 
slices in water, and boil a quarter of an hour ; then re- 
move them, and add the sugar to the water ; put in the 
apple, and boil fifteen minutes. Boil the syrup till thick. 

Gs-i*ape Jam. 

Boil the grapes in a little water long enough to make 
them tender, then add a pound of sugar to a pound of 
grapes, and boil half an hour. 



Tomatoes* 
A pound of sugar to a pound of tomatoes. Tako six 
pounds of each, the peel and juice of four lemons, and 
quarter of a pound of ginger tied up in a bag ; put on the 
side of the range, and boil slowly for three hours. 



94 PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 



Jelly. 

One ounce of isinglass in a pint of water, with the rind 
of six lemons ; stir it all the time till the isinglass is 
dissolved ; add a pint of lemon juice, and sweeten to the 
taste with loaf sujrar, the shell and white of an eg ; boil 

o ' oo ' 

six or seven minutes, and let it drop through a flannel 
bag without squeezing ; put it in your jelly glasses before 
it is cold. 



Jelly. 

Rub the fruit through a sieve, and then squeeze through 
a fine cloth ; three quarters of a pound of sugar to every 
pint of juice ; set over a good fire, and skim and stir occa- 
sionally. When it is done it will fall from the skimmer 
in sheets. 

IPz-eservecl Apple (very nice). 

Core and pair a dozen good-sized apples and cut into 
eights ; make a syrup of a pound of sugar to half a pint 
of water ; let it boil, and then put in as much apple as 
can be boiled without breaking ; remove them carefully 
when tender ; after all are done, add a little more sugar, 
boil up, and flavor with vanilla or lemon, and turn over 
the apple. 

Oocoaniii: Oakes. 

Take the meat of two cocoanuts, pare off the dark 
skin, and grate them ; an equal weight of sugar and 
cocoanut ; add the white of an egg not beaten ; after it is 
well mixed roll it into balls, flour a tin sheet, lay them 
on, and twenty minutes will bake. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 95 

.A.rroTvroot; Blanc-mange. 

Four table spoonfuls of arrowroot, four of white 
sugar, four eggs beaten together ; boil a quart of new 
milk, part cream if you have it, with a bit of vanilla 
bean ; when it boils, remove the bean, and turn the milk 
on the mixture, stirring briskly till it thickens. Put 
in moulds. 

Ore am. for Preserves. 

Mix one ffill of rich milk with a wineglass of rose 

C o 

water, and four ounces of white sugar, the yolks of two 
eggs well-beaten ; stir all into a quart of cream, set it 
over the fire, and let it just come to a boil, stirring all 
the time ; take it off, and let it cool. 

Lemon Onstards. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs until they are quite light ; 
stir in a quart of boiling water, the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, and a cup of white sugar ; beat well 
together ; place the pan containing the mixture in a hot 
place, and stir until it thickens ; add a glass of wine and 
one of brandy ; stir well ; when cool, put into jelly glasses 
for the table. Whip the whites to a stiff froth with a 
knife, and three spoonfuls of white sugar, and put on the 
custard in each glass. 



Preserved Pears. 

Select sound, medium-size pears ; pare, halve, and core 
them ; lay them in a sauce-pan for preserving ; cover 
them with cold water, with quarter of a pound of ginger 
tied in a muslin bag and put into the water ; let them 
simmer slowly till soft, then drain them on a sieve, 
weigh them, and allow sugar equal in weight. 



93 PRESERVES, JELLIES, LLAXC-MAXGE, &c. 

Pare thinly the rind of three fresh lemons, and put 
with the juice into the syrup ; when it boils lay in tlio 
pears, and let them cook slowly for twenty minutes ; then 
lay the pears on a dish, and return the syrup to the fire, 
and let the watery particles evaporate ; when the pears 
are cold put them in your jar, and pour on the cyrup 
when quite cold. Cork tightly. 



rliilacleli>hia Oalf^s Feet 

Take a set of calf's feet, and after cleaning, boil them 
in four quarts of water for five hours, skimming care- 
fully ; strain through a cullender, and set aside to cool ; 
when cold remove all the fat from the jelly. 

Put the jelly into a sauce-pan with three or four sticks 
of cinnamon, three whole cloves, and the rind and juice 
of three lemons ; set it on the lire. 

Beat the whites and shells of four eggs in half a pint 
of cold water ; stir in quickly with half a pound of whiic 
sugar dissolved in one pint of best " champagne cider ; ' : 
and a pint of sherry wine, let it simmer for five minutes, 
set it aside to settle, and pour through a jelly bag into 
moulds to cool. 



Take an ounce of moss, wash thoroughly, and put 
into two quarts of new milk ; let it simmer slowly till it 
thickens ; strain through a sieve, flavor, and put it into 
moulds. 



Italian 

The whites of two dozen eggs whipped to a stiff froth, 
the juice of six lemons, two pounds of white sugar, and 
two quarts of water ; mix the water, juice, and sugar, 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 97 

together, and then add the eggs ; stir well together, put 
into the freezer, and stir till it freezes. 



Charlotte 

One ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of milk, 
and add a vanilla bean ; put it to simmer over the fire ; 
beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, stir the yolks 
thoroughly with quarter of a pound of pulverized sugar, 
and one pint of thick cream, a wine glass and a half of 
wine to a froth ; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain 
the milk, while lukewarm, into the yolks and sugar ; add 
the whites immediately, next the cream, beat all together. 
Place in your mould pieces of dry sponge or other cake, 
turn the mixture on it, and let it stand till firm. 

Citron Melon. 

Pare the melons and cut them into long slices ; to 
every eight pounds of melon allow eight pounds of best 
white sugar, the juice and thin rind of six lemons, and 
half a pound of ginger ; put the melons into your pre- 
serving kettle, cover them with alum water, and boil 
them half an hour, or until they look clear, then drain 
them, lay them in cold water, and let them stand all 
night ; in the morning tie the ginger in a piece of muslin, 
and boil it in three pints of clear w r ater till the water is 
flavored ; take out the ginger, put in your sugar and let it 
melt, put it over the fire, add the peel of the lemons, and 
skim it as it boils ; take out the peel, put in the citron 
and the juice of the lemons, and boil them till the citron 
is transparent, but do not let it break ; when done, put in 
a deep pan, and leave uncovered for a few days in a cool 
place ; afterwards put the melon into a jar, and pour in 

7 



98 PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

the syrup carefully ; cover tightly with brandied paper 
over the top. 



Pour on to half a box of gelatine a pint and a half of 
boiling water, let it thicken ; beat together the whites of 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, and juice of two lemons, 
stir into the gelatine and put into your mould to cool. 



One third box of gelatine, one pint of water, when 
dissolved add juice of two lemons, two cups of sugar, 
whites of three eggs, and pour into a mould to cool. 
To the yolks of the eggs add a pint of milk, and make a 
soft custard, and pour into the dish in which it is to be 
served, and when ready to be eaten, pour from the mould 
into the dish of custard. 



SAUCES. 99 



PART NINTH. 
SAUCES. 



To Clarify 

To two pounds of granulated sugar put a pint of 
water, and dissolve it. When dissolved place to boil, and 
before hot stir in well the whites of two eggs ; watch it 
carefully, skimming well. When clear cool and bottle it. 
This will keep a long time if kept in a cool place. 



Beacon Street 

Two cups of white granulated sugar, one even cup of 
butter worked back to a cream, add a glass of wine, and a 
little rose or nutmeg as you like. Stir a scant half tea 
spoon of soda into a cup of sour milk, and when 
it effervesces add it, and stir all well together ; then add 
four table spoonfuls of boiling water without stirring at 
all, and put into the sauce tureen, disturbing it as little as 
possible. 

Ooocl Oommon. San.ce. 

Half a pint bowl of brown sugar, two table spoonfuls 
of butter, a glass of rose water whipped to a cream. Then 
dredge in about a table spoonful of flour, and add half a 
pint of boiling water, stirring well for two or three 
minutes. 



89729B 



100 SAUCES. 



Sau.ce. 

Take quarter of a pound of butter and braid it well 
into three even spoonfuls of flour ; then turn on a scant 
pint of boiling water, chop well three boiled eggs, and 
stir into the butter as it oes to the table. 






Caper Sauce. 

Is to be made as egg sauce, and two table spoonfuls of 
capers stirred in instead of eggs. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Put on a pint of water to boil ; when it boils stir in 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and three table spoonfuls 
of flour (even full), let it boil once, and add a pint of 
solid oysters. 

Mint Sauce. 

Strip off the tender leaves of the mint, and chop them 
fine ; powder it well with sugar, and cover with vinegar 
half an hour before serving. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

A quart of cranberries, a large pint of sugar, and half 
a pint of water. Boil slowly, and beat the cranberries 
to a jelly. When thoroughly bruised put in your moulds* 

Ha^verhill Cranberry Sauce. 

One quart of cranberries, pint and a half of white 
sugar, half pint of water. 

Boston Cranberry Sauce. 

One pint cranberries, three quarters pint of sugar, 
simmer slowly, and be sure not to burn. 



SAUCES. 101 

Superior Sauce. 

Turn a pint of boiling cream on to the well-beaten 
yolks of six eggs ; add four table spoonfuls of white sugar, 
and three of butter, which have been previously worked 
to a cream ; put all on the fire, and stir it till it begins to 
thicken, then add a glass of sherry. 

Apple Sau.ce. 

Pare, core, and cut up a quart of apples, add half a 
cup of water, boil them till tender, then add sugar and 
nutmeg to taste. 

Salem Apple Sauce. 

Prepare the apple sauce as above, and when done, stir 
in a lump of butter, and flavor with rose water. 

Quince Sauce. 

Cut, pare, and core a quart of quinces, cover in water 
and boil till perfectly tender, then add three quarters of a 
pound of sugar, and continue boiling for ten or fifteen 
minutes, that the sugar may penetrate the quince. 

Beverly Sauce. 

Two cups of sugar, and three quarters of butter worked 
back to a cream ; add a little flour, stir it into two gills 
of boiling water, put over the fire, and let it boil two 
minutes ; take off, and add immediately two glasses 
of wine. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Put two cups of milk on to boil ; when it boils, stir in 
two tea spoonfuls of flour, two cups of sugar, and the 



102 SAUCES. 

beaten yolks of three eggs ; take from the fire, and add the 
juice and grated rind of the lemon. 

Oream. Sau.ce. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, three table spoonfuls 
of white sugar, and vanilla flavor. Turn on it a pint of 
boiling milk, and stir it well. 

\Vine Sauce. 

One pint bowl of white sugar, not quite a quarter of a 
pound of butter, one glass of wine, one grated nutmeg, 
and a table spoonful of warm water ; beat together steadily 
for half an hour. 

Set a sauce-pan on the fire, with about a gill of water in 
it ; when it boils, put in the sugar, &c., but do not stir it 
nor let it boil, but simmer gently till all is dissolved ; pour 
into the tureen, and do not cover till cold. 

Grood Oommon. Sauce. 

To eight table spoonfuls of sugar add four of butter, 
and stir it together until white ; then put into a sauce- 
pan, with a cup of hot water ; set on the fire, and stir till 
it boils ; then add a spoonful or two of wine, or, if you 
please, flavor with lemon and rose water. 






MISCELLANEOUS. 103 



PART TENTH. 
MISCELLANEOUS. 

Mulled Wine. 

Put a little cinnamon or allspice to half a pint of hot 
water, and steep it ; add three eggs, well-beaten, with 
sugar, heat to a boil a pint of wine ; then put in the 
spice and eggs while boiling, and stir for three minutes. 

Apple Water. 

Roast three or four good apples with care, preserving 
all the juice ; put them into a pitcher, and pour on a 
quart of boiling water. Drink when cold. 

Boiled rice (very nice). 

Wash a cup of rice, and add four cups of water, and 
a tea spoon of salt ; let it simmer on the back of the 
ransre for two hours, and do not stir it. 

o 

Jellied Rice. 

To three pints of milk put a tea cup of rice, and a 
little salt ; cover it close, and let it simmer about three 
hours ; beat it well, and put it into moulds, and eat as 
blanc-mange. 

Oraclser Toast. 

Separate a dozen hard crackers, lay them in a dish, 



104 MISCELLANEOUS. 

and pour water over them ; put on a little salt, and when 
soft put in two or three nice bits of butter and a little 
milk ; put in the oven till heated through. 



or EEasty 

Set on a quart of water to boil ; in the mean time stir 
half a pint of sifted Indian meal into water enough to 
make it smooth, with two tea spoonfuls of salt. When 
the water boils, stir in one spoonful and let it boil, then 
another and let it boil, and so on till you have the thick- 
ening in ; then add enough sifted raw meal gradually, 
stirring all the time till thick enough, and it is done. 
This is a very nice receipt. 



Fried 

Made as above, the day before it is wanted, and cut in 
slices, and fried with fat enough to prevent it from 
sticking to the griddle. 



Oatmeal 

Put on a cup of raisins in a quart of water, to boil ; 
boil them hard for half an hour. Take two table spoon- 
fuls of oatmeal, and make smooth with cold water ; a lit- 
tle salt ; when the raisins are boiled enough, stir in the 
thickening ; let it boil up and skim it well, then add a bit 
of butter, a little white sugar, and grate a little nutmeg 
on the top when it is served. 



Two table spoonfuls of arrowroot wet with cold water, 
and boiling water turned upon it, stirring steadily mean- 
while till it is as thick as you like ; wine, sugar, and 
nutmeg to taste. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 105 

Toast \Vater. 

Two slices of stale bread, toasted brown, cut in pieces, 
and a pint of boiling water poured over. Invalids relish 
it with a glass of white wine added, and a little nutmeg 
grated over. 

Fresh. Egg for an Invalid. 

Break an egg into a tumbler, add two tea spoonfuls 
of white sugar, and whip briskly ; then add a glass of 
wine, and fil^up the tumbler with milk. 

Hoj> Tea. 

Take a large spoonful of hops, and simmer in a pint 
of water ; when strong enough of hops, strain off and 
add white sugar and a table spoonful of gin. It is a 
quieting drink, most excellent for nervous headache. 

Egg !Nogg. 

The yolks of six eggs, with four table spoonfuls of 
sugar, a little nutmeg, a glass of wine, and two glasses 
of brandy ; then add, when well mixed, a quart of milk. 
It is refreshing in summer to add ice, pounded very 
small. 

Frosting. 

Allow the whites of two eggs to each half pound of 
sugar, add a little lemon or orange juice, and whip till 
you can turn the bowl upside down without dropping, 
or till it flakes. Some people add a little starch. 

Excellent Yeast. 

Two table spoonfuls of hops to a quart of water ; let 
them steep well ; make a thickening of six potatoes 



106 MISCELLANEOUS. 

mashed fine, and three table spoonfuls of flour worked 
into the potatoes ; strain the hop water upon it, stir it 
well, and when cool enough add yeast to work it. Bot- 
tle, and keep in a cool place. 

Olierry Rum. 

A peck of black wild cherries, soaked in cold water for 
twenty four hours. Put them in a demijohn, add two 
pounds brown sugar, two quarts blackberries, and a 
gallon of best New England rum. The older it is the 
better, if kept well corked ; it is excellent for summer 
complaints. 



English. 

Five cups of flour, one of milk, one of syrup, one of 
suet chopped fine, one of raisins, or apples, and spice to 
your taste. 

To be eaten with cold sauce. 

Ou.rra.nt "Wine. 

One quart of currant juice, three pounds of brown 
sugar, and one gallon of water ; dissolve the sugar in 
the water, then add the juice ; when it ferments, add a 
little fresh water each day till it is done fermenting, 
which will be in from a month and a half to two months ; 
turn it off, scald the keg, put it in again, and cork 
tightly. 

Gring-er Beer. 

Two ounces of ginger to a pint of molasses, add a 
gallon of warm water, stir it well, and add half a pint 
of lively yeast. 

If you wish it sweeter or hotter, add, before putting 
in the yeast, to suit your taste. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 107 



IVXrs. Kniglit's Ourrairt 

To a quart of juice add a scant pint of water, and a 
pound and a half of crushed sugar ; boil well ; add a little 
brandy, a gill to a bottle of the shrub, and cork, after 
standing for ten or twelve days. 



Adams's Mead. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, three quarts of boiling 
water, quarter of a pound of tartaric acid, one ounce 
of sassafras essence, and half an ounce of extract of 
sarsaparilla. 



"Wine W Ji 

Boil a quart of milk, add to it half a pint of wine, 
put on the fire till it boils again, then set aside till the 
curd settles, pour off the whey, and sweeten to taste. It 
is said good country cider is nice as the wine. 



York Onstard. 

Boil a quart of milk, with a stick of cinnamon ; mix 
five table spoonfuls of rice flour with a little milk, and 
when smooth, pour into the boiling milk ; stir it well, and 
boil from ten to fifteen minutes ; then take from the fire, 
and add three eggs, stirring very rapidly ; take out the 
cinnamon, sweeten to taste, and pour into your moulds. 

Oelatine Jellj*. 

An ounce and a half of gelatine, one quart of water, 
half a pint of wine, the juice of two lemons, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, two eggs and shells, and 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes without touching ; 
then strain through jelly bag, and cool for use. 



108 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Succotash. 

Cut off the corn from the cobs, and put the cobs in 
just water enough to cover them, and boil one hour ; 
then remove the cobs, and put in the corn and a quart 
of Lima beans, and boil thirty minutes. When boiled, 
add some cream or milk, salt, and butter. 

Tripe 

Must be washed in warm water, and cut into squares 
of three inches ; take one egg, three table spoonfuls of 
flour, a little salt, and make a very thick batter by 
adding milk. Fry out some slices of pork, dip the 
tripe into the batter, and fry a light brown. 



Chocolate Oancl^r (M!iss 

Half a pound of chocolate, one and a half pounds of 
brown sugar, three quarters cup of milk ; grate the 
chocolate, and mix with sugar and a little water. Put on 
the milk, and just before it boils stir in the mixture and 
boil till thick ; try in a glass of water a small quantity. 
If it" hardens soon it has boiled sufficiently. 

To Oook Parsnips. 

Scrape and wash the parsnips, and slice them length- 
wise ; boil in just water enough to cover them till 
thoroughly done ; drain off the water, put in a piece 
of butter, a little salt and pepper ; beat up an egg with 
half a cup of milk, and turn over them. 



Mrs. Lincoln's ^4_pple 

Into a dish that will hold two quarts, pare and cut 
apples enough to nearly fill it ; sprinkle over six table 
spoonfuls of sago, and cover all with hot water. Bake 
two hours, and eat with milk and sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 109 



Jenkins' Snoi* r Balls. 

Make a soft custard of the yolks of eight eggs, a quart 
of milk, scant cup of sugar, and flavor to taste. Beat 
the whites of the eggs, put on half a pint of milk to 
boil, add a little sugar and lemon to the whites, and 
when the milk boils, drop on a spoonful at a time, and 
let them set thoroughly, then remove as fast as they are 
done, and lay them tastefully on the custard. It is a 
very handsome dish. 



.Ajmherst 

Five cups of flour, two of molasses, one of cream, 
one of buttermilk, tea spoon of salt, one spoon of gin- 
ger, one of soda. If you have not buttermilk, use a 
table spoon of butter ; dissolve the soda in the molasses, 
add butter, salt, ginger, and lastly flour. 

Lemon Pie (Palmer). 

One and a half cups of sugar, two eggs, juice of one 
and a half lemon, and bake between two crusts. 

.A. vint Emily's Cake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one of milk, three eggs, whites beaten separately, fruit 
if you like, flavor as you please. 

Saratoga Oake. 

Five eggs, two and a half cups of flour, cup and a half 
of sugar, cup and a half of butter, flavor with peach. 

\Vhite Mountain. Oake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one 
of milk, four eggs, one tea spoon cream of tartar, one 
of soda, flavor with lemon. 



110 MISCELLANEOUS, 

M!i-s. Hill's ITrietl Bi^eacl Pudding. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a little salt, and flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Cut a stale (baker's) loaf 
in slices ; half an hour before using, place the sliced 
bread in the batter. It must be removed carefully when 
ready to cook, and fried as griddle cakes ; to be eaten 
with sauce. 



Ohad^vricli's Blaoli Bean 

Soak a scant quart of beans over night ; in the morn- 
ing add four quarts of water ; and put into the pot, by 
eight o'clock, with a knuckle of veal, a tea spoonful of 
black pepper, half an ounce of cloves, three quarters of 
allspice, and tea spoonful of salt. Boil until twelve, and 
then strain through a cullender ; cut up the veal in small 
pieces and put back into the pot, and boil an hour longer 
or more ; add half a lemon, forcemeat balls, half a tum- 
bler of wine, and four eggs, 



s Oream 

Half a pint of water and a cup of butter, placed in a 
sauce-pan on the fire ; when it boils, stir in two cups of 
flour ; take it off and let it cool. When cold, add five 
eggs and a quarter of a tea spoon of soda ; drop on tins 
and bake quickly. 

. For the cream, one pint of milk set to boil ; beat 
up two eggs, one cup of sugar, and half a cup of flour. 
Just before the milk boils stir it in, and continue stirring 
one way until it thickens ; take from the fire, and flavor 
with lemon. When the cakes are baked, open with a 
knife and fill with the cream. 



Beat six eggs two minutes, add three cups of sugar 



MISCELLANEOUS. Ill 

and beat one minute ; next two cups of flour with two 
tea spoons of cream of tartar in it, and one cup of cold 
water ; then add two cups of flour, with one tea spoon 
of soda, dry, in the flour ; flavor as you please, and bake 
quickly. 

This will make three good sized pans. 



Oatmeal 

Into one quart of water put a cup of raisins, and let 
boil half an hour. Prepare a thickening of half a tea- 
cup of oatmeal, wet with water and a little salt. Stir it 
into the water (letting the raisins remain), and let it 
boil a minute. Skim it well ; take from the fire, and 
add a tea spoonful of butter, two table spoonfuls of sugar 
(more if you like), and a little grated nutmeg. 



Bond's Indian Tap>ioca JPu.ddi.ng-. 

Soak a cup of tapioca in pint of water over night. 
Boil in the morning a quart of milk, and when it boils 
stir in seven table spoonfuls of Indian meal ; add a cup 
of molasses, the tapioca, and a small piece of butter. 
"When well mixed, stir in a pint of cold milk and bake. 



One and a quarter pounds of sifted loaf sugar, the 
whites of five eggs, half an ounce of pulverized gum 
arabic, and lemon to the taste. 



ITalbens' 

Four cups of flour, two of milk, half a cup of white 
sugar, two eggs, three tea spoons cream of tartar, and 
two of soda. 



112 MISCELLANEOUS. 



M!ead. 

Three quarts of boiling water, in which dissolve three 
pounds of brown sugar, quarter of a pound of tartaric 
acid, and one ounce of essence of sassafras. For 
drink, table spoonful or more, according to taste, in a 
tumbler ; fill half full with water, add a little soda, and 
drink as it foams. 



Mrs. IPeirkins' Sncrvr 

Take four eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately. 
Place a quart of milk to boil, and just before it boils, 
lay the whites on top of it, a spoonful at a time, and let 
them stay about two minutes, or until they may be 
removed carefully without breaking. After the whites 
are taken from the milk, add the yolks, with one cup of 
white sugar, a bit of salt, and any flavor you -please ; 
stir one way till it thickens ; turn into a dish, and orna- 
ment the top with the whites. 



Allen's Tomato Ketchvvp. 

To a half bushel of skinned tomatoes add one quart 
of good vinegar, one pound of salt, quarter of a pound 
of Jjlack pepper, two ounces of African cayenne, quarter 
of a pound of allspice, one ounce of cloves, three boxes 
of mustard, twelve cloves of garlic, six good onions, two 
pounds of brown sugar, and a handful of peach leaves. 
Boil this for three hours, constantly stirring to keep from 
burning ; when cool, strain and bottle for future use. 
It will improve by age, and give a zest to the appetite. 



\Volcott's IPlumn 

Take four brick loaves (Haker's), and when stale, 
cover with as much milk as it will absorb ; rub it as fine 



MISCELLANEOUS. 113 

as possible ; add a pound and a half of suet, chopped 
very fine, a dozen and a half of well beaten eggs, two 
table spoonfuls of salt, two pounds of sugar, three pounds 
of raisins, cut in halves, spice, mace, allspice, and nut- 
meg as you like, wineglass of rose water, peel and juice 
of four lemons, half a pint of molasses, half a pint of 
wine, and half pint of brandy ; or, if you prefer, a pint 
of wine, half a pound of citron, cut small. When all 
these ingredients are well beaten together, add half a 
pound of sifted flour ; bake in pans. This receipt will 
make seven or eight good-sized puddings ; they will keep 
a month, and the last to be eaten is generallv the best. 

*. 

To be eaten with sauce, and warm the pudding before 



eating. 



"Wolcott's Ketclm/p. 

Halve your tomatoes, place them in a firkin, with a 
layer of salt between each layer of tomatoes ; let them 
stand over night. In the morning put on and boil one 
hour ; then take from the fire and strain ; season as for 
other ketchup. 



s Battei- 

One pint of milk, seven table spoonfuls of flour, three 
eggs ; mix the flour and milk together ; beat well ; beat 
the eggs, and add to it ; boil one hour. Eat with wine 
ssruce. 



Cake. 

Five eggs, one pound and three quarters of flour, one 
and a half of sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, 
half a pint of wine, half a pint of milk, pound and a half 

8 



114 MISCELLANEOUS. 

of fruit, scant tea spoon of soda. Two hours to bake, 
moderately hot oven. This will make two loaves. 

Miss Jones' Omrrant Pudding?. 

One gill of milk, two eggs, a little salt, a little sugar, 
seven table spoonfuls of flour, and last your fruit. Boil 
one and a half hours. 



Mrs. Tilden's 

Three bowls of flour, one of sugar, one of cream, two 
table spoonfuls of ginger, two tea spoonfuls of soda. 
If you prefer, you can omit one cup of cream, and add 
one cup of molasses instead. 

Miss Je^vett's Otvp Oake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, two cups of flour, 
three eggs, three quarters of a tea spoon of cream of 
tartar put into the flour, half a tea spoon of soda in two 
table spoonfuls of milk, a little spice, and essence of 
lemon. 

V 

IVe^vport Ifcolls. 

Into three pints of flour rub a little butter ; add three 
eggs, a gill of yeast, and warm milk enough to mix well ; 
make in the evening for breakfast. 

Miss Hutolbard's Gider Oake. 

Five cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, five 
eggs, two tea spoonfuls of soda dissolved in two cups of 
cider. Work the butter to cream ; beat eggs and sugar 
together ; pour the cider on the flour ; spice to taste. 
When the oven is ready, mix all together and bake. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 115 



Orange Oream. 

Put in a stew-pan one ounce of isinglass, the juice of 
six large oranges and one lemon, sugar to your taste ; 
rub some of the lumps on the peel of the oranges ; add 
as much water as will make a pint and a half ; boil ; 
strain through a muslin bag. AVhen cold, beat up with 
half a pint thick cream and put into your mould. In 
hot weather add a little more isinglass. 



Bruise the raspberries with the back of a spoon ; strain 
them through a flannel bag ; one pound of loaf sugar 
to one quart of juice ; stir well and cover closely, letting 
it stand for three days, stirring well each day. Pour off 
the clear juice, and add one quart of juice to two quarts 
of sherry wine ; bottle it and use in two weeks. 

Brandy instead of wine, it will be Raspberry Brandy. 



JTearing-'s Tea Cakes. 

Three cups of sifted flour, one and a half of milk, 
half a cup of sugar, one egg, one tea spoon of soda, two 
of cream of tartar. Bake in a quick oven, and have it 
pretty thick. 



Lincoln's Ste^wecl Oysters. 

One quart of oysters, dipped out of the liquor with 
a fork into a sauce-pan, a large piece of butter ; put these 
on the fire till the butter melts ; when melted, add two 
thirds of a cup of milk, a tea spoonful of flour having 
been previously mixed with it, a sift of pepper and mace, 
and let it boil up once. Should the oysters be too fresh, 
add a little salt. 



116 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Gl-ood Fie Paste. 

One pound of flour, half pound of butter, and quarter 
pound of lard ; cold water to mix. 



Haskell's 

To one box of gelatine add nearly a quart of boiling 
water ; stir till it is dissolved ; then add same quantity 
of cold water, one pint wine, juice of two lemons, and a 
pint of powdered sugar ; boil and strain through a flan- 
nel bag. 



Pine .Ajpple 

Peel the pine apple, taking care to get out all the 
specks, and grate it ; take its weight in sugar, half its 
weight in butter, rub to a cream, and stir into the apple ; 
add five well-beaten eggs and a cup of cream. It may 
be baked with or without a crust. 

Mrs. GJ-err;v's Oream Tartar Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tar- 
tar, one of soda, butter size of a small egg, mixed very 
soft with milk. Bake in a hot oven. 

Frosting". 

Beat the whites of two eggs or more, according to the 
quantity wanted, and add pulverized sugar till quite 
thick ; add a little powdered starch, and lay on the cake, 
immediately after it is baked, with a broad knife, re- 
turning to the oven for a moment, leaving the oven 
door open. 

Tessie's "Wheaten Biscuit. (From a 
Contraband..) 

Make a quart of flour short with butter and lard ; wet 



MISCELLANEOUS. 117 

with cold water, and made pretty stiff; put on a wooden 
block or board, beat out thin, sprinkle with flour ; then 
fold up and repeat the beating (with a mallet or pestle), 
" till it begins to go pop, pop, pop, it'll crack moo' 
like a whip, then you know it's done." Cut into thin 
biscuits and bake. 



French Pie 

Into two quarts of wry void water put half a pound 
of butter, and let it remain thirty minutes ; when the 
time has expired, remove it from the water and rub it 
lightly into a pound of flour with two eggs ; wet it with 
half a pint of the water in which the butter was placed, 
two tea spoonfuls of salt, and knead it ; roll out thin, 
and fold it for five successive times ; let it stand half an 
hour ; and bake. 



IMrs. W Jhlttemore's Oold Sla>v Dress- 
ing*. 

Scald five table spoonfuls of milk, and, while hot, stir 
in one well beaten egg ; add a piece of butter the size 
of a small egg ; stir it constantly till it thickens ; add 
vinegar and salt to your taste, and pour over the cab- 
bage or salad. 



Mrs. Sullivan's Corn Oake (Deli- 
cious). 

One quart of corn meal, one quart of milk, two eggs, 
half a cup of sugar, or three table spoonfuls of molasses, 
tea spoon of salt, three of cream of tartar, one and a 
half of soda. 



118 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Mrs. Sullivan's Soufflee. 

The yolks of eight eggs, thoroughly beaten, with four 
ounces of sugar ; beat well the whites, mix with yolks, 
and add half the rind of a lemon, chopped fine. 

Place four ounces of butter in a stew-pan over a mod- 
erate fire ; when melted, pour the eggs in and mix well : 
then place it in hot oven for five minutes, dust with 
sugar, and serve hot. 

Mrs. Hooper's Pop-Overs. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one large spoonful of 
melted butter, a little salt, and flour enough to make a 
pretty thick batter. Heat your pop-over pans, which 
come on purpose, butter them well, and pour in the 
batter. 

Mrs. Holtorook's Dessert. 

Beat lightly six eggs with a teacup of powdered 
white sugar ; add four teacups of best flour, and one 
tea spoonful of cream of tartar ; stir with a knife ; add 
half a tea spoonful of soda, dissolved in a little warm 
water, the grated rind of two fresh lemons, and third of 
a nutmeg grated ; mix all together and beat until quite 
light. 

Take six small pie-plates, and put into each two table 
spoonfuls of the mixture ; bake a nice brown ; when 
quite cold spread three of the cakes thickly with rasp- 
berry jam, and lay on the other three, causing the jam 
to be between the two cakes. To be served with a 
boiled custard. 

Philadelphia Muffins. 

One quart best flour, pint and a half of milk, gill of 



MISCELLANEOUS. 119 

yeast, two eggs, a little salt, and two large spoonfuls of 
melted butter ; when well risen, bake in muffin-rings a 
light brown. 



Farmers' BroTVML Bread. (Delicious). 

Three pints of rye, three of bolted corn meal, four 
table spoonfuls of sifted pumpkin, half a cup of molasses, 
scant table spoonful of salt, tea spoonful of soda, and 
half a cup of yeast. Mix all with warm water, as stiff 
as can be stirred well with the hand, and put into two 
well greased earthen or iron pans, the latter preferable ; 
after which, smooth the top of the loaves with the hand, 
dipping it into cold water once or twice. It rises faster 
than other bread, and should not be made over night 
in summer. Bake four hours. 

I?ea Pudding 1 for Oorn Beef" or Pork. 

Pick and wash a pint of split peas, and put them in a 
bag, not tied too closely, and let them cook until quite 
tender ; take them out, and sift through a sieve ; mix 
with an egg, a bit of pepper, and a little butter ; stir 
well together ; flour the bag, put in the mixture, and 
tie very close ; then put in the pudding with your meat 
one hour before the meat is served. 

Tomato Omelet. 

One quart of tomatoes, chopped finely (after the skin 
is removed), and put into a saucepan with two finely 
chopped opions, a little butter, salt, and pepper, one 
cracker pounded finely, cover tight, and let it simmer 
about an hour. 

Beat five eggs to a froth ; have your griddle hot ; 
grease it well. Stir your eggs into the tomato, beat to- 



120 MISCELLANEOUS. 

gether, and pour into the griddle ; brown on one side, 
fold, and brown on the other. To be served hot. 

Mrs. Ooolid^e's Breakfast Oalce. 

One tumbler of rice flour, one teacup of wheat flour, 
one tea spoonful and a half of cream of tartar, stirred in 
the flour, one large spoonful of butter, cut up very finely, 
a little salt, one well-beaten egg, and lastly a tea spoonful 
of soda dissolved in a large teacup of new milk ; mix 
well together, and bake in a pan like other cake. Serve 
hot for tea or breakfast. 

Mrs. Gray's Boiled Indian I'viclcling'. 

One quart of milk to boil ; stir in as much corn meal 
as will make a stiff batter ; add half a pound of suet 
chopped fine, a pint of dried peaches ; let the meal be 
cool before the suet and peaches are added. Stir in 
half a tea spoon of salt, a little cinnamon, and a cup of 
flour. To be boiled in a bag tied loosely to allow for 
swelling, and put into the pot when boiling ; boil five 
hours. Serve hot with sauce. 



Oake. 

The yolks of five eggs, well beaten, one pound of 
granulated sugar beat into the egg, one pound of best 
flour, and a large spoonful of anise-seed ; beat well for 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; whip to a stiff froth the 
whites, and add them, beating all together ; then roll out 
an inch thick, and cut rather small, and bake them the 
next morning. 



INDEX. 



MEATS. 

PAGE 

Balls, Forced-meat, 15 

Beef, Alamode, 8 

" Corned, 8 

" Heart, 8 

" Savory, 10 

" Stew, 9 

" Spiced, 7 

" Tongue, 9 ' 

Beefsteak, Stewed, 7 

" Stuffed, 10 ' 

Boileau, 9 

Bouilli, S 

Calf's Head, 13 

" Liver, Stewed, 14 

" Head, like Turtle 15 

Leg of Lamb, . . . 18 

Lamb Steaks, Fried, 18 

Mutton a la Venison, 17 

Mutton Kidneys, 17 

Mutton Shoulder, 16 

Mutton, Stewed Leg, 17 

Pork, Corned, 11 ' 

" Fricassee, 11 j 

" Pie, 11 ! 

Pigs' Feet, 11 

" Head, 12 

Veal'Broth, 14 

" Ragout of, Cold, 15 

" Fillet to Roast, 13 

" Knuckle, Stewed, 12 

" Sweetbread, 13 

FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, AND EGGS. 

Anchovy Sauce, 21' 

Chicken, Boiled, 21 

" Soup, 28 

Chowder, Fish, 23 

Codfish, Baked, ......... 24 

Chicken Pie, 25 

Duck, Roast, 22 

Eggs, Alamode, 27 

" Poached 25 

Fish, Stewed, 19 

Force-meat Balls, 22 

Gumbo, New Orleans, 28 

Halibut, Fried, 20 

Ham, Boiled, 24 



PAGE 

Meat Pie, Baltimore, 24 

Omelet, 24 

Oysters, Stewed Maryland, ... 27 

" Stewed, 27 

" Scolloped, 20 

Fancy Roast, 22 

" Sauce, for Turkeys, . . 20 

Pea Soup, . 21 

Pigeons, Alamode, 19 

" Roast, 22 

Salmon, Boiled, 25 

Soup, Tomato, 23 

Trout, Stewed, 28 

" Cream Baked, 23 

Turkey, Baltimore, 21 

" " Boiled, 20 

Veal, Stewed, 26 

PICKLES, KETCHUP, &C. 

Cabbage, Pickled, 30 

Chow Chow, 29 

Chowder, Tomato, 30 

Chicken Celery, 32 

Cucumbers, Pickled, 29 

Cold Slaw, 31 

" Boston, 32 

" Maryland, 33 

Lobster Salad, 33 

Oysters, Pickled, 31 

Oyster Ketchup, Philadelphia, . 30 

Pickle, for daily use, 31 

Picolily, 30 

Pickles, Sweet Tomato, 29 

Pickled Peaches, 32 

" Peppers, 31 

Tomato Ketchup, 32 

Tomatoes, Fried, * 33 

BREAD, INDIAN CAKE, &C. 

Aunt Chloe's Biscuits, 38 

Batter Cakes, 44 

Bread, Third, 39 

Dyspepsia, Miss Pindar's, 41 

Mrs. Clarke's, 41 

Delicious, Baltimore, . . 42 

Potato, 36 

Brown, 37 

(121) 



u 
u 

(C 

cc 

(C 



122 



INDEX. 



PAGE ' 

Bread, Brown, Mrs. Eeed's, . . 35 

" Milk, 43 

" Mrs. Ridgeley's, .... 36 I 

" Stirred, 40 

" Li"ht 42 

" Graham, Miss Clarke's', .' 43 

Biscuits, Drop, 37 

" Soda, 34 

" Sour Milk, 34 

Crumpets, 30 

Economy Cakes, Mrs. Fabens', . 35 

Fritters, Down East, 43 

" Indian, 43 i 

" Rice, Mrs. Knight's, . 40 i 

Indian Cake, 38 

" Old Times, .... 39 I 

" Mrs. Houghton's, 38 i 

" Mrs. Fabens', . . 44 j 

" 41 

Jamaica Plains, . 43 

" Berry, 40 

" Maiden, 39 

Muffins, 41 

" Cora, 40 

'' 35 

Hoe Cake,' '. '. '. '. '. '. '. '. '. '. '. 3D | 

Eolls, Mrs. Hunter's, 34 ; 

" Potato, 35 

Eice Griddle Cakes, 38 

" Waffles, 42 

Eye Cakes, . ... 36 

" Drop Cakes, 37 I 

Busk, Mrs. Parsons', 41 i 

Slapjacks, 38 1 

Tea Cake, 44 

31 rs. King's, 35 i 

Huckleberry, .... 40 I 

Varieties, ". 39 

Waffles, 42 

Mrs. Courtney's, ... 39 

Wafers, Delicate, 43 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Pudding, Baked, 49 

" " Mrs. Eaton's, . 50 

" Boiled, 53 

" Sago, 5J 

" Marblehead, 58* 

" Pancakes, 60 

Batter, Baked, 54 

Baked Plum, Mrs. Broughton's, 6 

Batter, Mrs. Russell's, 49 

Baked Bread, 51 

" Eice Pudding, 55 

Indian, Mrs. Knight's, . 49 

Boiled Indian, . ...'.... 51 

Blackberry Pudding, 52 

Bird's Nest, Mrs. Hooper's, . . 54 

Berry Pudding, Marblehead. . . 48 

Arrow Eoot, Mrs. Broughton's, 48 

Corn, Dorchester, 58 

" Pudding, 40 



PAGE 

Carrot Pudding, 58 

Custard, Boiled, 59 

Cream Custard, Mrs. Coolidge's, 57 

Cottage Pudding, 55 

Currant " 48 

" Marblehead, . 56 

Cranberry Pudding, 47 

Cracker " Boiled, . . 47 

Cocoa Nut, Mrs. Freeman's, . . 46 

Delicate Pudding, 50 

Egg Eice " 52 

Lemon " 51 

" " Marblehead, 53 

Maccaroni " 55 

Mrs. Falls' " 46 

Mrs. Hooper's Sago Pudding, . 47 

Mrs. Fabens' Pudding, . . '. . . 52 

3Irs. Appleton's " 53 

Mrs. Wolcott's " 57 

Mrs. Eandall's Lemon Puddiaj, 59 

Maizena, 09 

Maryborough Pudding, Mrs. Fa- 
bens,' 55 

Lowell Pudding, 47 

Potato " 46 

Poverty " 48 

Philadelphia Pudding, 53 

Poverty Eice " 55 

Pancakes, 59 

" Mrs. Jones', 60 

Eennet Pudding, 53 

Eoyal " 56 

Salem " 58 

State Ship " 56 

Sago " Mrs. Knight's, 51 

Squash " 52 

Simderland" 52 

Thanksgiving Pudding, .... 57 

Tapioca, Jamaica Plain, .... 58 

" Pudding, 50 

Pancakes, Mrs. Jackson's, ... 47 

Yankee Pudding, 45 

PASTRY. 

Paste, Common, 61 

" Mrs. Wolcott's, 62 

" Bich Puff, 61 

Pan Pie, 64 

" Mrs. Glover's, .... 64 

Pie, Apple, 63 

" " Boston, 63 

" " Baltimore, ..... 66 

" Berry 67 

" Beverly, 62 

" Cream, 62 

" Custard, 64 

" Baltimore, 66 

" Berwick, 66 

" Lemon, Haverhill, 62 

" " Mrs. Eice's, .... 67 

" Mince, Haverhill 62 

" " Mrs. Jenkins', ... 64 



INDEX. 



123 



PAGE 

Pie, Mince,without meat or apple, (53 

" Mince, 02 

" Peach Of) 

" Pumpkin, 04 

" Squash, 04 



Andover Cake, 

Almond Cheese Cake, Mrs. Whit- 

temore's, 

Amesbury .... 

Beverly " .... 

Brookline " .... 

Buns, Mrs. Abbott's, 

Bread Cake, 

Cup " 

Cream " 

Coffee " Mrs. Burrage's, . . 
Cup " Cambridge, Mrs. 

Burrage's, 

Cookies, 

Diet Cake, 

Dorchester Loaf Cake, 

Doughnuts, 

" Miss Allen's, .... 

" Mrs. Flaggs', . . . 
Mrs. Lincoln's, . . 
Sponge, 

" Common, 

Every Day Cake, 

Election " Mrs. Briggs', . 

Frost " 

Fruit Cake, 3Irs. Knight's,. . . 

Fabens' Cake, 

French " 

Glover " 

Gingerbread, 



u 

<C 



it 
u 
it 
u 
It 
II 



(C 

u 
c< 



Mrs. Barker's, . . 

Boston Soft, . . . 

Mrs. Glover's, . . 

Mrs. Hooper's . . 

Mrs. Smith's, . . 

Soft, 

Molasses, 

Marblehead Hard, 

Common Hard, . . 

Mrs. Rice's Molas- 
ses, 

Gold Cake, Mrs. Page's, .... 

Harrison Cake, 

Jumbles, 

Jenny Lind Cake, 

Lemon Cake, .Jamaica Plain, . . 

Loaf " Salem, 

Marble Cake, Miss Hull's, . . . 

Melrose " 

Macaroons, Mrs. Leverett's, . . 

Maplewood Cake, 

Madge, " 

Marblehead Cup Cake, 

Mrs. King's Cake, 

Norwich " 

Nothing " 



70 

80 
09 
73 

72 
84 
73 
70 
70 
85 

82 

77 

74 

74 

70 

76 

78 

81 

83 

83 

77 

78 

74 

78 

82 

83 

09 

74 

77 

79 

79 

79 

79 

81 

81 

81 

84 

85 
74 

78 

82 

78 

85 

74 

8: 

70 

83 

71 

70 

8( 

/ / 

81 

72 



Plum 

1C 

u 
u 

C( 

u 



PAGE 

Pork Cake, 72 

Poverty Cake, 73 

Polka " 75 

" 72 

Mrs. Proctor's, 79 

Maiden, 73 

75 

Common, 80 

Miss Hooper's, 78 

Pound Cake, Mrs. Flagg's, ... 77 

74 

Mrs. Broughton's, 80 

Puff Cake, Mrs. Rice's, 75 

Readville Cake, 85 

Rusk, 81 

Miss Hull's, 84 

Railroad Cake, 79 

Roxbury Cake, Miss Blackler's, 7( 
Sponge, Mrs. Hooper,s, .... 79 

" French, 71 

" Lemon, 82 

" Mrs. Emerson's, ... 84 
" Clay Mt., Miss Wash- 
ington, ." 85 

Savoy Biscuit, 80 

Shrewsbury Cake, 72 

Squash " 79 

Sugar " 71 

Silver " 71 

Tea " 71 

Tumbler Cake, Mrs. Freeman's, 77 

Wafers, 76 

Waltham Cake, 75 

Wedding " 75 

PRESERVES, JELUES, BLANC 
MANGE, &C. 

Blancmange, 90 

" Mrs. Hooper's, . 

" Arrow Root. ... 95 

" Moss, 90 

Cocoanut Cakes, 94 

Charlotte Russe, 97 

Cream for Preserves, ''"> 

" Mrs. Curtis' Velvet, . . 97 

Custards, Boiled, 89 

Soft, 88 

" French Rice, 87 

" Mrs. Page's Apple, . 

" Lemon, 75 

Floating Island, 

Jam, Apple, 92 

" Blackberry, 9~ 

" Blueberry, 

" Grape, 

" Raspberry, 

Green Gage, Mrs. Barrett's, 

Jelly, Currant, 87 

Calves' Foot, 90 

" Plum, 

" Black Currant, 94 

" Sago, 92 



92 

91 



124 



INDEX. 



T II T PAOE 

Jelly, Lemon, 94 

Currant, Mrs. Glover's, . 94 
" Calves' Foot, Philadelphia, 9(5 

Quinces, Preserved, 89 

Preserved Apple, 94 

" Cherries, 93 

Pears, 95 

Pineapple, 93 

Tomatoes, 93 

Strawberries, .... 92 

Peach, Marblehead, . 91 

Citron Melon, .... 97 

Snow, 98 

Mrs. Fabens', 98 

" Italian, 96 

" Beverly, 88 

Trifle, Mrs. Eaton's, 90 

Whip Syllabubs, Mrs. Hooper's, 89 

Yellow Blancmange, 90 

SAUCES. 

To clarify Sugar, 99 

Sauce, Apple, 101 

" " Salem, 101 

" Beverly, 101 

" Beacon Street, 99 

" Good for daily use, ... 99 

" Egg, 100 

" Caper, 100 

-" Oyster, 100 

" Mint. 100 

" Cranberry, 100 

" Haverhill, 100 

" Boston, 101 

" Superior, 101 

" Quince, 101 

" Lemon, 102 

" Cream, 102 

Wine, 102 

" Common, 102 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Apple Water, 103 

Arrow Root, 104 

Apple Pudding, Mrs. Lincoln's, 108 
Amherst Molasses Gingerbread, 109 

Aunt Emily's Cake, 109 

Boiled Rice, 103 

Batter Pudding, Miss Hiuckley's,113 
Black Bean Soup, Mrs. Chad- 
wick's, 110 

Cracker Toast, 103 

Cherry Rum, 106 

Currant Wine, 106 

" Shrub, Mrs. Knight's, , 107 

Custard, New York, 107 

Chocolate Candy, 108 

Cream Cakes, Mrs. Dixey's, . . 110 

Chelsea Sponge, 110 

Currant Pudding, Miss Jones', . 114 

Cake, Miss Blackler's, 113 

Cup Cake, Miss Jewett's, .... 114 



PAGE 

| Cider Cake, Miss Hubbard's, . . 114 
Cream Tartar Cakes, Mrs. Ger- 
ry's, 116 

Cold Slaw Dressing, Mrs. Whit- 

temore's, 117 

Corn Cake, Delicious, Mrs. Sul- 
livan's, 117 

Dessert, Mrs. Holbrook's, . . . 118 

Egg Nogg, 105 

" Fresh, 105 

Excellent Yeast, 105 

English Pudding, 106 

Farmer's Brown Bread, .... 119 

Fried Hasty Pudding, 104 

Frosting, 105 

" Ill 

" 116 

Gruel, Oatmeal, 104 



Ginger Beer, 



106 



Gelatine Jelly, 107 

Gingerbread, Mrs. Tildeu's, . . 114 

Hasty Pudding, 104 

Hop Tea, 105 

Jellied Rice, 103 

Jelly, Mrs. Haskell's Wine, . . 116 

Mead, Mrs. Adams', 107 

Mrs. Coolidge's Breakfast Cakes, 120 
Mrs. Gray's Boiled Indian Pud- 
ding, 120 

Mulled Wine, 103 

Newport Rolls, 114 

Orange Cream, Mrs. Haskell's, . 115 

Parsnips, to cook, 108 

Palmer Lemon Pie, 109 

Pea Pudding, 119 

Philadelphia Muffins, 118 

Pudding, Mrs. Hill's Fried Bread,110 
" Miss Bond's Indian 

Tapioca, Ill 

" Mrs. Wolcott's Plum, 112 

Pine Apple, 116 

Pie Paste, French, 117 

" Good, 116 

Pop-Overs, Mrs. Hooper's, . . .118 

Rusk, Mrs. Fabens', Ill 

Raspberry Wine, 135 

Succotash, 108 

Snow Balls, Mrs. Jenkins', . . . 109 

" Mrs. Perkins', ... 112 

Soufflee, Mrs. Sullivan's, .... 118 

Stewed Oysters, Miss Lincoln's, 115 

Saratoga Cake 109 

Swiss Cake, 120 

Toast Water, 105 

Tripe, 108 

Tomato Omelet, 119 

Tomato Ketchup, Mrs.Wolcott's, 113 

" " Miss Allen's, . 112 

Tea Cakes, Mrs. Fearing' s, . . .115 

White Mountain Cake, 109 

Wine Whey, 107 

Wheaten Biscuit, Tessie's, ... 116 



A'JG 2 i943 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



\jL^ iM-ee. t4.>3 




RADCUFFE COLLEGE UBRARYJ 



^S 



WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 



} 





H^arbarli College l^iiirarg 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 
fSH SEPTEMBER 8, 1926 ^ 



TIT-BITS; 



OB, 



EOW TO FBEPARE A NICE DI8H AT 
A MODERATE EXPENSE. 



BY 

MRS. S. G. KNIGHT. 



BOSTON: 
CROSBY AND NICHOLS. 

NEW YORK: O. S. FELT. 
1864. 



CONTENTS. 



First. MEATS 7 

Second. FISH, SOUPS, Ac, 19 

Third. PICKLES, KETCHUPS, Ac, 29 

Fourth. BREAD, COBN CAKES, Ac, . , . . .34 

Fifth. PUDDINGS, 45 

Sixth. PASTBY, ei 

Sbventh. CAKE, . . . .  03 

Eighth. PSESERYES, JELLIES, Ac $7 

Ninth. SAUCES, ,99 

Tenth. MISCELLANEOUS, 103 



INtRODUCTIO^. 



In presenting this book to the public the compiler 
wishes it to be understood liiat it is not designed to 
supersede any of the raluable ** Cook Books " already 
m the mfurket, but a aQ- accompaniment to them; 
being intended to fill a place which is not jet filled. 

The universal cry among the less wealthy classes 
is, " We can do nothing with Cook Books, the receipts 
are so extravagard / " - 

For the last twenty years the writer has been col- 
lecting receipts for her own private use. 

Many of these were so valuable, combining economy 
with excellence, she was constantly giving them to her 
friends. One lady remarked that one single receipt 
given her was worth five dollars to her. 

A year or two since a Mend suggested that these 
receipts should be given to the public, and that as 
many new ones as possible should be gleaned from 
private sources and added to those already in pos- 
session. 

A large majority of cake receipts are for common 



INTKODUCTION. 

use, and made by cup measure, to avoid the trouble 
of weighing. 

A small space is given to meats, it being deemed 
unnecessary to fill the book with receipts for plain 
cooking, which it is to be supposed all housekeepers 
are familiar with, and thereby make it a more costly 
one. Two of the receipts are from the Washington 
family in Virginia; a number from the private manu- 
script of a deceased relative, collected with great care ; 
but the large majority are from the stray leaves of 
friends, who love a nice dish, and have found a way 
to prepare it, without spending all their substance in 
riotous living. 



TIT-BITS 



PART FIRST. 
MEATS.  BEEF. 

To Select Beef: 

Nice beef may be known by its color ; the fat will be 
of oily smoothness, and incline to white, rather than 
yellow, while the lean will be of an open grain, bright 
red. Yellow fat is a sure sign of an inferior quality. 

Spieed Beef: 

Cover a round of beef, weighing about sixteen pounds, 
with a pound of salt, and turn it every day for a week. 

At the end of that time, wash it in cold water, rub it 
well with two ounces of black pepper and quarter of an 
ounce of mace. 

Fry three or four onions sliced, add a few cloves, then 
put in the meat, cover it with water, and bake in a stone- 
covered stewing pan for five hours. 

To be eaten cold, for breakfast or supper. 

Beef* Steak (Ste^wed). 

Take a steak a little more than an inch thick, fry it to 
a light brown, with two or three sliced onions. After it 

(7) 



8 MEATS. 

is fried, put it in a stewpan, with a turnip cut up small, 
and carrot also, if you fancy, a little celery, salt, and 
pepper; cover it with water, and stew gently for two 
hours. It is said to be very delicious. 

Beef* Heairt. 

Wash it carefully, and stuff it nicely ; roast or bake 
it, and serve with the gravy, which should be thickened 
with some of the stuffing. It is very nice hashed, with a 
little port wine added. 

AJLamo^e Bee 

Make a stuffing of rich herbs, spice, suet, and stuff 
the beef with it ; one and a half bottles of port or 
claret wine, according to the size of the beef, and five 
quarts, of water. Do not let it boil, but simmer until 

it 1& dOBA* 

 

SoiiiUi. 

To a tender piece of beef, about ten pounds, put three 
pints of water, a little pepper, salt, and an onion. Boil 
the beef gently for three or four hours; the beef should 
be turned, and the water renewed as it boils away. 
Crumbs of bread should be put in to thicken the- gravy. 

About half an hour before it is to be taken up, the 
fat should be carefully skimmed off, then a little cabbage, 
carrots, turnips, and celery, cut small, are to be put in,, 
and boiled till quite tender. 

Ooz-ned Beefl 

The brisket is the best. A piece of eight pounds will 
require four hours, slow boiling. Put it into cold water, 
and take off the scum as: it rises ; the slower it boilS: the> 



MEATS. 

better. The liquor which th6 be^f is boiled in ift very 
nice tot gravies and soups, and should bs saved for that 
purpose. 

SoileaxL. 

Take a piece of beef, weighing 8i ot eight pounds ; 
have the bone taken out, then rub it well with a mixture 
composed of ground cloves, allspice, black pepper, sweet 
marjoram, and salt, one spoonful of each, rubbed line. 

After the mixture is well rubbed in, roll it up tightly 
and tie it ; put it into a pot half full of water, with thred 
or four potatoes, a carrot, two turnips, if small, and two 
onions, and let it stew for Si^ hours. 

Beef* teyr. 

Take a pound and a half of nice beef, and cUt it into 
small pieces. 

Place in the bottom of your saucepan a layer of sliced 
potatoes, a few slices of onion, a pinch of pepper, one of 
salt ; then a layer of meat, another layer of potatoes, 
onions, salt, and pepper, with a layer of meat, and con- 
tinue in this way till you have disposed of all of your 
meat ; let the top layer be of potatoes, onions, and season- 
ing. Cover all with water, and let it stew for an hour 
and a half. 

Beef* Toiifirue. 

Kit is corned, it should be soaked for twenty-four 
hours before boiling. 

It will require from three to four hours, according to 
size. The skin should always be removed as soon as it 
is taken drom the pot. An economical method is to lay 
the tongue, as soon as the skin is removed, in a jar. 



10 MEATS. 

coiled up, with the tip outside the root, and a weight 
upon it. When it is cold, loosen the sides, with a knife, 
and turn it out. The slices being cut horizontally all 
round, the fat and lean will go together. 

Stuffed Beef^tealc. 

Take a rump steak about an inch thick. Make a stuff- 
ing of bread, herbs, &c., and spread it over the steak. 
BoU it up, and with a needle and coarse thread sew it 
together. Lay it in an iron pot on one or two wooden 
skewers, and put in water just sufficient to cover it. Let 
it stew slowly for two hours ; longer if the beef is tough ; 
serve it in a dish with the gravy turned over it. To be 
carved crosswise, in slices, through beef and stuffing. 

Savory Seeft 

Take a shin of beef from the hind quarter, saw it into 
four pieces, put it in a pot, and boil it until the meat 
and gristle drop from the bones ; chop the meat very fine, 
put it in a dish, and season it with a little salt, pepper, 
clove, and sage, to your taste ; pour in the liquor, in which 
the meat was boiled, and place it away to harden. 

Cut in slices and eaten cold. 



PORK. 

To Select I*orl. 

Jn fresh pork the fiesh is firm, smooth, a clear color, 
and the fat set. Dairy fed pork bears the palm over all 
^ others. In young pork, the lean, when pinched, will break- 
Excellent bacon may be known by the lean being ten- 
der and of a bright color, the fat firm and white, yet 



HEATS. 11 

bearing a pale rose tinge, the rind thin, and the lean 
tender to the touch. Rusty bacon has yellow streaks in 
it. The test of a sweet ham is to pass a sharp knife to 
the bone, and when drawn out smell it ; if the knife is 
daubed greasy, and the scent disagreeable, it is bad. 

Ooimed I*orli. 

It should be soaked a few hours before boiling, then 
well washed and scraped, and put into a fresh water. It 
must not be boiled fast, but put into cold water, and 
gradually warmed through ; skim frequently while boiling. 

A leg or shoulder, weighing seven or eight pounds, 
should boil slowly for four hours. When taken up it 
must be skinned carefully, though some prefer the skin 
remaining on, as it loses much of the juice by skinning. 
It is very nice cold. 

To Firieajsisee I*orl. 

Cut a small sparerib or chine of pork into pieces, 
cover with water and stew until tender; remove the 
meat, and flavor the gravy with salt, pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Serve in a deep dish, in the gravy, 
and garnish the dish with rice. 

I*orlc IHe. 

Prepare your pork as above, or take any nice bits of 
cold roast pork. Line a deep dish with paste, fill in with 
the meat, pour the gravy over it, and cover all with the 
paste ; make a small hole in the middle of the paste, and 
bake until nicely browned. 

Pile's Feet. 

Boil four pig's feet until the bones drop out. Draw 
out the long bone and place them in a dish to cool. 



12 MEATS. 

Split each foot, take the liquor in which it is boiled, add 
the juice of a lemon and some salt, and turn over the 
feet. They may be dipped in batter, and Med in salt 
pork. 

Pigr's Heacl. 

Have the head nicely cleaned, and boil it till very ten- 
der. Chop it very fine, and season with salt, pepper, 
sage, and a little clove, while hot. Put in a deep dish, 
and cover with a plate that is smaller than the dish, that 
it may rest on the meat, tlace on the plate a very heavy 
weight, and let it stand for tventy-fpur hours- This 
makes the famous " Pig's Head Cheese." 



VEAL. 

To elect Veal. 

When the kidney is well surrounded with fat, you 
may be sure the meat is of good quality. Always 
choose that which is whitest and fattest. 

If the vein in the shoulder, which is very perceptible, 
is a bright red or blue, it is a sure sign that the meat 
is fresh. 

Knuelsle of Veal te^ved. 

Break the bone in two or thiree places, put to it ^y^ 
pints of water, some sweet herbs, whol^ blftck peppers, a 
little salt and mace. 

When the meat is done, take it out with the herbs and 
spices, and thicken the liquor with a little flour, and boil 
it up well ; th^n put back the jmaX, e^i two glasses of 
Madeira, wine, and the juice of a lemoB. L^ it come 



MEATS. 13 

to a boil, but be careful that it does not bum. It is 
much more apt to after the flour is added. 

To TtasLt a Fillet of Veal. 

Make a stuffing of a little beef suet, chopped fine, the 
same quantity of bread crumbs, a little sweet marjoram, 
the rind of two lemons, grated, a table spoonful of grated 
horseradish, a little pepper and salt ; if you please, add 
the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, cut up fine. 

Introduce the stuffing through the fillet, secure it with 
skewers and twine ; baste it well while it is roasting, and 
make a gravy of the drippings, thickened with flour. 

Veal S^weetturead. 

Take two or three fresh sweetbreads, parboil them for 
a few minutes, then take them from the hot water, and 
put them into cold. Take some bread crumbs, and add 
the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, to the crumbs. 

When the sweetbreads are perfectly cold, place them 
on a skewer, and roll them in the prepared crumbs, lay 
them in a stew-pan with a small bit of butter and a lit- 
tle veal gravy, and cook them a nice brown. 

Take the gravy in which they are cooked, add the 
juice of a lemon, a little salt and pepper ; toast some 
slices of bread, dip them into the gravy, and lay the 
fiweetbreads on. 

Califs Head. 

Let the butcher split the head in halves. Take out 
the eyes and the snout bone ; then lay it in cold water, to 
soak two hoursT before boiling ; take out the brains, and 
wash them well in several waters, then lay them in cold 
water. Put the head together, and lay it in a good sized 



14 MEATS. 

pot, cover it with cold water, and throw in a table 
spoonful of salt. Let it boil slowly for two hours and a 
half, or three hours, according to size. 

When it has boiled a little more than an hour, take 
some of the liquor, about a quart, and put into a stew- 
pan for the gravy ; add to this liquor some salt, pepper, 
a little parsley chopped fine, a table spoonful of lemon 
pickle, and put over the fire to boil. 

Beat up an egg lightly, with two table spoonfuls of 
flour, then remove carefully the skin from the brains, 
and beat them up with the egg and flour. When well 
beaten, thicken the gravy with it, and stew about ten 
minutes. 

CaXr Liver, Ste^wed. 

Cut the liver into small slices, about three inches 
square. Into your sauce-pan place two onions, sliced 
fine, a table spoonful of sage, one of summer, savory, 
a little pepper and salt ; then add your liver, and cover 
with water, and let it stew for two hours. Just be- 
fore you serve it, dredge on a little flour, and add a 
table spoonful of butter. 

Veal Broth. 

Pick and wash a tea cup of rice, and put into your 
dinner pot ; cut up three or four small onions, and add 
to the rice ; next, add your meat, which should be cut 
in pieces of about a quarter of a pound each; let the 
whole be covered with water from two to three inches 
above the meat. When it has boiled an hour, add a 
few small turnips and carrots, sliced, with a table spoon- 
ful of salt; a little before it is served add some  parsley . 
This is a favorite broth with many people. It is very 



MEATS. 15 

nice without the carrots. Some prefer it thickened with 
flour instead of rice. 

A. 'R,SLsaxjLt of Oold "Veal. 

Cut the veal into slices ; put a large piece of butter 
into a frying-pan, and as soon as it is hot, dredge the 
meat well with flour, and fry a nice brown. Remove the 
meat, and put into the pan as much of your cold gravy as 
you think proper, season with pepper and salt, and a 
wine glass of tomato ketchup ; then cut a few slices of 
cold ham, lay into the gravy, and add your slices of veal. 
It must be sent to the table hot. 

To I>i*ess Oalf^s Head like Tinrtle. 

Let them boil an hour and a half, with salt in the 
water ; tie the brains in a cloth bag, and boil half an hour ; 
when all is done, take out the bones and cut up in pieces. 
Add to your liquor a little sweet marjoram, a nutmeg, 
grated, clove, mace, and pepper, to taste, half a pint of 
ketchup, half a pound of butter, and a pint of claret, or 
port wine ; then put in the meat, and boil a few minates, 
and it is done. 

Salem Foircecl ]%eat Balls. 

Take a piece of veal and an equal quantity of salt 
pork, chop them together fine ; pound two hard crackers, 
and add to it a little salt, sweet marjoram, pepper, and 
nutmeg; mix together well; flour the hands, and roil 
into little balls ; fry them in butter. Very nice, if added 
to the mock turtle soup. 

te"we<l Oalf^ Liver. 

Put the heart and harslet on to cook in just water 
enough to cover them. Put the liver, in the mean time. 



16 MEATS. 

in cold water, with a little Tinegar and salt ; slice np two 
onions, and boil with the heart and harslet for half an 
hour, skim it well, then strain off the liquor. Put a 
little summer savory, with a fresh sliced lemon in the 
bottom of the stew-pan, and on this place the liver, 
(which must be cut into square pieces, of about three 
inches square), pour over it the gravy made by the 
heart and harslet, put in about a dozen allspice, six or 
eight cloves ; let it simmer slowly, tightly covered, for an 
hour and a half, then pour off the gravy and mix with it 
a large spoonful of flour ; when smooth, stir it into the 
gravy, pour it into the sauce-pan, add a wine glass of 
tomato or mushroom ketchup, let it simmer for five 
minutes. Take up the liver, pour over it part of the 
gravy, and the remainder put into your gravy boat. 
This is a very nice dish if carefully prepared. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

The best mutton is of a fine grain, the fat firm and 
white. 

Lamb should be eaten very fresh. Li the fore quarter, 
the vein in the neck being any other color than blue, 
betrays it to be stale. 

Sboiildex* of* IMCutton.. 

Take out the bone, and fill the space with a stuffing 
made of bread crumbs, salt pork, chopped fine, pepper, 
salt, and sage, or sweet marjoram. A shoulder, weigh- 
ing eight pounds, requires an hour and a half, good 
fire. 



MEATS. 17 

IMCutton a. la. Venison. 

Take a fat loin, remove the kidney, and let it hang a 
week, if the weather permits. Two days before dressing 
it for cooking, take ground allspice, clove, and pepper, 
mix them, and rub into the meat a table spoonful of each 
twice a day for two days. Before cooking, wash it off, 
and roast as a leg. To preserve the fat and keep it in, 
make a paste of flour and water, and spread thickly over 
the meat. Over this tie a double sheet of coarse paper, 
well buttered. About a quarter of an hour before it is 
done remove the paper and paste, return to the oven and 
baste, and dredge with flour. It is equal to venison. 

BCutton TCidiieyfii. 

Take half a dozen flue mutton kidneys, clear them 
of fat and skin, and cut them into thin slices, powder 
them immediately with sweet herbs in fine powder, a 
little cayenne and salt. 

Put into a stew-pan two ounces of clarified butter or 
fresh lard ; put in the slices of kidney, and fry them 
nicely ; dredge a little fiour over them, and moisten with 
lemon juice, and in five minutes they will be done ; lay 
them on a hot dish, around which are slices of fried 
bread. 

Pour into the gravy two glasses of white wine, give it 
a boil, pour over the kidneys, and serve hot. 

Steipved X.<e^ of* ]!^iitton. 

Make a nice stuffing of finely-chopped beef suet, bread 
crumbs, an onion chopped finely, pepper, salt, and a little 
ground clove. Make incisions in the leg, and stuff it 
well ; tie a little bundle of basil and parsley together, 
lay in the bottom of the dinner pot, and on it place the 
2 



18 MEATS. 

mutton ; just cover with water, and stew slowly. Two 
hours steady cooking will be aU that is required ; when . 
tender, take out the mutton and add to the liquor a large 
spoonful of flour, made smooth with a little water, stir it 
well, and in five minutes take it off and strain it ; pour it 
back into the pot, and add a wine glass of ketchup, and 
lay the mutton in till it is served. 

X^es^ of*Xja.ml>. 

Boil it in water to cover it ; when half done add two 
cups of milk to the water, with a large spoonful of salt. 
It should be served with spinach and caper sauce. It 
will cook in an hour and a quarter, or half, according to 



To Firy Tjsuxkly Stealcs. 

Dip each piece into well-beaten egg, cover with 
bread crumbs or com meal, and fry in butter or new 
lard. Mashed potatoes and boiled rice are a necessary 
accompaniment. It is very nice to thicken the gravy 
with flour and butter, adding a little lemon juice, and 
pour it hot upon the steaks, and place the rice in spoon- 
fuls around the dish to garnish it 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &a 19 



PART SECOND. 
FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &o. 

AJanKMle Pigeons* 

Wash them very dean ; make a staffing of bite of 
salt pork, pomided biscuit, thyme, or summer savory, a 
little salt, and one or two eggs. Stnff the breasts suffi-' 
ciently to make them look plump, lay them in a stew-pan 
^or pot, cover them with water, add a little thyme, and 
half a pint of red wine. 

If young, two and a half hours moderate stewing is 
sufficient ; if old, three or four hours. Add more season- 
ing before you take them off, if required. 

Put into your kettle about half a pound of good butter ; 
make it quite hot, and after cutting your fish in small 
square pieces, of three or four inches in size, flour them 
and fry them brown ; take them out, and place in a deep 
dish, in a warm, not hot, oven. Add to the butter two 
double handfuls of chopped onions, fry your onions brown, 
 some sweet herbs, shred fine, three table spoonfuls of 
ketchup, half a pint of red wine, a piece of butten the 
size of an egg^ with pepper and salt to taste ; a tea spoon- 
ful of clove, the same of mace. If your gravy is too 
thick, add a little boiling water ; if too thin, a small piece 



2(1 FIBH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, 8to. 

more butter and a little flour. When suflicientlj boiled, 
pour over the fish and serve. 

Soiled Turlcey. 

Prepare your turkey as for roasting ; put it in a cloth, 
and boil it slowly, if from eight to nine pounds, an hour 
and a half. Throw into the water a few cloves, a little 
black pepper, sweet marjoram, and salt. It is to be 
served with oysters. 

Skim the turkey well while boiling, or it will not be 
white. 

Oymter Sauce fbr Turlceys, & 

Strain fifty oysters, put the juice into a sauce-pan, add 
one pint of new milk, let it sunmer, and skim ofi^ any 
fi"oth which may rise ; then rub a large spoonfiil of flour 
and two of butter together ; stir this into the liquor ; add 
a little salt and pepper. Let it simmer five minutes, 
but do not add your oysters till just as they are to be 
sent to the table, as if they are too much cooked they are 
hard. 

TViecl H:alil>iit. 

Place in your fry-kettle half a dozen slices of fat pork ; 
fry to a brown, then remove them to a deep dish ; 
add to the fat three table spoonfuls of fresh lard ; when 
boiling hot, put in your halibut, which should be cut in 
pieces about three inches square, and dipped in sifted 
meal ; sprinkle over it a little salt ; fry a good brown. 
After the fish is all fried (it may be necessary to add 
more^lard if it is a large one), put it in the dish with the 
slices of pork, pour the boiling fat over it, and add one 
table spoonful of boiling water ; cover with a plate tightly, 
and st&nd in the oven for twenty minutes. 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &o. 21 

BoiledL I^otvI or Oliioken. 

They should be cleaned and stuffed as for roasting. A 
young fowl requires an hour ; if tough and old, three 
hours. A chicken will boil in three quarters of an hour. 
They may be served with oyster, caper, or egg sauce. 

-Ajacliovy Sauce. 

Boil a pound of beef in water enough to cover it, with 
a slice of toasted bread. When boiled, remove it from 
the water, and add four or five anchovies, and a glass of 
daret wine, with a little clove ; boil up, and strain into 
your tureen boiling hot. 

Saltimore Tiurlcey. 

Take out the breastbone, and cut off the legs,  not the 
thigh part,  of a small, fat turkey. Clean it thoroughly, 
and fill the inside with oysters sew it up, lay in a floured 
cloth, place it in cold water, and boil one hour and a 
half, very slowly ; take it out, lay on a dish, and draw 
out the thread with which the turkey was sewed. Make 
a jelly of calf's feet, without sugar, but flavored with 
lemon and wine ; when cool, but not cold, pour over the 
turkey, and set it aside to jelly. 

Serve with celery. 

Pea. Soup* 

Soak a quart of split peas ov^ sight. In the morning 
add to them a gallon of water, in which a piece of beef 
or mutton has been boiled the day previous, and strained, 
and let them boil slowly for four hours, with the addition 
of half a pound of salt pork. Strain through a sieve 
before serving, and season with salt and pepper to your 
taste. 



22 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

O^'sters, Fetncy IBoat. 

Toast a few slices of bread, and butter them ; lay them 
in a shallow dish ; put on .the liquor of the oysters to 
heat, add salt and pepper, and just before it boils add 
the oysters ; let them boil up once, and pour over the 
bread. 

K'Oast Pigeons. 

When cleaned and ready for roasting, fill the bird with 
a stuffing of bread crumbs, a spoonful of butter, a little 
salt and nutmeg, and three oysters to each bird (som 
prefer chopped apple). They must be well basted with 
melted butter, and require thirty minutes careful cook- 
ing. In the autumn they are best, and should be full 
grown. 

Prepare your duck for roasting, and use the following 
stuffing: Chop fine, and throw into cold "water, three 
good sized onions, one large spoonful of sage, two of 
bread crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a 
little salt and pepper, and the onions drained. Mix well 
together, and stuff the duck. 

An hour is enough for an ordinary sized duck. The 
gravy is made by straining the drippings ; skim off the 
fat, then stir in a large spoonfiil of browned flour, a tea 
spoonful of mixed mustard, a wine glass of claret. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes. 

IFox-cemea^t Sails. 

Take oue pound of tender lean beef, and half a pound 
of nice beef suet, chopped very finely, the crumbs of a 
stale loaf of bread, soaked in cold water for a few mo- 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 28 

ments, and squeezed very dry, the grated rind and juice 
of a lemon, half a tea spoonful of ginger, the same of salt 
and summer savory, with a little cayenne. Mix well 
together, and add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. 
Divide in halves ; put one half in a stew-pan, with a 
wine glass of ketchup ; stew half an hour. The other 
half make into balls, the size of a walnut, and fry brown. 
Place round the dish in which the stew is served. 

Oream Balced Trout. 

Clean the trout, put in pepper and salt, and close them. 
Place the fish iii the pan, with just cream enough to 
cover the fins, and bake fifteen minutes. 

Tomato Soup. 

Put on a piece of beef, mutton, or lamb, to boil ; skim 
off all the fat before seasoning, then add two sliced 
onions, a little pepper and salt, two cloves, and about a 
dozen tomatoes ; boil three hours, then add a little thick- 
ening of flour. If the tomatoes are very sour, add a 
table spoonful of sugar. 

Fish Oho^vrder. 

. Take a fresh haddock, of three or four pounds, clean 
it well, and cut in pieces of three inches square. Place 
in the bottom of your dinner-pot five or six slices of salt 
pork, fry brown, then add three onions sliced thin, and 
fry those brown. Remove the kettle from the fire, and 
place on the onions and pork a layer of fish ; sprinkle 
over a little pepper and salt, then a layer of pared and 
sliced potatoes, a layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is 
used up. Cover with water, and let it boil for half an 
hour. Pound six biscuits or crackers fine as meal, and 



24 PISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &o. 

pour into the pot ; and, lastly, add a quart or pint of 
milk ; let it scald well, and serve. 

Omelet. 

Break six egg^ leaving out the whites ; put them in a 
cold place until required. Add to the yolks a little 
powdered sugar, the peel and juice of half a small lemon, 
a little nutmeg, and beat all together ; add four table 
spoonfuls of cream ; beat up the six whites stiff. Put a 
piece of butter in your pan, upon a slow fire ; when hot 
pour in the omelet, mix in the whites gently, turn it on 
your dish, glaze with pounded sugar, put in the oven for 
a few minutes, and send to the table hot. 

SAltimoire 'M.Got. Pie. 

Pare two pounds of potatoes, cover them with hot 
water, and let them simmer till done ; mash them, and 
add a little cream and salt ; lay them in the style of paste 
in "a dish ; place on thin slices of underdone meat, either 
mutton, beef, or veal ; lay them in thickly ; pour over 
them some gravy, a wine glass of ketchup, then cover 
thick with mashed potatoes, and bake moderately for 
about forty minutes. 

Baked Oo<lfisli. 

Clean the fish inside and out ; fiour it ; make a stuff- 
ing of bread crumbs, bits of salt pork, sage, and one egg. 
Stuff the fish well, put on one or two slices of pork, and 
bake a nice brown. To be eaten with egg or caper 
sauce. 

Boile<l Kaxn. 

Boil in a large pot, giving it plenty of room and enough 
of water ; let it be an hour coming to a boil. A ham of 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPSv EGGS, &c. 25 

fifteen pounds requires three hours steady boiling. It 
should then be taken from the pot, the skin removed, and 
fine pounded cracker sifted thickly over the top ; put in 
the oven and baked from one hour to an hour and a half. 
Many people prefer the ham boiled only ; in the latter 
case it should boil, if the above size, for five hours, and 
remain fifteen minutes in the pot aft^r the pot is removed 
from the fire. 

Oliieken I*ie. 

Cut the chicken in pieces,^ and parboil for three quar- 
I ters of an hour. Remove the chicken, and add to the 
water in which it is boiled a little salt, pepper, and a tea 
cup of milk thickened with a table spoonful of flour. Line 
a deep dish with nice paste, put in the chicken, and turn 
over it the gravy which you have prepared. Cover it 
with paste immediately, make a small hole in the centre, 
ornament with strips of paste, and bake for forty-five 
miputes. 

Boiled. Salmon. 

A piece of six pounds should be rubbed with salt, tied 
carefully in a cloth, and boil slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. It should be eaten with egg or caper sauce. 
If any remains after dinner, it may be placed in a deep 
dish, a little salt sprinkled over, and a tea cup of boiling 
vinegar poured upon it. Cover it closely, and it will 
make a nice breakfast dish. 

Poached "E^ff^. 

) The eggs should be fresh. Have the boiling water in 
/ a shallow pan, break the eggs separately in a saucer, and 
.' slip gently into the boiling water ; when all are in the 



26 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

water, place the pan over the fire, until the white of each 
is perfectly set ; remove with a slicer, and lay on buttered 
toast or broiled ham. 

SteTvedl Veal. 

Break the shank bone, wash it clean, and put into two 
quarts of water an onion peeled, a few blades of mace, 
and a little salt ; set it over a quick fire, and remove the 
scum as it rises. "Wash carefully a quarter of a pound 
of rice, and when the veal has cooked for about an hour 
skim it well and throw in the rice. Simmer for three 
quarters of an hour slowly. When done put the meat in 
a deep dish, and the rice around it. Mix a little drawn 
butter, stir in some chopped parsley, and pour over the 
veal. 

Ste-vredl Trout. 

Clean and wash the fish with care, and wipe it perfectly 
dry ; put into a stew-pan two table spoonfuls of butter, 
dredge in as it melts a little flour, grate half a nutmeg, 
a few blades of mace, a little cayenne, and a tea spoon- 
ful of salt ; mix it all together, then lay in the fish, let 
it brown slightly ; pour over some veal gravy, a lemon 
thinly sliced, stew very slowly for forty minutes, take 
out the fish, and add two glasses of wine to the gravy. 
Lay the fish on ^ hot dish, and pour over it some of the 
gravy. Serve the rest in a sauce tureen. 

SeoUoped O^rsters. 

Line a pudding dish with bread crumbs, put in a layer 
of oysters, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a dozen small 
bits of butter, next a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer 
of oysters, and a layer of cracker crumbs, with pepper, 



FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 27 

butter, and salt, as before ; a layer of oysters, and so on, 
using every other layer, cracker pounded fine, instead of 
bread crumbs. Lastly strain the liquor, and pour over 
the whole, and bake ; if there is not enough liquor to wet 
it thoroughly, use a little milk. 

te^iv^e<i Oysters. 

Strain the oysters, and put the juice in a sauce-pan on 
the fire ; add a large spoonful of -butter and the same of 
flour, well braided together ; add a cup of cream if you 
have it, if not, milk, a little salt and nutmeg ; stir into 
the hot juice, and let it simmer for five minutes. Squeeze 
over the oysters the juice of a lemon, and just before 
they are required for table throw them into the boiling 
juice. 

Oysters are very nice flavored with celery; this is 
done by cutting the celery stalks into the juice instead 
of the spice, and taken out before the oysters are added. 

D^arylaxMl Ste^wed. Oysters. 

Put the juice into a sauce-pan and let it simmer, skim- 
ming it carefully, then rub the yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs and one large spoonful of flour well together, and 
stir into the juice; Cut in small pieces quarter of a 
pound of butter, half a tea spoonful of whole allspice, a 
little salt, a little cayenne, and the juice of a fresh lemon ; 
let all simmer ten minutes, and just before dishing add 
the oysters. This is for two quarts of oysters. 

^STSf* a lA Mio^e (T^ery nice). 

Remove the skin from a dozen tomatoes, medium 
size, cut them up in a sauce-pan, add a little butter, 
pepper, and salt ; when sufficiently boiled, beat up five 



28 FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, EGGS, &c. 

or six eggs, and just before you serve turn them into the 
sauce-pan, with the fomato, and stir one way for two 
minutes, allowing them time to be well done. 

Griu]il>o, (a fe,voirite Southem II>isli). 

Cut up a pair of good sized chickens, as for a fricassee, 
flour them well, and put into a pan with a good sized 
piece of butter, and fry a nice brown, then lay them in a 
soup pot, pour on three quarts of hot water, and let them 
simmer slowly for two hours. Braid a little flour and 
butter together for a thickening, and stir in a little pepper 
and salt. Strain a quart or three pints of oysters, and 
add the juice to the soup. Next add four or five slices 
of cold boiled ham, and let all boil slowly together for 
ten minutes. Just before you take up the soup, stir in 
two large spoonfuls of finely powdered sassafras leaves, 
and let it simmer five minutes, then add your oysters. 
If you have no ham, it is very nice without it. Serve in 
a deep dish, and garnish the dish with rice. 

Ohicken Soup. 

Boil a pair of chickens with great care, skimming 
constantly, and keeping them covered with water. When 
tender, take out the chicken and remove every bone from 
the meat ; put a large lump of butter into a frying-pan, 
and dredge the chicken meat well with flour, lay in the 
hot pan ; , fry a nice brown, and keep it hot and dry. 
Take a pint of the chicken water, and stir in two large 
spoonfuls of curry powder, two of butter, and one of 
flour, one tea spoonful of salt and a little cayenne ; stir 
until smooth, then mix it with the broth in the pot ; when 
well mixed, simmer five minutes, then add the browned 
chicken. Serve with rice. 



PICKLES, KETCHUP, &o. 29 



PART THIRD. 
PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 

STveet rromato f^oklei^'. 

Eight pounds peeled tomatoes, four of powdered sugar, 
cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, each one ounce. Boil 
one hour, and then add a quart of boiling vinegar. 

Piekle^l Ouenml^eirsi (very nice). 

To a gallon of water add a quart of salt, put in the 
cucumbers, and let them stay over night. In the morning 
wash them out of the brine, and put them carefully into 
a stone jar. Boil a gallon of vinegar, put in, while cold, 
quarter of a pound of cloves and a table spoonful of 
alum ; when it boils hard, skim it well and turn over the 
cucumbers. In a week they will be fit for use. 

C^ou Ohou. 

A peck of tomatoes, two quarts of green peppers, half 
a peck of onions, two cabbages cut as for slaw, and two 
quarts of mustard seed. Have a large firkin, put in a 
layer of sliced tomatoes, then one of onions, next one of 
peppers, lastly cabbage ; sprinkle over some of the mus- 
tard seed, repeat the layers again, and so on till you have 
used up the above quantity. Boil a gallon of vinegar, 
with a bit of alum, two ounces of cloves and two of all- 



30 PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 

spice tied in a little bag, and boiled with the vinegar ; 
skim it well and turn into the firkin. Let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then pour the whole into a large ket- 
tle, and let it boil five minutes ; turn into the firkin, and 
stand away for future use. 

Tomato Oho-w^dleir. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, six green peppers, and 
four onions ; strew a tea cup of salt over them. In the 
morning turn ofi* the water, and put them in a kettle with 
vinegar enough to cover them, a tea cup of sugar, one of 
grated horseradish, a table spoonful of cloves, allspice, 
and cinnamon, each. Boil until soil. 

Pickled C&JbJysLS^' 

Cut a cabbage in about eight pieces ; soak it in cold 
water two or three hours ; strain it thoroughly from the 
water, put it into the jar, sprinkling a little salt on each 
layer, add a few cloves, a little allspice and pepper, and a 
few slices of onions. Pour boiling vinegar sufficient to 
cover it. After standing twenty-four hours scald the 
vinegar again. In two or three days it is fit for use. 

Oyster ICetcliii.p (Philadlelpliia). 

Take a gallon of fresh oysters, drain off* the liquor, 
and pound or mash them well with a pestle. To a quctrt 
of the oysters add a quart of wine, one half ounce of 
mace, one of ground allspice, quarter of a pound of salt, 
simmer all together for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain 
through a sieve, and when cold bottle and seal, 

PiooUiUy. 

Of cut cucumbers, beans, and cabbage, each four quarts, 



PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c, 31 

of cut peppers and onions two quarts each, celery and 
nasturtions four quarts each. Pour on boiling vinegar, 
flavored strongly with mustard, mustard seed, and ground 
cloves. 

I^iclde fbr dally Use. 

A gallon of vinegar, three quarters pound of salt, 
quarter pound of ginger, an ounce of mace, quarter 
ounce of cayenne pepper, and an ounce of mustard seed, 
simmered in vinegar, and when cold put in a jar. You 
may throw in fruits and vegetables when you choose. 

IHoldedl Oysters. 

Take two quarts of oysters, put them in a sauce-pan, 
and if they are &esh, salt them ; let them simmer on the 
fire, but not boil ; take out the oysters, and add to the 
liquor in the sauce-pan a pint of vinegar, a small handful 
of whole cloves, quarter of an ounce of mace, and two 
dozen peppercorns. Let it come to a boil, and when the 
oysters are cold in the jar pour the liquor on them. 

I*iolle<i I*eppers. 

Do not pick them till just as they begin to turn red ; 
then soak them for ten or twelve days in strong salt and 
water ; take them from the brine and soak them in clear 
water for a day. Wipe them dry, and put them away in 
cold vinegar ; or if you wish them milder, remove the 
seeds and scald the vinegar, not boil. 

Ooia @laT>r. 

A white, hard head of cabbage, cut in halves and laid 
in cold water, then shave it very fine. Boil from a half 
to a pint of vinegar, stir into it the well-beaten yolk of an 
eggy and then turn over the cabbage, but not tiU a short 
time before using. 



3i PICKLES, KETCHTTP, &c. 

Boston Ooldl Sla^vr. 

Shave the cabbage as above, and use the following 
dressing : The yolks of two eggs, a little sweet oil, a 
good pinch of salt, two tea spoonfuls of*mustard flour, a 
bit of pepper, mixed together thoroughly, then stir into 
it gradually half a pint of vinegar, and turn over it 9.3 it 
goes to the table. 

Oliiekexi. Oeleiry. 

Chop the remains of chicken or turkey, and mix with 
it an equal proportion of celery, a little salt and vinegar 
only, although some like a dressing as for slaw, but this 
takes away too much of the celery taste. It may be 
prepared with lettuce instead of celery. 

'X^om.ato BLetoliTip. 

One peck of tomatoes, one great spoonful of cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg each, half a large spoon- 
ful of black pepper, half a tea spoonful of cayenne, and a 
pint and a half of vinegar. Stew the tomatoes and strain 
them, and then add the spice and vinegar. This will 
make three bottles. 

nclded. I^eaclies. 

Boil together one gallon good vinegar and four pounds 
of brown sugar for a few moments, and skim it well. 
Take ripe clingstone peaches, remove the down with a 
flannel cloth, and stick a few cloves in each. Put them 
in a glass or earthen vessel, and pour the liquor upon 
them boiling hot. Cover them, and let them stand in a 
cool place a week or ten days ; then pour off the liquor, 
and boil it as before ; after which, return it boiling to the 
peaches, cover carefully and place away for future use. 



PICKLES, KETCHUP, &c. 33 

IL<ol>stex* Salad. 

Maj be made as chicken salad, and dressed, if you like, 
as slaw. Some people stew the meat and serve hot. 
The best way is t#remove from the shell, being sure to 
remove the 'poison vein^ which may be found in the body 
of the creature, by drawing a ^harp knife gently through 
the middle of the back lengthwise, not cutting entirely 
through, but open the gash with the fingers, when a single 
black or dark-colored vein may be seen, which must be ' 
removed, and then the meat will be perfectly harmless. 
Arrange the meat handsomely on a dish, decorating with 
small claws, and let each one dress according to fancy. 

rFomatoes Firie<i (yeiry nice). 

Do not pare them, but cut in slices, as an apple ; dip in 
cracker, pounded and sifted, and fry in a little good butter. 

Lay the cabbage in halves into cold water for one hour ; 
shave down the head into small slips with a sharp knife. 
Put in a sauce-pan a cup of vinegar, and let it boil ; then 
add a cup of cream, with the yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten ; let these boil up, and pour over the cabbage. As 
soon as the cabbage is cut, and before the vinegar, &c., is 
poured on, it should be sprinkled with a little salt and 
pepper. 

3 



34 BREAD, BISCUITS, FJIITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 



PART FOURTH. 

BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN 
CAKES, &c. 

Into three pints of flour, rub a Jittle butter ; add three 
eggs, half a pint of yeast, and a sufficiency of warm milk 
to mix these ingredients well. Make it in the evening for 
next morning's breakfast. 

Into a quart of flour, rub one table spoonful of lard and 
one of butter, with two tea spoons of cream of tartar. 
Dissolve a tea spoon of soda, and one and a half of salt 
in half pint of water, and if this will not wet the flour 
sufficiently add a little more cold water; roll it out, 
handling as little as possible, and cut with a tin into 
rounds. Bake in a quick oven,  quarter of an hour 
should bake them. Everything depends on a quick oven. 
Many use milk instead of water, but if made and baked 
properly water is nice enough to render them fit for any 
epicure. 

Soiur Millie Biscuits. 

To be made as the above, with the esioeption sour milk 
is used in the place of cream of tartar, and the soda is 
dissolved in the milk. Tea spoon of soda to a pint of sour 
milk. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTEES, CORN CAKES, Ac. 35 

2MDrs(. TCing^s Tea Oalces. 

Three cups of flour, one of milk, one egg^ small bit of 
butter, half cup of sugar, one and a half tea spoons 
of yeast powder. 

Mr. Reed's BroTVTi Breads 

Two cups of Indian meal even full, three cups of flour 
or Graham meal heaped, a pint and a half of sour milk, 
a cup of molasses, tea spoon and a half of soda, one of 
salt, steamed four hours. Brown lightly in the oven 
afterwards. 

lIMQrs. I^al>eiis' Economy Oalces. 

Rusked bread, or that which is old and sour, can be 
made into very nice fritters. The bread should be cut in 
small pieces, and soaked in cold water till very soft. 
Drain off the water and mash the bread fine. 

To three pints of bread thus prepared, add two eggs, 
four table spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, one tea spoon t)f 
soda in a cup of milk, which must be stirred into the 
bread, and a little more milk added, until thin enough to 
fry. 

Mix a quart of flour with a pint and a half of luke- 
warm milk, half a cup of yeast, two eggs, tea spoon , 
of salt, two table spoonfuls of lukewarm melted butter,  
set it in a warm place and let it rise. Butter cups, and 
bake a light brown. 

Potato K<olls. 

Boil four good sized potatoes, with their skins on ; 
squeeze them in a towel, to make them dry and mealy, 



86 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &o. 

then remove the skin, and mash them perfectly smooth, 
with a spoonful of butter and a little salt ; add the yolks 
of three eggs, well beaten, and stir into the potatoes, then 
add one pint and a half of milk, and a large spoonful of 
yeast ; beat in flour enough to make a stiflf dough ; set it 
to rise, and when risen make it into cakes the size of an 
^gg"f let tl^em rise again, and bake a light brown. 

Potato Si*eadL. 

Sift four pounds of flour into a pan ; boil one pound of 
potatoes, skin, and mash them very carefully through the 
cullender ; mix this with equal quantities of milk and 
water, stir with a knife, add a table spoon of salt, and beat 
well ; a cup of yeast. 

Oirunnpet s . 

Take one quart of dough from the bread at an early 
hour in the morning ; break three eggs, separating yolks 
and whites, both to be whipped to a light froth ; mix them 
into the dough, and gradually add milk- warm water, until 
it is a batter the consistency of buckwheat cakes ; beat it 
well, and let it rise, till breakfast time. Have the griddle 
hot and nicely greased ; pour on the batter in small round 
cakes, and bake a light brown. 

Bfjrs. !Rid^ele^'(s Breacl. 

Take two quarts of flour, put before the fire to dry ; 
make a hole in the middle, and put in half a pint of yeast ; 
cover it and let it stand till morning, then take a pint of 
milk-warm water with two tea spoonfuls of salt, and stir 
into it, and in half an hour it will be ready for baking. 

K<ye Oakes (nioe). 

Six heaping table spoonfuls of rye and six of Indian 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 37 

meal, three of flour with two tea spoons cream tartar, mix 
well, then add two table spoonfuls of molasses, tea spoon of 
salt, and a tea spoon of soda in a scant pint of water, stir 
well, and if this quantity of water does not thin the bat- 
ter sufficiently, add a little more. They are very nice 
made of sour or buttermilk instead of creain tartar and 
water. They should be about as thick as the batter for 
pancakes. Grease the griddle well to prevent them from 
adhering, and fry to a nice brown. 

Very nice for breakfast or supper, and may be eaten 
with butter or syrup. 

Bro-vm Bread. 

One quart of Indian and one quart of rye mixed well 
together ; half a cup of molasses, one table spoonful of 
salt, table spoonful of cream of tartar, two thirds of 
a table spoon of soda, dissolved in a pint of cold water. 
When dissolved wet the mixture with it, and if it does not 
thoroughly wet it, add a little more. It should be 
nearly as stiff as bread. Bake moderately from four to 
five hours. Some people add raisins, which makes it very 
nice. 

Drop Biscuits. 

One pint sour milk, tea spoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, table spoonful of butter, table spoon of white sugar, 
a little salt, and flour enough to make it stiff enough to 
drop. 

R.ye l>roi> Oalces. 

One pint of sour milk, tea spoon of soda, tea spoon of 
salt, three eggs, and rye meal to make a batter, not quite 
thin enough to run. Drop with a spoon on a tin sheet, 



88 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 

and bake in a quick oven. They are very nice baked in 
muffin rings, but will take longer to cook than a griddle 
cake. 

B.ice Grriddle Oalces. 

Boil a cup of rice, soft, in four cups of milk ; while 
warm add a little flour, when cold add three eggs and a 
tea spoon of salt. Fry as other griddle cakes. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, tea spoon of soda, tea 
spoon of salt, flour enough to make a thin batter. Butter 
your griddle, and fry them the size of a plate ; when one 
is done turn it on the dish, sprinkle on a little white 
sugar, and continue in this way till they are all fried. 
Always fry them with butter. Some people grate over a 
little nutmeg with the sugar on each one. The charm is 
to eat them while hot. 

Jolmii;^ Oake. 

One quart of buttermilk or sour milk, one quart Indian 
meal, one quart of flour, one cup of molasses, tea spoon 
of soda (two scant tea spoons if the milk is sour), tea 
spoon of salt. 

ik-unt Ohloe's Biseuits. 

One pint of rich milk, one tea spoon of soda dissolved 
in it, tea spoon of salt, two table spoonfuls of molasses, 
two eggs, Indian meal to make a batter to fry. 

"Mirm. Houghton's Indian Oa.ke. 

One pint of sour milk, two thirds of a cup of butter, 
cup of sugar, tea spoon of soda dissolved in the milk, one 
egg, and one pound of Indian meal. To be baked in a 
moderately quick oven. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 39 

IdraldLeu Indian Oake. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in the milk, three cups of meal, three 
cups of flour, tea spoon of salt. To be baked. 

Oldl Tillies Jolmny Oalce (very nice). 

A quart of Indian meal, tea spoon of salt, scalded well 
with boiling water. Baked about half an inch thick. 
When done split through the middle, cut in pieces for 
table, and dip in melted butter. 

Varieties* 

Two eggs beat light, tea spoon of salt, the egg thick- 
ened with flour to roll out thin as a wafer ; cut in strips 
one inch wide and four inches long, wind it round your 
finger, and fry them as you do doughnuts. 

Mj*s- Ooxirtiieir's Waffles. 

A pint bowl of cold boiled rice, thin it with cold milk, 
beaten well, one egg, a small piece of butter, and flour 
to make a batter stiff enough to bake. 

Use pork to grease your waffle iron, not butter. 

Tliir<l Bread. 

One and a half pints each Indian, rye, and flour ; one 
cup of molasses, two heaping spoonfuls cream of tartar, 
one heaping spoonful of soda, one table spoonful of salt. 

Wet it with equal quantities milk and water, not too 
stiff, but so that it will stir easily. Bake from one and a 
half to two hours. 

Hoe Oalce. 

One pint of Indian meal, tea cup of flour, two table 



^ BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKElS, &o. 

spoonfuls of molasses, a quart of cold milk, tea spoon 
saleratus, tea spoon salt. 

Bake with a good fire, half an hour. 

Huckletoerr^' Tea Oalce. 

Two cups of sour milk, half a cup of white sugar, 
one ^gg^ tea sipoon of soda, tea spoon of salt, flour enough 
to make it a stiff dough. Beat it well and fill with ber- 
ries. To be eaten with butter. 

Beinry Ooim Oalce. 

Two cups Indian meal, one cup of flour, three table^ 
spoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, tea spoon of salt, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in a pint of sour milk, or, if the milk 
is sweet, use two tea spoons of cream of tartar. To be 
filled with berries, and baked till a nice brown. 

"MLirs. Kniijirlit's R.ioe O-rlcldle OaJkes. 

Into a cup of cold boiled rice work two eggs, a tea 
spoon of salt, a tea spoon of soda with a pint of milk, 
and add flour enough for a good batter. Fry them, and 
as they are cooked sprinkle a little white sugar over 
them. 

Ooim ]M[ufflii.fii. 

Two cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, two eggs, 
piece of butter size of an egg^ melted, two tea spoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one tea spoonful of soda, and one pint 
of milk. Baked in muffin rings. 

Sti]n*e<l Birea^l. 

To four table spoonfuls of Indian meal, add three tea 
spoonfuls of salt, a bit of lard the size of an egg, pour 



BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c.  

on two quarts of boiling water ; let it stand until blood 
warm ; stir into one cup of yeast one tea spoonful of 
soda, and pour to the mixture, then add flour enough 
to make it as stiff as you can stir it. Rise and bake. 

Iiidia,ii Oalce. 

One cup of cold milk, two thirds of a cup of sugar, 
one egg^ half a tea spoonful of saleratus, stir in Indian 
meal to form a thin paste. 

IMEiss I*iiidlai*'s Dyspepsia, Sireadl. 

One pint bowl of Graham flour, dissolve one half tea 
spoonful of soda in two thirds of a cup of homemade 
yeast, and add to the mixture one tea cup of molasses ; 
pour in suflicient warm water to make it somewhat 
thinner than flour bread. 

IMCirs. Pairsons' Rusk. 

One pound of flour, small piece of butter big as an 
egg^ one egg^ quarter pound, white sugar, gill of milk, 
two great spoonfuls of yeast. 

IMEirs. Olajrke's Birea^],. 

Two quarts of flour, one tea spoonful salt, butter, size 
half an egg^ one cup of homemade yeast, or half a cup 
of baker's yeast ; add lukewarm water and knead ten 
minutes ; stand over night and knead fifteen minutes in 
the morning ; put in pans, and let it rise for an hour. 
This will make a pan of biscuit, and one or two loaves. 

Beat one egg lightly, add a quart of warm milk, cut 
up into it a spoonful of lard and a spoonful of butter. 



4Si BREAD, BISCUITS, FBITTEB8, CORN CAEJBS, &o. 

with a little salt ; let it be of the consistency of rather 
a thick batter ; set it .to rise and bake in rings. 

Riee "WaJflEtetei. 

Beat three eggs very light, stir them into one pint and 
a half of flour, adding by degrees, as you mix in the 
flour, two pints of milk, then add a pint of boiled rice, 
with a table spoonM of butter stirred* in while the rice 
is hot ; salt to the taste, and one table spoonful of good 
yeast ; if they are made at noon they will be fit for 
baking at tea time. 

Baltiuoire ]>elicioufli BreacL 

Two tumblers of rice flour, two tea cups of wheat 
flour, three tea spoonfuls of cream of tartar stirred in, 
two large spoonMs of butter cut up finely, a little salt, 
two well-beaten eggs, two tea spoonfuls of soda dissolved 
in two tea cups of new milk ; mix well together, and 
bake in a pan like pound cake. 

Warm one pint of milk, cut in small pieces one table 
spoonfiil of butter ; when cool add one egg beat light, and 
fiour enough like other bread, a gOl of yeast ; knead 
well, rise over night, and bake in pan. 

To two tea cups of hot hominy add a spoonful of 
good butter, when cold a cup of flour, a little salt, three 
well-beaten ^gs, milk to make a stiff batter, mix well, 
axkd bake in wcuffle irons. 



BBEAD, BISCtriTS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, &c. 43 

BUss Olajrke's Grraliaiii Bi*eacl. 

One quart of water, one cop of molasses, one cup of 
yeast, mix in Graham flour to make a thin dough, stand 
over night to rise, stir in the morning, put in pans, let it 
rise in the pan and bake. 

I>eliGate 'VFafbrfs. 

Rub into one pint of flour half a tea spoon of cream 
of tartar, quarter of a tea spoon of soda, bit of butter 
size of an egg, rub the butter into the flour, dissolve soda 
in water enough to roU out thin, little salt. 

Tuciltwri f^iritteirs. 

Scald one quart of com meal with milk (half milk 
and half water will answer), stir in half pint of flour, 
half pint of jeast, and a little salt; let it rise, and 
fry on griddle. 

T>a^vTk'''EeLt Fritters. 

Turn a quart of boiling milk on a pint of Indian 
meal, stir in three large spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, 
tea spoon of salt. 

Jamaica. Plains TncJian Oake. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups of flour, one cup of 
molasses, tea spoonful of soda in a large pint of sour 
milk. ' 

IMEilk Bread. 

One pint of boiling water, one pint of new milk, one 
tea spoon soda, the same of salt, flour enough to form a 
batter; let it rise, and add sufficient flour to form a 
dougl^ and bake immediately. 



44 BREAD, BISCUITS, FRITTERS, CORN CAKES, Ac. 

\ Battex* Oakes. 

.' One pint of milk, three eggs, one table fpoon of 

( sugar, one pint of flour, and a little salt. To be fried 

j on a griddle. 

Tea. Oake. 

Three cups of sugar, four of flour, one of butter, one 
of milk, three eggs, one tea spoonful of soda. K it is 
so stiff it will not stir easily, add a little milk. 

JMLrm. lF*a1>eiiei' Xndian Oake. 

Three cups com meal,- two cups flour, butter size 
of an egg, half cup of molasses, pint and a half of sour 
milk, tea spoon soda. 



PUDDINGS. 45 



PART FIFTH. 
PUDDINGS. 

Greneira,! I>iireotions. 

If you intend to hoU a pudding, always have the water 
boiling before you put in the pudding. 

Many people use a pudding cloth, kept expressly for 
the purpose, made of the thickest twilled cotton, and 
always, before using it, wash it out in clean water, and 
flour it well, before pouring in the pudding, allowing 
room for the pudding to swell according to the size 
designed. 

I much prefer the tin pudding boiler, which is hollowed 
in the centre, that the pudding may be thoroughly cooked. 
This should be well buttered before the pudding is turned 
in, which wiU prevent it from adhering to the boiler. 
The cover should be tied on, and a thick cloth tied 
tightly over the cover. 

All puddings in which --berries are used require more 
flour than  those without ; and it must be remembered 
fruit should always be added the last thing. In baking 
puddings, always be sure and butter the dish well before 
the pudding is turned ia. 

TiTaiilcee I*nddlwg> 

One quart of milk boiled, one pint Indian meal, two 



46 PUDDINGS. 

cups of molasses, a dozen sweet apples cut in small 
pieces, and bake it with a steady fire three hours. 

"M-trs. Fx-eeniLAii's OocoAnut I*iidlclingf. 

To a grated cocoanut, pour a quart of boiling milk ; 
when cool, add six eggs well beaten, a coffee cup of 
granulated sugar, a table spoonful of butter (which 
should be put into the milk while hot), two table spoon- 
fuls of rose water, and half a tea spoonful of salt. Xine 
your dishes with a nice paste, turn in the pudding 
and bake. 

Grreen Ooim Pudldliiig'. 

Three cups of grated sweet green com, two quarts of 
milk, eight eggs, half a cup of melted butter, one nut- ^ 
meg, tea spoon of salt. 

Bake it one hour, and eat with nice sauce. 

Potato PadLcUng^. 

Boil six or seven good sized potatoes, and when 
thoroughly done, peel and mash with milk to a thin 
batter ; add half a pound of white sugar, four eggs, the 
grated peel and half the juice of a lemon. Bake three 
quarters of an hour. 

Mi*s. Fall's Pudldii&fir. 

Six table spoonfuls of butter, six of sugar, six of 
cream, six of wine, six of egg after beaten up, six of 
sifted apple. To be baked in shallow dishes lined with 
paste, and narrow strips of paste across the pudding 
ailer it is in the dish. 



PUDDINGS. 47 

Oi*anl>eirry Puddingi^. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, and flour enough to make 
a thick batter, then add one pint of cranberries, and boil 
two hours. It must be eaten with nice sauce. 

Boiledl Oiraekeir Piulcliiigr. 

Split four soft crackers, pour a pint of boiling milk 
over them, and add immediately a cup of suet well 
chopped ; when cool, add &ve eggs well beaten, a little 
mace, and as many raisins as you like. Boil three 
hours, and eat with sauce. 

!Mirs. Ja,cksoii.'s Pancakes i-very nice). 
Three pints of milk, eight eggs, and flour enough to 
make a thick batter, tea spoon of salt, add six or eight 
apples chopped fine, and fry in lard. 

IMCirs. Hoopex*'s Sa^o PudLding^. 

Take half a pound of sago and wash it well, put it 
into a sauce-pan with a quart of new milk and a stick of 
cinnamon, and boil it gently till it thickens, stirring it 
often, as it is apt to bum. When it has thickened, take 
out the cinnamon, and stir in half a pound of butter 
until it is melted, then add one coflee cup of white sugar ; 
when cool, the yolks of nine eggs and whites of five well 
beaten, a gill of wine, half a nutmeg grated ; mix all 
well together, put over a slow fire, and stir till it is 
thick. Bake three quarters of an hour, and send to the 
table hot. 

IL^o^^prell PiidLcUn^. 

Pare and core ten or twelve apples and place in your 
pudding dish, put a little sugar and cinnamon in the 



/ 



48 PUDDINGS. 

centre of each apple (from which the core has been 
' taken), take a cup of tapioca, soak it well in water, and 
when properly soaked, pour it over the apples and bake. 
To be eaten with sauce. 

I^overty I^ucldiiifir* 

Soak your bread in milk the night before using ; when 
ready, butter your pudding dish, and place in a layer of 
the bread. Have a dozen apples pared and sliced, and 
place a layer of apples on the bread, another layer of 
bread, then of apples, and . so on, tiU your dish is filled ; 
let the last layer be bread, and bake it an hour. To 
be eaten with sauce. 

]M[a.z-1>leliea.dl Berr j' XHidLcliii^ (yejry nice). 
One pint of molasses, flour enough to make a very 
stiff batter, so that the spoon will stand up in it, tea 
spoon of salt, and as many berries as you can possibly 
add to it ; boil three and a half or four hours. To be 
eaten with butter. 

OmnrAnt PudLdin^. 

Half a pint of milk, fourteen table spoonfuls of flour, 
four eggl, a little salt, and last your currants ; boil three 
hours. To be eaten with a rich sauce. 

Mjrs. Biroug^hton^s -Ajnro^iVTroot I*iid- 
dingr* 

A tea cup of arrowroot, mixed thin, with cold milk ; 
pour to it a quart of boiling milk, constantly stirring the 
while, then add, while hot, a piece of butter as large as 
an egg^ a coffee cup of sugar, and when cold add eight 
eggs well beaten, the peel of a lemon grated, with the 



PUDDINGS. . 49 

jnice ; an hour will bake it. It is nicer when cold ; bake 
in shallow dishes. 

M!rs. X^ussell's Batter PudLdiiii^. 

One quart of milk, fourteen table spoonfuls of flour, 
six eggs ; mix the flour and milk together, let it be well 
beaten, and then add the eggs after they are whipped to 
a froth. Boil it two hours, and eat with rich sauce. 

Six apples well stewed, quarter of a pound of butter, 
half of it stirred into the apple while hot, and sugar to 
your taste. When cold add six eggs, well beaten, to the 
apple. 

Pound and sift six crackers, butter your dish, and put 
in a layer of cracker, and a layer of your prepared 
apple, and thus until you have filled your dish ; let the 
cracker be the upper layer, and put the remainder of 
your butter in small bits upon it. Bake in two shallow 
dishes for half an hour. 

Mirs. Slnig^lit's Bailed Indian X^ddLln^. 

Place a quart of milk to boil, butter a deep earthen 
dish, and on the bottom place a tea spoonful of salt. 
Have your meal ready sifted, and when your milk boils, 
turn it into the dish, and stir one way, as fast as possible, 
a large cup of meal into it, then add a table spoonful of 
butter, one of cinnamon, a cup of molasses, and after 
stirring well, let it stand till perfectly cold. When you 
place it in the oven, turn a half pint of milk on the top 
of the pudding without stirring it, and let it bake three 
or four hours, moderate fire. It should be taken from 
the oven two hours before it is used, that the whey may 
4 



/ 



M PUDDINGS. 

cool, which makes a most delicious jelly. It is best to 
be made over night, and put into the oven the first thing 
in the morning. 

GTapioca. Pnclcliiifi^. 

To one quart of milk add eight table spoonfuls of 
tapioca, place it in a deep dish or pail, and set it in a 
kettle of boiling water till it thickens, then stir in two 
table spoonfuls of butter till it has melted, and put the 
whole to cool. When cool enough add four eggs, a little 
cinnamon, four table spoonfuls of sugar, white, and a 
glass of wine. Turn the whole into a pudding dish that 
has a lining of pastry, and bake inmiediately. 

I>elicate Puddinar*  

One quart of milk ; while boiling, stir in one pint of 
flour after it is sifted, six eggs, six table spoonfuls of 
white sugar, one spoonful of butter, grated peel and 
juice of two lemons. All the ingredients must be well 
beaten together, before they are stirred into the milk ; 
stir one way, without stopping, tUl it has boiled for a 
minute or two ; take it off and turn into your pudding 
dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar and cream if 
you like. 

IMLrfii. Eaton'A A-pple Pudding. 

Pare and chop fine some of the best cooking apples, 
butter a pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides half an 
inch thick with grated bread and small lumps of butter, 
then add a layer of apple, with sugar sprinkled and nut- 
meg grated over, another layer of crumba and butter, 
atid a layer of apples, until the dish is Ulled, and pour 



PUDDINGS. M 

over the whole a cup of milk, and bake it. Eaten with 
sauce. 

IMLrs. HLiiig^lit's Sa^o PudLding'. 

Put seven eighths of a cup of sago to a quart of cold 
milk, add half a tea spoon of salt, and turn into a tin 
sauce-pan ; place a large pan with boiling water on the 
stove, and place the sauce-pan in it ; let it remain till the 
sago is thick, then remove it from the sauce-pan to your 
pudding dish, and while hot add half a cup of butter ; 
when cool add four eggs, well beaten,, a cup of white 
sugar, a gill of rose water, and half a glass of wine, or 
the grated peel and juice of a lemon, as you prefer. 
Bake until a nice brown. 



Bali^ed Biread Puddingy. 

Soak all your nice bits of bread the evening previous ; 
in the morning add half a cup of butter and four eggs. 
Raisins if you like. 

Bake an hour and a half, and eat with sauce. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Take one quart of Indian meal and two tea spoonfuls 
of salt, scald with boiling water enough to swell the meal, 
then add half a pound of suet, chopped fine, raisins or 
apple, as you choose, and boil for four hours. 

This is very nice to eat with roast pork. 

I^emon Pudding. 

Feel of three lemons grated, and juice of two, one 
pound of siiUd white sugar, half a pound of melted but- 
ter, a pint of cream or milk, eight eggs, a gill of rose 
water^ and bake until you think it is done. 



/^U^^ 



52 PUPDINGS. 

ISxtndeirlciiid PudLding^. 

A pint of milk, three table spoonfuls of the best flour, 
six eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. 

Fill your cup two thirds full, and bake about a quarter 
of an hour. Eat with rich sauce. 

Bla,clc"l>einry PuddLinfir. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, tea sj^p^ -.Cf ^sal^ half 
a tea spoon of soda, and flour .enough to make a thick 
batter. When this is well beaten, add. your berries, as 
many as you can conveniently, and boil three hours. To 
be eaten with sauce. 

'Ess K*ice Pucl<liiii||p. 

Pick and wash a coffee cup of rice, and jut into y<mr 
sauce-pan, with three and % half cups of water,, and a 
tea spoon of salt. Place it on the fire, and let it boil vecy . 
slowly. It is best it should* boil on the outside of .the 
stove or range. Do not stir It, but when. i\ is done take 
it from the fire. Whip two eggs, and just' befof^i.. you 
turn the rice into the pudding dish stir -the eg^ into it, . 
which, if well and quickly stirfed, will turn the rice to a* 
beautiful gold color. It is to be eaten with 8auQ 



One quart of milk, eight eggs, and eight table spoonfuls 
of flour. Boil it one hour, and eat with sauce. 

fSqiiasli PuddLing*. 

Boil half a squash, good size, and sift through a 
sieve, add to it two table spoonfuls of butter, a cup and 
a half of white sugar, six eggs, a quart of milk, three 
table spoonfuls of rose water, one biscuit, pounded very 



i 



.^, 



PTTDBINGHS. & 

fine. Cover the 'bottom of your pudding dish with a niee 
paste, fill with the squash, and bake till done. 

Fliilaclelpliia, PudLdliig:. 

Four ounces of butter, with four ounces of sugar, 
worked to a cream, the peel grated, and juice of one 
lemon, half a cup of cream, and four eggs, well beaten. 
To be baked. 

3ajTl>leli.eaxl X^emon XHtd^liiLU^. 

Grate the rind of two large lemons, and add to the 
juice of one the yolks of twelve eggs, a pint of cream, 
sweetened to your taste with white sugar, and baked. 

]M>s. -A.pplet02i' T^iMltliiijgr. 

Haifa baker's whirr loafj nine eggs, half a pound of 
4 Buet chopped fine, half a pint of rose water, glass of wine. 

Sugar and spice to your taste. Raisins chopped as you 
please. Baked. 



f 



Rennet IHt<l<liiisr> 

:; Take one quart of railk, and warm it enough to re- 

imbve the chill ; in sun^mer it does not need warming at 
all ; stir into it three table spoonfuls of granulated sugar, 
two of rose water, and four of rennet wine, stir it gently, 
1 not more than a minuti, let it stand, and do not move it 

till it is curdled, then place it gently in the ice chest, and 
grate nutmeg on the t6p. Be careful not to shake it in 
moving, for if the curjj is disturbed it will turn to whey. 

Soiled ^pple Pudcling;'. 

Take one quart of flour, two tea spoons of cream of 
tartar, rubbed into it. Dissolve one tea spoon of soda 



64 PUDDINGS. 

and one of salt in a cup of water ; rub into the flour one 
table spoonful of lard and one of butter ; when well rubbed 
in, wet the flour with the water in which the soda is dis- 
solved, and roll out an inch thick. 

Have some greenings pared, cored, and cut in pieces, 
and All the paste with the apples, then gather up the 
edges of the paste, and cover the apple entirely over. 
Dredge your pudding-cloth with flour, put the pudding in 
and tie it, allowing a very little room for it to swell, and 
boil three hours. *It must be eaten with sauce. 

Balsecl Battex* Puddinfi^* 

One pint of milk, three eggs, two cups of flour, two 
cups of apple cut small. Bake one hour, and eat with 
sauce. 

]%]jrs. Brougrlitoii's Balsedl Pliun IHidL- 
dixifi^. 

Two white loaves (baker's) broken into two quarts of 
milk the night previous to using ; add also your raisins, 
and let them soak with the bread, either one or two 
pounds of raisins, as you like. In the morning cut in 
half a pound of butter in small pieces, beat a dozen eggs 
and add with the butter to the bread, and bake from an 
hour and a half to two hours. 



; To be eaten with rich sauce. 

' M!z*s. SCoopeir's Bixnl's IVest IHiddixifi:. 

Pare and core as many apples as will stand in a dish, 
and All the holes with sugar. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, eight eggs, and 
quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour it over the apples, 
grate a nutmeg over the top, and bake one hour. 



PUDBINQS.  

OottaiiTO Pudding. 

Two cups of flour, one of sugar, one of milk, two 
table spoonfuls of butter, one tea spoon cream of tartar, 
and one egg ; beat all together, then add a tea spoon of 
soda, and lastly the juice of a lemon ; bake half an hour 
in a moderate oven, and eat with wine sauce. 

Balked Riee X^ucldLing'. 

Boil a tea cup of rice in three and a half cups of water, 
with tea spoon of salt ; when cooked add a cup of sugar, 
and half a cup of butter, and let it cool ; beat three eggs 
well, and add with a pint of milk. 

Flavor to suit your taste, and bake till done. 

I*oveirty Rico X^udLdinfi^ (veiry niee). 

Boil a large cup of rice in three cups of water and a 
little salt ; when cooked add one cup of molasses, table 
spoonful of cinnamon, three pounded sofl crackers, and 
a pint of milk. Put in two table spoonfuls of butter while 
the rice is hot. To be baked until browned. 

Mjts* Fallens' M:ajrl1>o]roii|pli PudLdLing;'. 

Six large sour apples, pared, sliced, and stewed. When 
cooked, add six eggs, six ounces of butter, half pound of 
sugar, the peel, grated, with juice of one lemon, two soft 
crackers pounded and sifted, a little rose water, one gill 
of cream, aild a little nutmeg. To be baked in shallow 
dishes. 

IMCaeajroni XHidcliiifir* 

Break one pint of macaroni into short pieces and boil 
till soft ; when cool, add four eggs, half pound of sugar. 



M PUDDINGS. 

half cup of butter, nutmeg, and pint and  half of nulk. 
^ Bake till nice brown. 

Ro^al Puclctinij^ (dLelioiou^)* 

Three quarters of a cup of sago, washed and put into 
one quart of milk ; put into a sauce-pan, and stand in 
boiling water on the range until the sago has well swelled. 
While hot put in two table spoonfuls of butter with one 
cup of white sugar. When cool add the well-beaten 
yolks of four eggs, put in a pudding dish, and bake from 
a half to three quarters of an hour, then remove it from 
the oven and place it to cool. Beat the whites of the 
eggs with two table spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, till 
they are a mass of froth ; spread your pudding with either 
raspberry or strawberry jam, and then put on the frosting ; 
put in the oven for two minutes to slightly brown. K 
made in summer, be sure and keep the white of the eggs 
on ice till you are ready to use them, and beat them in 
the coldest place you can find, as it will make a much 
richer frosting. 

State Sliip X^uadLin^ (very nice). 

Three cups of flour, one of molasses, one of water, one 
of suet chopped fine, one of raisins also chopped, tea 
spoonful of allspice, half a tea spoon of soda dissolved in 
the molasses. To be boiled three hours and a half, and 
^eaten with butter or sauce. The same pudding is very 
nice taking four instead of three cups of flour, and usin^ 
apples instead of raisins. 

BlAr1>lLeliea4l Ounraiit IPudiiinfir* 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one tea spoon of salt, one 



PUDDINGS. 57 

tea spoon of soda, dissolved in milk flour enough for a 
stiff dough, and currants to taste. 
Boil two and a half hours. 



Pare and quarter some apples, sprinkle a little sugar 
and cinnamon over them, cook them in the oven till soft, 
cool and pour over them a batter made of three eggs, a 
pint of milk, and flour to thicken sufficiently ; bake it, 
and eat with wine sauce. 

ISaero A.pple X^udding^. 

One quart of boiling water turned upon a cup of pearl 
sago. Have your pudding dish filled with apples pared 
and quartered, stir the sago well, and turn over the apple ; 
bake, and eat with sauce. 

Pound twenty crackers fine, add five cups of milk, and 
let it swell. Beat well fourteen eggs, a pint bowl of 
sugar, tea cup of molasses, two small nutmegs, two tea 
spoonfuls of ground clove, three of ground cinnamon, two 
of salt, and half a tea spoonful of soda, and add to the 
cracker lastly a pint bowl heaped of raisins, and citron 
if you like. This quantity will make two puddings. 

'MOrm. Ooolide^e's Oireain Puctdin^. 

One pint of cream, seven eggs, and half a pound of 
flour, a little salt. Stir your cream and flour together, 
and add the eggs after they are well beaten. 

Bake half an hour, and eat with sauce. 



68 PUDDINGS. 

I>oirclxefiitex* Ooim X^ucUliiiig^. 

Twelve ears sweet com grated to one quart of Bweet 
milk ; add a quarter of a pound of good butter, quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and four eggs ; bake it from three 
to four hours, 

JamAica. Plain ^Tapiooa PiMldLinigr* 

A cup not quite full of tapioca to a quart of milk ; let 
it stand on the side of the range till it swells ^ add while 
hot a table spoonful of butter, cup of white"" sugar, and let 
it cool ; then add five eggs, well beaten, and flavor to your 
taste. To be baked from three quarters to an hour.. It 
is very nice with wine sauce, but for every-day purposes it 
may be eaten without, and three instead of five eggs used. 

Salem Pudding'. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of chopped suet stirred 
into the flour, one cup of molasses, one of milk, tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in the milk, a little salt, tea spoon of 
allspice, tea spoon of cinnamon, and raisins or not, as yott 
please. 

Boil in a tin boiler for four hours, and eat with sauce 
less sweet than common. 

]M[aiTl>leliea<l ^pple I^udLdin^. 

Eight table spoonfuls of apple, after it is stewed and 
strained through a sieve, five eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter (cream the butter and sugar to- 
gether, add eggs), the peel of an orange or lemon grated, 
with the juice, and one nutmeg. To be baked in a dish 
lined with paste. 

Oaxrrot Puddiniir* 

Boil six large carroty, stsraia tbem tbroQgh a Bienre^ ttud 



add half a pound of melted butter, half a pint of cream, 
eight egg^i cinnamon, rose water, wine and sugar to your 
taste ; allow one hour to bake it 

To be baked in a dish lined with paste. 

One pound of grated lemon, half the juice ; one 
pound of sugar, half pound of melted butter, a pint of 
cream, nine eggs, and a gill of rose water. 

Boiled CMstajrcl Puddinfir* 

Eight eggs to one quart of milk, five spoonfuls of flour, 
and boil three quarters of an hour. To be served as 
soon as done. To be eaten with sauce. 

JMCaizena Pudding. 

Four table spoonfuls of maizena, stirred into two eggs, 
and milk enough to make it smooth. Set a quart of milk 
to boil, and just before it boils stir in the above, con- 
stantly stirring the same way till it thickens ; remove 
from the fire, and flavor. To be cold, and eaten with 
milk or cream, and sugar. It is very nice to omit the 
eggs, and take six table spoonfuls of maizena to a quart 
of milk (stirring the same way), and eaten warm with 
wine sauce. 

PaneaJces. 

Beat four eggs very light, add three table spoonfuls of 
good brown sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a table spoonful 
of orange or rose water, and a quart of milk. Cut into 
nice slices, an inch thick, a stale loaf of bread ; remove the 
crust from the side^, and cut each slice into halves and 
lay them in a deep dish, on them pour the above custard, 



eO PUDDINGS. 

and let the slices absorb it. Butter your frying pan, and 
when quite hot lay in your bread, and brown both sides ; 
lay them on a hot dish, and sprinkle over them a little 
loaf sugar. Serve hot. 

JMCirs. Jones' PanoAkes. 

To one pint of milk add little more than half a pint of 
flour, three eggs well beaten, and a little salt. Fry 
brown on the griddle. As there is a great difference in 
flour, it is well to fry one only at flrst, and if not quite 
stiff enough, add a little more flour, according to your 
judgment. 

^pple PanoAlces. 

Add to one quart of flour milk enough to make a stiff 
batter, one large spoonful of good yeast, and set to rise. 
When risen, add the grated rind of two lemons and two 
well beaten eggs to the batter. Pare and slice your 
apples one inch thick, dip into the batter, and drop into 
boiling lard. 

Brown on both sides, sift sugar over, and send to 
table. 



PASTRY. 61 



PART SIXTH. 
PASTRY. 

Pastry should be handled as lightly as possible. Many 
people mix the flour and butter with a knife or an iron 
spoon. It should be baked as soon as possible after it is 
made, and in a hot oven. A nice pie will be brown, ten- 
der, and flaky. Never put in the filling, such as mince, 
apple, custard, &c., until you are ready to bake them. 

OomLmon Pa.S'te. 

Rub half a pound of butter and one spoonful of lard 
into a quart of flour, add a little salt, and cold water 
enough to make a dough ; flour your moulding board and 
roll out the dough. Be sure and not mould it, but 
handle as little as possible. 

R.ieli I>iff Paste. 

One quart of sifted flour ; cut into this three quarters 
of a pound of nice butter ; then wet it with cold water, 
mix it with a knife, then flour your pie board and turn 
out your paste. Cut up into small, thin pieces a quarter 
of a pound more butter, and spread it over the paste, 
flouring well, and rolling lightly. If made in summer, 
place it on the ice an hour before using it. 



82 PASTRY. 

]%rs. liVolcott's Paste. 

Into three pounds of flour rub one even spoonful of 
lard, and cut a pound of butter into it ; wet with cold 
water and stir with a knife. Take it then on the mould- 
ing board, flour it and roll out lightly, and spread into it 
half a pound of butter ; flour it well and roll out again, 
spreading in another half, making two pounds of butter to 
three of flour. 

BCince Pie. 

' Two pounds of beef, boiled and chopped ; half a pound 
of suet, chopped fine ; six large apples, pared and chopped ; 
two pounds of currants, half pint of wine, glass of rose 
water, sugar and spice to your taste. 

Beverly Pie. 

Pare and grate some sweet mellow apples,  about a 
dozen. To a pint of the grated pulp put a pint of milk, 
two eggs, two table spoonfuls of melted butter, the grated 
peel of a lemon, and half a wine glass of brandy ; 
sweeten to your taste. To be baked in a deep plate, with 
only a lower crust. 

Ka>vei*liill I^emon Pies. 

One dozen apples, stewed and strained, on half a 
pound nice butter, nine eggs, the juice and peel grated of 
four lemons, sweetened with white sugar, nutmeg, and 
rose water. 

Haverliill Miinoe Pies. 

Three pounds of beef, three pounds of suet, three 
pounds of apples, one and a half chopped raisins, one 
and a lialf of currants, half pint of wine, half tumbler 



PASTRY. (33 

of brandy, half tumbler of rose water, spice and sugar to 
your taste; citron or not, as you please, and cider 
' enough to wet it well. 

Oiream. Pics. 

Put on a pint of milk to boil. Break two eggs into ft 
bowl, and add a cup of white sugar, half a cup of flour, 
and after beating well, stir into the milk just as it 
commences to boil; keep on stirring one way till it 
thickens ; take it off, and flavor with vanilla, or any other 
flavor you may prefer. 

Previous to making the cream, make the paste for 
three pies, roll out and cover your plates, then roll out 
and cover a second time, and bake. When baked, and 
while warm, separate the edges gently with a knife, and 
lift the upper from the lower paste ; fill in the cream, and 
put on the upper paste. 

llOi&oe Pieis, ^v^ithout 'M.eat oi* Apples. 

Six crackers, pounded and wet with milk, two cups of 
sugar, cup and a half of chopped raisins, half a cup of 
vinegar ; spice to your taste, and one glass of wine. 
Makes three pies. 

-A^pple Pie (very nioe). 

Stew a dozen good-sized greenings ; when done, add a 
table spoonful of butter, a cup of white sugar (more if 
you like them sweet), half a glass of rose water, and a 
gratd nutmeg. Make and bake your paste as for cream 
pie, and fill with apple instead of cream. 

iSoston .4.pple Pie. 

Line your plate with paste, slice your apples very thin 
into the plate, sprinkle on as much sugar as you would 



64 PASTRY. 

think the apple required (apples vary so in sweetness jon 
cannot be governed by any rule), a little rose water, and 
nutmeg to taste ; cover with the upper paste, make 
a small incision in the middle of the upper crust, and 
bake. Many people think these the nicest kind of apple 
pie. 

Pan Iie. 

Take a deep earthen pudding pot, fill it with slices of 
apple, then pour on as much molasses as the apple 
requires to sweeten it ; sprinkle over a little cinnamon, 
put over a paste, with a small slit in the middle, and place 
in the oven. After the first paste is baked it may be 
taken off, and another put on in its place. This should 
be taken off, and the apple remain long enough to be a 
deep red. When cooked enough, take from the oven, and 
immediately break the paste in small pieces, and stir into 
the sauce while hot. To be eaten cold. It is a favorite 
dish with many people, and very nice. 

Miirs. Grlo-ver's Pan Pie. 

-Make a quart of nice apple sauce, flavored as above, 
but sweetened with sugar (nutmeg may be used for 
flavoring if preferred). Bake the paste very thin on a 
tin sheet, mark it into squares, and when baked break, it 
into the apple, and be sure that all the paste is well 
covered in the sauce, for at least two or three hours be- 
fore it is used. 

!Ai*8. cJenkiiis' ]>dCiiice I*ie. 

A beefs tongue boiled, and chopped finely ; two quarts 
of chopped apple, one quart of beef suet after it is 
chppped, two bowls of stoned raisins, ojje bowl of curw 



PASTRY. 65 

rants, quarter of a pound of citron cut very small, half 
pint of sherry wine, two table spoonfuls brandy, three 
. table spoonfuls of molasses, two grated nutmegs, two 
table spoonfuls of allspice, one of clove, one of cinnamon, 
a pint of sweet cider ; if sour, sweeten it well with sugar. 
Lastly, add sugar according to your taste. 

f OastaiHl me. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk, six eggs, well beaten, 

I a cup of white sugar not heaped, and a tea spoon of 

vanilla. Line your plates with paste, pour in the custard 

and bake immediately. If you wish pudding, line your 

pudding dish with paste, and bake thick. 

Sqiuuslx Pie. 

Boil a squash that weighs about six pounds, sifl it 
through a sieve, add two quarts of milk, four eggs, well 
beaten, with three sofl crackers, pounded as fine as meal. 
K the squash is watery, add another egg or a cracker as 
you prefer. Flavor with ginger or nutmeg, and sweeten 
to taste. A table spoonful of butter, while the squash i3 
hot, is a great improvement. Bake in pie plates lined 
with paste. It may be baked deeper in a pudding dish, 
and is very much liked as a pudding by most people. 

Piimplciii Pie. 

One quart of pumpkin to one quart milk, two cups 
sugar, two table spoonfuls of rose water, one of ginger, 
if you like, and four eggs. Baked in deep plates lined 
with paste. One or two eggs less may be used by sub- 
stituting two or three table spoonfuls of maizena, or a soft 
cracker finely powdered. 

5 



6d BAilTRY. 

Bei*^i^cl Pio (clelieions)* 

Make a rich paste, line a deep dish and bake it. Pare 
and core as many apples as will fill the dish (one layer), 
put them into a stewpan with four table spoonfuls of 
white sugar, a wine glass of sweet wine, and a little thin 
lemon peel or rose water as your please. Cover the stew- 
pan and let them stew until tender, then let them cool. 
Make a rich, boiled custard ; when quite cold put the ap 
pies into the dish in which is the.paste, and pour oyer the 
custard. 

Baltimoire Pie* 

Holl out some rich puff paste, not quite an inch thick ; 
cut into any shape you please, making each piece of the 
same shape, but smaller than the preceding one, till thd 
last is about the size of a cent. Between each piece 
spread some rich preserve or jam ; turn up the edges 
of the paste, and brush the sides. and top with the beaten 
yolk of an egg. Lay the pyramid on a tin sheet, and 
bake light brown. Serve hot. 

iPeaoli I*ie^ 

Fill a pudding dish with pared peaches (stones left 
in), sprinkle over as much sugar as the peaches require^ 
a very little water, and cover with puff paste. 

/ BaltiniQire Apple I*io 

{' Fill a pudding dish with pared and cored apples,- 
the tart baking-apple; fill each hole of the apple with 
good brown sugar ; cut the rind of two lemons in very 

i thin strips, and lay on top of the apples ; squeeze the 
juice of the lemons into a cup, and add a little cold water ; 



PASTRV. 7 

pour this over the apples, and sprinkle with sugar quite 
thickly ; cover the whole with a nice puff paste, and bake 
slowly one hour. Serve hot. 

M]x*s. Itice's ILienioii I*ie. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, seven table 
spoonfuls of sugar, six eggs, leaving out the whites 
of four, one tumbler of milk, one table spoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in a paste, and when baked, take the 
whites of the four eggs, with four table spoonfuls of sugar. 
Afler they are whipped to a froth, put it on the top, and 
bake to a light brown. 

Benry IHe. 

Bake the pie in a deep plate, without any lower crust. 
Fill the plate with berries, and sugar i^rinkled over 
them ; cover with paste a small hole in the centre of the 
paste, and bake a light brown. 



68 CAKE. 



PART SEVENTH. 

CAKE. 

Djbrections il>x* Bf!a.kiiig^ Oailce. 

The flour used for making cake should always be dried 
and sifted ; always break the eggs separately in a cup. It 
is a good plan to lay the eggs, to be used, for a few hours 
in very cold water before breaking ; they whip better for 
being cold. 

When soda is used, always dissolve it before adding it 
to the general mixture. 

- In winter, soften but do not melt the butter in the milk 
used. 

Never add the fruit to cake until it is ready for baking. 

In baking cake which requires long baking, take white 
paper and lay on the sides, bottom, and top ; it is easily 
removed when the cake is done. 

To ascertain when a loaf of cake is done, take a fine 
knitting-needle and insert in the thickest part of the loaf; 
if it does not stick to the needle, the baking is finished. 

In whipping the whites of eggs, always use a shallow 
dish, and whip them in a cool place. 

Never stop after you commence until they are light, and 
whip them until you can turn the dish over without their 
slipping. 

It is better to beat the yolks and whites of eggs 
separately, except in cake that contains yeast or soda. 



CAKE. 69 

The ingredients of the cake should be well beaten to- 
gether before the flour is mixed in, for it does not benefit 
the cake by beating after all the flour is added. 

I find bj experience that the granulated sugar is purer, 
sweeter, and better in every respect for cakes and all 
pastries than brown sugar. 

The butter and sugar should always be worked to a 
cream, and the other ingredients added afterwards, the 
flour always the last. 

The cake should be turned from the tins as soon as it 
comes from the oven. It requires a much hotter oven 
for cake with soda in it, than for that which is raised 
with yeast. 

Four pounds of flour, one half pound of butter, one 
half pound of sugar, five eggs, half pint of yeast, two 
gills of wine, two tea spoons of ground allspice, one of 
clove, one of cinnamon. Beat it well. 

Grlover Oalce. 

Seven cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one and a half 
cups of butter, one of molasses, four eggs, a cup and a 
half of sour milk, a tea spoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, two grated nutmegs, half a pound of raisins 
chopped well, and two ounces of citron cut in rather 
small pieces. 

Beat six eggs together thoroughly ; when well beaten, 
stir in two cups of granulated sugar, two cups of flour, 
and half a tea spoonful of soda diflsolved in a table spoonful 



70 CAKE. 

of milk ; beat all well together, then add the grated peel 
and juice of a good-sized lemon or twa small ones. Bake 
immediately with a quick oven. 

Mirs. I*roctor's I*liuii Oalce. 

Two heaping pint bowls of flour, one pint bowl of 
milk, two cups and a half of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, four eggs, one tea spoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the milk, one tea spoon each of cinnamon, clove 
and allspice, one pound of raisins chopped. Bake three 
hours slowly. 

Oreain Oalce. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of cream, one cup of sugar, 
two eggs, and half a tea spoon of soda. 

Oup Oalce* 

Five cups of flour, three of sugar, one and a half of 
butter, six eggs, one cup of milk, with a scant tea spoon 
of soda, one grated nutmeg, and three quarters of a pound 
of currants. It is very nice without the currants. 

Mlelirose OaJke. 

Three cups of flour, one and a half cups of sugar, half 
a cup of butter, half a Cup of milk, one tea spoon of 
soda, three eggs, one nutmeg, and a table spoonful of rose 
water. 

]liss Slaokler's "RoiclyvLry Oalce. 

f One and three quarters of a pound of flour, one and a 

! half pounds of sugar, three quarters of a pound of but- 

l ter, five eggs, half a pint of wine, half a pint of milk, a 

pound and a half of raisins well chopped, a scant 

I tea spoonful of soda. 



CAKE. 71 

This will make two loaves, and should be baked two 
hours. 

1?ea, OaJce. 

Three and a half cups of flour, two of sugar, one of 
butter, four eggs, tea spoon of soda in table spoonful of 
milk or wine, half grated nutmeg. Bake carefully. 

Silver Oake* 

One cup of butter, and two of white sugar, well 
creamed ; add whites of six eggs, which have been beaten 
to a froth, one cup of milk, with half a tea spoon of soda 
dissolved in it, two cups and a half of flour, with 
one tea spoon of cream of tartar. Flavor as you please. 

Frencli Spong^e Oalce. 

The yolks of eighteen eggs, well beaten for two hours, 
two pounds of sugar, one pound of flour, and beat well 
together ; the whites of eighteen eggs, whipped to a froth, 
and put into the cake the last thing before putting it into 
the oven. 

Mlaple-vroodl Oake. 

One pound of white sugar, three quarters of a pound 
of butter, well creamed, nine eggs beaten to a froth, juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, one pound of flour the last 
thing, with one pound of stoned raisins. 

^jM^ar Oalces. 

Three quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, half a 
pound of flour, six eggs, with yolks and whites beaten 
separately, tea spoon of mace, two table spoonfuls of rose 
water. When dropped upon the tin they must be 
sprinkled with rose water, and sugar grated over them. 



72 CAKE. 

One pound of flour, half pound of butter, half pound 

of sugar, four eggs, a little mace, six table spoonfuls of I 

cream, beaten well together. Flour yout tins well, and ' 

drop them on with a spoon. [ 

Plum Oalce (sa>A) | 

Five cups of flour, two of sugar, one of molasses, one . j 

of butter, half cup of lard, tea spoon of salt, tea spoon of ! 

soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk, two tea spoons of j 
ground clove, two of allspice, one of mace, one pound 
chopped raisins, two ounces of citron sliced thin. 

Porlt Oake. 

Half pound of salt pork chopped fine, two cups 
of molasses, half pound raisins chopped well, two eggs, 
two tea spoons each of clove, allspice, and mace, half a 
table spoonful of saleratus or soda, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Bake in a moderate oven. 

^otliing^ Oa^ke. 

One eggy a piece of butter the size of an egg, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, two tea spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one of soda. Divide the milk, 
and dissolve the cream of tartar in one, and the soda in 
the other, and pour one into the other to effervesce, then 
add to the other ingredients. 

Birookline Oake. 

Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three 
pounds of sugar, three dozen eggs, leave out the 
whites of four, four pounds of currants, one ounce 
of mace, three nutmegs, one pound of citron, half pint of i 

brandy, one gill of wine. 



^ 



CAKE. 73 

SCalden Plum Oake. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, three of butter, three 
of sugar, three dozen eggs, one and a half pounds 
currants, one and a half pounds of raisins well chopped, 
one ounce of spice, half pint of brandy, half pint of wine, 
gill of rose water. 

Poverty Oalce* 

One cup of sugar, one egg, butter as large as an egg, 
three cups of flour, one tea spoon of soda, two tea spoons 
cream tartar, one cup milk, one nutmeg. ' 

HOss Hooper's Plum Oake (rioli). 

Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three 
pounds sugar, thirty-six eggs, two table spoonfuls of 
mace, three nutmegs, four pounds currants, two pounds 
stoned and chopped raisins, one pound of citron cut 
in small pieces, half pint of brandy. Three hours good 
oven will bake it. 

BeVeriy Oake. 

Two pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter, six eggs, three gills of yeast, 
two gills of milk, two wine glasses of rose water, a little 
brandy, two tea spoons of soda ; spice to your taste. 

Bi*ead Oake. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, one 
nutmeg, grated, tea spoon of soda dissolved in a table 
spoon of milk, half pound of chopped raisins. 

Three cups of very light dough ; work together sugar, 
butter, eggs, and spice ; put your milk and soda into the 
dough, and then add the other ingredients; lastly, the 
raisins. Beat it well, and let it stand in the.pans a short 
time, to rise it well before baking. 



74 CAKE. 

Nine eggs, one pound sugar, half pound of flour. 

Dox-cliesteir I^oa,f* Oake. 

Three pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of butter, 
one and a half pounds of sugar, one pound of currants,, 
two nutmegs, table spoon of clove, two table spoons of 
cinnamon, half pint of rose water, half pint of wine, half 
pint of yeast, and eight eggs. 

Griiig'e]r1>x*ea4l. 

Three pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of sugar, 
one pound of butter, six eggs, cup of rose water, cup of 
ginger. 

X>iet Oalce. 

One pound of flour, fourteen eggs, three of the whites 
left out, one pound of sugar. 

Salem. IL<oa,f Oake. 

Two and a half poimds of flour,, one and a half of but- 
ter, one of sugar, five eggs, gill of wine, two table spoon- 
fuls of rose water, half pint of yeast, table spoonful of 
clove, two table spoonfuls of mace, two of cinnamon. 

M:x*s. Page's Gi-olcl Oake. 

Yolks of one dozen eggs, five cups of flour, three of 
white sugar, one of butter, one and a half of cream or 
sour milk. 

If the milk is sour, one tea spoon of soda dissolved in 
it ; if cream, half a tea spoon of soda. 

Pound Oake. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of granulated sugar. 



CAKE. 75 

two pounds of butter, twenty eggs, one glass of brandy. 
This should bo beaten hard for half an hour, and needs 
a steady, rather quick heat. 

'StSjr. XSioe's Iuff Oalce. 

Three cups of flour, two and a half cups of sugar, one 
of milk, three eggs, piece of butter large as an egg, one 
tea spoon of cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, half 
tea spoon of salt. 

Pliun. Oake (nioe). 

One pound flour, one pound granulated sugar, one 
pound butter, two pounds raisins chopped, two pounds 
currants, one nutmeg, twelve eggs, one tea spoon clove, 
two tea spoons of cinnamon, one glass wine, one glass of 
brandy, one pound of citron. After beating it well, add 
a little more flour, about two cups, and bake well in 
a moderate oven for five hours. 

PoLkia, Oalce (veiry luce). 

Four cups of flour, two cups of sugar, two cups of but- 
ter, four eggs, half a cup of molasses, tea spoon of soda 
in a cup of milk, pound of raisins. 

TValtKajtn Oake. 

Two cups flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three 
eggs, three quarters of a tea spoon of cream of tartar put 
in the flour, half a cup of milk with half a tea spoon of 
soda dissolved in it, essence of lemon, and a little' spice. 

Four and a half pounds' of flcmr^ four and a' half" 
ponnds'of butter, four and a half pounds of sugar, one 



76 CAKE. 

and a half pounds oi box raisins stoned, one and a half 
pounds of citron, six and a half pounds of currants, 
twenty-two eggs, half ounce of ground mace, half ounce 
of clove, half ounce of cinnamon, one gill of wine, one 
gill brandy, half gill of rose water, one and a half 
tea spoons of soda, one table spoonful of molasses. 

' Wafers. 

One pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
^ granulated sugar, half pound of butter, Ave eggs, and a 
j gill of rose water. 

Poll fgU n iJLt (nice). 

Rub six ounces of butter in two pounds of flour, beat 
one pound of sugar with eight eggs, gill of rose water, 
one nutmeg ; beat all well together, and roll out. 

The more lard they are fried in the less they will soak 
fat. 

!M!iss AJlen's I>oii^liiiiii:s (yeiry nice). 

Four eggs, eight table spoonfuls of sugar, butter big as 
an egg^ a little salt, one nutmeg, half a cup of milk, half 
tea spoon of soda, and flour enough to roll out. 

-A-ndlovei- Oalce. 

Four pounds of flour, two and a half pounds of sugar, 
one and a half pounds of butter, ten ounces of lard, one 
and a half pints milk, one pint of yeast, two pounds of 
raisins, two ounces of mace, one ounce of cinnamon, two 
nutmegs, four eggs, half pint of wine. 

Beat the butter, lard, and sugar together, then take 
half of it with the milk and yeast and half the flour, beat 
it well and let it rise over night. In the morning mix in 
the other part of butter, sugar, and lard with the egg9, 
spice, wine, and flour. 



CAKE. 77 

One cup molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
two eggs, two thirds of a cup of milk, with oue tea spoon 
of soda dissolved in it. Two tea spoons of cream tartar, 
and flour enough to make it as other loaf cake, one tea 
spoon of salt, one of clove, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg. 

Mjts. S^ing^'s Oake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
three eggs, one and a half tea spoons of cream tartar, 
one tea spoon soda, four cups of flour, not heaped. Fla- 
vor with lemon or nutmeg. 

Hfljrs. Flaige^m Pound OaJce. 

Nine eggs, their weight in sugar^ the weight of eight 
in flour, and of seven in butter, with one nutmeg grated. 

One and three quarter pounds of flour, three quarters 
of a pound of butter, two eggs, one cup of milk with 
tea spoon of soda dissolved, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, two table spoonfuls of best ginger. 

Mjts. Freemaii's Tiiml>ler Oake. 

Five tumblers of flour, three of sugar, two of butter, 
four eggs, one of milk, pint and a half of raisins stoned, 
one nutmeg, one tea spoon of allspice, tea spoon of soda 
dissolved in the milk. 

Oookies. 

Six cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, tea spoon of soda, flavored with dnnamon or nut- 
meg, as 70U like.  



78 CAKE. 

IMCirs. BirierfiTfi^' Xllectioii Oalce. 

Lay a sponge over night with milk, next morning add 
to the sponge a pint of flour, one coffee cup of sugar, one 
of butter, one nutmeg, tea spoon of soda, and fruit if jou 
choose. 

Hajn-ison Oake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, four eggs, one of 
butter, one of molasses, one of milk, half a tea spoon of 
soda, half a tea spoon of ground dove. 

IMCirs. Knifiplit's Finiit Oalce. 

Ten cups of flour, six of sugar, three of butter, three 
of milk, eight eggs, tea spoon of soda, half pint of wine, 
two table spoonfuls of brandy, half cup of molasses, table 
spoon^l of cinnamon, two tea spoonfuls of ground all- 
spice, one of ground clove, pound and a half of raisins 
well chopped, three ounces of citron cut in small pieces. 
Bake, in deep pans, till you can put a knitting-needle into 
the cake and it will come out clean. 

IMjrfli. FlaiiTfir's Doiifi^lmiits. 

Nine eggs, pint bowl of white sugar, one cup of milk, 
one of butter, two teaspoons even of soda, spice to your 
taste, and flour enough to roll out. The more fieit the 
nuts are fried in the less they will soak fat. 

Jenn^ Xuincl Oake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, five eggs, one tea spoon cream tartar, half tea spoon 
of soda. Flavored with rose or lemon. 



CAKE. 79 

Three eggs, half a pound of sugar, one cup of butter, 
pint and a half of flour, rolled thin in sugar. 

K.a.ili*oa<l Oa^ke. 

One cup sugar, one table spoon of butter beaten to 
a cream, three eggs beaten to a froth, one cup flour, three 
table spoonfuls sweet milk, one tea spoon cream tartar, 
half tea spoon soda, half tea spoon salt. 

Squasli Oalce. 

One cup of squash, after it is sifted, three of flour, one 
of milk, and if the squash is very dry a little more, two 
table spoonfuls of sugar, one of butter, one egg, two tea 
spoons yeast powder. 

Boston SoA Griiipex*1>]rea<l (iiioe). 

Nine eggs, a pound and a half of sugar, three quarters 
of a pound of butter, a scant pound of flour, and ginger 
to your taste. 

Caraway seeds are a great improvement. 

Ilfirs. Smith's Griii^ei*1>]rea.d. 

Two pounds of flour, three quarters of butter, a large 
pound of sugar, one tea spoonful of soda dissolved in a 
table spoonful of milk, six eggs, teacup of ginger. 

IMCps* Hoopeir's Grix&fir^^^i*^^^* 

Three pounds of flour, one and a half of sugar, one of 
butter, six eggs, cup of rose water, cup of ginger, half 
tea spoon of soda dissolved in a spoonful of milk. 

Mirs. Glo^eir's C^alce. 

One pound of flour, three quarters pound of sugar, two 



80 CAKE. \ 

ounces of butter, half a nutmeg, six eggs, table spoonM 
of wine, same of rose water. 

lM[a,i4ftleli.ea.d Oiip Oalce. 

Five cups of flour, three of white sugar, one and a half t 

of butter, six eggs, cup of milk with tea spoon of soda, ' 

pound of raisins chopped, half glass of wine, nutmeg. 

IMCirs* Bi*ougrlitoift's PoxukI Oalce. 

One pound of butter, worked back to a cream ; then 
add slowly, beating the while, one pound of powdered 
sugar, ten eggs beaten to a froth, added gradually, half a 
glass of brandy, one glass of wine, and one pound of 
flour; after which beat well for half an hour, and bake 
with an even heat. j 

Savoy Siscuit. ' 

Take twelve eggs, and the weight of them in sugar, the 
weight of seven eggs in flour, the 'whites and yolks beat  

separately, then mix with them a spoonful of flour and , 

sugar till all is mixed, and beat them well together ; grate 
the peel of three large lemons, and the juice of two, fill 
your cake pans half full, and sift sugar on the top. Your 
oven must not be too hot. 

]%i*fs. T^'lii-tteiii.oire's Almoiul Olieese I 

OaJke. J| 

Make a curd of the yolks of two eggs, a glass of wine, I 

and a quart of new milk ; strain it, then beat a quarter | 

of a pound of butter, take the skin off a quarter of a  

pound of almonds, and pound them very fine ; beat one 
glass of wine and one glass of rose water in it^ half a. ^j 

pQund of loaf sugsu:, wit^ a tea spoon each of mace and ^ 



CAKE, 81 

cinnamon, one nutmeg, nine eggs, six large spoonfuls of 
cream, and a handful of currants. 

This can be baked in paste, if you please, like squash 
pies. 

M:a]rl>leliea,d SCard GtngerfyreojA. 

Three pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound 
of butter, ten eggs, half a pint of rose water, and two 
ounces of ginger. 

Soft Griiisei*l>i*ea,cl. 

Two pounds of flour, one and a half of sugar, one and 
a quarter of butter, ten eggs, cup of ginger, cup of rose 
water. Caraway seeds if you like. 

IC.ii.sk. 

Five pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound 
i of butter, a pint and a half of milk made blood warm, 

^ a gill of yeast, ten eggs ; the butter and sugar should be 

g melted in the warm milk, then mix all together, work it 

k well, and let it stand to rise. 

'IMiolaeises Griiifirex"l>i*ea.d. 

Six cups of flour, two of molasses, one of milk, half 
cup of butter, large spoonful of soda, two large spoonfuls 
of ginger, tea spoon of salt. 

^ / HMCrs. ILiincoln'si I>oiigrluii].ts. 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, cup and a half of milk, 
half a tea spoon cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, 
butter size of an egg, flour to roll out thin. 



> 



V 



IVoinvloli Oake. 

One cup lard and butter mixed) one of molasses, one 
6 



82 CAKE. 

of sugar, three eggs, half a cup of sour milk, tea spoon 
of soda, spice to your taste, and flour enough to make it 
as stiff as loaf cake. 

Juml>lefii. 

One pound white sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, five eggs, leaving out the yolks of two, and nearly 
two pounds of flour. Spice if you like. 

Xjemon Sponfi^e Oake. 

Take ten eggs, separate them, a pound of granulated 
sugar, half pound of flour, the grated peel of two lemons, 
and the juice of one ; beat the yolks with the sugar, and 
the whites alone ; then add them, and sifk in the flour by 
degrees ; beat well, and bake with a quick heat. 

Ocuiil>]riclgre Oup Oake. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, three cups of sugar, one 
of butter, cup of milk, tea spoon of soda. 

Fa,l>eiis' Oake. 

Two quart bowls of flour after it is sifted, one bowl 
of sugar not quite full, quarter of a pound of butter, pint 
of milk, with heaping tea spoonful of soda dissolved in the 
milk, table spoonful of allspice, two of cinnamon ; raisins 
if you please. 

BCJliss Hiill's M!ajrl>le Oake. 

Three and a half cups of flour, three cups of white 
sugar, one cup of butter, half a cup of cream or milk, 
whites of seven eggs, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tar* 
tar^^oQ^ of soda. 



CAKE. 83 

Fiv cups of flour, two brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one cup butter, two table spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of 
clove, one of allspice, and one nutmeg, half a cup of 
cream or milk,  sour if you have it,  half a tea 
spoon of soda, yolks seven eggs. Butter your pans, put 
in a layer of the last or dark, then a table spoonful of 
light (the first), and alternate with the dark and light 
throughout. 

]l]rs. IL<e'vei*ett's ]M[a;Oairooii.s. 

Soak half a pound of sweet almonds in boiling water, 
till the skins will rub off easily, wipe them dry, then 
pound them fine, with rose water to taste. Beat the 
whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gradually a 
pound of powdered white sugar, then add the almonds ; 
when they are well mixed in, drop the mixture in small 
parcels on baking tins, several inches apart ; sift sugar 
over them, and bake in a slow oven. 

Spong^e Doii^lmiits. 

One heaping cup of sugar, two cups milk, one of but- 
ter and lard mixed, one of bread sponge, four eggs, and 
spice to taste ; stirred up over night, moulded, and fried 
in the morning. 

OommLon I>oiig^]iira'ts 

Two cups of sugar, one and a half of milk, two eggs, one 
nutmeg, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda. 

F'rencli Oake. 

Two cups of flour, three of sugar, half of butter, one 
of milk, three eggs, and one grated lemon. Butter and 
sugar worked to a cream, eggs added, and rind of lemon 



84 CAKE. 

grated in with flour. The juice of the lemon must be 
put into the milk, after which half a tea spoonful of soda 
must be added, and turned into the other ingredients ; 
then add two more cups of flour, making four in all, and 
bake. 

HOss Hull's K.usks. 

Two cups of sugar, two of butter, two eggs, one cup 
of yeast, two cups of milk ; let it rise over 'night, make 
up in the morning with flour, and roll out rather soft in 
small cakes ; set to rise ; let them get perfectly light, and 
bake ; take the white of an egg and pulverized sugar, 
beat well, and spread over the tops, and dry a little in 
the oven. 

IdCjrs. Emerson's Spong^e Oalce. 

The weight of six eggs in sugar, the weight of four in 
flour, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the 
eggs and sugar together for half an hour, stir in the 
flour, and bake twenty minutes. 

Mirs. A.l>l>ott's Buns. 

Two cups of milk, one of sugar, one of yeast, and 
flour enough to thicken ; rise over night ; in the morning 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg^ another cup 
of sugar, one cup of Sultana raisins, or other raisins, 
chopped ; roll out to bake, cut in rounds, and rise again 
before baking. 

Oommon Karcl Grin^er'birea.cl. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, one tea 
spoon of soda, two table spoonfiils of ginger, glass rose 
water, flour enough to roll out. 



CAKE. 86 

OlA^r BCount Sponfi^e Oalce (ISmss i;^rksli- 
in^on). 

Twelve fresh eggs, their weight in sugar; beat the 
eggs separately till very light, then sift in sugar. After 
it is well beaten stir in the weight of seven eggs in flour. 
Do not heat it. After the flour, add juice and grated peel 
of a lemon* 

Five cups of flour, one cup of made coffee, one cup 
sugar, half cup molasses, one cup of butter, tea spoon 
soda, two tea spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of clove, raisins 
or currants. 

IMEiris. !Rice's Miolasses GringreirTbiread. 

One cup of molasses, into which beat one tea spoonful 
of soda, one. third cup of milk, one third cup of butter, 
one egg, one tea spoonful of ginger, one of salt, and two 
cups of flour. 

X2.ead^vHle Oake. 

One and a half cups of flour, one of sugar, half cup 
of milk, three eggs, butter size of an egg, tea spoonful 
of cream of tartar, half tea spoon of soda, flavor with tea 
spoon of peach. 

Jamaiea. Plain ILieiULon Oake* 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, five of flour, one lemon rind grated, half tea spoon 
soda dissolved well in milk, and after all is well beaten, 
add the juice of the lemon, and bake immediately. 



86 CAKE. 

Oonm&on Plum Oa.ke. 

Three cups of flour, one of sugar, one of sour cream,  
if you have not cream, half of butter, and half of milk, 
 two eggs, tea spoon of soda, cup of raisins, little spice. 



FEESEBYES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANQE, &c. 87 



PART EIGHTH. 
PRESERVES, JELLmS, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

IMCrs. Oiurtis* Velvet Oiream. 

Half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in one and a half 
cups of white wine ; then add the juice and grated peel 
of a lemon, three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; 
simmer all together until mixed well ; strain and add one 
and a half pints of rich cream, and stir until cool ; pour 
it into moulds, und let it stand till stiff enough to turn 
out. 

Oiunrant Jelly. 

Three pounds of juice of red' currants, one pound of 
juice of white currants, boil quickly for fifteen minutes ; 
then take from the fire and stir in two pounds of gran- 
ulated sugar, stirring till dissolved ; place again on the 
fire, and boil hard for eight minutes. 

* After it is put in the glasses, set it for two or three 
days in a hot sun. 

Frenoli ]Rioe Oustcurd* 

/ 

/ One quart of milk, three eggs, half a cup of rice, ono 
- lemon, tea spoonful of salt, and thirteen tea spoonfuls 
. of powdered sugar, 
\ Boil the milk, rice, and salt together, until the rice is 



8B PHESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &a 

soft. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, and 
beat the yolks with three tea spoonfuls of sugar and the 
grated peel of the lemon ; beat the whites with ten tea 
spoonfuls of sugar, and the juice of the lemon. When 
the rice is soil take it from the fire, and stir to it the 
beaten yolks till it thickens, turn into your pudding dish, 
put whites over the top, place in oven to color the top. 
To be eaten cold. 

Beverly Sno^iv. 

One quarter box gelatine wet with a little cold water, 
then put the mould fiill of boiling water on the gelatine, 
add half a cup of sugar and the juice of a lemon ; strain 
through a sieve and set away to cool ; when quite stiff, 
stir in the lyhites of two eggs, pour it into the mould, 
and set it on the ice to cool. Stir the yolks of two eggs, 
two cups of milk, a little sugar and vanilla, over the fire ; 
when the jelly is turned from the mould, turn the custard 
over and serve. 

Soft Oustaircl. 

One quart of milk, nine eggs, taking out the whites of 
five , boil a stick or two of cinnamon in the milk, re- 
moving it before you add the eggs, and one cup of pow- 
dered white sugar. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and turn 
into the boiling milk, stirring one way, until it thickens, 
and remove quickly before it turns to whey. 

Six tart mellow apples to be pared, quarteredj And 
cored ; put them in a pan with half a ta cup of water, 
set ihsm oa the stove ; when they begia to growtender 



PRESERTES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &o. 69 

turn them into a pudding dish, sprinkle sugar on them ; 
beat eight eggs with a tea cup and a half of sugar, mix 
with three pints of milk, flavor as you like, and pour 
over the apples. 

Bake from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Floating' Iisland. 

Take a large glass of currant jelly, whites of three 
eggs, a little lemon juice and peel grated ; whip it up 
with a rod, and put into the middle of a dish of cream. 

IMCrs. Koopeir's Wliip Sy^llatoiitos. 

One quart of rich cream, the juice of three lemons, 
three quarters of a pound of *sugar, and wine to your 
taste; whip all well together, put the froth in your 
glasses as fast as it rises. 

Boiled OustAirclei. 

Nine tea cups of cream, nine eggs leaving out the 
whites, and sugar to your taste ; flavor with vanilla or as 
you please ; put it into cups, and stand in a large pan of 
boiling water in the oven. Care must be taken that they 
are not overdone. 

I*refiieiryed Quinces. 

A pound of sugar to each pound of quince (after 
paring, coring, and quartering) ; take half of the sugar and 
make a thin syrup ; stewing a few of the quinces at a 
time till all are finished, make a rich syrup of the re- 
maining sugar and pour over them. 

3z*s. Koopex*'s Btoncmange> 

One quart of new milk, one ounce of isinglass cut fine 



m PBESEEVES, JELLIES, BLAKC-MAKOE, 8te. 

into the milk, with a stick of cinnamon or vamlla, sim- 
mered over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, then re- 
move the stick, sweeten to your taste with loaf sugar, 
strain it, and when nearly cool wet the moulds with rose 
water, and turn it in. 

Oalf^s Foot Jelly. 

Take one pair of feet, and put them into a gallon of 
water, let it hoil half away and skim constantly, strain it 
when cold, take the fat from the top and bottom, then 
warm it, add sugar, the juice of three lemons, a pint of 
Madeira wine, and the whites of seven eggs ; boil it half 
an hour, strain through a flannel bag. 

SlaxiCima.n|ire 

Three pints of cream boiled well and flavtred and 
sweetened to taste, one and a quarter ounce of gelatine, 
or half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in warm water 
enough to cover it; when dissolved cover with cream 
and boil up once or twice till rather thick, then pour it 
on the seasoned cream; stir it well and put it in the 
moulds. 

Yello^ipr SlaAO-mangr^* 

May be made as the above, but the gelatine strained 
on to custard instead of cream. 

"Mth. :atoii,^ ODMOe. 

Soak a dozen sponge drops in sweet wine ; after thcjr 
are well soaked, drain off any of the wine that may re- 
main ; make a ^custard of a pint of cream, the yolks of 
four eggs and white of one, flavored and sweetened to 
y<KLr taste; when oeel, pour over the cakes, then beat 



FUESEBVES, JELLIES, BLANOMAXGE^ StCr. 91 

the whites with sugar and lemon, and put on iht custard 
as high as jou can. 

Pliuni Jelly. 

Take sound plums, put them in a stone jar, cover the 
jar with bladder, put it in a deep pan of water over the 
fire, and let the water boil gently till all the juice has 
come from the fruit, strain through a jelly bag, and boil 
with an equal weight of loaf sugar, stirring all the time. 

Damsons should have a slight incision. 

Bla,ok Cixn-ant Jelly. 

Boil the currants till the juice flows, then strain 
througLa jelly bag, and set it over the fire for twenty 
minutes, after which add half a poimd of sugar to a 
pound of juice, and boil for about ten minutes. 

IMtrm. Bairrett's GS-reen GrSLfge Jaxxk^ 

Rub ripe green gages through a sieve, put all the 
pulp into a pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar 
pounded and sifted. Boil the whole till suJQ&ciently thick, 
and put into pots. 

]MCajrl>leliesid Phreseirvecl JPeaoii. 

Take a peck of ripe peaohes, stone and pare them, 
allow a bowl of white sugar to a bowl of peach ; put a 
layer of peach into the stone jar, then a layer of sugar, 
and so on till they are used up. 

Let them stand for two days ; drain off the syrup, boil 
and skim and turn-over the peach, stand two days ; drain 
off the syrup, scald and skim," and again return to the 
peach, and it is fit for use. 



 VKESESYES, JELLIES, BLA^C-XA^f GE. fte. 

BlAoll>ei-rx Ttuii 

To four bowb of blackberries add four bowls of sugar, 
boil thorooghlj, and torn into jars with a paper dipped 
in brandj over it. 

^pple Tam. 

Core and pare a good qnantitr of apples, chop them 
well, allow equal quantity of weight, apples and sugar, 
make a syrup of your sugar by adding a little water, 
boiling and skimming well, then throw in some grated 
lemon peel, a little white ginger with the apples, boil 
until the fruit looks clear. 

'ELeus]pit>enry Jam. 

Pick them carefully, take equal quantities of berries 
and sugar, stir it continually ; put the fruit first into a 
sauce-pan, and when the watery particles are evaporated 
add the sugar, simmer slowly for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Blii.et>enry Tain.. 

A bowl of fruit to three quarters of a bowl of sugar, 
boiled thoroughly, and constantly stirred. 

&SLS<y Jelly. 

To one quart of water put six large spoonfuls of sago, 
the same of sugar, boil to a jelly, stir it all the time 
while boiling, fiavor to your taste, put into moulds, and 
eat with cream. 

I*reserve<l Sti*a,^ii^l>erries. 

Pick off all the stems, and to every quart of fruit add 
a quart of sugar ; mix well with the sugar and put them 



PRESERVES, JE4LIES, BLANC^-MAKGE, ftc. 9^ 

over a slow fire till the syrup commences to form, thea 
put them over a hot fire, and let them boil quickly for 
fifteen minutes, skimming it well. Put them boiling hot 
into stone jars, seal up tightly. 

JE^eservod Ohenries. 

The bright red cherry is the best-; do not take off the 
stems ; wash and drain them, weigh them, and allow three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of cherries ; 
put them into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them lightly, 
place the bottles in a kettle of water, cold (keep the 
bottles apart to prevent them from striking), put the 
kettle on the range, and let it boil for nearly three hours. 
As the water boils away, replenish it ; after the bottles 
are taken from the water and cooled a little, cement the 
corks closely, and put in a dry place. 

Preseirved Pine A.pile* 

A pound of sugar to a pound of pine apple ; put the 
slices in water, and boil a quarter of an hour ; then re- 
move them, and add the sugar to the water ; put in the 
apple, and boil fifteen minutes. Boil the S3rrup till thick. 

Grx*ape <Jam. 

Boil the grapes in a little water long enough to make 
them tender, then add a pound of sugar to a pound ojf 
grapes, and boil half an hour. 

A pomed of sugar to a pound of tmnateev. Ta:k& (Ax 
pounds oi each, the peel aaad juice of four lemons, and 
qpiarter df a pound of ginger tied up in a bag ; put on the 
side of the range, and boil 8k>wly for three hours; 



9i PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

Hiemoii cTellj". 

One ounce of isinglass in a pint of water, with the rind 
of six lemons ; stir it all the time till the isinglass is 
dissolved ; add a pint of lemon juice, and sweeten to the 
taste with loaf sugar, the shell and white of an egg ; boil 
six or seven minutes, and let it drop through a flannel 
bag without squeezing ; put it in your jelly glasses before 
it is cold. 



M!rs. Glover's Omrrant JTelly. 

Rub the fruit through a sieve, and then squeeze through 
a fine cloth ; three quarters of a pound of sugar to every 
pint of juice ; set over a good fire, and skim and stir occa- 
sionally. "When it is done it will fall from the skimmer 
in sheets. 

I*reseirved ^pple (very nice). 

Core and pair a dozen good-sized apples and cut into 
eights ; make a syrup of a pound of sugar to half a pint 
of water ; let it boil, and then put in as much apple as 
can be boiled without breaking ; remove them carefully 
when tender ; after all are done, add a little more sugar, 
boil up, and flavor with vanilla or lemon, and turn over 
the apple. 

Ooeoanut Oakes. 

Take the meat of two cocoanuts, pare off the dark 
skin, and grate them ; an equal weight of sugar and 
cpcoanut ; add the white of an egg not beaten ; after it is 
well mixed roll it into balls, flour a tin sheet, lay them 
on, and twenty minutes will bake. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. W 

Four table spoonfuls of arrowroot, four of white 
sugar, four eggs beaten together ; boil a quart of new 
milk, part cream if you have it, with a bit of vanilla 
bean ; when it boils, remove the bean, and turn the milk 
on the mixture, stirring briskly till it thickens. Put 
in moulds. 

Mix one gill of rich milk with a wineglass of rose 
water, and four ounces of white sugar, the yolks of two 
eggs well-beaten ; stir all into a quart of cream, set it 
over the fire, and let it just come to a boil, stirring all 
the time ; take it off, and let it cool. 

Hien&on Ousta.irds. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs until they are quite light ; 
stir in a quart of boiling water, the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, and a cup of white sugar ; beat well 
together ; place the pan containing the mixture in a hot 
place, and stir until it thickens ; add a glass of wine and 
one of brandy ; stir well ; when cool, put into jelly glasses 
for the table. Whip the whites to a stiff froth with a 
knife, and three spoonfuls of white sugar, and put on the 
custard in each glass. 

r*reeirvod Peajrs. 

Select sound, medium-size pears ; pare, halve, and core 
them; lay them in a sauce-pan for preserving; cover 
them with cold water, with quarter of a pound of ginger 
tied in a muslin bag and put into the water; let them 
simmer slowly till sofl, then drain them on a sieve, 
weigh them, and allow sugar equal in weight. 



96 PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

Pare thinly the rind of three fresh lemons, and put 
with the juice into the ayrup ; when it boils lay in the 
pears, and let them cook slowly for twenty minutes ; then 
lay the pears on a dish, and return the syrup to the lire, 
and let the watery particles evaporate ; when the pears 
are cold put them in your jar, and pour on the ayrup 
when quite cold. Cork tightly. 

Pliiladelphia. Oairs ir-ee* Jelly. 

Take a set of calf's feet, and after cleaning, boil them 
in four quarts of water for five hours, skimming care* 
fully ; strain through a cullender, and set aside to cool ; 
when cold remove all the fat from the jelly. 

Put the jelly into a sauce-pan with three or four sticks 
of cinnamon, three whole cloves, and the rind and juice 
of three lemons ; set it on the fire. 

Beat the whites and shells of four eggs in half a pint 
of cold water ; stir in quickly with half a pound of white 
sugar dissolved in one pint of best " champagne cider ; " 
and a pint of sherry wine, let it simmer for five minutes, 
set it aside to settle, and pour through a jelly bag into 
moulds to cool. 

]|ocus Blano-man^e. 

Take an ounce of moss, wash thoroughly, and put 
into two quarts of new milk ; let it simmer slowly till it 
thickens ; strain through a sieve, flavor, and put it into 
moulds. 

Italian Sulo^v^. 

The whites of two dossen eggs whipped to a stiff froth, 
the juice of six lemons, two pounds of white sugar, and 
two quarts of water ; mix the water, juice, and sugar, 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 97 

together, and then add the eggs ; stir well together, put 
into the freezer, and stir till it freezes. 

Oliajrloii^e Russe. 

One ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of milk, 
and add a vanilla bean ; put it to simmer over the fire ; 
beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, stir the yolks 
thoroughly with quarter of a pound of pulverized sugar, 
and one pint of thick cream, a wine glass and a half of 
wine to a froth ; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain 
the milk, while lukewarm, into the yolks and sugar ; add 
the whites immediately, next the cream, beat all together. 
Place in your mould pieces of dry sponge or other cake, 
turn the mixture on it, and let it stand till firm. 

Oi-tron IMEelon. 

Pare the melons and cut them into long slices ; to 
every eight pounds of melon allow eight pounds of best 
white sugar, the juice and thin rind of six lemons, and 
half a pound of ginger ; put the melons into your pre- 
serving kettle, cover them with alum water, and boil 
them half an hour, or until they look clear, then drain 
them, lay them in cold water, and let them stand all 
night ; in the morning tie the ginger in a piece of muslin, 
and boil it in three pints of clear water till the water is 
flavored ; take out the ginger, put in yoiu* sugar and let it 
melt, put it over the fire, add the peel of the lemons, and 
skim it as it boils ; take out the peel, put in the citron 
and the juice of the. lemons, and boil them tillthe citron 
is transparent, but do not let it break ; when done, put in 
a deep pan, and leave uncovered for a few days in a cool 
place ; afterwards put the melon into a jar, and pour in 

7 



96 PRESERVES, JELLIES. BLANC-MANOBr &c. 

the syrup carefiiUj; cover tightly with brandied paper 
over the top. 

Pour on to half a box of gelatine a pint and a half of 
boiling water, let it thicken ; beat together the whites of 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, and juice of two lemons, 
stir into the gelatine and put into your mould to cool. 

One third box of gelatine, one pint of water, when 
dissolved add juice of two lemons, two cups of sugar, 
whites of three eggs, and pour into a mould to cool. 
To the yolks of the eggs add a pint of milk, and make a 
soft custard, and pour into the dish in which it is to be 
served, and when ready to be eaten, pour from the mould 
into the dish of custard. 



SAUCES. 99 



PART NINTH. 
SAUCES. 

To darify Sn^air. 

To two pounds of granulated sugar put a pint of 
water, and dissolve it. When dissolved place to boil, and 
before hot stir in well the whites of two eggs ; watch it 
carefully, skimming well. When clear cool and bottle it* 
This will keep a long time if kept in a cool place. 

Sea<3on 6W;reet ISaiioe. 

Two cups of white granulated sugar, one even cup of 
butter worked back to a cream, add a glass of wine, and a 
little rose or nutmeg as you like. Stir a scant half tea 
spoon of soda into a cup of sour milk, and when 
it effervesces add it, and stir all well together ; then add 
four table spoonfuls of boiling water without stirring at 
all, and put into the sauce tureen, disturbing it as litUe as 
possible. 

Gro<Hl Ooiunioii ^Auoe. 

Half a pint bowl of brown sugar, two table spoonfuls 
of butter, a glass of rose water whipped to a cream. Then 
dredge in about a table spoonful of flour, and add half a 
pint of boiling water, stirring well for two or three 
minutes. 



] 



100 SAUCES. 

Take quarter of a pound of butter and braid it well 
into three even spoonfuls of flour ; then turn on a scant 
pint of boiling water, chop well three boiled eggs, and 
stir into the butter as it goes to the table. 

Oapei* ISauee. 

Is to be made as egg sauce, and two table spoonfuls of 
capers stirred in instead of eggs. 

Oyster Sauoe. 

Put on a pint of water to boil ; when it boils stir in 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and three table spoonfuls 
of flour (eyen full), let it boil once, and add a pint of 
solid oysters. 

IMQut Sauce. 

Strip off the tender leaves of the mint, and chop them 
fine ; powder it well with sugar, and cover with vinegar 
half an hour before serving. 

Oranbeirry Sauce. 

A quart of cranberries, a large pint of sugar, and half 
a pint of water. Boil slowly, and beat the cranberries 
to a jelly. When thoroughly bruised put in your moulds. 

Haverliill Oraufeenry Sauce. 

One quart of cranberries, pint and a half of white 
sugar, half pint of water. 

Soston Ox*aii1>ex*x7r Sauce. 

One pint cranberries, three quarters pint of sugar, 
sinmier slowly, and be sure not to bum. 



SAUCES. 101 

SuperloiT ScLuoe. 

Turn a pint of boiling cream on to the well-beaten 
yolks of six eggs ; add four table spoonftds of white sugar, 
and three of *butter, which have been previously worked 
to a cream ; put all on the fire, and stir it till it begins to 
thicken, then add a glass of sherry. 

^pple Sauce. 

Pare, core, and cut up a quart of apples, add half a 
cup of water, boil them till tender, then add sugar and 
nutmeg to taste. 

Salem A.pple Sauee. 

Prepare the apple sauce as above, and when done, stir 
in a lump of butter, and flavor with rose water. 

Quince Sauce. 

Cut, pare, and core a (piart of quinces, cover in water 
and boil till perfectly tender, then add three quarters of a 
pound of sugar, and continue boiling for ten or fifteen 
minutes, that the sugar may penetrate the quince. 

Beverly Sauce. 

Two cups of sugar, and three quarters of butter worked 
back to a cream ; add a little flour, stir it into two gills 
of boiling water, put over the fire, and let it boil two 
minutes; take off, and add immediately two glasses 
of wine. 

I^ieiuou Sauce. 

Pat two cups of milk on to boil ; when it boils, stir ii^ 
two tea spoonfuls of flour, two cups of sugar, and the 



102 SAUCES. 

beaten yolks of three eggs ; take from the fire, and add the 
juice and grated rind of the lemon. 

Oream Sauce. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, three table spoonfuls 
of white sugar, and vanilla flavor. Turn on it a pint of 
boiling milk, and stir it well. 

liViiie Sauce* 

One pint bowl of white sugar, not quite a quarter of a 
pound of butter, one glass of wine, one grated nutmegs 
and a table spoonM of warm water ; bea^together steadily 
for half an hour. 

Set a sauce-'pan on the flre, with about a gill of water in 
it ; when it boils, put in the sugar, &c., but do not stir it 
nor let it boil, but simmer gently till all is dissolved ; pour 
into the tureen, and do not cover till cold. 

G}-o<m1 Oonnnoii Sauce. 

To eight, table spoonftils of sugar add four of butter, 
and stir it together until white ; then put into a sauce- 
pan, with a cup of hot water ; set on the fire, and stir till 
it boils ; then add a spoonful or two of wine, or, if you 
please, flavor with lemon and rose water. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 108 



PART TENTH. 
MISCELLANEOUS. 

BCiillecl MTine. 

Put a little dimamoii or allspice to half a pint of hot 
water, and steep it; add three eggs, well-beaten, witk 
sugar, heat to a boil a pint of wine ; then put in the 
spice and eggs while boiling, and stir for three minutes. 

Roast three or four good apples with care, preserving 
all the juice ; put them into a pitcher, and pour on a 
quart of boiling water. Drink when cold. 

Boiled rice (very nice). 

Wash a cup of rice, and add four cups of water^ and 
a tea spoon of salt ; let it simmer on the back of the 
range for two hours, and do not stir it. 

Jelllect K'lee. 

, To three pints of milk put a tea cup of rice, and a 
little salt ; cover it close, and let it simmer about three 
hours ; beat it weU, and put it into moulds, and eat as 
blanc-mange. 

Ora^ker T*ocu8t. 

Separate a dozen hard crackers, lay them in a dish, 



104 MISCELLANEOUS. 

and poor water over them ; put on a little salt, and when 
soft put in two or three nice bits of batter and a little 
milk ; put in the oven till heated through. 

Bfusli, or 'JtLeLmty Pu^dinip. 

Set on a quart of water to boil ; in the mean time stir 
half a pint of sifted Indian meal into water enough to 
make it smooth, with two tea spoonfuls o( salt. When 
the water boils, stir in one spoonftQ and let it boil, then 
another and let it boil, and so on till you have the thick- 
ening in; then add enough sifted raw meal gradually, 
stirring all the time till thick enough, and it is done. 
This is a very nice receipt. 

Fidecl ]M[iifiili. 

Made as above, the day before it is wanted, and cut in 
slices, and Med with fat enough to prevent it from 
sticking to the griddle. 

Oatmeal Grimel* 

Put on a cup of raisins in a quart of water, to boil ; 
boil them hard for half an hour. Take two table spoon- 
fuls of oatmeal, and make smooth with cold water ; a lit- 
tle salt ; when the raisins are boiled enough, stir in the 
thickening ; let it boil up and skim it well, then add a bit 
of butter, a little white sugar, and grate a little nutmeg 
on the top wheti it is served. 

AinroTVTTOot. 

Two table spoonfuls of arrowroot wet with cold water, 
and boiling water turned upon it, stirring steadily mean- 
while till it is as thick as you like ; wine, sugar, and 
nutmeg to taste. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 105 

' Taeust HV'ater. 

Two slices of stale bread, toasted brown, cut in pieces, 
and a pint of boiling water poured over. Invalids relish 
it with a glass of white wine added, and a little nutmeg 
grated over. 

Fires^ "Es^S fbr an In^ali^. 

Break an egg into a tumbler, add two tea spoonfuls 
of white sugar, and whip briskly ; then add a glass of 
wine, and fill up the tumbler with milk. 

Hop nrea* 

Take a large spoonM of hops, and simmer in a pint 
of water ; when strong enough of hops, strain off and 
add white sugar and a table spoonful of gin. It is a 
quieting drink, most exceUent for nervous headache. 

The yolks of six eggs, with four table spoonfuls of 
sugar, a little nutmeg, a glass of wine, and two glasses 
of brandy ; then add, when well mixed, a quart of milk. 
It is refreshing in summer to add ice, pounded very 
small. 

Frostinfp. 

Allow the whites of two eggs to each half pound of 
sugar, add a little lemon or orange juice, and whip till 
you can turn the bowl upside down without dropping, 
or till it flakes. Some people add a little starch. 

Sixoellent TiTeaist. 

Two table spoonfuls of hops to a quart of water ; let 
them steep well; make a thickening of six potatoes 



106 MISCELLANEOUS. 

mashed fine, and three table spoonfuls of flour worked 
into the potatoes; strain the hop water upon it, stir it 
well, and when cool enough add yeast to work it. Bot- 
tle, and keep in a cool place. 

Cytkenry K.iun 

A peck of black wild cherries, soaked in cold water for 
twenty four hours. Put them in a demijohn, add two 
pounds brown sugar, two quarts blackberries, and a 
gallon of best New England rum. The older it is the 
better, if kept well corked ; it is excellent for summer 
complaints. 

]BiE|j:lifiili Pudding'. 

Five cups of flour, one of milk, one of syrup, one of 
suet chopped fine, one of raisins, or apples, and spice to 
your taste. 

To be eaten with cold sauce. 

Oiunrant liVine. 

One quart of currant juice, three pounds of brown 
sugar, and one gallon of water ; dissolve the sugar in 
the water, then add the juice ; when it ferments, add a 
little fresh water each day till it is done fermenting, 
which will be in from a month and a half to two months ; 
turn it off*, scald the keg, put it in again, and cork 
tightly. 

Oinarer Seei*. 

Two ounces of ginger to a pint of molasses, add a 
gallon of warm water, stir it well, and add half a pint 
of lively yeast. 

If you wish it sweeter or hotter, add, before putting 
in the yeast, to suit youx taste. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 107 

'Mjr. Sjiigrlit's Oiu*i*a,iit Slix*u1>* 

To a quart of juice add a scant pint of water, and a 
pound and a half of crushed sugar ; boil well ; add a little 
brandy, a gill to a bottle of the shrub, and cork, after 
standing for ten or twelve days. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, three quarts of boiling 
water, quarter of a pound of tartaric acid, one ounce 
of sassafras essence, and half an ounce of extract of 
sarsaparilla. 

TTine MTliey. 

Boil a quart of milk, add to it half a pint of wine, 
put on the fire till it boils again, then set aside till the 
curd settles, pour off the whey, and sweeten to taste. It 
is said good country cider is nice as the wine. 

TSe^w York Oiistajrd. 

Boil a quart of milk, with a stick of cinnamon ; mix 
five table spoonfuls of rice flour with a little milk^ and 
when smooth, pour into the boiling milk ; stir it well, and 
boil from ten to fifteen minutes ; then take from the fire, 
and add three eggs, stirring very rapidly ; take out the 
cinnamon, sweeten to taste, and pour into your moulds. 

GrelAttne Jfeilly. 

An ounce and a half of gelatine, one quart of water, 
half a pint of wine, the juice of two lemons, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, two eggs and shells, and 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes without touching; 
then strain through jelly bag, and cool for use. 



1 

i 

J 

i 



Y(^ MISCELLANEOUS. 

SuoootaslK. 

Cut off the com from the cobs, and put the cobs in 
just water enough to cover them, and boU one hour ; 
then remove the cobs, and put in the corn and a quart 
of Lima beans, and boQ thirty minutes. When boiled, 
add some cream or milk, salt, ai^d butter. 

Tripe 

Must be washed in warm water, and cut into squares 
of three indies ; take one egg, three table spoonfuls of 
flour, a little salt, and make a very thick batter by 
adding milk. Fry out some slices of pork, dip the 
tripe into the batter, and fry a light brown. 

OKooolate Oamdy (iKliss ^W^cu8liinst<>^)- 

Half a pound of chocolate, one and a half pounds of 
brown sugar, three quarters cup of milk; grate the 
chocolate, and mix with sugar and a little water. Put on 
the milk, and just before it boils stir in the mixture and 
boil till thick ; try in a glass of water a small quantity. 
If it hardens soon it has boiled sufficiently. 

n?o Oook Pmrsnips. 

Scrape and wash the parsnips, and slice them length- 
wise ; boil in just water enough to cover them, till 
thoroughly done ; drain off the water, put in a piece 
of butter, a little salt and pepper ; beat up an egg with 
half a cup of milk, and turn over them. 

HMrs. X^ixicoln's ^^pple Pucldine:. 

Into a dish that will hold two quarts, pare and cut 
apples enough to nearly fill it ; sprinkle over six table 
spoonfuls of sago, and cover all with hot water. Bake 
two hours, and eat with milk and sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 109 

Make a soft custard of the yolks of eight eggs, a quart 
of milk, scant cup of sugar, and flavor to taste. Beat 
the whites of the eggs, put on half a pint of milk to 
boil, add a little sugar and lemon to the whites, and 
when the nlilk boils, drop on a spoonful at a time, and 
let them set thoroughly, then remove as fast as they are 
done, and lay them tastefully on the custard. It is a 
very handsome dish. 

AjoiKeirst IMColasses Gi-iii^e]r1>i*eacl. 

Five cups of flour, two of" molasses, one of cream, 
one of buttermilk, tea spoon of salt, one spoon of gin- 
ger, one of soda. If you have not buttermilk, use a 
table spoon of butter ; dissolve the soda in the molasses, 
add butter, salt, ginger, and lastly flour. 

ILiemoii. I*ie CE^almer). 

One and a half cups of sugar, two eggs, juice of one 
and a half lemon, and bake between two crusts. 

A^unt SJmil^r's Oa,le. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one of milk, three eggs, whites beaten separately, fruit 
if you like, flavor as you please. ^ 

Sairatogra. Oa,ke. 

Five eggs, two and a half cups of flour, cup and a half 
of sugar, cup and a half of butter, flavor with peach. 

TTli-ite Miountaln Oalce. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one 
of milk, four eggs, one tea spoon cream of tartar, one 
of soda, flavor with lemon. 



110 MISCBLLAJfEOUS. 

Brs. TEUVm Vie<l Br^ad Puct^Mn^.^ 

One pint of milk, three ^gs, a little salt, and flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Cut a stale (baker^s) loaf 
in slices ; half an hour before using, place the sliced 
bread in the batter. It most be remored carefnllj when 
readj to cook, and fried as griddle cakes ; Ho be eaten 
with saoce. 

IMQrsi. Oliaidi^ok^s Black Bean. Soup. 

Soak a scant quart of beans over night ; in the morn' 
ing add four quarts of water ; and put into the pot, by 
ei^t o'clock, with a knuckle of Teal, a tea spoon^ of 
black pepper, half an oimce of cloves, three quarters of 
allspice, and tea spoonful of salt. Boil until twelve, and 
then strain through a cullender ; cut up the veal in small 
pieces and put back into the pot, and boil an hour longer 
or more ; add half a lemon, forcemeat balls, half a tum- 
bler of wine, and four eggs. 

IMCrfii. T>txiey9 Oream Oakes* 

Half a pint of water and a cup of butter, placed in a 
sauce-pan on the fire ; when it boOs, stir in two cups of 
flour ; take it off and let it cool. When cold, add five 
eggs and a quarter of a tea spoon of soda ; drop on tins 
and bake quickly. 

For the cream,  one pint of milk set to boil ; beat 
up two eggs, one cup of sugar, and half a cup of flour. 
Just before the milk boils stir it in, and continue stirring 
one way until it thickens ; take from the fire, and flavor 
with lemon. When the cakes are baked, open with a ' 
knife and fill with the cream. 

OHelsea Sponge Oake. 

Beat six eggs two minutes, add three cups of sugar 



MISCELLANEOUS. Ill 

and beat one minute ; next two cups of flour with two ' 
tea spoons of cream of tartar in it, and one cup of cold 
water ; then add two cups of flour, with one tea spoon 
of soda, dry, in the flour ; flavor as you please, and bake 
quickly. 

This will make three good sized pans. 

Oat:iii.eal Griruel. 

Into one quart of water put a cup of raisins, and let 
boil half an hour. Prepare a thickening of half a tea- 
cup of oatmeal, wet with water and a little salt. Stir it 
into the water (letting the raisins remain), and let it 
boil a minute. Skim it well ; take from the fire, and 
add a tea spoonful of butter, two table spoonfuls of sugar 
(more if you like), and a little grated nutmeg. 

MjLss Bond's Indian ITapiooa; Pudding. 

Soak a cup of tapioca in pint of water over night. 
Boil in the morning a quart of milk, and when it boils 
stir in seven table spoonfuls of Indian meal ; add a cup 
of molasses, the tapioca, and a small piece of butter. 
When well mixed, stir in a pint of cold milk and bake. 

Firofiitin^. 

One and a quarter pounds of sifted loaf sugar, the 
whites of five eggs, half an ounce of pulverized gum 
arable, and lemon to the taste. 

3IJrfi(. Fa.1>ens' XSus1sjs. 

Four cups of flour, two -of milk, half a cup of white 
sugar, two eggs, three tea spoons cream of tartar, and 
two of soda. 



113 MISCELLANEOUS. 

M>fii. AjOeuaikM* BCecul. 

Three quarts of boiling water, in which dissolve three 
pounds of brown sugar, quarter of a pound of tartaric 
acid, and one ounce of essence of sassafras. For 
drink, table spoonful or more, according to taste, in a 
tumbler ; fiU half uU with water, add a Uttlo soda, and 
drink as it foams. 

Take four eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately. 
Place a quart of milk to boil, and just before it boils, 
lay the whites on top of it, a spoonful at a time, and let 
them stay about two minutes, or until they may be 
removed carefully without breaking. After the whites 
are taken from the milk, add the yolks, with one cup of 
white sugar, a bit of salt, and any flavor you please ; 
stir one way till it thickens ; turn into a dish, and orna- 
ment the top with the whites. 

To a half bushel of skinned tomatoes add one quart 
of good vinegar, one pound of salt, quarter of a pound 
of black pepper, two ounces of African cayenne, quarter 
of a pound of aUspice, one ounce of cloves, three boxes 
of mustard, twelve cloves of garlic, six good onions, two 
pounds of brown sugar, and a handful of peach leaves. 
Boil this for three hours, constantly stirring to keep from 
burning; when cool, strain and botde for fUture use. 
It will improve by age, and give a zest to the appetite. 

Mors. TV^oloott's Pliim X>i:LdLmi3L^. 

TaJ^e four brick loaves (baker's), and when stale, 
cover with as much milk as it wiU absorb; rub it as fine 



MISCELLANEOUS. 113 

as possible ; add a pound and a half of suet, chopped 
very fine, a dozen and a half of well beaten eggs, two 
table spoonfuls of salt, two pounds of sugar, three pounds 
of raisins, cut in halves, spice, mace, allspice, and nut- 
meg as you like, wineglass of rose water, peel and juice 
of four lemons, half a pint of molasses, half a pint of 
wine, and half pint of brandy ; or, if you prefer, a pint 
of wine, half a pound of citron, cut small. When all 
these ingredients are well beaten together, add half a 
pound of sifted flour ; bake in pans. This receipt will 
make seven or eight good-sized puddings ; they will keep 
a months and the last to be eaten is generally the best. 
To be eaten with sauce, and warm the pudding before 
eating. 

IMDirfii. TToloott's SLetoliup. 

Halve your tomatoes, place them in a firkin, with a 
layer of salt between each layer of tomatoes ; let them 
stand over night. In the morning put on and boil one 
hour ; then take from the fire and strain ; season as for 
other ketchup. 

IMlss HCinokle^'s Batteir Piicl<liii;. 

One pint of milk, seven table spoonfuls of flour, three 
eggs ; mix the flour and milk together ; beat well ; beat 
the eggs, and add to it ; boil one hour. Eat with wine 
sauce. 

"Mj^m Blaokleir's OaJke. 

Five eggs, one pound and three quarters of flour, one 
and a half of sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, 
half a pint of wine, half a pint of milk, pound and a half 

8 



114 MISCElI*ANBOUS. 

of fruit, acwit tea spoon of sodii. Two hours to bake,  
moderately hot oven. This wiU make two loaares. 

One giU of milk, two eggs, a little salt, a Uttle sugar, 
seven table spoonfuls of flour, and last your fruit. Boil 
one and a half hours. 

Three bowls of flour, one of sugar, one of cream, two 
table spoonfuls of ginger, two tea spoonfuls of soda. 
If you prefer, you can omit one cup of cream, and add 
one cup of molasses instead. 

Ilis J^erv^e-tftst Oup Oalce. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, two cups of flour, 
three eggs, three quarters of a tea spoon of cream of 
tartar put into the flour, half a tea spoon of soda in two 
table spoonfuls of milk, a little spice, and essence of 
lemon. 

Into three pints of flour rub a little butter ; add three 
gg8 a giW of yeast, and warm milk enough to mix -well ; 
make in the evening for b^-eakfast. 

^Mlmm H:ixl>l>aj7a'8 Older Oalce. 

Five cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, five 
eggs, two tea spoonfuls of soda dissolved in two cups of 
cider. Work the butter to cream.; beat eggs and sugar 
together; pour the cider on the flour; spice to tastia. 
When the oven is ready, mix aU together and bake. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 115 

Put in a stew-pan one ounce of isinglass, the juice of 
sii large oranges and one lemon, sugar to your taste ; 
rub some of the lumps on the peel of the oranges ; add 
as much water as will make a pint and a half; boil; 
strain through a muslin bag. When cold, beat up with 
half a pint thick cream and put into your mould. In 
hot weather add a little more isinglass. 

!R.aspl>enr^" Wine. 

Bruise the raspberries with the back of a spoon ; strain 
them through a flannel bag ; one pound of loaf sugar 
to one quart of juice ; stir well and cover closely, letting 
it stand for three days, stirring well each day. Pour off 
the clear juice, and add one quart of juice to two quarts 
of sherry wine ; bottle it and use in two weeks. 

Brandy instead of wine, it will be Easpberry Brandy. 

'Mx'^. Feoirinigr's Tea. Oakes. 

Three cups of sifted flour, one and a half of milk, 
half a cup of sugar, one egg, one tea spoon of soda, two 
of cream of tartar. Bake in a quick oven, and have it 
pretty thick. 

One quart of oysters, dipped out of the liquor with 
a fork into a sauoe-pan^ a large piece of butter ; put l^ese 
on the Are till the butter melts ; when melted, add two 
thirds of a cup of milk, a tea spoonM of flour having 
been previously mixed with it, a sift of pepper and mace, 
and let it boil up once. Should the oysters be too fresh, 
add a little salt. 



116 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Oood me Paste. 

One pound of flour, half pound of butter, and quarter 
pound of lard ; cold water to mix. 

Mips. IXASikell'ei T^ine Jell^-. 

To one box of gelatine add nearly a quart of boiling 
water ; stir till it is dissolved ; then add same quantity 
of cold water, one pint wine, juice of two lemons, and a 
pint of powdered sugar ; boil and strain through a flan- 
nel bag. 

Pine A.pple Pu.<idliii|W'. 

Peel the pine apple, taking care to get out all the 
specks, and grate it ; take its weight in sugar, half its 
weight in butter, rub to a cream, and stir into the apple ; 
add Ave well-beaten eggs and a cup of cream. It may 
be baked with or without a crust. 

'Mjr. Greriry's Oream Tairtar Biseuit. 

One quart of flour, two tea spoonfuls of cream of tar- 
tar, one of soda, butter size of a small egg^ mixed very 
soft with milk. Bake in a hot oven. 

Firofefitiiiigr* 

Beat the whites of two eggs or more, according to the 
quantity wanted, and add pulverized sugar till quite 
thick ; add a little powdered starch, and lay on the cake, 
immediately after it is baked, with a broad knife, re- 
turning to the oven for a moment, leaving the oven 
door open. 

HTessie's TVlieaten Biseuit. (From a, 
Oon.'tira'baiKl. ) 

Make a quart of flour short with butter and lard ; wet 



MISCELLANEOUS. 117 

with cold water, and made pretty stiff; put on a wooden 
block or board, beat out thin, sprinkle with flour ; then 
fold up and repeat the beating (with a mallet or pestle), 
"till it begins to go pop^ pop^ pop^  it'll crack moo' 
like a whip,  then you know it's done." Cut into thin 
biscuits and bake. 



Fx-enoli Pie Paste. 

Into two quarts of very nold water put half a pound 
of butter, and let it remain thirty minutes ; when the 
time has expired, remove it firom the water and rub it 
lightly into a pound of flour with two eggs ; wet it with 
half a pint of the water in which the butter was placed, 
two tea spoonftils of salt, and knead it ; roll out thin, 
and fold it for five successive times ; let it stand half an 
hour ; and bake. 

Mjrs* Tliitteiiioire's Oold ISla^r Diress- 
iniB^* 

Scald five table spoonfuls of milk, and, while hot, stir 
in one well beaten egg ; add a piece of butter the size 
of a small egg ; stir it constantly tiU it thickens ; add 
vinegar and salt to your taste, and pour over the cab- 
bage or salad. 



]MLrfiu tSttlH^aii's Ooni Oalce (Deli- 
oiouei). 

One quart of com meal, one quart of milk, two eggs, 
half a cup of sugar, or three table spoonj^ils of molasses, 
tea spoon of salt, three of cream of tartar, one and a 
half of soda. 



118 MISCELLA-NEOUS. 

Mjts. Sullivan's Soufflee. 

The yolks of eight eggs, thoroughly beaten, with four 
ounces of sugar ; beat well the whites, mix with yolks, 
and add half the rind of a lemon, chopped fine. 

Place four ounces of butter in a stew-pan over a mod- 
erate fire ; when melted, pour the eggs in and mix well ; 
then place it in hot oven for five minutes, dust with 
sugar, and serve hot. 

Bi*ei. BEoopeir's I*op-Overs. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one large spoonful of 
melted butter, a little salt, and flour enough to make a 
pretty thick batter. Heat your pop-over pans, which 
come on purpose, butter them well, and pour in the 
batter. 

BJCirs. XIol1>]rook's ]>essei-t. 

Beat lightly six eggs with a teacup of powdered 
white sugar ; add four teacups of best flour,* and one 
tea spoonful of cream of tartar ; stir with a knife ; add 
half a tea spoonful of soda, dissolved in a little warm 
water, the grated rind of two fresh lemons, and third of 
a nutmeg grated ; mix all together and beat until quite 
light. 

Take six small pie-plates, and put into each two table 
spoonfuls of the mixture ; bake a nice brown ; when 
quite cold spread three of the cakes thickly with rasp- 
berry jam, and lay on the other three, causing the jam 
to be between the two cakes. To be served with a 
boiled custard. 

PliilaclelpULa, Muflins. 

One quart best flour, pint and a half of milk, giU of 



, MISCELLANEOUS. 119 

yeast, two eggs, a little salt, and two large spoonMs of 
melted butter ; ^when well risen, bake in muflin-rings a 
light brown. 

Farmers' Bro^vm Bread (Belieious). 

Three pints of rye, three of bolted com meal, four 
table spoonfuls of sifted pumpkin, half a cup of molasses, 
scant table spoonful of salt, tea spoonful of soda, and 
half a cup of yeast. Mix aU with warm water, as stiff 
as can be stirred well with the hand, and put into two 
well greased earthen or iron pans,  the latter preferable ; 
after which, smooth the top of the loaves with the hand, 
dipping it into cold water once or twice. It rises faster 
than other bread, and should not be made over night 
in summer. Bake four hours. 

I*ea Pudcting: fbr Oom Beei^ or Porlc. 

Pick and wash a pint of split peas, and put them in a 
bag, not tied too closely, and let them cook until qidte 
tender ; take them out, and sift through a sieve ; mix 
with an egg, a bit of pepper, and a little butter ; stir 
well together; flour the bag, put in the mixture, and 
tie very close ; then put in the pudding with your meat 
one hour before the meat is served. 

nromato Omelet. 

One quart of tomatoes, chopped finely (after the skin 
is removed), and put into a saucepan with two finely 
chopped onions, a little butter, salt, and pepper, one 
cracker pounded finely, cover tight, and let it simmer 
about an hour. 

Beat five eggs to a froth ; have your griddle hot ; 
grease it well. Stir your eggs into the tomato, beat to- 



190 MISCELLANEOUS. 

gether, and pour into the griddle ; brown on one side, 
fold, and brown on the other. To be served hot. 

Bilpfii. Oooli<l|s>e'ei Bi*e.teOuwt OaJce. 

One tumbler of rioe floor, one teacup of wheat flour, 
one tea spoonfiil and a half of cream of tartar, stirred in 
the flour, one large spoonful of butter, cut up very finelj, 
a little salt, one well-beaten egg, and lastly a tea spoonful 
of soda dissolved in a large teacup of new milk ; mix 
well together, and bake in a pan like other cake. Serve 
hot for tea or breakfast. 

lUirs* drag's Bailed Indian Pnclclixi^. 

One quart of milk to boil ; stir in as much com meal 
as will make a stiff batter ; add half a pound of suet 
chopped flne, a pint of dried peaches ; let the meal be 
cool before the suet and peaches are added. Stir in 
half a tea spoon of salt, a little cinnamon, and a cup of 
flour. To be boiled in a bag tied loosely to allow for 
swelling, and put into the pot when boiling; boil five 
hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

B^v^ss Oalce. 

The yolks of five eggs, well beaten, one pound of 
granulated sugar beat into the egg^ one pound of best 
flour, and a large spoonful of anise-seed ; beat well for 
fifteen or twenty minutes; whip to a stiff froth the 
whites, and add them, beating all together ; then roll out 
an inch thick, and cut rather small, and bake them the 
next morning. 



INDEX. 



MEATS. 

PAGE 

Balls, Forced-meat, 15 

Beef, Alamode, . .  8 

" Corned, 8 

 Heart, : . 8 

" Savory, 10 

" Stew, 9 

" Spiced 7 

" Tongue, 9 

Beefsteak, Stewed, 7 

 Stuffed, 10 

Boilean, 9 

Bouilli, 8 

Cairs Head, 13 

" Liver, Stewed, 14 

" Head, like Turtle 15 

Leg of Lamb, 18 

Lamb Steaks, Fried, 18 

Mutton a la Venison, 17 

Mutton Kidneys, 17 

Mutton Shoulder, 16 

Mutton, Stewed Leg, 17 

Pork, Corned, 11 

" Fricassee, 11 

 Pie, 11 

Pigs' Feet, 11 

" Head, 12 

VealBroth, 14 

" Ragout of. Cold, 15 

" Fillet to Roast, 13 

" Knuckle, Stewed, 12 

* Sweetbread, 13 

FISH, FOWL, SOUPS, AND EGGS. 

Anchovy Sauce, 21 

Chicken, Boiled, 21 

" Soup, 28 

Chowder, Fisn, 23 

Codfish, Baked, 24 

Chicken Pie, 25 

Duck, Roast, 22 

Eggs, Alamode, 27 

" Poached, 25 

Fish, Stewed, 19 

Force-meat Balls, 22 

Gumbo, New Orleans, 28 

Halibut, Fried, 20 

Ham, Boiled, 24 



I PAOB 

Meat Pie, Baltimore, ...... 24 

Omelet, 24 

Oysters, Stewed Maryland, ... 27 

" Stewed, 27 

I " SfoUopod, 20 

" Fancy Roast, 22 

I " Sauce, for Turkeys, . . 20 

Pea Soup, . 21 

Pigeons, Alamode, 19 

i " Roast, 22 

Salmon, Boiled, 25 

Soup, Tomato, 2:^ 

Trout, Stewed, 20 

" Cream Baked, 23 

Turkey, Baltimore, 21 

I *' Boiled, 20 

I Veal, Stewed, 26 

I PICKLES, KETCHUP, &C. 

j Cabbage, Pickled, 30 

I Chow Chow, 29 

Chowder. Tomato, 30 

Chicken Celery, 32 

Cucumbers, Pjckled, 29 

! Cold Slaw, 31 

' " Boston, 32 

" Maryland, 3.3 

' Lobster Salad, ',\:i 

Oysters, Pickled, 31 

I Oyster Ketchup, Philadelphia, . .30 

Pickle, for daily use, 31 

I Picolily, .30 

I Pickles, Sweet Tomato, 29 

I Pickled Peaches, 32 

" Peppers, 31 

I Tomato Ketchup, 32 

Tomatoes, Fried,  33 

. BREAD, INDIAN CAKE, &C. 

Aunt Cliloe's Biscuits, 38 

Batter Cakes, 44 

Bread, Third, .39 

Dyspepsia, Miss Piudar'f, 41 

Mrs. Clarke's, 41 

Delicious, Baltimore, . . 42 

Potato, 36 

Brown, 37 

(121) 



FAOX 

Bread, Brown, Mrs. Seed's, . . 35 

" Milk, 43 

( Mrs. Ridgeley's, .... 36 

 Stirred, 40 

 Light, 42 

** Graham, Miss Clarke's, . 43 

Biscuits, Drop, 37 

 Soda, 34 

" Sour Milk, 34 

Crumpets, 36 

Economy Cakes, Mrs. Fabens', . 35 

Fritters, Down East, 43 

" Indian, 43 

" Rice, Mrs. Knight's, . 40 

Indian Cake, 38 

" Old Times 39 

 Mrs. Houghton's, 38 

* Mrs. Fabens', . . 44 

 41 

" Jamaica Plains, . 43 

" Berry, 40 

" Maiden, 39 

Muffins, 41 

" Com, 40 

 35 

Hoe Cake, 39 

Bolls, Mrs. Hunter's, 34 

" Potato, 35 

Bice Griddle Cakes, 38 

" Waffles, 42 

Rye Cakes, ... 36 

" Drop Cakes, .37 

Rusk, Mrs. Parsons', 41 

Slapjacks, 38 

Tea Cake, 44 

 Mrs. King's, 35 

" Huckleberry, .... 40 

Varieties, 39 

Waffles, 42 

" Mrs. Courtney's, ... 39 

Wafers, Delicate, 43 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Pudding, Baked, 49 

 * Mrs. Eaton's, . 50 

 Boiled 53 

" Sago, 5/ 

" Marblehead, 58 

" Pancakes, 60 

Batter, Baked, 54 

Baked Plum, Mrs. Broughton's, 6 

Batter, Mrs. Russell's, 49 

Baked Bread, 51 

 Rice Pudding, 55 

 Indian, Mrs. Knight's, . 49 

Boiled Indian,. . 51 

Blackberry Pudding, 52 

Bird's Nest, Mrs. Hooper's, . . 54 

Beriy Pudding, Marblehead, . . 48 

Arrow Root, Mrs. Broughton's, 48 

Com, Dorchester, 58 

 Pudding, 46 



I ^ PAO 

Carrot Pudding, 58 

Custard, Boiled, 50 

Cream Custard, Mrs. Coolidge's, 57 

Cottage Pudding, 55 

Currant " 48 

" " Marblehead, . 56 

Cranberry Pudding, 47 

Cracker " Boiled, . . 47 

Cocoa Nut, Mrs. Freeman's, . . 46 

Delicate Pudding, 50 

Egg Rice  62 

Lemon " 51 

''  Marblehead, 63 

Maocaroni " 55 

Mrs. Falls' * 46 

Mrs. Hooper's Sago Pudding, . 47 

Mrs. Fabens' Puodlng 52 

Mrs. Appleton's " 53 

Mrs. Woloott's " 67 

Mrs. Randall's Lemon Pudding, 59 

Maizena, 60 

Marlborough Pudding, Mrs. Fa- 
bens,* 55 

Lowell Pudding, 47 

Potato * 46 

Poverty  48 

Philadelphia Pudding, 53 

Poverty Rice . " 55 

Pancakes, 59 

" Mrs. Jones', 60 

Rennet Pudding, 53 

Royal  56 

Salem " 58 

State Ship  56 

Sago * Mrs. Knight's, 51 

Squash  52 

Sunderland" 52 

Thanksgiving Pudding, .... 57 

Tapioca, Jamaica Plain, .... 58 

 Pudding, 50 

Pancakes, Mrs. Jackson's, ... 47 

Yankee Pudding, 45 

PASTRY. 

Paste, Common, 61 

" Mrs. Wolcott's, 62 

" Rich Puff, 61 

Pan Pie, 64 

 Mrs. Glover's, .... 64 

Pie, Apple, 63 

" " Boston, 63 

 " Baltimore, 66 

 Berry, 67 

" Beverly, 62 

 Cream^ 62 

" Custard, 64 

" Baltimore, 66 

 Berwick, 66 

" Lemon, Haverhill, 62 

 " Mrs. Rice's, .... 67 

" Mince, Haverhill, 62 

" ** Mrs. Jenkins', . . , 64 



12S 



PAOI 

Fie, Minoe, without meat or apple, 63 

" Mince, 62 

 Peach 66 

*' Pumpkm, 64 

" Squash, 64 

AndoverCake, 76 

Almond Cheese Cake, Mrs. Whit- 

temore's, 80 

Amesbury " .... 69 

Beverly " .... 73 

Brookline  .... 72 

Buns, Mrs. Abbott's, 84 

Bread Cake, 73 

Cup  70 

Cream " 70 

ColTee " Mrs. Burrage's, . . 85 
Cup  Cambridge, Mrs. 

Burrage's, 82 

Cookies, 77 

Diet Cake, 74 

Dorchester Loaf Cake, 74 

Doughnuts, 76 

** Miss Allen's, . ... 76 

 Mrs. Flaggs', ... 78 

 Mrs. Lincoln's, . . 81 

" Sponge, 83 

" Common, 83 

Every Day Cake, 77 

Election " Mrs. Briggs', . 78 

Frost " 74 

Fruit Cake, Mrs. Knight's, ... 78 

Fabens' Cake, 82 

French " 83 

Glover " 69 

Gingerbread, 74 

" Mrs. Barker's, . . 77 

" Boston Soft, ... 79 

 Mrs. Glover's, . . 79 

 Mrs. Hooper's . . 79 

" Mrs. Smith's, . . 79 

** Soft, 81 

 Molasses, 81 

*< Marblehead Hard, 81 
" Common Hard, . . 84 
* Mrs. Rice's Molas- 
ses, 85 

Gold Cake, Mrs. Page's, .... 74 

Harrison Cake, 78 

Jumbles. 82 

Jenny Lind Cake, 78 

Lemon Cake, Jamaica Plain, . . 85 

Loaf * Salem, 74 

Marble Cake, Miss Hull's, ... 82 

Melrose  70 

Macaroons. Mrs. Leverett's, . . 83 

Maplewood Cake, 71 

Madge, * 79 

Marblehead Cup Cake, 80 

Mrs. King's Cake, 77 

Norwich " 81 

Nothing  72 



PAOB 

Pork Cake, 72 

Poverty Cake, 73 

Polka  75 

Plum " 72 

 Mrs. Proctor's, 79 

" Maiden, 73 

" 75 

" Common, '. . 86 

 Miss Hooper's, 73 

Pound Cake, Mrs. Flagg's, ... 77 

" 74 

*< Mrs. Broughton's, 80 

Puff Cake, Mrs. Rice's, 75 

ReadviUe Cake, . .' 85 

Rusk, 81 

" Miss Hull's, 84 

Railroad Cake, 79 

Roxbury Cake, Miss Blackler's, 70 

Sponge, Mrs. Hooper,s, .... 79 

 French, 71 

 Lemon, 82 

" Mrs. Emerson's, ... 84 
* Clay Mt., Miss Wash- 
ington, 86 

Savoy Biscuit, 80 

Shrewsbury Cake, 72 

Squash  79 

Sugar " 71 

Silver  71 

Tea " 71 

Tumbler Cake, Mrs. Freeman's, 77 

Wafers, 76 

WalthamCake, 75 

Wedding  75 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, BLANC 
MANGE, &C. 

Blancmange, 90 

 Mrs. Hooper's, . 89 

" Arrow Root, . . . 95 

 Moss, 90 

Cocoanut Cakes, 94 

Charlotte Russe, 97 

Cream for Preserves, 95 

* Mrs. Curtis' Velvet, . . 97 

Custards, Boiled, 89 

 Soft 88 

 French Rice, 87 

" Mrs. Page's Apple, . 88 

** Lemon, 75 

Floating Island, 89 

Jam, Apple, 92 

" Blackberry, 92 

" Blueberry, 92 

" Grape, 93 

 Raspberry, 92 

 Green Gage, Mrs. Barrett's, 91 

Jelly, Currant, 87 

" Calves' Foot, 90 

 Plum 91 

 Blackcurrant, 94 

 Sago, 92 



124 



INDEX. 



Jelly, Lemon, 94 

" Currant, Mrs. Glover's, . W 
" Calves' Foot, Philadelphia, 96 

Quinces, Preserved, 89 

Preserved Apple, 94 

" Cherries, 93 

*. Pears, 95 

' Pineapple, 93 

" Tomatoes, 93 

" Strawberries, .... 92 

" Peach, Marblehead, . 91 

" atron Melon, . ... 97 

Snow, 98 

" Mrs. Fabens', 98 

" Italian, 96 

" Beverly, 88 

Trifle, Mrs. Eaton's, 90 

Wliip Syllabubs, Mrs. Hooper's, 89 

Yellow Blancmange, 90 

SAUCES. 

To clarify Sugar, 99 

Sauce, Apple, 101 

* " Salem, 101 

* Beverly, 101 

" Beacon Street, 99 

" Good for daily use, ... 99 

" Egg, 100 

 Caper, 100 

 Oyster, 100 

 Mint. 100 

< Cranberry, . 100 

 Haverhill, 100 

' Boston, 101 

" Superior, 101 

" Quince, 101 

" Lemon, 102 

" Cream, 102 

 Wine, 102 

" Common, 102 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Apple Water, 103 

Arrow Root, 104 

Apple Pudding, Mrs. Lincoln's, 108 
Amherst Molasses Gingerbread, 109 

Aunt Emily's Cake, 109 

Boiled Rice, . / ia3 

Batter Puddmg, Miss Hinckley's,113 
Black Bean Soup, . Mrs. Chad- 
wick's, 110 

Cracker Toast, 103 

Cherry Rum, 106 

Currant Wine, 106 

' Shrub, Mrs. Knight's, . 107 

Custard, New York, 107 

Chocolate Candy, 108 

Cream Cakes, Mrs. Dixey's, . . 110 

Chelsea Sponge, 110 

Currant Pudding, Miss Jones', . 114 
Cake, Miss Bladder's, ...... 113 

Cap Cake, Miss Jewett'8, . . . . 114 



I PAOB 

Cider Cake, Miss Hubbard's, . . 114 
Cream Tartar Cakes, Mrs. Ger- 
ry's, 116 

Cold Slaw Dressing, Mrs. Whit- 

temore's, 11? 

Corn Cake, Delicious, Mrs. Sul- 
livan's, 117 

Dessert, Mrs. Holbrook's, . . .118 

Egg Nogg, 106 

" Fresh, 105 

Excellent Y^ast, 106 

English Pudding, 106 

Farmer's Brown Bread, . . . .119 

Fried Hasty Pudding 104 

Frosting, 106 

" Ill 

" 116 

Gruel, Oatmeal, 104 

Ginger Beer, 106 

Gelatine Jelly, 107 

Gingerbread, Mrs. Tilden's, . . 114 

Hasty Pudding, 104 

Hop Tea 106 

Jollied Rice, 103 

Jelly, Mrs. Haskell's Wine, . . 116 

Mead, Mrs. Adams', 107 

Mrs. Coolidge's Breakfast Cflkes, 120 
Mrs. Gray's Boiled Indian Pud- 
ding, 120 

Mulled Wine, 103 

Newport Rolls, 114 

Orange Cream, Mrs. Haskell's, . 115 

Parsnips, to cook, 108 

Palmer Lemon Pie, 109 

Pea Pudding, . 119 

Philadelphia Muffins, 118 

Pudding, Mrs. Hill's Fried Bread,110 
" Miss Bond's Indian 

Tapioca, Ill 

 Mrs. Wolcott's Plum, 112 

" Pine Apple, 116 

Pie Paste, French, 117 

" Good, 116 

Pop-Overs, Mrs. Hooper's, . . .118 

Rusk, Mrs. Fabens', Ill 

Raspberry Wine, 116 

Succotash, 108 

Snow Balls, Mrs. Jenkuif^', ... 109 

' Mrs. Perkins', ... 112 

Soufflee, Mrs. Sullivan's, . . . .118 

Stewed Oysters, Miss Lincoln's, 115 

Saratoga Cake, 109 

Swiss Cake, 120 

Toast Water, 106 

Tripe, 108 

Tomato Omelet, 119 

Tomato Ketchup, Mrs. Wolcott's, 113 

" " Miss Allen's, . 112 

Tea Cakes, Mrs. Fearing's, . . .115 

White Mountain Cake, 109 

Wine Whey, 107 

Wheaten Biscuit, Tessie's, . . .116 



n 









I 



.^^ 




pisfte Ml flM|r 



111! 




'"'Pflfffllll 



811032919^99007^ 



