TX == 




*?!■ 



'm'm 



J 



ff^M^ 











[ :*-' 







1 HN\\ S>VS»>iVV>^J|^ <!,W^C . 



_.^vMi 



rr(^ 



\ LI BKAKY OF CONGRES S. 
♦ <ig/.,/.. TX1i5 



* 



{UNITED STATES OP AMERICA 



THE 



PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 



AND 



ECONOMICAL 



HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 



yl^d^ 



BY E? A. HOWLAND. 



BOSTON: 
ROBERTS BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 

No. 143 "Washington Street. 
1865. 



6 



A^> 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by 

S. A. HOWLAND, 

in the Clerk's Office of the District Conrt of the District of Massachusetts. 



PREFACE. 



Every T^ung house-keeper, on leaving her maternal 
home for one in which she is to be the presiding genius, 
will often feel the need of some guide to which she can fall 
back upon in cases of emergency. Although she may have 
been well instructed by her mother or guardian, and have 
had considerable experience of her own, still there are so 
many new ways of mixing ingredients in the cookery and 
medicinal departments, that to keep up with the times, she 
often feels the need of a practical friend with whom she 
can consult ; and the receipts here collected are for the as- 
sistance of such persons. 

A large proportion of the receipts have been procured 
from experienced housewives, and no efforts have been 
spared to render each one as correct and as good as possible. 
The mode of cookery is such as is practiced generally by 
American house-keepers, and the receipts embrace all the 
various branches of the cuKnary art, from preparing the 
most simple broth, to making the most delicate creams and 
sweetmeats. The receipts are all intended to be written in 
such a plain manner, that the most unskilled need not err in 
attempting to follow the directions given. 



IV. PREFACE. 

In addition to the receipts for cooking, we have added 
Cookery for the Sick, Medicinal and Miscellaneous Receipts, 
which we trust will be found useful to the inexperienced. 
In conclusion, the writer would give her sincere thanks to 
those friends who have furnished her with their choice and 
valuable receipts ; and to those into whose hands this book 
may fall, she would ask a fair trial of the receipts previous 
to passing judgment. 



MEATS. 



THE SELECTION OF MEATS. 



This is one of the most important branches of household 
affairs. There is not one person in fifty who is capable of 
selecting good meats, if his butcher chooses to impose upon 
him ; and as for cooking, I suppose every one will admit 
there is room enough for reform in this department, all the 
world over. I have therefore taken pains to prepare a sys- 
tem of rules and observations, by which any person of or- 
dinary prudence and sagacity, can not only purchase good 
meats, but have them cooked properly. 



1. BEEF. 

If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine, smooth, 
open grain, be of good red, and feel tender. The fat should 
look white rather than yellow ; for when that is of a deep 
color, the meat is seldom good ; beef fed by oil cakes, is in 
general so, and the meat is flabby. 

In roasting beef, ten pounds will take about two hours 
and a half ; twenty pounds, three hours and three quarters. 

2. MUTTON. 

Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colox, and 
firm white fat. 

A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept a 
proper distance. A chin of pork two hours. 



O MEATS. 

3. LAMB. 

Obsei-ve the neck of a fore quarter ; if the vein is bluish 
it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. 

4. PORK. 

Pinch the lean, and if it is young, it will break. If the 
rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the 
finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When 
fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool ; if clammy, it is 
tainted. 

A leg of pork or lamb, takes the allowance of twenty 
minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

6. VENISON. 

If the fat be clear, bright and thick, and the cleft part 
smooth and close, it is young ; but if the cleft is wide and 
tough, it is old. 

6. BACON. 

If the rind is thin, the fat firm, and of a red tinge, the 
lean tender, of a good color, and adhering to the bone, you 
may conclude it good, and not old. 

7. HAMS. 

Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out clean 
with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife is 
daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. 

8. PREPARING MEATS. 

The foundation of all good cookery consists in preparing 
the meat, so as to render it tender in substance, without ex- 
tracting from it those juices which constitute its true flavor ; 
in doing this, the main point in the art of making those 
soups, sauces, and made-dishes of every sort, which now 
form so large a portion of every well-ordered dinner, as 
well, also, as in cooking many of the plain family joints, — 
is hoiling^ or rather stewing, which ought always to be per- 
formed over a slow fire. There is, in fact, no error so com- 
mon among our cooks, as that of boiling meat over a strong 



MEATS. 



fire, which renders large joints hard and partly tasteless ; 
while, if simmered during nearly double the time, with less 
than half the quantity ot^fuel and water, and never allowed 
to "boil up," the meat, without being too much done, will 
be found both pliant to the tooth and savory to the palate. 

For instance. The common and almost universal dish 
throughout France, is a large piece of plainly-boiled fresh 
beef, from which the soup — or '' potage,'' as it is there called 
^ has been partly made. It is separately served up as 
" houilli,'' accompanied by strong gravy, and minced vege- 
tables, or stewed cabbage. Now this, as dressed in the 
French mode, is always delicate, both in fibre and flavor ; 
while, in the Enghsh manner of boiling it, it is generally 
hard and insipid. 

To Steiv. — This wholesome and economical mode ot 
cookery, is not so well understood, nor profited by, in Eng- 
land as on the Continent. So very small a quantity of fuel 
is wanted to sustam the gentle heat which it requires, that 
this alone should recommend it to the careful housekeeper ; 
but, if properly attended to, meat stewed_ gently in close- 
shutting vessels, is in every respect equal, if not superior, to 
that wliich is roasted ; but it must be simmered only, and in 
the gentlest manner. 

On the subject of stewing meat, the following directions 
may be advantageously adopted : — " Take a piece of boiling 
beef, with some fat to it, and a little seasoning, but with- 
out water, gravy, or liquid of any sort. Put it in an earth- 
en jug, closely covered, and place that within a large iron or 
tin pot, filled with cold water, and lay it so near the fire as 
to keep a gentle simmer, without lettmg it boil. It will re- 
quire several hours, according to the weight of the meat, 
which should be stewed until quite tender. It loses nothing, 
and will yield a large quantity of the richest gravy, as re- 
tainmg the whole of its juice, and is decidedly the best mode 
of dressing that universal French dish — hceuf-houilU:' 

To roast in perfection, is not only a most difficult, but a 
most essential branch of cookery, and can only be acquired 
by practice, though it consists in simply dressing the joint 
thoroughlv, without drying up any portion of its juices. If 
this, however, be not strictly attended to, the meat will be 
spoiled, and the error cannot be rectified. 



MEATS. 



A brisk, but not too strong a fire, should be made up in 
good time, and care taken that it is sufficiently wide to take 
m the joint, leavmg two or three mches to spare at each end, 
and that it is of equal strength thi'oughout. The fat should 
be protected by covermg it with paper, tied on with twine. 
I he meat should not be put very near the fire at iJrst, or 
the outside will become scorched, diy and hard, while the 
mside wdl be undone; but it should be put gradually nearer 
to the fire when about warm through, or it will become 
soddened; and the screen should be placed behind it from 
the commencement. The more the meat is basted, the bet- 
ter It will be when dressed, and the cook should not be spar- 
mg of her trouble in this respect. She should remove the 
paper a short tune before sendmg the joint to table, sprink- 
hng It with salt, and dredgmg it Hghtly with flour, in order 
to give It a savory, brown appearance; but salt should not 
be put to It before it is nearly dressed, as it would tend to 
draw out the gi'avy. 

Meat which has been fresh kiUed, will take a longer timf 
to roast than that which has been kept any thne ; and ii 
warm weather, twenty minutes less tune should be allowed 
lor the roastmg of a good-sized jomt, than when the weather 
IS cold. ^ Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a 
proper size for what is required, are the chief pomts that 
a good cook should attend to m roastino-. 

The joints of all necks and loms should be nicked before 
they are dressed A piece of writmg paper, cut as a frHl, 
should be twisted aroimd the bone at the knuckle of a W 
or a shoulder of lamb, mutton or vension, when roasted, 
betore it is sent to table. 

nn^flV?! T^ ^f ^^^^'' ^P *^^ ^'^^^^ ^^^t' «^e should 
pour the fat from the drippmg pan into a basm previously 
wet ed with cold water. The next day she should scrape 
off the fine meat jeUy, which will be found adhermg to the 
mider part, and put it into a suitable vessel for pretent use, 

^^^./'^T^.^^^'^^''• ^^^ ^'Wmg should then be 
melted and s rained. If required to be kept long, it should 
be strained mto cold water, and taken off whf n cold in 
cakes, and these cakes laid in a dry place, between sheets 
01 writmg paper. 



MEATS. 9 

So much depends upon the taste of parties, m the mode 
of over or under dressing, that it is difficult to say how 
long a joint of meat of certain size should be roasted ; but 
presuming that a good fire is kept up. and that 'the meat is 
intended to be well done, a piece of beef, say of twelve or 
fifteen pounds weight, should, in winter, be properly roasted 
in from tliree to three hours and a half. The common rule 
is, a quarter of an hour to each pound ; but a thick jomt, 
such, for instance, as a sirloin of beef, or leg of mutton, will 
require rather more time than the ribs or shoulder; and 
meat that has been hung for some days, requires less roast- 
ing than that which has been newly killed ; mutton, some- 
what less than beef; but veal, pork, and all sorts of white 
meat, should be so thoroughly roasted, as not to show any 
apjDearance of red gravy. 

Some cooks recommend a method of roasting joints of 
meat in a slow manner, before a large fire, and placing 
them at a much greater distance from the fire, than in the 
common way, on the principle, as they say, " that it ren- 
ders the meat more tender, and better retains the gravy." 
This, however, we cannot admit, for it does not retain more 
of the gravy, and it makes the flesh soft and insipid, or 
flabby, instead of imparting to it that degree of crispness 
which is caused by the ordinary mode. It also has the 
fiirther disadvantage of requiring twice the usual time, and 
occasioning double the expenditure of coals. 

To BoU. — All meat, for boiling, should be entirely cov- 
ered with cold water, and placed on a moderate fire, the 
scum being carefolly taken ofl" as it rises, which will be, in 
general, a few minutes before it boUs. Tliis should be done 
with great care, as, if neglected, the scum will smk and ad- 
here to the joint, giving it a very disagreeable appearance. 
The kettle should be kept covered. We cannot too strongly 
urge upon a cook the great advantage of gentle simmering 
over the usual /as^ boiling of meat, by which the outside is 
hardened and deprived of its juices before the inside is half 
done. 

Pickled, or salted meat, requires longer boiling than that 
which is fresh. A fish-plate, or some wooden skewers, 
should be put under a large joint, to prevent its sticking to 
the bottom of the boiler. 



10 MEATS. 

To Broil. — A cinder-fire, or one partly made of coke 
and charcoal, clear of all appearance of smoke, is indispen- 
sable ; and chops, steaks, and cutlets of all kinds, — if in- 
tended to be eaten in their plain state, — should be dressed 
after every other dish is ready, and sent up to the table last, 
so as to secure their being hot ; thus, it may be observed, 
that in " steak-diuners," the second course is always the best 
— as being dressed, wliile the first is being eaten. The grid- 
iron should be kejDt so clean as to be nearly polished, and 
should be always warmed before the meat is put upon it, as 
well as greased, to prevent the steak being burned. A fork 
should never be used in tmiiing them, but a pair of steak- 
tongs. 

To Fry. — The principle of this art, is to " scorch some- 
thing sohd in oil or fat." To do this, it is necessary that 
the fat should be in such -a condition to scorch whatever is 
j^ut into it ; for if the substance fried does not hum, it must 
soak and become greasy. After the substance is immersed 
in the fat, the pan may be removed a little oflf the fire, as 
otherwise the outside will become black before the inside is 
done. 

"When fried things are required to look particularly well, 
they should be done tivice over with eggs and crumbs. 
Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not 
look well. The fat you fry in, must always be boiling-hot 
when the meat is put in, and kept so till finished ; a small 
quantity never fries well. 

Suet. — When a sirloin of beef, or a loin of veal and mut- 
ton, is brought in, 2)art of the suet may be cut off for pud- 
dings, or to clarify. If there be more suet than will be used 
while fresh, throw it into pickle, made in proportion of 
quarter of a pound of salt to a quart of cold water, and 
it will be good for any use when soaked in cold water a little. 

If the weather permit, meat is much improved by hang- 
ing a day before it is salted. 

Boning in a well-floured cloth, will make meat white. 
Cloths for this purpose should be carefully washed, and 
boiled in clean water before each using, and not suffered to 
hang in a damp place, which would give a bad flavor to the 
meat. The same applies to tape and pudding cloths. All 



MEATS. 11 

kitchen utensils should be kept in the nicest order, and in a 
conspicuous part of the offices. 

The more soups or broths are skimmed, the better and 
clearer they will be. In making these, as well as in boiling 
meat, particular care must be taken to take the scum off the 
moment before the water boils, otherwise the foulness will be 
dispersed over the meat. 

Vegetables should never be dressed with meat, except 
carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. 

Full-grown meats do not require so much dressing as 
young ; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten 
with the gravy more m. 

Hashes and 3£nces should never boil, as their doing so 
makes the meat hard. The gravy should be thoroughly 
made before the meat is put in. 

Dripping or Clarified Suet, will serve as well as butter 
for basting every thmg excej)t fowls and game ; for kitchen 
pies, nothing else should be used. 

3Iutton-Drippi7ig cannot, however, be used in cookery, as 
it is apt to communicate to every thing a taste of tallow. 

Seasoning. — The art of seasoning properly is a difficult 
one, which can only be acquired from experience. The 
cook tastes her preparations instead of employing the scales ; 
and, where the quantities are indeffmite, it is impossible to 
adjust the exact proportions of spice or other condiments 
which it will be necessary to add in order to give the proper 
flavor ; the great art being so to blend the ingredients that 
one shall not predominate over the other. 

In seasoning, though the quantities of each ingredient 
may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be 
left to the discretion of the person who uses them. Tlie 
different tastes of people require more or less of the flavor 
of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c., which can never be or- 
dered by general rules. 

9. TO ROAST BEEF. 

Paper the top, and baste it well, while roasting, with its 
own dripping, and throw a handful of salt on it. ^Yhen you 
see the smoke draw to the fire, it is near enough ; take off 
the paper, baste it well, and drudge it with a little flour to 



12 MEATS. 

make a fine froth. Kever salt roast meat before you lay it 
to the fire, for it draws out the gravy. If you would keep 
it a few days before you dress it, dry it with a cloth, and 
hang it where the air will come to it. When you take up 
the meat, garnish the dish with horse-radish. 

10. TO ROAST VEAL. 

Be careful to roast veal of a fine brown color ; if a large 
joint, have a good fire ; if small, a little brisk fire. If a 
fillet or a loin, be sure to paj^er the fat, that you lose as lit- 
tle of that as possible ; lay it at some distance from the fire, 
till it is soaked, then lay it near the fire. When you lay it 
down, baste it well with good butter, and when it is near 
done, baste it again, and drudge it with a little flour. The 
breast must be roasted with the caul on till it is done enough ; 
skewer the sweet bread on the back side of the breast. 
When it is nigh done, take off" the caul, baste it, and di'udge 
it with a little flour. Veal takes much about the same time 
in roasting as pork. 

LEG OF VEAL. 

Let the fillet be cut large or smaU, as best suits the number 
of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with 
fine stuflBng, and let it be skewered quite round ; and send 
the large side upjDermost. When half roasted, if not before, 
put a paper over the fat ; and take care to allow a sufficient 
time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is 
very solid ; serve with melted butter poured over it. 

11. TO ROAST MUTTON AND LAMB. 

In roasting mutton the lorn, haunch, and saddle, must be 
done as beef; but all other parts of mutton and lamb must 
be roasted with a quick, clear fire ; baste it when you lay it 
down ; and just before you take it ujd, drudge it with a little 
flour ; but be sure not to use too much, for that takes away 
all the fine taste of the meat. Some choose to skin a loin of 
mutton and roast it brown ; be sure always to take the skin 
off* a breast of mutton. A leg of mutton of six pounds, 
will take an hour at a quick fire ; if frosty weather, an hour 



MEATS. 13 

and a half; nine pounds an hour and a half; a leg of twelve 
pounds will take two hours ; if frosty, two hours and a half. 

12. TO ROAST PORK. 

Wlien you roast a loin, take a sharp penknife, and cut 
the skin across, to make the crackling eat the better. Roast 
a leg of pork thus : take a knife and score it ; stuiF the 
knuckle part with sage and onion, chopped fine with pepper 
and salt ; or, cut a hole under the twist, and put the sage, 
&c., there, and skewer it up. Roast it crisp. Make apple 
sauce, and send it up in a boat ; then have a little drawn 
gravy to put into the dish. This is called a mock goose. 
The spring, or hand of pork, if yoimg, roasted like a pig, 
eats very well, otherwise it is better boiled. The spare- 
rib should be basted with a bit of butter, a little flour, and 
some sage, shred small ; never take any sauce to it but ap- 
ple. The best way to dress pork griskins is to roast them, 
dress them with a little butter and sage, and pepper and 
salt. Pork must be well done. To every pound, allow a 
quarter of an hour ; for example, a joint of twelve pounds 
weight, will require three hours, and so on. If it be a thin 
piece of that weight, two hours will roast it. 

ROAST PORK. 

Take a leg of pork ; one weighing eight pounds will re- 
quire full three hours and a" half to roast. Wash it clean, 
and dry it with a cloth. Make a stuffing of crackers, pow- 
dered fine, with half a pint of cream, too eggs, a little salt, 
sweet marjoram and summer savory ; cook about ten min- 
utes. Put this in the deep incision made in the thick part 
of the leg. Do not put it too near the fire ; it must be 
floured and moistened often with drippings, until it is done ; 
then skin the fat from the gravy, add a little flour, and boil 
it well a few minutes. Apple sauce, or currant jelly, is 
proper to accompany all pork; also, potatoes, mashed 
squashed, turnips, pickles. 

SPARE RIB. 

If large and thick, it will require two or three hours to 
roast. A very thin one may roast in one hour. Lay the 



14 MEATS. 

thick end to the fire ; when you put it down, put into the 
vessel a pint of water and a table spoonful of salt. It 
should be floured and basted often with the drippings. The 
shoulder, loin and chine, are roasted in the same way. A 
shoulder is the most economical to buy, and is excellent 
boiled. Pork is always salted before it is boiled. 

ROAST LEG OP PORK. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork, cut a slit in the 
knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space with sage and 
onion, chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half 
done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the 
outer rind. Apjole-sauce and potatoes should be served to 
eat with it. 

13. EOLLED NECK OF PORK. 

Bone it; put a force-meat of chopped sage, a very few 
crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of 
allspice over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you 
can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. 

14. TO ROAST A PIG. 

Spit a pig, and lay it to the fire, which must be a very 
good one at each end, or hang a flat-u'on in the middle of 
the grate. Before you lay the pig down, take a little sage, 
shred small, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, and pepper 
and salt ; put them into the pig, and sew it up with a coarse 
thread ; flour it well over, and keep flouring till the eyes 
drop out, or you find the crackling hard. Be sure to save 
all the gravy that comes out of it, by settmg basins and 
pans under the pig in the dripping pan, as soon as the gravy 
begins to run. When the pig is done enough, stir the fire 
up ; take a coarse cloth, with about a quarter of a pound 
of butter in it, and rub the pig over till the crackling is 
crisp, then take it up. Lay it in a dish, and with a sharp 
knife cut off the head, then cut the pig in two before you 
draw out the spit. Cut the ears off the head, and lay them 
at each end ; cut the under jaw in two, and lay the parts on 
each side ; melt some good butter, take the gravy you saved 
and put in, boil it, pour it uito the dish with the brains 



MEATS. 15 

bruised fine, and the sage mixed together, and then send it 
to the table. If just killed, a jDig will require an hour to 
roast ; if killed the day before, an hour and a quarter. If 
a very large one, an hour and a half. But the best way to 
judge, is when the eyes drop out, and the skin is growing 
very hard ; then rub it with a coarse cloth, with a good piece 
of iDutter rolled in it, till the crackling is crisp, and of a 
light brown color. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper 
size for what is required, are the first articles of a good 
cook's attention in roasting. 

15. TO EOAST VENISON. 

Spit a haunch of venison, and butter well four sheets of 
paper, two of which put on the haunch ; then make a paste 
with flour, butter and water, roll it out half as big as the 
haunch, and put it over the fat part ; then put the other two 
sheets of paper on, and tie them with pack thread ; lay it 
to a brisk fire, and baste it well all the time of roasting. If 
a large haunch of twenty-four pounds, it will take three 
hours and a half, unless there is a very large fire ; then 
three hours will do ; smaller in proportion. 

16. BOILED BEEF. 

The meat should be well covered with* water, so that the 
skim may be removed easily. Boil slowly and skim often. 
When beef is very salt, it should boil three-quarters of an 
hour ; then take it up, throw away the water it is boiled in, 
and fill the pot with fresh water, re-place the beef, and let 
, boil gently three hours. The round is the best piece to boil, 
then the edge bone ; observe to take of the scum as it rises. 

17. BEEF, A-LA-MODE. 

Choose a piece of thin flank of a fine heifer or ox, cut 
into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow : 
let each bit be near an inch thick ; dip them into vinegar, 
and then into a seasonmg ready prepared, of salt, black pep- 
per, allspice and a clove, all in a fine powder, with parsley, 
chives, thymn, savory, and knotted marjoram, shred as 
small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife, 



16 JIEATS. 

make holes deep enough to let in the larding, then rub the 
beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. 
Set it in a well-tinned pot over the fire, or rather stove ; 
thi-ee or four onions must be fried brown and put to the 
beef, with two or thi-ee carrots, one turnip, a head or two 
of celery, and a small quantity of water, let it simmer gently 
ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the 
meat twice. 

18, STEWED BEEF-STEAK. 

Beat them with a little rolling pin, flour and season, then 
fry with sliced onion, of a fine hght brown, lay the steaks 
into a stew-pan, and pom- as much boiling water over them 
as will serve for sauce ; stew them very gently half an hour, 
and add a spoonftd of catsup before you serve. 

19. BEEF-STEAKS BROILED. 

The inside of the sirloin is the best steak, but all are 
cooked in the same manner. Cut them about half an inch 
thick ; do not beat them ; it breaks the cells in which the 
gravy of the meat is contained, and renders it drier and 
more tasteless. 

Have the gridiron hot, and the bars rubbed with suet ; 
the fire clear and brisk ; sprinkle a little salt over the fire, 
lay on the steaks, and turn them often. Keep a dish close 
to the fire, into which you must drain the gravy from the 
toj) of the steak as you lift it to turn. The gridiron 
should be set in a slanting direction on the coals, to prevent 
the fat from dropping into the fire and making a smoke. 
But should a smoke occur, take oflf the gridiron a moment 
till the smoke is over. With a good fire of coals, steaks 
will be thoroughly done in fifteen minutes. These are 
much healthier for delicate stomachs than rare done steaks. 

When done, lay them in a hot plate, put a small slice of 
butter on each piece ; sprinkle a little salt, pour the gravy 
from the dish by the fire, and serve them hot as possible. 
Pickles, and finely scraped horse-radish, are served with 
them. 

I have now given the most important receipts for cooking 
beef; the re-cooking requires skill and judgment which ex- 



MEATS. 17 

perience only can give. When well done, it makes excel- 
lent dishes, and is economical in house-keeping. 

20. BEEF, COLD TENDEE-LOIN. 

Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of beef, brown 
it all over in a stew-pan, and then add a quart of water, 
two table spoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a 
large onion finely minced ; cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew till the beef is very tender. Garnish with pickles. 

21. BEEF, COLD STEAKS TO WARM. 

Lay them in a stew-pan, with one large onion cut in 
quarters, six berries of allspice, the same of black pepper ; 
cover the steaks with boiling water, let them stew gently for 
one hour, thicken the liquor with flour and butter rubbed 
together on a plate ; if a pint of gravy, about one ounce of 
flour, and the like weight of butter will do ; put it into the 
stew-pan, shake it well over the fire for five minutes, and it 
is ready ; lay the steaks and onions on a dish, and pour the 
gravy through a sieve over them. 

22. BEEF MINCED. 

Mince your beef very small ; put it into a sauce-pan with 
a httle gravy, and a little of the fat of fowl or any other fat, 
season according to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. 

Boiled beef, when thoroughly done, is excellent to eat 
cold, as a rehsh at breakfast. The slices should be cut even 
and very thin. 

23. TO STEW A SHOULDEE OF MUTTON. 

Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton, sprinkle over it 
pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and put 
it into a stew-pan that will just hold it, pour over it a well- 
seasoned gravy made with the bones, cover the pan closely, 
and let it stew till tender ; before serving, take off the tape, 
and thicken the gravy. It will take about three hours to 
Btew the shoulders. 



18 MEATS 

24. MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut the chops off the loin of the best end of a neck of 
mutton ; pare off the fat, dip them in a beaten egg and 
strew over them gi-ated bread, seasoned with salt and finely 
minced parsley ; then fry them in a little butter, and make a 
gravy, or broil them over coals and butter them, in a hot 
dish. Garnish with fried parsley. 

25. SWEET B2EAD, LIVER AND HEART. 

A very good way to cook the sweet bread, is to fry three 
or four slices of pork till brown, then take them up and put 
in the sweet bread, and fry it over a moderate fii'e. When 
you have taken up the sweet-bread, mix a couple of tea- 
spoonfuls of flour with a little water, and stir it into the fat ; 
let it boil, then turn it over the sweet-bread. Another way 
is to parboil them, and let them get cold, then, cut them in 
pieces about an inch thick, dip them in the yolk of an egg, 
and line bread crumbs, sprinkle salt, pepper and sage on 
them, before dipping them in the egg, fry them a light 
brown. Make a gravy after you have taken them up, by 
stirring a little flour and water mixed smooth into the fat, 
add spices and wine if you like. The liver and heart are 
good, cooked in the same manner, or broiled. 

26. MINCED MEAT. 
Take cold boiled beef, removing all the bones and gristle, 
with a good proportion of cold boiled potatoes ; chop them 
middling fine ; fry three slices of pork in a spider. TVlien 
the pork is brown, take it up, and put in the minced meat 
and potatoes ; let it cook twenty minutes. Take it up in a 
covered dish, with the slices of pork placed on the top of a 
dish. 

27. BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 
Ham should be cut in thin slices, and broiled quick on a 
gridiron, set over good live coals. If the ham is too salt, 
soak it m hot water before broiling ; if it is necessary to do 
this, dry it well with a cloth before putting on a gridiron. 
Fry what eggs you want in a part of good sweet lard, and 
a part butter ; put an egg on each slice of ham. 



MEATS. 19 

28 BOILED HAM. 

A ham, if dry, should be soaked twelve hours in warm . 
water. Then put it into cold water, and let it simmer and 
boil five or six hours. It is best, when quite cold. Boiled 
ham is very good to broil. 

29 PORK STEAK. ' 
Cut them off a neck or loin ; broil them over good live 

coals, turning them frequently ; they broil in ten minutes. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper when put into the dish, and 
add a small piece of sweet butter to every piece of steak. 

30 TO BOIL A LEG OF MUTTON. 
Cut off the shank bone and trim the knuckle ; if it weigh 
nine pounds, it will require three hours to cook it. Parsley 
and butter, or capen-sauce, should be served with it ; onion 
sauce, turnips, spinage and potatoes, are all good. 

31. GOOD PICKLING FOR BEEF AND PORK. 

Put in a pan or tub, five pounds of salt, three ounces of 
salt-petre, half a pound of brown sugar, for a joint weighing 
ten or twelve pounds, rub it well with the above mixture 
three or four times, letting it remain in pickle for a week ; it 
is then ready for cooking. Half an ounce of pepper corns, 
or a few aromatic herbs, will vary the flavor. 

Round of beef, edge bone, breast, flanks, or ox tongues, 
are the pieces generally salted. Small legs, shoulders, and 
belly of pork, pigs cheek and feet the same. Time your 
pickling according to size. For plain pickling, omit the 
sugar and salt-petre. 

32. OBSERVATIONS ON CARVING. 

In carving, your knife should not be too heavy, but of a 
sufficient size and keen edge. In raising it, no great per- 
sonal strength is required, as constant practice will render it 
an easy task to carve the most difficult articles, more de- 
pending on address than force. 

The dish should be sufficiently near, to enable the carver 
to reach it without rising, and the seat should be elevated so 



20 MEATS. 

as to give command over the joint. Attention is to be paid 
to help every one to such articles as are considered best. 

In helping fish, care should be taken not to break the 
flakes, which in cod and fresh salmon, are large, and con- 
tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish knife, 
not very sharp, divides it best. 

In carving joints, you must first -truss your joint with 
taste, and take away any unsightly bone, to give it a goodly 
shape, more especially the neck, loin, or breast, of either 
veal, mutton, pork or lamb. 

Roast ribs of beef, and sirloin, ought to be cut thinnish, 
following, as near as possible, the grain of the meat, which 
you can soon learn to do, by paying attention. Observe to 
let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef 
joint. A little fat and gravy should be served on each 
plate. 

Salt beef ought to be cut thinner still. If out of a round 
or a sirloin side, cut it even. Cold meat requires to be cut 
thinner than hot. 

Roast fillet of veal, to be cut as the round of beef, help- 
ing thin slices of bacon, or boiled salt pork, a little stuffing 
and gravy to be added. 

Mutton requires to be cut rather thicker than beef or 
veal ; pork the same. 

In carving a leg of mutton, put one prong of the fork in 
the knuckle bone, holding it in the left hand, then cut five 
or six slices in a slanting manner towards you, dividing the 
first two or tlu'ce cuts equally amongst all the plates. By 
this method you keep the meat full of gravy, each slice re- 
taining its portion, and it is far better in an economical point 
of view, than cutting the joint across the center, as by this 
means all the gravy runs out, especially if the meat is over 
done. Haunch of mutton is carved the same, giving a slice 
of the loin, and one of the leg, to each guest. 

Saddle of mutton should nev^r be cut across the loin, if 
you study economy. Pass the point of the knife between 
the backbone and the meat, then begin at the top and cut 
as thin chops, in a standing position, each slice about half 
an inch thick, which will give you a fair proportion of fat 
and lean. By this method, you cut enough for ten or twelve 



MEATS. 21 

persons ; whereas, by the other way, you only get enough 
for four or five. 

For leg of lamb or pork, proceed as for mutton, and for 
lorn, ribs, breast or neck of cither, proceed as above. 

In cutting up any wild fowl, duck, goose or turkey, for a 
large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion, 
"without breaking wings, there will be more handsome pieces. 

33. MEAT BROTH. 
Take four pounds of lean veal, beef or mutton, add four 
or five quarts of water, simmer it down to half the quantity, 
and an hour before it is done boiling, put in a little rice. 
Skim off the fat before it becomes cold. 

34. BEEF OR MUTTON SOUP. 
Boil very gently in a closely covered pot, four quarts of 
water, with two table-spoonfuls of sifted bread raspings, 
three pounds of beef cut in small pieces, or the same quan- 
tity of mutton chops ; season with pepper and salt, and two 
turnips, two carrots, two onions, and one head of celery, all 
cut small ; let it stew with these ingredients four hours, 
when it will be ready to serve. A little less than a quart 
of water is sufficient for a pound of meat. Soups made of 
fresh meats are best, but tolerably palatable soups may be 
made of the remnants of cold meats, especially if it con- 
tains many bones. The fat should always be skimmed from 
soup. The seasoning should be of salt, with a little pepper 
if it is liked ; soup is more wholesome without the latter in- 
gredient. To extract the strength from meat, long and slow 
boiling is necessary, and care should be taken that the pot is 
never off the boil. 

35. SANDWICHES. 

These are made of different articles, but always in the 
same manner. Cold biscuit, sliced thin, and buttered, and a 
very thin slice of boiled ham, tongue or beef, between each 
two slices of biscuit, is best. Home made bread cuts for 
sandwiches better than baker's bread. The meat in sand- 
wiches is generally spread with mustard ; the most delecta- 
ble are those made with boiled smoked tongue. 



i62 MEATS. 

36. DRIED BEEF. 

Dried beef, sliced thin, is nice for tea, or vension dried is 
nice, sliced thin, or mutton dried and sliced thin is nice, to- 
gether with good bread and good butter, and a dish of fruit, 
cheese, and a plate of cake of some kind. Some nice 
corned beef, sliced thin, is a substitute for dried ; cold boiled 
ham, sliced thin, is a good relish, or cold tongue for tea. 
Some are fond of other cold meats of any kind, nicely cut 
thin. The manner of domg things is a great deal. 

37. SAUSAGES. 
Chop fresh pork very fine, the lean and fat together, 
(there should be rather more of the lean than the fat,) sea- 
son it highly with salt, pepper, sage, and other sweet herbs, 
if you like them ; a little salt-petre tends to preserve them. 
To tell whether they are seasoned enough, do up a little 
into a cake and fry it. If not seasoned enough, add more 
seasoning, and fill your sldns, wliich should be previously 
cleaned thorouglily. A little flour mixed in with the meat, 
tends to prevent the fat from running out when cooked. 
Sausage-meat is good, done up in small cakes and fried. In 
summer, when fresh pork cannot be obtained, very good 
sausage-cakes may be made of raw beef, chopped fine with 
salt pork, and seasoned with pepper and sage. When sau- 
sages are fried, they should not be pricked, and they will 
cook nicer to have a little fat put with them. They should 
be cooked slowly. If you do not like them very fat, take 
them out of the pan when nearly done, and finish cooking 
on the gridiron. Bologna sausages are made of equal 
weight each, of ham, veal and pork, chopped very fine, sea- 
soned high, and boiled in casings, till tender, then dried. 

38. TEIPE. 

After being scoured, it should be soaked in salt and water 
seven or eight days, changing the water every other day, 
then boil it till tender, which will take eight or ten hours. 
It is then fit for broiling, frying or pickling. It is pickled 
in the same manner as souse. 



PICKLES. 23 

39. PICKLING. 
Do not keep pickles in common earthen-ware, as tho 
glazing contains lead, and combines with the vinegar. Vin- 
egar for pickling should be smart, though not the sharpest 
kind, as it it injures the pickles. If you use copper, bell- 
metal, or brass vessels for pickling, never allow the vinegar 
to cool in them, as it is then poisonous. Add a tea-spoonful 
of alum and a tea-cup of salt to each three gallons of vine- 
gar, and tie up a bag with pepper, ginger-root, spices of 
all the different sorts in it, and you have vinegar prepared 
for any kind of pickling. Keep pickles only in wood or 
stone-ware. Any thing that has held grease will spoil them. 
Stir them occasionally, and if there are soft ones, take them 
out and scald the vinegar, and pour it over the pickles. 
Keep enough vinegar to cover them well ; if it is weak, 
take fresh vinegar and pour it on hot. Do not boil vinegar 
or spice above five minutes. 

CUCmiBERS. 

They should be small, green, and of a quick growth, and 
pickled, soon after they are picked, to be very nice. A very 
good and easy way of pickling, is to put them down with 
salt, having a layer of the salt to each layer of cucumbers ; 
they should be covered with the salt on the top ; let them 
remain till you are through collecting them, and the weather 
has become cool. They will have a shrivelled appearance 
when taken out of the salt, but will swell out to the original 
size by being soaked in cold water three or four days. 
The water should be changed every day to freshen them. 
When Treshen^ed, turn off aU the water, and scaled them in 
spic€d vinegar, with alum to green them ; do not let them 
boil. They should be scalded a number of times to be made 
brittle. The following method is more troublesome, but it 
makes more delicate pickles : — Turn on boiling water, with 
a spoonful of salt in it, when fresh picked ; let them remain 
in it four or five hours, then put them in cold vinegar, with 
alum and salt, in the piioportion of a large spoonful of the 
former, and a tea-cup of the latter, to each gallon of vine- 
gar. AVhen you have finished collecting the cucumbers, 
turn the vinegar from them, scald and skim it, until clear, 



24 PICKLES, 

then scald the cucumbers in it, without boiling, adding pep- 
per-corn and ginger-root, sufficient to spice the pickles. A 
few pickled peppers put into the jar with cucumbers, give 
them a fine fiavor. Whenever scum rises on the 23ickles, 
turn it from them, scald and turn it wliile hot on to them ; 
if weak, throw it away, and add fresh, with more alum and 
salt ; if there are any soft ones, pick them out and throw 
them away. Pickled cucumbers need close watching during 
the warm weather, as they are very liable to spoil. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 

Prick the small round tomatoes with a fork. Put them 
in layers, with plenty of salt, into an earthen vessel. Cover 
them, and let them remain two days in salt ; then put them 
into a mixture of vinegar, that has been previously boiled, 
by adding to it mustard, cloves, pepper, mace, and a few 
slices of onions. Pour this into a glass jar, and put in grad- 
ually the tomatoes, shaking the jar to intermix the spices. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

An assortment of small vegetables in the same jar makes 
an agreeable flavor. Take small cucumbers, onions, cauli- 
flowers, string-beans, tomatoes, barberries on the stem. Add 
a few whole cloves, cassia, and stick cinnamon ; prepare the 
vegetables as before directed, and seal tightly. A little alum 
is very good to extract the salt taste from pickles. Too 
much will spoil them. 

COLD SLAW. 

Yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of cream, a small tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a little salt, and two table-spoonsful of 
vinegar. If cream is not used, put in a small lump of but- 
ter rubbed in a little flour. Cut the cabbage very fine, heat 
the mixture, and pour it on hot. 

cucumbers: 

" Who ever heard of cooking a cucumber ! " we hear our 
readers exclaim. Try it, and tell your neighbors how well 



PICKLES. 25 

a poor man may live in the country. Take the cucumber, 
just as it begins to turn yellow, peel and slice it into salt 
water ; drop it in cold water, and boil until tender. Season 
with salt and pepper, mix with batter and fry. Few can 
tell it from the egg-plant. 

PICKLED OTSTERS. 

Boil the oysters in their own liquor till they look plump, 
then take them out and strain the liquor ; add to it wine, 
vinegar and pepper, to your taste, and pour it over the 
oysters. 



A Store-Rooin is essential for the custody of articles in 
constant use, as well as for others which are only occasion- 
ally called for. These should be at hand when wanted, 
each in separate drawers or on shelves and pegs, all under 
the lock and key of the mistress, and never given out to ser- 
vants but under her inspection. 

Pickles and preserves, prepared and purchased sauces, 
and all sorts of groceries should there be stored ; the spices 
pounded and corked up in small bottles, sugar broken, and 
every thing in readiness for use. Lemon-peel, thyme, pars- 
ley, and all sorts of sweet herbs, should be dried and grated 
for use in seasons of plenty ; the tops of tongues saved, and 
dried for gratings into omelettes, etc. ; and care taken that 
nothing be wasted that can be turned to good account. 

Bread is so heavy an article of expense, that all waste 
should be guarded against, and having it cut in the room 
will tend much to prevent it ; but, for company, small rolls, 
placed in the napkin of each guest, are the most convenient, 
as well as the most elegant. Bread should be kept in 
earthen pans with covers. 



POULTRY. 



40. CHICKEN PIE. , 

Joint the cliickens, which should be young and tender, — 
boil them in just suflicient water to cover them. When 
nearly tender, take them out of the liquor, and lay them in 
a deep pudding dish, lined with pie-crust. To each layer of 
chicken, put three or four slices of pork ; add a little of the 
liquor in which they were boiled, and a couple of ounces of 
butter, cut into small pieces ; sprinkle a little flour over the 
whole, cover it with nice pie-crust, and ornament the top 
with some of your pastry. Bake it in a quick oven one 
hour. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil the chickens tender, or nearly so, havmg them cut 
in pieces. Make a rich crust, adding a little saleratus, and 
an egg or two to make it light and jDuff. Lay it round 
the sides of the jDan, and then lay in the chickens ; between 
each layer, sprinkle in flour, pepper, salt and butter, with a 
thin slice of paste here and there. Then add the water in 
which they were boiled, and cover them. They should be 
baked an hour, or an hour and a half, according to the size 
of the pie. 

41. CHICHEH POT PIE. 

Wash and cut the chicken mto joints ; take out the breast 
bone ; boil them about twenty minutes ; take them up, wash 
out your kettle ; fry two or three slices of fat salt pork, and 
26 



POULTRY. 27 

put in the bottom of the kettle ; then put in the chicken, 
with about three pints of water, a piece of butt-er the size 
of an egg, sprinkle in a tea-spOonful of pepper, and cover 
over the top with a light crust. It will require an hour to 
cook. 

42. EOAST TURKEY. 

Let the turkey be picked clean, and washed and wiped 
dry, inside and out. Have your dressing prepared, fill the 
crop and then the body full, sew it up, put it on a spit, and 
roast it, before a moderate fire, three hours. If more con- 
venient, it is equally good when baked. 

Serve it up with cranberry or apple sauce, turnip sauce, 
squash, and a small Indian pudding ; or dumplings boiled 
hard is a good substitute for bread. 

DRESSING. 

Take dry pieces of bread or crackers, chop them fine, 
put in a small piece of butter, or a little cream, with sage, 
pepper, and salt, one egg, and a small quantity of flour, 
moistened with milk. 

43. EOAST DUCKS AND GEESE. 
Chop an onion with some sage, fine, mix with a lump of 
butter a tea-spoonful of pepper, and two of salt, and put it 
in the goose. Place it on the spit, dust with flour, when it 
is hot, baste with lard or butter. If it is a large one, it will 
require an hour and a half before a good fire. It may be 
stuffed with bread or potatoes. Ducks are dressed in the 
same way. For wild fowl, use only pepper and salt, -with 
gravy in the dish. 

44. BOILED TURKEY. 
After the turkey is well cleaned, fill the crop with stuff- 
ing, and sew it up. Put it over the fire, and let it boil 
slowly in water enough to cover it ; take off the scum. It 
should then only simmer until it is done. A little salt 
should be put in the water, and the turkey dredged with 
flour before boiling. 



28 POULTRY. 

45. EOAST CHICKEN. 
Chickens should be roasted in the same manner as tur- 
keys, only they require less time. From an hour to an 
hour an half, is sufficient. 

46. PIGEONS. 

Pigeons are either roasted, broiled, potted or stewed. 

Potting is the best way and the least trouble. After they 
are picked and clean, put a small piece of salt pork, and a 
little ball of stuffing, into the body of each bird. The stuff- 
ing may be made of one Qgg to one cracker, and an equal 
quantity of suet and butter, sweetened with sweet marjoram 
or sage. Baste them well, lay them close together in the 
bottom of the pot, merely cover them with water, put in a 
bit of butter, and let them stew an hour and a quarter, if 
young ; an hour and three-quarters, if old. 

Stewed jDigeons are cooked nearly as above, omitting the 
stuffing. Being dr}'- meat, they require good deal of butter. 

To Roast pigeons, put them on a small spit, and tie both 
ends close. Baste with butter. They will be done in fif- 
teen minutes. 

To make a Pigeon Pie, put inside of every bird a piece 
of butter, and the volk of an egg boiled hard. 

47. CHICKEN SOTTP. 
An old fowl makes good soup. Cut it up ; first take off 
the wings, legs, and neck, then divide it down the sides, and 
cut the back and breast each in two pieces ; cut half a pound 
of pork in thin slices, and put it with the cut up fowl, into 
four or five pints of water ; set it over a gentle fire, skim it 
clear, taking care not to keep it open longer than is neces- 
sary ; add a cup of rice or pearl-barley, cayenne and black 
pepper to taste, a leek sliced, and potatoes cut in halves ; if 
liked, a grated or sliced carrot, and a turnip cut small may 
be added. 

CHICKEN SOUP. • 

Take two or three pounds of veal or vegetables, and one 
small chicken cut up ; boil these in two quarts of water ; cut 



POULTRY. 29 

up four onions or a leek ; grate two carrots and add them to 
the soup ; salt and pepper to the taste ; skim it clear. 
Thicken the soup with a little batter of flour and water, 
with an ea:s: beaten in. 

48. SAUCES FOR GAME OR POULTRY. 

Put into a stew-pan, and set on a slow fire, a quarter of 
a pint of white wine, a table-spoonful of vinegar, three table- 
spoonsful of olive oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spice to 
taste. Add to the whole some good gravy, and serve hot. 

3IeUed Batter. — Flour the butter, and put it into a sauce 
pan with a little milk, stirring it carefully one way till it 
boi's. Salt and pepper to taste. Another way is, make it 
with butter, flour, and a little water, with salt and pepper. 

Onion Sauce. — Boil the onions until tender, changing 
the water occasionally to render them more mild. Strain, 
and mash the onions in a bowl, adding butter and salt. 
Warm up again, and mix the whole thoroughly. 

Erjg Sauce. — Boil the eggs very hard ; when taken up, 
throw them into cold water ; take off the shells, and chop 
the eggs rather fine ; have ready your melted butter, into 
which throw them ; heat it well and serve. 

White Sauce for Boiled Fowl. — Melt in a tea-cupfull of 
milk, a large table-spoonful of butter, kneeded in a little 
flour; beat up an yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of 
cream ; stir it into the butter, and put it over the fire, stir- 
ring it constantly ; chopped parsley may be added. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



49. NEW ENGLAND CHOWDER. 

Take a good fresh haddock or cod, cut it in pieces three 
inches square, put a pound of fat salt pork in strips into the 
pot, set it on hot coals, and fry out the oil. Take out the 
pork, and put hi a layer of lish, over that a layer of onions, 
in slices, then a layer of fish, with slips of fat salt pork, then 
another layer of onions, and so on alternately, until your 
fish is consumed. Mix some flour with ag much water as 
will fill the pot, (or use milk instead of flour and water, 
which is better ;) season with black pepper and salt to your 
taste ; boil it forty minutes. Have ready some hard crack- 
ers, wliich split, and put in about five minutes before you 
take it up. 

TO FRY COD, OR OTHER FISH. 
It is much more difiicut to fry fish than meat. Lard or 
dripping is better than butter, because the latter burns so 
easily. The fat fried from salt pork is the best of all ; the 
fire must be clear and hot, but not furious ; the fat hot when 
the fish is put in ; and there should be sufficient to cover the 
fish. Skim the fat before laying in the fish. Cut the cod 
in slices, half or three-quarters of an inch thick ; rub them 
with Indian meal to prevent breaking. Fry it thoroughly. 
Trout and perch are fried in the same manner, only do not 
rub Indian meal on them. Dip in the white of an egg and 
bread crumbs, or dust with flour. 
30 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 31 

51. TO BROIL SHAD. 
This is a very fine, delicious fish. Clean, wash, and split 
the shad, let it dry a few minutes, put it on the gridiron 
with the fleshy part up, and put it over good lively coals to 
cook ten minutes, then turn it in the same way you do sal- 
mon. When it is done, take it up, sprinkle on a little salt 
and pepper, and lay on two or three pieces of butter to 
moisten it. 

62. TO FRY SHAD. 

Clean the fish, cut off the head, and split it down the 
back ; save the roe and eggs when taking out the entrails. 
Cut the fish in pieces about three inches wide, rinse each in 
cold water and dry on a cloth ; use wheat flour to rub each 
jDiece. Have ready ho!, salted lard, and lay in the fish, in- 
side down, and fry till of a fine brown, then turn and fry the 
other side. Fry the roe and egg with the fish. 

53. SALMON 

When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are of 
a bright red, the scales clear, and the fish is stiff. When 
just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which 
by keeping, melts down, and the fish becomes richer. 

Salmon requires to be well boiled, and is very unwhole- 
some when under-done ; boil with horse-radish in the water, 
anchovy, lobster, or plain drawn butter-sauce ; garnish with 
horse-radish and sliced lemon. 

54. BOILED SALMON. 

Run a pack-thread through the tail, centre of the body, 
and head of the fish, to bring it in the form of a letter S ; 
then put it into a kettle with spring water, and plenty of 
salt. Cut three or four slanting gashes on each side of the 
fish, before making it in a form, otherwise skin will break 
and disfigure the fish ; serve with lobster-sauce. 

55. BROILED SALMON. 

Cut some slices (about an inch thick) ; season with pep- 
per and salt ; wrap each slice in half a sheet of well but- 



32 FISH AND OYSTERS. 

tered white paper : twist the ends of the paper and broil 
them over a fire of bright coals for ten minutes ; serve in 
the butter with di-awn butter or anchovy sauce. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just 
warmed through. Egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usu- 
ally served with it ; or it may be boiled, or lay it in soak 
in pure water for an hour or two before boihng ; rub the 
gridiron over with a bit of suet ; lay on the salmon, shake 
a little pepper over and serve. 

56. BROILED FISH. 

Fish is exceedingly insii3id, if sufficient salt is not mixed 
with the water in which it is boiled ; about four ounces to 
one gallon of water, is enough for small fish in general ; an 
additional ounce, or even more, will notrbe too much for cod- 
fish, lobsters, &c., and salmon requires eight ounces. To 
render the boiled fish firm add a little saltpetre to the salt ; 
a quarter of an ounce is sufficient for one gallon. 

67. SALMON, ROLLED. 
Take a side of salmon, remove the bone, clean it nicely, 
and throw over the inside pepper, salt, nutmeg and sauce, 
with a i'ew chopped oysters, i^arsley and crumbs of bread. 
Roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick 
oven. Make a common fish sauce and pour over it. 

58. FRIED SMELTS. 

Take two pounds of good fresh smelts, wash and dry 
well ; break three eggs ; season with pepper and salt ; 
beat them well together ; dip the smelts in the eggs, and 
roll them in crumbs ; fry them a bright brown ; served with 
parsley or lemons to garnish the dish. 

59. CLAM SOUP. 
Fifty large, or one hundred small clams, will be sufficient. 
In removing them from the shell, carefully preserve the li- 
quor, which should be strained, and to it add a quart of 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 33 

milk and water eacli ; if the clams are large, cut each in 
two, and put them into it ; set them over a moderate fire 
until the clams are tender (about one hour) ; skim it clear ; 
put it to half a pound of soda crackers, broken small, or 
half a pound of butter crackers, rolled fine ; cover the pot 
for ten minutes ; then add a quarter of a pound of sweet 
butter, and serve hot. 

60. OYSTEESOTJP. 

Mix three pints each of milk and water. Half a pound 
of butter crackers, or soda biscuit (rolled fine) should be 
added with a pint of oysters (chopped fine,) when the milk 
and water comes to a boil. Let it boil until the flavor of 
oysters is given to soup, and the crackers are well swelled ; 
then add salt and pepper to taste, and three pints of more 
of the oysters, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; 
cover it for ten minutes more, then serve it in a tureen. 

61. TO FRY HADDOCK. 

If of a very small size, they may be turned round with 
their tails run through their jaws ; but this cannot be done 
when they are large ; they are, in that case, either cut in 
slices or filletted, and fried with crumbs of bread and egg. 

62. BROOK TROUT. 

If they are small, fry them with salt pork. If large, boil 
them, and serve them with drawn butter. 

63. DISH OF FRIED COD. 

Pick some dried cod in flakes, pour boiling water over, 
scald it once, then throw the water off; put some hot milk 
or water over, to which add a bit of butter ; pepper to taste, 
and serve. 

64. CODFISH CAKES. 

First boil the fish, then take the white part, chop it fine 
with a chopping knife, add mashed potatoes, an equal quan- 
tity, and form them in cakes, with a raw egg or two, and a 
little flour; dredge the outside with flour, and fry in hot 
lard or drippings ; garnish with fried parsley. 



34 FISH AND OYSTERS. 

65. FRIED SHAD. 
Scale the fisli, cut off the head, and then cut down the 
back, and take out the entrails ; keep the roes to be dressed 
with the fish, then cut it in two, and cut each side in pieces, 
about three inches wide ; flour them, and fry in hot lard, 
in which put salt to taste. When the inside, (which must 
always be first cooked in any fish,) is done a fine brown, 
turn the other. The soft roe is much liked by some ; fry it 
in the same manner ; as also the eggs from the female shad ; 
these last must be well done. 

66. SALT MACKEREL. 
Lay them in soak in plenty of clear water before using 
them, at least twelve hours, and fry, or broil them, or put 
them in a frying-pan. Cover with boiling water, and give 
them fifteen minutes cooking, then pour off the water ; pep- 
per to taste and serve. 

67. FRESH MACKEREL SOUSED. 

After having thoroughly cleaned them, boil them in salt 
and water until tender ; then take them out, lay them in a 
deep dish ; take of the water in which they were boiled, 
half as much will cover them ; add to it as much more vin- 
egar, some whole pepper, cloves, and a blade or two of 
mace. Pour it over hot ; in two days it will be fit to eat. 

68. BROILED COD. 

Split a small cod from head to tail ; cut the sides in pie- 
ces of about three inches in width ; dip them in flour and 
broil ; have some butter, pepper, and salt on a hot dish ; lay 
the fish on this and serve. 

Or, take the steaks, broil them in the same way, or with 
buttered paper folded around them. 

69. FRIED COD. 

Take steaks of about an inch thickness, dredge them with 
flour, and fry them in hot fat ; or if a small one, cut it the 
same as for boiling, and flour it, or first dip it in the beaten 
yolks of eggs, and then in bread crumbs. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 35 

70. SALT CODFISH. 

Put the fish in soak over night : tie it in a cloth, and boil 
in clear water ; serve with plain boiled potatoes and drawn 
butter or egg sauce, 

71. DRIED CODFISH. 

This should always be laid in soak with plenty of water, 
at least one night before cooking ; after which, scrape it well, 
and put it in plenty of cold water ; let it boil gently ; skim 
it; when done, serve with egg sauce over, or cut hard 
boiled eggs in slices, lay them over the fish, and serve with 
drawn butter in a boat. 

72. STEWED SALT COD. 
Scald some cod, scrape it white, then pick it in pieces, 
and put in a stew-pan with some butter rolled in flour ; milk 
enough to moisten it, and pepper to taste, and let it stew 
slowly for some minutes, then serve hot. 

73. TO MAKE A DISH OF COLD BOILED COD. 

Take some boiled fish, chop it fine, pour some drawn but- 
ter or egg sauce over, add pepper to taste ; warm it thor- 
oughly, stirring it to prevent its burning ; make a roll or any 
other form of it ; put little spots of pepper over, and if you 
please, brown the outside before a fire. 

74. EEL BEOTH. 
Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with 
three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few 
peppercorns ; let them simmer till the ends are broken, and 
the broth good, or reduced to a pint and a half. Add salt, 
and strain it off. It is very nutritious. 

75. STEWED OYSTEES. 

Strain off the liquor, put to it some milk or water, grate 
in dry bread, add a little pepper and a lump of butter, put 
these in a stew-pan and broil ; then add the oysters. Let 
them stew but a few minutes, or they will be hard. Have 
ready some slices of buttered toast with the crust off. When 



36 FISH AND OYSTERS. 

the oysters are done, dip the toast in the liquor, and lay the 
pieces round the sides and in the bottom of a deep dish. Pour 
the oysters and liquor upon the toast, and send them to the 
table hot. 

76. OYSTER SAUCE. 
Beard and scald the oysters ; strain the liquor and thicken 
it with a little flour and butter. Squeeze in a little lemon 
juice, and add in three table spoonsful of cream. Heat it 
well, but do not let it boil, 

77. TO FRY OYSTERS. 
Make a batter as for pancakes ; put one or two oysters 
into a sj^oonful of the batter, and fry them to a light brown. 
Fry them in hot fat the same as pancakes. 



PISH SAUCES. 

Lobster Sauce. — Take a large, fresh lobster, carefully 
pick out the berries and all the inside, cut it small, make a 
sauce with a lump of flour and butter, a little milk or cream, 
a very small quantity of the essence of ancho\7", a rery 
little mace beat fine, and cayenne ; then pull the rest of the 
lobster to pieces with two forks ; add the sauce by degrees 
to the berries, and put in the lobster. Give it a boil, stir- 
ring all the time, and it is ready to serve. 

Brown Sauce for Fish. — Melt some butter in cream, 
(instead of flour and water,) with as much walnut ketchup 
boiled in it as will make it of a nice light brown. 

White Sauce for Fish. — Boil some cream, thicken it with 
flour and butter, then let it simmer till smooth ; add a tea- 
spoonful of the essence of anchovy to a tureenful, and, if 
it is liked, a little walnut or mushroom ketchup. For cod 
sauce, omit the anchovy and ketchup, and add a little gin- 
ger. K cream is scarce, use milk and the yolk of an egg. 



VEGETABLES. 



78. POTATOES. 

Potatoes will not keep well in the cellar if exposed to the 
light. They should be placed in a bin, and covered with 
straw, and packed in barrels, with the tops completely 
closed against the light by old carjDcts. 

79. COOKING POTATOES. 

To cook potatoes in the best manner, is a great perfection 
in cooking. The following way is a good one. Take po- 
tatoes as equal in size as possible ; wash, but do not pare or 
cut them ; put them into a pot, the largest potatoes at the 
bottom ; cover them with cold water, about an inch over ; 
too much water injures them very much ; throw in a spoon- 
ful of salt, and set it where it will simmer slowly for thirty 
minutes ; then try the potatoes with a fork ; if it pass easily 
through, they are done ; if not, let them simmer till they 
are ; then pour off the water, place the pot where the pota- 
toes will keep not, but not burn, and let them stand uncov- 
ered till the moisture shall have evaporated. They will 
then be mealy and in perfection. 

ANOTHER. 

Pare, wash, and throw them into a pan of cold water ; 
then put them on to boil in a clean pot with cold water suf- 
ficient to cover them, and sprinkle over a little salt ; then 



38 VEGETABLES. 

let tliem boil slowly, uncovered, till you can pass a fork 
through them ; pour off the water, and put them where 
they will keep hot till wanted. TVlien done in this way, 
they will be very mealy and dry. Potatoes, either boiled 
or roasted, should never be covered to keep them hot. 

ANOTHER. 

Let the potatoes be of a size ; do not put them in the pot 
until the water boils. When done, pour off the water, and 
remove the cover, until all the steam is gone. Then scatter 
in half a tea-cupful of suit, and cover the pot with a towel. 
By adopting this plan, watery potatoes Avill be mealy. The 
above receijDt is a very important one ; but few know how 
to boil potatoes, and but few of those who know, practice it. 

80. VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take a shin of beef, six large carrots, six large yellow 
onions, twelve turnips, one pound of rice or barley, parsley, 
leeks, summer savory ; jDut all into a soup kettle, and let it 
boil four hours ; add pepper and salt to taste ; serve alto- 
gether. It makes a good family soup. 

81. BKILLASOUP. 

Take a shin of beef, cut off all the meat in square pieces, 
then boil the bone three hours ; strain it and take off the 
fat, then put the broth to boil with the pieces of meat, a 
few carrots and turnips cut small, and a good sprig of thyme, 
some onions chopped, and a stick of celery cut in pieces ; 
stir them all till the meat is tender. If not cooking brown, 
you must color it. 

82 SOUP. 
Take care of the liquor in which poultry and meat has 
been boiled, as an addition of peas, herbs, &c., will convert 
it into a nourishing soup. 

83. TO DEESS CELERY. 
Beat up well one yolk of egg ; add two table spoonfuls 
of cream, one of white sugar, three of vinegar, a teaspoon- 
ful of olive oil, one of made mustard, and a pinch of salt. 
Cut the celery into bits, and add the rest. 



TEGETABLES. 39 

84. DRYING PUMPKINS. 

Take the ripe pumpkins, pare, cut into small pieces, stew 
soft, mash and strain through a cullender, as if for making 
pies. Spread this pulp on plates in layers not quite an inch 
thick ; dry it down in the stove oven, kept at so low a tem- 
perature as not to scorch it. In about a day it will become 
dry and crisp. The sheets thus made can be stowed away 
in a dry j^lace, and they are always ready for use for pies 
or sauce. Soak the pieces over night in a little milk, and 
they will return to a nice jDulp, as delicious as the fresh 
pumpkin, — we think much more so. The quick drying, af- 
ter cooking, prevents any portion from slightly souring, as 
is always the case when the uncooked pieces are dried. 

Squashes may be prepared in the same way. 

85. GBEEN PEAS. 

Green peas should be young and fresh shelled ; wash them 
clean ; put them into a bag, and that into a plenty of boiling 
water, with a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded loaf 
sugar ; boil them until tender. Green peas are a most deli- 
coius vegetable when cooked enough ; half done, they are 
hard and very unwholesome. It takes from half an hour 
to an hour to boil them. Never let them stand in the water 
after they are done. Season them with a little butter and 
saU. 

86. ONIONS. 

It is a good plan to boil onions in milk and water ; it 
diminishes the strong taste of that vegetable. It is an ex- 
■cellent way of serving up onions to chop them after they 
are boiled, and put them into a stew-pan with little milk, 
butter, salt and pepper, and let theni stew about fifteen min- 
utes. This gives them a fine flavor. 

87. TO COOK TOMATOES. 

Peel and put them into a stew-pan, with a table-spoonful 
of water, if not very juicy ; if so, no water will be required. 
Put in a little salt, and stew them for half an hour ; then 
turn them into a deep dish with buttered toast. Another 
way of cooking them, which is considered very nice by epi- 



40 VEGETABLES. 

cures, is to put them into a deep dish, with fine bread 
crumbs, crackers pounded fine, a layer of each alternately ; 
put small bits of butter, a little salt and pepper on each lay- 
er ; some cooks add a little nutmeg and sugar. Have a 
layer of bread crumbs on the top. Bake it three-quarters 
of an hour. 

88. GEEEN BEANS. 
String beans take nearly an hour and a half to boil. 
Shell beans from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Put 
them on in boiling water. 

89. SWEET CORN. 

It is much sweeter when boiled in the cob. If made into 
sucatash, cut it from the cobs, and boil it with Lima or 
Sibby beans, and a few slices of salt pork. It requires 
boiling from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to its age. 

90. BAKED BEANS AND PEAS. 
Soak them several hours, then put them over the fire in 
fresh water, let them cook slowly, if you wish to bake them 
so they will not break to pieces. Change the water two or 
three times. Salt them and bake in a deep pan. The 
water should cover them at least an inch when placed in the 
oven. 

91. CORN OYSTEES. 

Grate young sweet corn into a dish, and to a pint add one 
egg well beaten, a small tea-cup of flour, half a gill of cream, 
and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix it well together. Fry it 
exactly like oysters, dropping it into the fat by spoonfuls, 
about the size of an oyster. 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 



92. WHITE BREAD. 
]\Iix in six pounds of sifted iloiu', one ounce of salt, half 
a pint of fresh, sweet yeast, and a sufficient quantity of 
warm milk to make the whole into a stiff dough ; work and 
knead it well oh a board upon which a little flour has been 
sprinkled, for ten or fifteen minutes, then put it in a deep 
pan, cover it with a warm towel, set it before the fire, and 
let it rise an hour and a half, or two hours, then knead it 
well and bake. 

93. INDIAN LOAF BREAD. 

Stir Indian meal in skim milk to the consistency of pan- 
cake butter, about -two quarts. Add two table-spoonfuls of 
molasses, one of saleratus, two of shortening, and two tea- 
cupfuls of wheat flour. Stir in the evening, bake in the 
morning, and eat while hot. 

94. RYE AND INDIAN BREAD. 
Take four quarts of sifted Indian meal ; put into a glazed 
earthen pan, sprinkle over it a table-spoonful of fine salt, 
pour over it about two quarts of boiling water, stir and work 
it till every part of the meal is thoroughly wet ; when it is 
about milk-warm, work in two quarts of rye meal, half a 
pint of lively yeast, mixed with a pint of warm water ; add 
more warm water if needed. Work the mixture well with 
your hands ; it should be stiff, but not as firm as flour 
dough. Have ready a large, deep, well buttered pan ; put 



42 BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

in the dough. Set this to rise in a warm place in the win* 
ter ; in the summer it should not be put by the fire. When 
it begins to crack on the top, which w^ill usually be in about 
an hour or an hour and a half, put it into a well heated 
oven, and bake it three or four hours. It is better to let it 
stand in the oven all night, unless the weather is warm. In- 
dian meal requires to be well cooked. The loaf will weigh 
between seven and eight pounds. 

95. GOOD BEOV/N BREAD. 

Take one quart of Indian meal, and three pints of rye 
meal ; put into a pan, turn about half a cupfull of molasses, 
and tw^o tea-sjDOonfuls of ginger into it. Take some salera- 
tus, dissolve in warm water, enough to mix the meal rather 
soft ; let it remain in the pan to rise over night. When 
light enough, put it in pans and bake it. Bread made so, 
will not sour so quick as when yeast is put into it. 

96. BROWN OR DYSPEPSIA BREAD. 

This bread is nov/ best known as the " Graham Bread," 
not that Dr. Graham invented or discovered the manner of 
its preparation, but that he has been unwearied and success- 
ful in recommending it to the public. It is an excellent 
article of diet for the dyspeptic and the costive ; and for 
most jDcrsons of sedentary habits it would be beneficial. It 
agrees well wdth children ; and, in short, I think it should 
be used in every family, though not to the exclusion of fine 
bread. The most difficult point in manufacturing this bread 
is to obtain good pure meal. It is said that much of the 
bread commonly sold as dysiDCpsia, is made of the bran or 
middlings, from wdiich the fine flour has been sej)arated ; and 
that saw-dust is sametimes mixed with the meal. To be 
certain that it is good, send good clean wheat to the mill, 
have it ground rather coarsely, and keep the meal in a dry, 
cool place. Before using it, sift it through a common hair- 
sieve ; this will separate the very coarse and hard particles. 

Take six quarts of the wheat meal, one tea-cupfull of 
good yeast, and half a tea-cup of molasses ; mix these with 
a pint of milk- warm water, and a tea-spoonful of pearlash 
or saleratus. Make a hole in the flour, and stir this mixture 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 43 

in the middle of the meal till it is like batter. Then pro- 
ceed as with fine flour bread. Make the dough, when suffi- 
ciently light, into four loaves, which will weigh two pounds 
per loaf when baked. It requires a hotter oven than fine 
flour bread, and must bake about an. hour and a half. 

97. RYE AND INDIAN BEEAD. 

There are many different proportions of mixing it : some 
put one-third of Indian meal and two of rye ; others like 
one-third rye, and two of Indian ; others prefer it half and 
half. If you use the largest proportion of rye meal, make 
your dough stiff so that it will mould into loaves ; when it 
is two-thirds Indian, it should be softer, and baked in deep 
earthen or tin pans, after the following manner : 

Take four quarts of sifted Indian meal, put it into a glazed 
earthen pan. Sprinkle over it a table-spoonful of fine salt, 
pour over it about two quarts of boiling water. Stir and 
work it till every part of the meal is thoroughly wet. In- 
dian absorbs a greater quantity of water. When it is about 
milk-v/arm, work in two quarts of rye meal, half a pint of 
lively yeast, mixed with a pint of warm water ; add more 
water if needed. Work the mixture well with your hands ; 
it should be stiff, but not so firm as flour dough. Have 
ready a large, deep, well buttered pan ; put in the dough, 
and smooth the top by putting your hand in warm water 
and then patting down the loaf. Set this to rise in a warm 
place in the winter ; in the summer it should not be put by 
the fire. When it begins to crack on the top, which will 
usually be in about an hour, put it into a well-heated oven, 
and bake it three or four hours. It is better to let it 
stand in the oven all night, unless the weather is warm. 
Indian meal requires to be well cooked ; the loaf will weigh 
between seven and eight pounds. Pan bread keeps best in 
large loaves. 

Slany use milk in mixing bread. In the country, where 
the milk is plentiful, it is a good practice, as bread is cer-> 
tainly sweeter wet with sweet milk than with water ; but 
it will not keep so long in warm weather. Baking can very 
well be done in a stove ; during the winter, tliis is an eco- 
nomical way of cooking; but the stove must be carefully 
watched, or their is danger of scorching the bread. 



44 BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

98. BBOWN BREAD. 

Six quarts of Indian meal, one of rye, siil into the Indi- 
an ; two table-spoonfuls of molasses, mix with warm water, 
one table-spoonful of saleratus, and a little salt. 

A very nice loaf of brown bread may also be made in 
the following manner, and it will seldom trouble the most 
delicate stomach : — One and a half pints of Indian meal, 
one and a half pints of Graham or coarse wheat meal, one 
and a half pints of sour milk, two small teaspoons of soda, 
three spoons molasses, and one teaspoon of salt. Dissolve 
the soda in about half a pint of hot water, and mix all to- 
gether. Bake two or three hours in a slow oven. This 
loaf is very nice to be steamed in a deep pot, with a tight 
cover, three or four hours. Put your bread in a tin pail- 
with a close cover, and don't let the water get into the pail. 

99. DYSPEPSIA BREAD. 

Take three quarts of unbolted wheat meal, one quart 
soft warm water, one gill of fresh yeast, one giU of molasses, 
and one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

100. PUMPKIN BREAD. 

Take a pumpkin, pare it, cut it up, then boil in water till 
it becomes quite thick ; add flour so as to make it dough. 

101. SAGO BREAD. 

One pound of sago, well soaked in water or milk several 
hours, mix it with as much flour, add saleratus, good yeast, 
and a little Indian meal if liked. Let it rise, and then bake. 

102. RYE AND INDIAN BREAD. 

Mix two quarts of each with three pints of boiling milk, 
table-spoon salt, and stir well. Let it stand till lukewarm, 
then stir in half a pint of good yeast. Knead to a stiff 
dough, and put to rise near the fire. When the top is 
cracked over, make into two loaves, and bake moderate two 
and a half hours. 

103. CHEAP BREAD. 
■ Indian meal is the cheapest, and a bushel furnishes more 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 45 

nutriment than the same quantity of wheat. It is also a 
generally healthy diet, and those who wish to practice close 
economy, should use much of. this meal in their families. 

104. CORN MEAL BREAD AND CAKE. 

It is astonishing how many ways, and at what a cheap 
rate corn meal can be cooked, to make nice, nutritious, and 
healthful bread and cake for the human family. At an ex- 
hibition of corn meal and cake, held by Mr. Orange Judd, 
the editor and proprietor of the American Agriculturist, 
three premiums of ten, five, and two dollars each were 
awarded for corn bread, and four and two dollars each for 
corn cake. There were over two hundred samples for the 
committee to decide upon. We give the recipes of the suc- 
cessful ones, in the order in which they received their pre- 
miums, for the benefit of our readers : — 

Take two quarts of corn meal, with about a pint of (thin) 
bread sponge, and water enough to wet it. Mix in one half 
pint of wheat flour, and a table spoonful of salt. Let it 
rise and knead well the second time. Bake one and a half 
hours. 

The following took the second prize : — Mix two quarts 
of new corn meal with three pints of warm water. Add 
one table-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 
one large table-spoonful of hop yeast. Let it stand in a 
warm place five hours to rise. Then add three-fourths of a 
pint of wheat flour, and one-half a pint of warm water. 
Let it rise again one and a half hours ; then pour it into a 
pan well greased with sweet lard, and let it rise a few min- 
utes. Then bake in a moderately hot oven one and a half 
hours. It is best when hot. 

The following was awarded to the third premium : — Take 
two quarts of white corn meal, one table-spoonful of lard, 
and one pint of hot water. Mix the lard in water, stir it 
well that it may get heated thoroughly, and add one-half 
pint of cold water. When the mixture is cool enough, add 
two well-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonsful of home made 
yeast. Bake one hour in a moderate heated oven. If for 
breakfast, make over night. 

The following received the first premium for com meal 



46 BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

cake : — Take three tea-cupfuls of corn meal, one tea-cup- 
ful of wheat flour, two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, two 
tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one tea-spoonful of 
salt. Mix well together while dry. Add one tea-spoonful 
of soda, (or saleratus,) dissolved in warm water. Mix the 
whole to a thin batter, and bake in a quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. The same batter will bake quicker 
in patty cans, or on a griddle, like buckwheat cakes. 

To the following was awarded the second premium : — 
Take eight eggs, and their weight in powdered sugar ; the 
weight of six eggs of Indian meal, one-half pound of but- 
ter, and one nutmeg. Beat the whites and the yolks of 
the eggs separately ; adding the whites last ; bake one hour. 

We also copy from the same paper other recipes for cook- 
ing corn meal, furnished by contrilDutors to that journal. 

Take two quarts of Indian meal, one pint of sifted wheat 
bran, one-half tea-cupful of molasses, one-half tea-spoonful 
each of salt and cooking soda, or saleratus. Mix with sweet 
milk enough to make a batter as stiff as can be readily 
stirred with an ii'on spoon. Bake six hours. 

Take four to six quarts of Indian meal, and scald two- 
thirds of it, stirring thoroughly with an iron spoon ; cool 
with cold water until it will not cook the yeast, and add one 
pint of good salt yeast. Stir in the remainder of the meal, 
put it in a pan to rise, the same as light wheat bread, and 
afterwards bake it well, and keep it in a cool, dry place. 
Good when one to four days old. 

105. BICE BEEAD. 

One quart of rice meal, one pint of milk, one table-spoon- 
ful of butter, two eggs, one table-spoonful of tartaric acid, 
dissolved in a wine-glass of water, one tea-spoonful of soda 
dissolved in a wine-glass of water ; put the acid in first. 
Bake immediately. 

RICE BREAD. 

Take one pound and a half of rice, and boil it gently over 
a slow fire, in three quarts of water, about five hours, stir- 
ring it, and afterwards beating it up in a smooth paste. 
Mix this, while warm, in two gallons, or four pounds of 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 47 

flour, adding at the same time the usual quantity of yeast. 
Allow the dough to work a certain time near the fire, after 
which divide it into loaves, and it will be found, when baked, 
to produce twenty-eight or thirty pounds of good white 
bread. 

106. SCOTCH BREAD. 

One pound and a quarter of flour, three-quarters of sugar, 
and three-quarters of butter; essence of lemon to taste. 
Bake twenty minutes in rather a slow oven. 

107. RYE-MEAL BREAD. 

Two quarts of rye -meal, one of flour, three-quarters cup 
of molasses, three-quarters cup of yeast. Add enough warm 
water to make a quart ; a little salt. 

108. PREMIUM WHEAT AND INDIAN BREAD. 

One quart of new milk, one tea-cup of home made hop 
yeast, one tea-spoon of salt, and one-half pound of Indian 
meal ; boil the milk, scald the meal ; when cool enough, 
add flour and yeast enough for a sponge. When risen light, 
add flour sufficient enough for smooth loaf ; let it rise again 
before putting in pans. 

109. RICE BREAD AND MUFFINS. 
One cup of rice, before boiled, one quart of milk, half 
cup of sugar, small piece of butter, stir in flour enough to 
make a thick batter, a cup of yeast ; boil the rice very soft. 
It is very good, made of a pint of milk, and no sugar. 

110. MILK BISCUIT. 

Take two quarts of flour, one pint of sour milk, one-half 
cup full of lard or butter, two tea-spoonsful of saleratus' 
one of salt ; knead the whole together and bake quick. 

111. SODA BISCUIT. 

Take two quarts of flour, four tea-spoonfuls of cream 
tartar, one of salt, two of saleratus or soda, and a small 
piece of butter for shortening ; mix with water. 



48 BREAD AND BlSCmX. 



112. BISCUIT OR EOLLS. 

Put two tea-spoonfuls of cream tartar finely pulverized, 
into one quart of dry flour, then dissolve three-fourths of a 
tea-spoonful of sup. carb. of soda in warm new milk, suffi- 
cient when mingled with the flour, to make the paste of the 
ordinary consistence of soft biscuit ; then mix and bake in 
forms of rolls or biscuit, for about twenty minutes. 

113. ARROWEOOT DROPS, OR BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter, beaten up to a cream, seven eggs 
well whisked, adding seven ounces of flour, six ounces of 
arrowroot, and half a pound of loaf sugar ; mix well together, 
and drop on a clean tin, size of a shilling ; bake in a slow 
oven. 

114. BLOCK BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter beaten up to a cream, half a 
pound of ground rice, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
half a pound of loaf sugar, four eggs, and a little saleratus. 

115. CINNAMON BISCUIT. 

Half a pound of dry flour, one pound of lump sugar, 
finely sifted, one pound of butter, sixpennyworth of pow- 
dered cinnamon. The whole to be mixed with a glass of 
brandy, then rolled very thin, and baked in a quick oven. 

116. RECEIPTS FOR MAKING YEAST. 

Boil, say on Monday, two ounces of the best hops in four 
quarts of water, for half an hour ; strain it, and let the li- 
quid cool down to new milk warm, then put in a handful of 
salt and a half pound of sugar ; beat up one pound of the 
best of flour with some of the liquor, and then mix well to- 
gether. On "Wednesday, add three j^ounds of potatoes, 
boiled and then mashed. Let them stand together till 
Thursday ; then strain, put it into bottles, and it is ready 
for use. 

It must be stirred frequently while it is making, and kept 
near the fire. Before using, shake the bottle up well. It 
will k^en in a cool place two months, and is best the latter 



YEAST. 49 

part of the time. It ferments spontaneously, not requiring 
the aid of other yeast, and if care be taken to let it ferment 
well in the earthen bowl in which it is made, you may 
cork it up tight when bottled. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Take a handful of loose hops, (a pinch only of pressed 
ones,) and tie in a bit of muslin ; boil twenty minutes, in 
two quarts of water ; take them out and throw in four sliced 
potatoes, and boil till soft ; strain all through a sieve, and 
add half a tea-cup of salt, and the same of brown sugar; 
scald these, and let it stand till luke-warm ; add sufficient 
yeast to rise it. Wlien quite light, or when it ceases to bub- 
ble up, put it in a jug or covered jar, set it in a cool place, 
and it will keep good a fortnight in hot weather, or a month 
Ln cold. 

YEAST. 

In summer bread should be mixed with cold water. In 
damp weather the water should be tepid, and in cold weather 
quite warm. If the yeast is new, a small quantity will make 
the bread rise. In the country, yeast cakes are found very 
convenient, but they seldom make the bread as good as fresh 
lively yeast. The following is a good receipt : — Boil for 
half an hour two quarts of water thickened with about three 
spoonfuls of wheat flour, and sweetened with two tea-cups 
of molasses. When nearly cold, put it into a jug, adding 
four spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Shake it well, and place it 
uncovered near the fire for one day to ferment. There will 
be a thin liquor on top, pour this off, shake the remainder, 
and cork it up for use. Yeast will not generally keep good 
over ten days. 

• POTATO YEAST. 

Boil potatoes soft, boil and mash them, and add as much 
water as will make them the consistency of common yeast ; 
while the potatoes are warm, put in half a tea-cupful of 
molasses, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let it stand 
near the fire until done fermenting, when it will be fit for 
use. 

5 



50 YEAST. 



HOP YEAST. 



In two quarts of water, boil a handful of hops ; strain 
and pour the liquor hot upon half a tea-cujD of wheat-flour. 
When about milk warm, add a tea-cupful of yeast. Let it 
ferment, when it will be ready for use, and it may be bottled. 

TO MAKE GOOD YEAST. 

Take as many hops as you can hold in your hands twice ; 
put them into three pints of cold water ; put them over the 
fire, and let them boil twenty minutes; then strain the 
water in an earthen " or stpne jar, and stir in, while the 
water is scalding hot, flour enough to make a stiff batter ; 
let it stand till about milk-warm ; then add a tea-cupful of 
old yeast to make it rise, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in the old yeast ; stir it well, and put the jar in a 
warm place to rise. Some add Indian meal enough (after 
it has risen well) to make into cakes and dry it on a board 
in the sun. This is very convenient, especially in hot 
weather ; a small cake soaked in warm water, is enough to 
make a large pan of dough rise. 

YEAST. 

Boil one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of brown 
sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for an hour. 
When milk-warm, bottle and cork it close, and it will be 
ready for use in twenty-four hours. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



Preserves of all kinds should be kept entirely secluded 
from the air, and in a dry place. In ranging them on the 
shelves of a store-closet, they should not be suffered to come 
in contact with the wall. Moisture, in winter and spring, 
exudes from some of the dryest walls, and preserves invari- 
ably imdibe it, both in dampness and taste. It is necessary, 
occasionally to look at them, and if they have been attacked 
by mould, boil them up gently again. To prevent all risks, 
it is always well to lay a brandy paper over the fruit before 
tying down. This may be renewed in the spring. 

Fruit jellies are made in the ratio of a quart of fruit to 
two pounds of sugar. They must not be boiled quick, nor 
very long. Practice, and a general discretion, will be found 
the best guides to regulate the exact time, which necessarily 
must be affected, more or less, by local causes. 

117. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES. 
To one pound of berries, add one pound of sugar, a pint 
and a half of molasses, and simmer them together for an 
hour or more, until they become soft. 

118. RASPBERRY JAM. 
With equal proportions of pounded loaf (or lump) sugar, 
and raspberries ; put the fruit in a preserving pan, and with 
a silver spoon, or flat wooden stick, bruise and mash it well. 
Let it boil up ; then add the sugar, stirring it well with the 
fruit ; when it boils, skim it, and then boil it fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes. 



52 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

To one pound of fruit put one pound of sugar ; bruise 
them together in your preserving pan with a spoon, and let 
them simmer gently for an hour. When cold, put them into 
glass jars, lay over them a bit of paper saturated with 
brandy. Tie them up so as to exclude the air. 

119. PEACH JAM. 

Let your jDeaches be quite ripe ; pare and cut them into 
small pieces. To every pound of fruit, add one pound of 
sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving kettle, 
mash all together, place it over the fire, and when it begins 
to cook, stir it until it becomes quite thick. Then take it 
from the fire, put in glasses, and when cold, tie closely. 

129. TO PEESERVE DAMSONS. 
To every pound of damsons, allow three-quarters of a 
pound of powdered sugar ; put into jars, or well-glazed 
earthen pots, alternately a layer of damsons and one of 
sugar ; tie strong paper or cloth over the pots, and set them 
in the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them stand till 
the oven is cold. The next day, strain off the syrup, and 
boil it till thick; when it is cold, put the damsons into 
small jars or glasses, pour over the syrup, which should 
cover them, and tie a wet bladder or strong cloth over 
them. 

THE TOMATO AS FOOD. 

Dr. Bennett, a professor of some celebrity, considers the 
tomato an invaluable article of diet, and inscribes to it very 
important properties : — 

1. That the tomato is one of the most powerful asperi- 
ents of the liver and other organs ; where calomel is indicat- 
ed, it is probably one of the most effective and least harmful 
remedial agents known to the profession. 

2. That a chemical extract will be obtained from it that 
will supercede the use of calomel in the cure of disease. 

3. That he has successfully treated diarrhoea with this 
article alone. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 531 

4. That when used as an article of diet, it is almost a 
sovereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. i 

5. That it should be constantly used for daily food ; either 
cooked, raw, or in any form of catsup, is the most healthy 
article now in use. 

121. TOMATO CATSirP. 

One-half bushel of tomatoes, break them in pieces ; put a 
layer of tomatoes, then a layer of salt ; let them stand over 
night ; one-quarter pound of cassia, one-half a pound of cin- 
namon, two ounces cloves, one gill of white mustard seed, 
one tea-spoonful (level) of cayenne pepper, two roots horse- 
radish, six good sized onions ; mix, and boil until quite dry, 
then sift it, and add one pint of cider vinegar. 

133. TOMATO SAUCE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, cut in thin slices, one pint 
of salt ; let them stand twenty-four hours ; drain them well, 
slice six small onions, one-quarter pound of white mustard 
seed, one ounce cloves, one ounce ground pepper, one ounce 
allspice ; put together in the kettle, and cover with vinegar ; 
stew until clear ; when cold, add one cup of sweet oil. 

123. TOMATO FIGS. 

Take six pounds of sugar, to one peck (or sixteen pounds) 
of fruit. Scald and remove the skin of the fruit in the usual 
way. Cook them over a fire, their own juice being sufficient 
without the addition of water, until the sugar penetrates, 
and they are clarified. They are then taken out, spread on 
dishes, flattened and dried in the sun. A small quantity of 
the syrup should be occasionally sprinkled over them whilst 
drying ; after which, pack them down in boxes, treating 
each layer with powdered sugar. The syrup is afterwards 
concentrated and bottled for use. They keep well from year 
to year, and retain surprisingly their favor, which is nearly 
that of the best quality of fresh figs. The pear-shaped, or 
single tomatoes answers the purpose best. Ordinary browa 
sugar may be used, a large portion of which is retained in 
the syrup. 



54 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

124. TO BOIL PEARS. 

Pare them only, and put them in a preservmg kettle ; 
throw sugar over them, and cover them with boiling water, 
then boil until tender. 

125. TO STEW PEARS. 

Pare and quarter them, and fill an earthen jar ; pour over 
a little water, sugar as you choose, and bake a long time. 

"' 126. PRESERVED PEARS. 

Pare and quarter ; to every pound of fruit add one and 
a half lemons ; these to boil in just water enough to cover 
them till they are soft; put a layer of pears, sugar and 
lemon, let stand two or three days, pour off the liquor, let it 
come to a boil ; pour it over the fruit in a jar. This is all 
the cooking that is required. 

127. TO PRESERVE GRAPES. 

The French preserve grapes the year round, by coating 
the clusters with lime. The bunches are picked just before 
they are thoroughly ripe, and dipped m lime water the con- 
sistency of thin cream. They are then hung on wires, and 
when dry are dipped the second time, and then hung up to 
remain. The lime coating keeps out air, and checks any 
tendency to decay. When wanted for the table, dip the 
clusters in warm water to remove the lime. 

128. STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Pick twelve pounds of very red ripe strawberries, which 
put into a preserving pan with ten pounds of sugar ; place 
over a sharp fire, keep constantly stirring, boiling it until 
the surface is covered with clearish bubbles ; then try a lit- 
tle upon a cover, and if it sets, fill your jars, cover them 
with paper, and tie down until wanted. 

129. TO PRESERVE QITINCES. 

Quinces, if very ripe, are best preserved in the following 
manner. Pare and cut them in slices an inch thick ; take 
out the cores carefully, so as to have the slices in the form 
of a ring. Allow a pound of nice white sugai' for each 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. ^^ 



pound of the fruit ; dissolve it in cold water, having a quart 
of the latter to a pound of sugar, then put m the sliced 
quinces, and let them soak in it ten or twelve hours. Put 
them in a preserving kettle, and put it on a moderate fire 
cover them over, aud let the qumces boil gently ; there 
should be more than enough syrup to cover the qmnces 
When a broom sphnter will go through them easily, take 
them from the fire and turn them out. In the course of a 
week, turn the syrup from them, and boil it down, so that 
there will be just enough to cover the fruit. 

130. TO PRESERVE, PEACHES, PLUMS, &.C. 

September is the best month for peaches, as they are 
then harder and larger. Weigh the peaches, turn them mto 
a preserving pan full of cold water, with a shce or two ot 
lemon ; set them on a slow fire, having ready a sieve and 
a napkin, and be careful and not do them too much. 

Some of the peaches will be ready sooner than others; 
when they begin to be soft they are done enough; take 
them out as they become soft, and dram them on a sieve, 
and let them stand until cold ; then make a syrup, to every 
pound of peaches allowing a pound of sugar ; use some of 
The water m which the peaches were boiled, for the syrup. 
Crack the pits of half a dozen peaches, throw them into hot 
water, and remove their skins, then boil them with the 
syrup you are making. Put the peaches mto jars and 
glasses, and pour the syrup over them. ^ u^«^^^ 

Cut several round pieces of paper, dip them mto brandy, 
lav them over the preserves and tie up the jars. 

This way of preserving peaches, is much preferable to 
cutting them up and preserving them. The frmt should not 
be permitted to boil until it becomes shrivelled. ^ 

Apricots, Nectarines and Plums, may be preserved m the 
same manner. 

131. RED COLORING FOR JELLY, &c. 
Calves-foot jelly may be colored a beautiful crimson-red, 
by tying up some chips of alkanet-root in a thin muslm bag, 
and boiling it with the other ingredients. Alka^et is to be 
bought at any of the druggists, the cost is very trifling, and 
it has no peculiar taste, and no unwholesome properties. 



56 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Before using it, pick it clean, and wash the chips from 
dust or powder. The more alkanet used, the deeper will 
be the color. Let it remain in the strainer while the jelly 
is dripping. 

132. SCOTCH MAEMALADE. 

Take a bowl or dish of fresh honey, and before you send 
it to table, mix with it a sufficiency of orange juice, (passed 
through a strainer,) to give to it a fine flavor of oranges. 
IMix the honey and orange juice together. It will be found 
delicious. 

133. HONEY BUTTER. 

Good butter eight pounds, and one pound clarified honey. 
Beat well together. A delicacy for children or sick persons. 
It generally proves mildly laxative. 

134. APPLE BUTTEE. 
Boil down one barrel of new cider to half a barrel. Have 
ready a bushel and a half of sweet apples, pared, quartered, 
and the cores removed ; put these to the cider, and let the 
boihng be continued, stirring the whole constantly, that it 
may not adhere to the sides of the vessel and burn. When 
the apples have amalgamated with the cider, and the mass 
becomes as thick as hasty-pudding, put in powdered all- 
spice. It is now done. It will keep sweet for many years, 
and is a capital article for the table. 

135. CURRANT JELLY. 
Pick fine red, but long ripe currants from the stems, 
bruise them, and strain the juice from a quart at a time, 
through a thin muslin ; wring it gently to get all the liquid ; 
put a pound of white sugar to each pound of juice ; stir it 
until it is all dissolved, set it over a gentle fire, let it become 
hot and boil for fifteen minutes, then try it by putting a tea- 
spoonful into a saucer ; when cold, if it is not firm enough, 
boil it for a few minutes longer. Or, pick the fruit from the 
stems, weigh it, and put it into a stone pot ; set it in a ket- 
tle of hot water, reaching nearly to the top ; let it boil till 
the fruit is hot through, then crush them, and strain the 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 57 

juice from them ; put a pound of white sugar to each pint 
of it, put it over the fire and boil for fifteen minutes ; try- 
some in a saucer ; when the jelly is thick enough, strain it 
into small white jars, or glass tumblers ; when cold, cover 
with tissue paper as directed. Glass should be tempered 
by keeping it in warm water for a short time before pour- 
ing any hot liquid in it, otherwise it will crack. 

ANOTHER. 

Put your currants in a deep pan, mash them thoroughly, 
and strain the juice through a fine sieve. To every pint of 
juice allow one pound of the best loaf sugar. Put the 
juice and sugar in a preserving kettle. Have some isin- 
glass dissolved in warm water, add it to the sugar and juice 
while cold. Place it over the fire, and let it boil till it jel- 
lies. Skim it while it is boiling, and put in glasses while 
warm. When cold, cover with brandy paper. 

Currant jelly is a necessary appendage to all wild meats, 
and likewise to roast mutton. 

136. RHUBARB JAM. 
To seven pounds of rhubarb, add four sweet oranges and 
five pounds of sugar. Peel and cut up the rhubarb. Put 
in the thin peel of the oranges and the pulp, after taking 
out the seeds and all the whites. Boil all together for one 
hour and a half. 

137. APPLE SAUCE. 
Pare, core, and slice some apples, and put them in a stone 
jar, into a saucepon of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a 
hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to keep 
them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to 
a mash, and put to them a piece of butter the size of a nut- 
meg, and a little brown sugar if required ; but it destroys 
the slight acid flavor of the apples, and its corrective to 
goose and pork. 

138. APPLE ISLAND. 
Stew apples enough to make a quart, strain it through a 



58 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

sieve, sweeten with fine white sugar, and flavor it with lem- 
on or rose. Beat the whites of six eggs to a hard froth, 
and stir into the apple slowly, but do not do this until just 
before it is to be served. The apple should be stewed with 
as httle water as possible. Put it into a glass dish. Ser^^e 
a nice, boiled custard, made of the yollvs of the eggs, to eat 
with it. 

139. ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One pound of oranges, half a pound of lemons, three 
quarts of water. Boil slowly for two hours ; cut all, taking 
out the seeds. To each pound of fruit take two pounds of 
loaf sugar, and one pint of the water in which the fruit was 
boiled. While cutting the fruit into thin slices, pour the 
water upon the sugar, and then boil all together for half an 
hour. 

140. APPLE JELLY. 

Take as many apples as you would hke amount of jelly, 
say a brass kettle full ; cut them without paring or coreing, 
and boil till soft ; then put them into a bag and drain the 
liquor off, which boil down half; then add the weight of it 
in sugar ; boil together fifteen minutes, or till the jelly comes ; 
pom* in moulds 

141. TO BAKE APPLES. 

Take sour apples, those of a keen acid, and to every 
square tin filled with them, pour over a tea-cupful of sugar. 
Bake them slowly until done. Eat them with cream, and 
the juice that cooks from them. No one knows much about 
baked apples, who has not eaten them in tliis way. No 
quince, pear, peach or plum preserves, equal this simple 
dessert. 

ANOTHER. 

Select the largest apples, scoop out the core without cut- 
ting quite through ; fill the hollow with butter and fine soft 
sugar. Let them roast in a slow oven, and serve up with 
the syrup. 



DESSERT AND SIDE DISHES, 59 

142. POACHED EGGS. 

Break the eggs into a pan ; beat them to a froth ; then 
put them into a buttered tin pan ; set the pan on to a few 
coals ; put in a small lump of butter and a little salt ; let 
them cook very slowly, stirring them constantly, till they 
become quite thick ; then turn them on to buttered toast. 

143. TO BOIL EGGS. 

To try the freshness of eggs, put them into a pan of cold 
water ; those that sink are the best. Always let the water 
boil before putting the eggs in. Three minutes will boil 
them soft ; four minutes the whites will be completely done, 
and in six minutes they will be sufficiently hard for garnish- 
ings salads and dishes requiring them. 

144. EGG OMELETS. 

Six eggs, half a cup of milk, a little salt ; fry in batter. 

145. FRUIT CREAMS. 

Half an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little water ; 
then put a pint of good cream, sweetened to taste ; boil it ; 
when nearly cold, lay some apricot or raspberry jam on the 
bottom of a glass dish, and pour over ; this is most excellent. 

146. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Take an oval or oblong sponge cake ; excavate the mid- 
dle, leaving the bottom and sides about one-inch thick ; line 
the cake with a thick layer of raspberry, or any kind of 
jelly. Then prepare a rich boiled custard, and pour it into 
the cavity ; f/hip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and 
heap upon the top. Set it upon ice till needed. 

147. BLANC MANGE. 

To one ounce of isinglass, put a pint of water ; boil it till 
the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cinnamon ; put it to 
three-quarters of a pint of cream, and a bit of lemon peel ; 
sweeten it ; stir it over the fire : let it boil, strain, and let it 
cool ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds. 



60 DESSERT AND SIDE DISHES. 

BLANC MANGE MADE WITH MOSS. 

Wash the moss m many waters, carefully draining it, till 
every particle of saline taste is removed. Take one quart 
of milk, add a handful of the moss, and set it over the fire. 
Let it come to a boil gently, and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Strain it into a dish, and flavor with lemon. It may be 
poured into moulds. 

ARROW ROOT BLANC MANGE. 

Boil one quart of milk, salt it, add four table spoonfuls 
of sugar, and stir into it three table-spoonfuls of arrow root, 
dissolved in a little water. Let it boil five minutes and 
flavor to your taste. 

148. BRANDY PEACHES. 

To one pound of peaches add one pound of sugar ; pick 
the peaches, turn hot water over them, adding a little 
saleratus ; make a syrup of one quart of water, eight pounds 
sugar ; boil the peaches ten or fifteen minutes ; when cold, 
add one pint of syrup one pint of brandy. 

149 CUP CUSTARDS. 
One quart of cream, or new milk, nutmeg, eight eggs, 
one ounce of sugar. Boil the eggs and sugar well together, 
grate in some nutmeg, add the cream by degrees, stirring it 
all the while ; set your custard cups in a dripping-pan, pour 
the custard into the cups, set the dripping pan into the oven, 
then pour water around. Bake in a quick oven. 

160. ORANGE CUSTARDS. 

One Seville orange, one-half ounce of loaf sugar, four 
eggs, rose water, one pint of cream. Squeeze the juice 
from a Seville orange, take half of the peel and boil very 
tender, beat in a (marble) mortar, until fine; put to it 
two spoons of rose water, the juice of the orange, the su- 
gar and the yellows of the eggs. Beat all together for ten 
minutes, then have ready the cream boiling hot, which put 
to them by degrees ; beat them until cold, then put them 
into custard cups, in a dish of hot water. Let them stand 



\ DESSERT AND SIDE DISHES. 61 

until they are set, then take them out and stick preserved 
orange peel on the top. This forms a fine flavored dish, and 
may be served up hot or cold. 

151. ICE CUKEANTS. 

Take large bunches of red currants, have them clean, 
whisk the white of an egg to a froth, and dip them in it, 
lay them on a sieve or plate, not to be touched, sift double 
refined sugar over them, very thick, and dry them in a cool 
oven. 

152. ICING FOR CAKE. 

Two pounds of double refined sugar, one spoon of fine 
starch, one pennyworth gum Arabic in powder, five eggs, 
one spoon rose-water, one juice of lemon. Make the sugar 
fine, and sift it through a hau' sieve, rub the starch fine, sift, 
and the gum Arabic sift also ; beat or stir all well together. 
Take the whites of the eggs, whisk them well, put one 
spoonful of rose water, one spoon of the juice of lemon, 
beat well together, then put to the sugar by degrees, until 
you wet it, then beat it until the cake is baked ; lay it on 
with a knife, and the ornaments, if you have any ; if it does 
not harden sufficiently from the warmth of the cake, return 
it to the oven. Be careful not to discolor. 

153. ICECREAM. 

Two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, two ounces of sugar, 
two lemons. Grate the peels into the milk, and boil ; sweet- 
en ; take the yellows of all the eggs, and half of the wliites ; 
beat them well, then add the boiling milk, keep them stir- 
ring, set the dish over the fire for five minutes, stirring it 
constantly ; then pour through a sieve into your freezing- 
pot. The proportions to surround the pot, is one quart of 
salt, to one pail full of ice. Place it in as cold a place as 
possible ; as fast as it freezes on the sides, remove it with a 
spoon. One hour is sufficient to freeze it. 

ICE CREAM. 

Any preserved fruit, five pounds ; cream, one gallon ; 
juice of six lemons, sugar to sweeten. Pass the whole 
through a sieve, then put it into the freezing-pot, and work 
it until frozen. 



62 DESSERT AND SIDE DISHES. 

154. ICE cri;am with fruit. 

One pound of preserved fruit, one quart of cream, two 
lemons, cochineal. Squeeze the juice of the lemons into 
some sugar to taste ; then pass all through a sieve, and if 
raspberry, or strawberry, or any other ripe fruit, add a little 
cochineal to heighten the color. Have the freezing-pot nice 
and clear, put the cream into it and cover it; then put the 
pot into the tub with the ice beat small, and some salt ; 
turn the freezing pot quick, and as the cream sticks to the 
sides, scrape it down with an ice-spoon, and so on until it is 
frozen. The more the cream is worked to the side with a 
Spoon, the smoother and better it will be flavored. After it 
is well frozen, take it out, and put it into ice shapes with 
salt and ice ; then carefully wash the shapes for fear of any 
salt adhering to them ; dip them into lukewarm water, and 
send to the table. Fresh fruit, strawberries or raspberries, 
are nice, but more sugar will be necessary. 

155. SNOW CREAM. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, and stir in two 

spoonsful of white sugar ; flavor with rose water or lemon ; 

add a pint of thick, sweet cream, and beat the whole together 

to a froth. This is to be served with a dessert of sweetmeats. 

156. CREAM CUSTARD. 
Mix a pint of cream with one of milk, five beaten eggs, 
a table-spoonful of flour and one of sugar. Add nutmeg to 
the taste, and bake the custards in cups or pie-plates, in a 
quick oven. 

1.57. CHERRY ICE CREAM. 
Pound half a pound of preserved cherries, unstoned ; put 
them into a basin with a pint of cr||,m, the juice of a lemon, 
and a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it 
in the usual way. 

158. CURRANT ICE CREAM, 
Put into a basin a large table-spoonful and a half of cur- 
rant jelly, with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in the juice of 
one lemon and a half, and add a pint of cream and a little 
cochineal ; pass it through a sieve ; freeze in the usual way. 



DESSERT AND SIDE DISHES. 63 



ICE CREAM. 



Two quarts of good rich milk, four fresh eggs, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of white sugar, six tea-spoons of Bermuda 
arrow-root. Rub the arrow-root smooth in a little cold milk, 
beat the eggs and sugar together, bring the milk to the boil- 
ing point, then stir in the arrow root, remove it then from 
the fire, and immediately add the eggs and sugar, stirring 
briskly to keep the eggs from cooking, then set aside to cool. 
If flavored with extracts, let it be done just before putting 
it in the freezer. 

159. PINE APPLE CREAM. 

Grate the pulp of the fruit, add sugar, mix with the 
cream and freeze. Peaches, pears, strawberries, and rasp- 
berries, may be prepared in the same way, and are very de- 
licious. 

160. LOBSTER SALAD. 

Select a large lobster ; pick out the meat and pull it into 
shreds with two forks. Boil two eggs six minutes, till hard, 
and let them cool. Mash them smooth with a knife and 
spoon, add a spoonful of vinegar, one of salt, one of mus- 
tard, and three table spoonsful of salad oil. Stir well, and 
incorporate the meat of the lobster, till the whole is a 
solid mass ; lastly, mince the lettuce fine, and stir it in just 
before serving ; garnish with sliced boiled Q^g, lobster claws 
and parsley. 

161. ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish ; but- 
ter some eggs thus : — take four eggs, beat them well, put 
them in a sauce-pan with two ounces of butter, and a Httle 
salt, until of a sufficient consistence, and lay them on the 
toast. Meanwhile, boil some asparagus tender, cut the ends 
small, and lay them on the eggs. 

162. ASPARAGUS, BOILED. 

Scrape and tie them in a small bundle ; cut them even, 
boil them quick in salt and water; lay them on a toast dipped 
in the water the asparagus was boiled in; pour over them 
melted butter. 



PASTKY-PIES 



163. PIE-CEUST. 
To make good pie-crust, use half a pound of shortening 
to a pound of flour. Crust looks nicest made with lard, but 
it tastes better to have butter used in making it. In winter 
beef shortening mixed with butter, makes a good plain pie- 
crust. Use a tea-spoonful of salt to each pound of flour ; 
when the shortening is thoroughly mixed with the flour, add 
just sufficient cold water to render it moist enough to roll 
out easily. Pastry should be baked in a quick oven. In 
cold weather, warm the shortening before using it for pie- 
crust, but it must not be melted, or the crust will not be 
flaky. 

164. PLAIN CUSTARD PIE. 
Boil a quart of milk with the rind of a lemon. When 
it has flavored the milk, strain it and set it where it will 
boil. Mix a table-spoonfLil of flour, smoothly, with a couple 
of table-spoonsfuls of milk, and stir it into the boiling-milk. 
Let it boil a minute, stirring it constantly ; take it from the 
fire, and when cool, put in three beaten eggs ; sweeten it to 
the taste, turn it into deep pie-plates, and bake the pies di- 
rectly in a quick oven. 

165. RHUBARB PIES. 
Take the tender stock of the rhubarb, strip off the skin, 
and cut the stalks into thin slices. Line deep plates witlj 



PIES. 65 

pie-crust, then put in the rhubarb, with a thick layer of su- 
gar to each layer of rhubarb ; a little grated lemon peel im- 
proves the pie. Cover the pies with a crust, press it clown 
tight round the edge of the plate, and prick the crust with a 
fork, so that it will not burst while baking, and let out the 
juices of the pie. Rhubarb pies should be baked about an 
hour in a slow oven. It will not do to bake them quick. 

166. CUSTAED PIES. 

Take six beaten eggs to a quart of milk, sweeten with 
sugar. Do not bake them too much. 

167. PUMPKIN PIES. 

Pare and stew the piunpkin, then strain it through a 
coarse sieve. Take two quarts of scalded milk, six eggs, 
stir the pumpkin mto it, sweeten with sugar or molasses. 
Salt it, and spice with ginger, cinnamon, or grated lemon 
peel. Bake with a bottom crust. Crackers poimded fine 
are a good substitute for eggs. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin dry, and make it like squash pie ; only 
season rather hi^-her. Part cream with the milk, mves it a 
richer flavor. Roll the paste rather thicker than for fruit 
pies, as there is but one crust. Bake about an hour in a 
brisk oven ; if large and deep, bake a little longer. 

168. PIGEON PIE. 

Border a large dish with fine puff paste, and cover the 
bottom with a veal cutlet, or tender stake, free from fat and 
bone, and seasoned with salt, cayenne and nutmeg ; prepare 
with great nicety as many fresh-killed pigeons as the dish 
will contain in one layer ; put into each a slice of butter, 
seasoned with cayenne ; lay them into the dish with the 
breasts downwards, and between and over them put the 
yolks of half a dozen of hard boiled eggs ; stick plenty of 
butter on them, season the whole well with salt and spice, 
pour in some cold water for the gravy, roll out the cover 
three-quarters of an inch thick, secure it vveil round the 
edge, ornament it highly, and bake it for an hour or more 
in a well heated oven. 



66 PIES. 

169. OYSTER PATTIES. 

Line some small patty-pans with a fine puff paste ; put a 
piece of bread into each, cover with paste and bake them. 
While they are baking, take some oysters and cut them into 
small pieces ; place them in a saucepan with a very small 
portion of grated nutmeg, a very little white pepper and 
salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut as small as possible, a little 
cream, and a httle of the oyster liquor ; simmer it a few 
minutes, then remove the bread from the patties, and put in 
the mixture. 

170. POTATO PIE. 

As many potatoes washed and sliced as will fill a jDie-dish, 
a little salt and pepper, a sprinklmg of finely chopped 
onions, a tea-cupful of cream, (or good milk,) a bit of butter 
the size of a walnut, cover over with a meat pie-crust, and 
bake till the potatoes are thoroughly done. If crust is not 
approved, it is good without. 

POTATO PIE. 

One pound of boiled potatoes, rolled fine, half a pound 
of butter, six eggs, eight spoon sfuls of milk, the grated 
peel and juice of a lemon, sugar and salt to your taste. To 
be baked in deep plates. 

171. MINCE PIE. 

Boil three pounds of lean beef till tender, and when cold 
chop it fine. Chop three pounds of clear beef suet, and 
mix the meat, sprinkling in a tea-spoonful of salt. 

Pare, core and chop fine, six pounds of good apples ; stone 
four pounds of raisins and chop them ; wash and dry two 
pounds of currants ; and mix them all well with the meat. 
Season with a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a powdered 
nutmeg, a little mace, and a few cloves, pounded, and one 
pound of brown sugar ; add a quart of cider, and half a 
pound of citron cut into small bits. This mixture, pat down 
in a stone jar, and closely covered, will keep several weeks. 
It makes a rich pie for Thanksgiving and Christmas. 



PIES. 67 

MINCE PIE. 

One cracker and a half, three spoonfuls of melted butter, 
a cup of vmegar, one cup of molasses, raisins and spices to 
your taste. Melt the butter and vinegar, then add the rest, 
and fill your paste. Cover as usual. This, if well made, 
can hardly be distinguished fi*om a mince pie of meat and 
apples. 

MOCK MINCE PIES. 

Three crackers, half a cup of vinegar, one cup of raisins, 
half a cup of hot water, half a cup of sugar, four spoons- 
ful of molasses, two eggs, a small piece of butter ; spice the 
same as for mince pies. 

172. LEMON PIE. 
For one pie, take a couple of good sized fresh lemons, 
squeeze out the juice, and mix it with a half pint of mo- 
lasses, or sufficient sugar to make the juice sweet. Chop 
the peel fine, line deep pie plates with your pastry, then 
sprinkle on a layer of your chopped lemon peel, turn in part 
of the mixed sugar or molasses and juice, then cover the 
whole with pie-crust rolled very thin, put in another layer 
of peel, sweetened juice and crust, and so till all the lemon 
is used. Cover the whole with a thick crust, and bake the 
pie about half an hour. 

LEMON PIE. 

Make a nice paste, and lay into two medium sized plates ; 
then prepare the following mixture : — To the juice of one 
lemon, made very sweet with white sugar, add three well- 
beaten eggs, and a piece of butter half the size of an eggy 
melted. Stir the ingredients together, then add a pint of 
rich milk or thin cream, stirring very fast. Fill the plates 
and bake immediately. 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice of three lemons, peel grated of two ; two eggs, two 
tea-cups of sugar, five table spoons of corn starch. Wet 



68 PIES. 

first with cold water, and then with boiling water, to thicken 
it. Don't have it too thick. Bake like custards. Makes 
two pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

Three eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, one cup 
of sugar, grate the rind of two lemons, extract the juice, 
keep one spoonful of sugar for the whites of the eggs, for 
a frosting to the pie ; after it is baked, put it back in the 
oven; slightly brown it. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate the rind of two lemons, then squeeze all the juice 
out, adding the grating to the juice, then add a cup and a 
half of sugar, and the same of water ; four powdered crack- 
ers, three eggs ; save out the white of one, beat the white 
of one to a froth, adding a little sugar, and laying it over the 
top, after baking, to brown it. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two lemons, grate the peel, and put in the juice ; nine 
spoonsful of sugar, four eggs, one table-spoon of melted but- 
ter, half tumbler of milk ; beat the yolks and v/hites sepa- 
rately, add four spoonfuls of sugar to the whites, and put it 
on top the pie after baked, and set it in the oven to brown 
the top. 

173. MOCK-APPLE PIE. 

Two soft crackers, powdered fme, one cup of cold water 
poured over them, one cup of white sugar, juice of fresh 
lemon, first grating half the peel, and mix all well together. 
Bake like apple j)ie. 

174. SQUASH PIE. 
Pare, take out the seeds, and stew the squash till very 
soft and dry ; rub it through a sieve or cuhnder, mix this 
with good milk till it is as tliick as batter, sweeten it with 
sugar, allow five eggs to a quart of milk, beat the eggs well, 
add them to the squash, and season with ginger, cinnamon, 



PIES. 69 

nutmeg, or whatever spices you like, line a pie plate with 
crust, fill and bake about an hour. 

175. RICE PIE. 
Take one pint of boiling water and a small cup of rice. 
Boil it until very soft, and then take it from the fire, and 
add a quart of milk, one nutmeg, and six eggs beaten to a 
froth ; add sugar to the taste, and strain it through a sieve. 
Bake with an under crust, and, if you like, a few raisins. 

176. TOMATO PIE. 

Pick green tomatoes, pour boiling water over them, and 
let them remain a few minutes ; then strip off the skin, cut 
the tomatoes in slices, and put them into deep pie-plates. 
Sprinkle a little ginger and some sugar over them in severa^ 
laj^ers. Lemon juice and the grated peel improves the pie. 
Cover the pies with a thick crust, and bake them slowly 
about an hour. 

TOMATO PIE 

Cover the bottom with alternate layers of sliced tomatoes, 
ripe and sound, and bread crumbled fine, with butter and 
spice to taste ; put into a bake-pan with loaf bread, sliced 
fine, and sprinkle fine sugar over each layer of tomatoes, as 
it is put in. Cover with sliced bread, and bake as you do 
other pies. 

177. PEACH PIE. 

Peaches for pie may be ripe but not soft ; pare them, cut 
them up, and finish as common for apple pies. Unripe 
peaches may be pared and stewed as is usual for apple tart, 
and baked in a pie or tart. 

178. CORN STARCH PIE. 

To one quart of milk put two table-spoonsful of com 
starch and two eggs. Sweeten, salt, and season to the taste. 
Line a pie-plate with a crust, and bake as custard. 

179. CHICKEN AND TURKEY PATTIES. 
Mince some cold chicken or turkey ; put to it some of the 



70 PIES. 

gravy, or if you have none, line your pie-dish with a paste ; 
put in your minced meat ; work some flour and butter to- 
gether, and lay bits all over the meats ; then nearly fill the 
dish with water ; season with pepper and salt, and, if liked, 
a little ground mace; cover with a nice paste, and cook till 
the crust is done. 

180. APPLE PIE. 

Line the plate with plain crust, filled with sliced apple ; 
then, if the apple is tart, strew it well with sugar ; sprinkle 
over with cinnamon, grate half a nutmeg, cover with a paste, 
and bake a long time gently, so that the a23ples may be done. 

The above receipt will answer for almost any ripe fruit 
pies, except in the matter of spices. Peaches, cherries, 
plums, and such fruit, require more. 

181. CHERRY PIE. 

Line a deep pie-dish with the crust, fill with layers of 
cherries and sugar, seasoned with lemon and nutmeg. Red 
currants are a fine addition. Cover with a crust, and bake 
a long time gently. 

182. WHORTLEBERRY PIE. 
Line a deep plate with crust ; fill with the berries ; stew 
in an abundance of sugar, or it will be quite insipid ; add 
nutmeg and bake gently. 

183. BERRY PIES. 

Put a pufi" paste on your plates, then berries and sugar, 
with a sprinkle of flour, salt, and a very little butter. Cover 
and bake. 

184. SMALL PUFFS. 

•''Make puff pastry according to directions given in this 
book. Divide it in two equal proportions, roll one of them 
quite thin, cut it into small circular cakes ; put two of them 
together, and sprinkle flour between ; roll out the remain- 
der half an inch thick, cut it into narrow strips, and lay 
them round the edge of the circular pieces, so as to form a 
rim. Bake them on buttered tins, in a quick oven, till of a 



CAKES. 71 

light brown. Fill them, when cool, with jelly, or any small 
preserved fruit you may happen to have. 

185, WASHINGTON PIE. 

Three eggs, two cups of flour, one of sugar, two-thirds of 
.a cup of flour. Bake in two separate tins, and put the pre- 
(serve between when cold. 

186. CREAM PIE. 

One cup of flour, one of sugar, one tea-spoon of cream 
tartar, three eggs beat well together ; quarter tea-spoon of 
saleratus in a table-spoonful of hot water ; bake it half an 
hour. Twice this will make three pies. 

Cream, — Half a cup of flour, one cup of sugar, two eggs, 
lemon or other flavoring ; add this to a pint of boiling milk, 
stir till it thickens. 

CREAM PIES. 

One cup of sugar, one Qgg, salt, four table-spoonsful of 
flour, one pint of milk. Boil the milk, beat the eggs, sugar 
and flour well together, with a little cold milk ; then add it 
to the boiilng milk. This will make two pies. Bake the 
upper and lower crusts together, when done take off the 
top crust and fill the pie with the cream. 



O ^KE. 

187. RYE CAKE. 
Half a cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, beaten to- 
gether ; three eggs, one pint of sour milk, soda enough to 
sweeten, one cup of flour, rye meal enough to make a little 
stiffer than cup cake j fill cups half full. 

RYE CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, two of rye, table-spoonful of shorten- 
ing, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, mix with cold water, as 
stiff as you can stir with a spoon. .a^^ 



72 CAKES. 



RYE CAKE. 

One cup of lye, one of flour, one of milk, table-spoonful 
of butter, same of sugar, one egg. Bake in a pan, or muf- 
fin rings. 

188. CORN CAKES. 

One quart of sour milk, three eggs, balf a cup of sugar, 
one tea-spoon of saleratus, tea-spoonful of soda, meal enough 
to make a stiff batter, so that it will pour into the pan. It 
makes two cakes. Corn meal is required. 

CORN CAKES. 

One quart sour milk, three eggs, half a cup of sugar, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, meal enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter, so that it will pour into pans. Make two cakes. 

189. CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Turn one-quart of boiling milk or water on to a pint of 
Indian meal; when luke warm, add three table-spoonsful 
of flour, three eggs well beaten, tea-spoonful of salt. Bake 
on a griddle. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Boil a quart of milk, and scald with it as much meal as 
will make a thick mush. (Yellow meal needs more boiling 
than white.) When it is partially cool, stir in a table-spopn- 
ful of dry yeast, or half a cup of wet yeast, three well- 
beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two table-spoonsful 
of wheat flour. Let it stand three or four hours, and bake 
on a hot soap stone griddle, rubbed with salt. (It will be 
necessary to rub the griddle with the salted rag between ev- 
ery griddle full of cakes to prevent burning.) Yellow meal 
is the best. 

« 
190. TEA CAKE. 

One cup of flour, one of sugar, three eggs, tea-spoonful 
of cream tartar, one of saleratus. Bake in a quick oven. 



CAKES. 73 



TEA CAKE. 



One quart of sour milk, half a tea-cup of molasses, a tea 
spoonful of saleratus ; break into the milk two eggs, a little 
ginger, a little salt, and nutmeg ; stir in flour till it becomes 
a thick batter, then turn it into a well greased pan, and bake 
twenty minutes. 



TEA CAKE. 



Three cups of flour, one of sugar, one large spoon of but- 
ter, one cup of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one 



nutmeg, or lemon. 



191. TUMBLED CAKE. 

Three tumblers of flour, one of sweet milk, quarter tum- 
bler of butter, tea-spoonful of cream tartar, one of salera- 
tus, two eggs. 



TUJIBLER CAKE. 



One tumbler of sugar, one-half tumbler of butter, one- 
half tumbler of milk, two eggs, one tea-spoonful saleratus, 
two of cream tartar, flour enough to make it a right thick- 
ness, bake about three-quarters of an hour. 



193. SPONGE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, same weight in sugar, three-quarters pound 
of flour ; beat the yolks and sugar together, whites by them- 
selves, until they will not slip from the spoon ; put in the 
oven as soon as beaten enough. 

Or, two cups of flour, two of sugar, six eggs, essence of 
lemon. 

Or, take twelve eggs, two cups of powdered loaf sugar, 
the grated rind of a lemon, and half its juice ; beat to a stiff 
froth ; then add two cups of sii'ted flour, and bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. 

Or, one coffee cup of sugar, four eggs, beat them to a 
cream ; dissolve a small piece of saleratus in a tea-spoonful 
of milk, add a little nutmeg or essence of lemon ; stir in 
carefully a coffee cup of flour. Bake in a quick oven. 



74 CAKES. 

Sponge Cake. — Take one dozen eggs, weigh seven 
eggs, and take an equal weight of sugar, then weigh five 
eggs and take an equal weight of flour, now break the eggs, 
keeping the whites separate, put your sugar into the yolk, 
grate in the peel of a lemon, then beat it an hour. Put the 
juice of the lemon into the whites, beat twenty minutes, put 
half of the whites into the yolks, sift in the flour, stir in the 
remainder of the whites and bake. 

Or four eggs, one coffee cup of sugar, one of flour, half 
a tea-spoon of cream tartar, a little saleratus, rose water 
and nutmeg. 

193. SEEDCAKE. 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, adding gradually a 
quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, beating both together ; 
have ready the yolks of eighteen eggs, and the whites of ten 
beat separately ; mix in the whites first, then the yolks, and 
beat the whole for ten minutes; add two grated nutmegs, 
one pound and a half of flour, and mix very gradually with 
the other ingredients ; when the oven is ready, beat in three 
ounces of carraway seeds. 

Or, four cups of flour, one and a half of cream or milk, 
half of butter, three eggs, half a cup of seeds, two cups of 
sugar, a tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

Or, two cups of sugar, one of butter, half of cream, one 
nutmeg, three eggs, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, flour 
enough to make them roll. Seeds. 

194. LEMON CAKE. 

Beat six eggs, the yolks and whites separately, till in a 
solid froth ; add to the yolks the grated rind of a fine lemon 
and six oiinc'es of sugar, dried and sifted ; beat this quarter 
of an hour ; shake in with the left hand six ounces of dried 
flour ; then add the whites of the eggs and the juice of the 
lemon ; when these are well beaten in, put it immediately 
into tins, and bake it about an hour in a moderately hot 
oven. 

Or, one tea-cup of butter, three of sugar, rub them to a 



CAKES. 75 

cream, add the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, dissolve a 
tea-spoonful of soda in a cup of sweet milk ; add the juice 
and peel of one lemon, and the whites of five eggs, four cups 
of flour. 

LEMON LOAF CAKE. 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
three and a half of flour, a tea-spoon of soda ; grate the 
rind of one lemon, strain the juice, sprinkle a little sugar 
over the loaves before baking. 

LEMON SHEET CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, yolks of five eggs, one 
cup of milk, one tea-spoon of soda, the grated peel and 
juice of one lemon ; lastly, add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff, and four cups of flour sifted in as lightly as pos- 
sible. Bake in thin sheets. 

195. QUEEN CAKE. 

Mix one pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, 
and washed currants ; wash one jDOund of butter in rose- 
water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by 
degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter little tins, tea-cups, 
or saucers, filling them only half full; sift a little fine^sugar 
just as you put them into the oven. 

196. SHORT CAKE. 

Half a pint of flour, lard or butter as large as an egg, 
tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved, wet it with cold water, 
stiff enough to roll well, bake in a quick oven. 

THIN SHORT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of dry saleratus, dissolved in two of water ; flour 
enough to roll out and bake thin. 

197. COLL WATER RTTSK. 
Three cups 'of flour, two of sugar, three-quarters cup of 



76 CAKES. 

butter, three eggs, tea-spoonful of saleratus, and one of 
cream tartar, dissolved in a cup of water. 

198. POUND CAKE. 
Mix a pound of sugar with three-quarters of a pound of 
butter. When well stirred, mix in the yolks of eight eggs, 
beaten to a froth, then the whites. Add a pound of sifted 
flour, and mace and nutmeg to the taste. If you wish to 
have your cake particularly nice, stir in, just before you put 
it into the pans, a quarter of a pound of citron, or almonds 
blanched, or powdered fine in rose water. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of 
butter, and eight eggs ; beat it well, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Or, two and a half pounds of flour, two and a half of 
sugar, two pounds of butter, nine eggs, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one nutmeg. 

199. PRAIRIE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, tliree eggs, one cup of 
milk, one tea-spoonful of cream tartar, half a spoonful of 
saleratus, spice to taste ; flour enough to stir up soft. 

200. LOUISA SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, the weight of four of them in sugar, the weight 
of three in flour ; beat the whites and yolks separately ten 
minutes, then put the sugar with the eggs, and beat ten 
minutes ; sift the flour,' put together as quickly as possible. 

201. LOAF CAKE. 
Four eggs, five cups of flour, one pound of raisins, two 
cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one and a half of butter, 
one cup of new milk, one tea-spoonful saleratus, spice as 
you like. 

LOAF CAKE. 

One cup and a half of butter, three cups of brown sugar, 



CAKES. 77 

sifted, one-half cuj^ of molasses, five eggs, two tea-spoons of 
mace, tea-spoon of clove, have spoon of allspice, one-fourth 
of a pound of citron, half a pound of currants, five cups of 
fiour, one glass of brandy, half tea-spoon of soda, dissolved 
and put in the molasses. 

202. TEMPERANCE CAKE. 

One and a half cups of milk, one and a half cups of sugar, 
three and a half flour, tea-spoonful of saleratus, spice as you 
like. 

203. INDIAN MEAL PUFFS. 

Into one quart of boilmg milk, stir eight table-spoonsful 
of meal, and four table-spoonsful of sugar. Boil five min- 
utes, stirring constantly. When cool, add six well-beaten 
eggs. Bake in buttered cups half an hour. Try them with 
a little butter and maple molasses, and see if they are not 
good. 

204. BREAD CAKE. 

To one pint of stale bread, crumbed fine, add five eggs, 
two tea-cups of flour, half a cup of butter, and one quart 
milk. Scald the bread with the milk. Make in a batter 
and bake as buckwheat cakes. 

* BREAD CAKE. 

Take as much dough as will make a large loaf of bread, 
add three cups of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, one tea- 
spoon of saleratus, spice and fruit to taste. Makes two 
loaves. 

205. RICE CAKE. 

Three eggs, and the same weight of ground rice and 
sugar, mixed and beaten well. Bake quickly in a mould. 

Or, one pound ground rice, one and a half cups of butter, 
one pound of white sugar, six eggs, one lemon peel grated, 
one-third cup of sweet milk, one-fourth tea-spoon of soda, 
two table-spoonsful of flour, bake in thin sheets. 

Or, one pound of ground rice, one of flour, one table 
spoonful of soda, tv/o of cream tartar, three half pints of 
milk, two table-spoonsful of sugar. Salt. 



78 CAKES. 

Or, take a tea-cup and a half of boiled rice, warm it with 
a pint of milk, mix it smooth, then take it from the fire, 
stir in a pint of cold milk, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Beat 
four eggs, and stir them in, together with sufficient flour to 
make it a thick batter. 

Or, one cup and a half of boiled rice, warm it with a pint 
of milk, mix it smooth,, then take it from the fire, stir in a 
pint of cold milk and a tea-spoonful of salt ; beat four eggs, 
and stir them in together with flour enough to make a thick 
batter. 

206. GKEEN CORN CAKE. 
Mix a pint of grated green corn with three table-spoon- 
fuls of milk, a tea-cup of flour, half a tea-cup of melted 
butter, one egg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and some pepper. 
Drop this mixture into hot butter, by the spoonful, let the 
cakes fry eight or ten minutes. They are nice served up 
with meat for dinner. 

207. COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, three-quarters of a cup 
of milk, five cups of flour, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, nut- 
meg. 1^ 

Or, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-hip^ a 
cup of sour milk, one-half a tea-spoon of soda, half a tea- 
spoon of mace or nutmeg ; flour sufficient for rolling out 
very thin. 

Or, two pounds of flour, one of sugar, half pound of but- 
ter, one egg, one cup of cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

Or, one cup of butter, two of sugar, half a cup of milk, 
one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one egg, stiff enough with 
flour to roll. 

Or, one cup of butter, two of sugar, five of flour, three- 
quarters of a cup of milk;, a little nutmeg, one tea-spoonful 
of saleratus. 

Or, one cup of butter, two and a half of sugar, four eggs, 
one nutmeg, half a tea-spoonful of saleratus, made hard 
enough with flour to roll out ; work the butter and sugar to- 
gether, then add the eggs. 



CAKES. 79 

208. JUMBLES. 
Take a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of powdered loaf sugar, two ounces of butter, rubbed in 
the flour, two ounces of currants, two eggs. Drop them on 
tins. 

Or, rub to a cream one pound of butter, and one pound 
of sugar, mix with it two pounds of flour, tliree eggs, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus and eight spoonsful of milk. 

Or, add together one pound of nice sugar, two of flour, 
and spice to the taste ; pass them through a sieve ; then add 
four well beaten eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of 
melted butter, knead well and bake. 

209. WASHINGTON CAKE. 

' One cup of butter, two and a half of sugar, four eggs, 
one tea-spoonful of saleratus, four cups of flour, and one cup 
of milk. 

Or, one cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, four 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, four cups of flour, one 
cup of milk. 

210. BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mix the flour with cold water, add a cup of yeast and a 
little salt ; set it in a warm place over night. If it should 
be sour in the morning, put in a little saleratus ; fry them 
the same as flat-jacks : keep enough to rise the next mess. 

Or, take one quart of buck-wheat meal, half a cup of new 
yeast, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, a little salt, and a suffi- 
cient new milk or cold water to make a thick batter. Put 
it in a warm place to rise. When it has risen sufficiently, 
bake it on a griddle or in a spider. The griddle must be 
well buttered, and the cakes are better to be small and thin. 

Or, take two pounds of buckwheat flour ; add a small 
saucer full of Indian meal, a little salt, and a tea-cup of 
yeast. Mix all together with lukewarm water, to a thicker 
consistency than batter. Put it in a moderately warm place. 
When ready to bake, if not quite sweet, add a little salera- 
tus, and bake on a griddle well heated. 



80 CAKES. 

211. PAIT-CAKES. 
Take a^int of cream and six new-laid eggs ; beat them 
well together ; put in a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
one nutmeg, or a little beaten mace, which you please, and 
so much as will thicken, almost as much as ordinary pan- 
cake flour batter ; your pan must be heated reasonably hot, 
and wiped with a clean cloth ; this done, spread your batter 
thin over it and fry. 

212. DYSPEPSIA CAKE. 

Take five cups of flour, two of sugar, two cups of milk, 
a little salt, and one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

213. INDIAN CAKE. 

Take three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, one 
half a tea-cup of molasses, a little salt, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus, and mix them with cold water. 

Or, mix a quart of Indian meal with a handfiil of wheat 
flour, stir a quart of warmed milk, a tea-spoonf hi of salt, and 
two spoonfuls of yeast ; stir alternately into the milk, the 
meal and three well beaten eggs ; when light, bake as buck- 
wheat cakes, on a griddle ; send them to the table hot. 
Should the batter sour, stir in a little saleratus dissolved in 
lukewarm water, letting it set half an hour before baking. 

Or, take one pint of Indian meal and one cup of flour, a 
little salt and ginger, a table-spoonful of molasses, a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, sour milk enough to make a stiff batter, 
bake them on a griddle like buckwheat cakes. 

Or, scald a quart of Indian meal, when lukewarm stir in a 
half pint of flour, half a tea-cujD of yeast, and a little salt, 
fry them in just enough fat to prevent them from sticking to 
the pan. 

Or, take a quart of sifted Indian meal, sprinkle a little 
salt over it, mix it with scalding water, stirring it well ; bake 
on a tin in a stove oven. Indian Cake is made with butter- 
milk, or sour milk, with a little cream or butter rubbed into 
the meal, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus. 



CAKES. 81 

Or, a pint and a half of yellow Indian meal sifted, a hand- 
ful of wheat flour, a quarter of a pound of fresh witter, a 
quart of milk, four eggs, a very small tea-spoonful of salt ; 
put the milk into a saucepan, cut the butter into it, set over 
the fire and warm it until the butter is very soft, but not 
until it melts ; then take it off, stir it well till all is mixed 
and set away to cool ; beat four eggs very light, and when 
the milk is cold, stir them into it alternately with the meal, 
a httle at a time of each ; add the salt ; beat the whole very 
hard after it is all mixed, then butter some muffin-rings on 
the inside, set them in a hot oven, or on a heated griddle, 
pour some of the butter into each, and bake the muffins well. 
Send them hot to table, continuing to bake while a fresh 
supply is wanted. Pull them open with your fingers and eat 
them with butter, to which you may add molasses or honey. 

Or, three cups of meal, one cup of flour, three cups of 
milk, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, four spoonfuls of molasses, 
three eggs, and salt. 

214. HARD WAFERS. 
Take half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, three 
eggs, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, flavor with lemon, and 
flour enough to make it a thick dough. 

215. PLTJMCAKE. 
Make a cake of two cups of butter, two cups of molasses, 
two eggs, one cup of milk or buttermilk, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus, or volatile salts (which is better), a gill of brandy, 
one tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, and flour to make it a 
stiff batter ; beat it well, then add one pound of raisins 
stoned and chopped, one pound of currants, well washed and 
dried by the fire, and one or two quarters of citron. Bake 
in a quick oven. This is a fine rich cake easily made, and 
not expensive. 

216. CREAM CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, two cups of sugar, three cups of cream, 
and four eggs. Beat it well, and in square tin pans. When 
cold, cut it in squares. Bake in a quick oven. 



82 CAKES. 

Or, one quart of flour, one pint of cream, a little sour 
cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in the sour 
cream. If the flour is not made sufficiently wet with the 
above quantity of cream, add more sweet cream. 

Or, boil together half pint of water, half tea-cup of butter, 
when boiling add one and a half cups of flour, stirring it 
well ; when cool add four eggs, one at a time, stirring each 
in thoroughly ; add one-half tea-spoonful of soda dissolved. 

The Cream. — Boil one pint of milk, beat two eggs, one 
and a half cups of sugar, one cup of flour, together ; add to 
the milk while boiling ; then a small piece of butter ; flavor 
to taste. 

Or, one pint of milk, one cup of sugar, one of flour, two 
eggs ; flavor with what you like ; boil the milk first ; beat 
Qgg^ and sugar ; mix in flour, add milk ; stir till no lumps. 

The Custard. — One quart of milk, two cups of flour, two 
of sugar, four eggs ; boU the milk ; while boihng add sugar, 
flour, and eggs, well beaten ; season with lemon. About a 
large spoonful of the crust dropped into the pan some ways 
from each other, because they rise so much ; one large spoon- 
ful of custard to a cake ; when baked, cut a hole in the crust 
and put the cream in. 

The Crust. — One pint of water, half pound of butter, 
twelve ounces of flour, ten eggs ; boil the water and butter, 
and stir in the flour while the water is boiling ; then cool it ; 
when cool, add the eggs well beaten, whites and yolks sep- 
arately. 

217. DOUGHNUTS. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, three 
quarters of brown sugar, rolled fine, one nutmeg, grated, one 
tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon, one table-spoonful of good 
yeast ; make it into dough with warm milk ; sprinkle flour 
over it, and cover it with a cloth ; set it in a warm place to 
rise for an hour or more. When light, roll it out to half an 
inch thickness ; cut in squares and diamonds. Have a small 
iron kettle half filled with lard ; let it be boiling hot. Drop 
in a bit of dough to try it ; if it is a fine color, drop in more 



CAKES. 83 

cakes at once ; keep the kettle in motion all the time the 
cakes are in, else the lard will burn. When the cakes are a 
fine color take them out with a skimmer and lay them on a 
sieve to drain. 

Or, take three eggs, one cup and a half of sugar, one pint 
of sour milk, a little saleratus, salt and spice, and mould with 
flour. Mix the articles together an hour before frying the 
cakes. 

Or, one cup of sour milk, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one egg, half a tea-spoonful of saleratus, 
nutmeg and flour. 

Or, two cups of sugar, one of milk, two tea-spoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one of soda, two eggs, butter the size of an 
egg, salt and nutmeg. 

Or, one cup of sour milk, one of sugar, one table-spoonful 
of butter, one egg, half tea-spoonful of butter, one egg, half 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, nutmeg, flour to make it right. 

Or, one cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
two eggs, one large tea-spoonful of saleratus, one of salt, 
lard or butter, the size of an egg, flour enough to roll stiff. 

218. APPLE FRITTERS. 
One pmt of milk, two eggs, a little saltdJUtthird tea- 
spoonful of soda, four sliced apples ; mix a iMBItiffer than 
flat jacks, fry like pancakes ; to be eaten with sugar and cider. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Take four or five tart mellow apples, pare and cut them 
in slices and soak them in sweetened lemon juice ; makq a 
patter of a quart of milk, a quart of flour, eight eggs ; ^Mte 
in the rind of two lemons ; add the juice and apples. jKj^ 
the batter by the spoonful into hot lard, taking care to l^P^ 
a slice of apple in each fritter. 

219. HOE CAKE. 

Scald a quart of Indian meal with just sufficient water to 
make a thick batter, stir in two spoonfuls of butter and two 



84 CAKES. 

tea-spoonfuls of salt ; turn it into a buttered cake pan ; bake 
about half an hour. 

HOE CAKE. 

Scald a quart of Indian meal with a pint of water ; stir 
in two tea-spoonsful of salt and a little butter melted ; 
when properly mixed, put into a well greased tin, and bake 
it half an hour. 

220. CRULLERS. 

Half a cup of butter, two of sugar, half do. of milk, three 
eggs ; spice to your taste; make hard with flour; fry in hot 
lard. 

Or, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one spoonful of butter ; 
mix stiff with flour. 

Or, three eggs, one cup of sugar, one spoonful of butter ; 
mix stiff with flour. 

Or, two cups of sugar, half cup of butter, three eggs, half 
cup of milk ; spice to taste ; mix hard with flour. 

221. GINGER NUTS. 
Half a pound of flour, half pound sugar, half a pound 
butter, hal^^^t of milk, half tea-cup of ginger, half tea- 
cup of mc ^H^^ , one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Take one-pint of molasses, one tea-cup of butter, one 
spoonful of ginger, and one spoonful of saleratus ; and boil 
all the ingredients thoroughly ; when nearly cold, add as 
much flour as can be rolled into the mixture. 

^'^)r, mix four ounces of lard, and four of butter, melted 
with four ounces of brown sugar, a pint of molasses, two tea- 
spoonsful of ginger, and a quart of flour. Strain in two tea- 
spoonsful of saleratus, dissolved in a wine-glass of milk, 
adding sufficient flour for rolling out thin. Cut into small 
cakes, and bake in a slow oven. 



CAKES. 85 

Or, three cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, 
half a cup of ginger, one cup of milk, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Take one tea-cup of sugar, one of molasses, one egg, one 
spoonful of saleratus, one of ginger, and one of vinegar, 
and mix them with seven tea-cups of flour. 

222. MUFFINS. 

Mix a quart of wheat flour smoothly with a pint and a 
half of luke-warm milk, half a tea-cup of yeast, a couple 
of beaten eggs, a heaping tea-spoonful of salt, and a couple 
of table-spoonfuls of luke-warm melted butter. Set the bat- 
ter in a warm place to rise. When light, butter your muf- 
fin cups, turn in the mixture, and bake the muffin till a light 
brown. 

Or, one cup of milk, three table-spoonsful of sugar, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two tea-spoonsful of cream 
tartar, one of soda, three eggs, salt to rise them ; mix them 
over night, and use half a cup of yeast in place of cream 
tartar and soda. 

Or, one quart of milk, butter the size of an egg, two tea- 
spoonsful of yeast. Salt and flour. ^_ 

Soda Muffins. — To two pounds of flourfflfc one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of cream tartar, and a tea-spoonful of 
sugar, a little salt ; mix thoroughly, and make into a stiff 
batter with some milk ; beat well for a few minutes. Have 
ready a hot earthen pan, well buttered, also rings for the 
purpose. Pour in the batter nearly half an inch thick. 
Bake a nice brown on each side. 

Indian Meal Muffins. — To a quart of meal pour boiling 
water, stirring constantly, until a thick batter ; let it cool ; 
w^hile warm, add a small tea-cup of butter, a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a table-spoonful of yeast, with two well-beaten 
eggs ; set it in a warm place for two hours, then stir it 
smooth, and bake in small cakes on a griddle ; when one 



86 CAKES. 

side is a rich brown, turn the other ; lay them singly on a 
hot dish and serve. These may be made without the yeast, 
and baked as soon as mixed. 

223. GOLD CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, the yoll^s of eight 
eggs, half a cup of sweet milk, one tea-spoonful cream tar- 
tar, half a tea-spoonful of soda, two cups of flour, and half 
a nutmeg. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One and a half cups of sugar, three-quarters cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, one tea-spoonful cream tartar, half 
of soda, the whites of eight eggs, one tea-spoonful essence 
of lemon. 

224. COCOA-NTTT CAKE. 
Four tea-cups of powdered sugar, one cup of butter, four 
cups of flour, one good sized cocoa-nut, grated fine, one cup 
sour milk, small tea-spoonful of soda, six eggs, one lemon- 
peel grated. The amount of flour depends on the thickness 
of the cocoa-nut. After mixing, bake a veiy little to try 
it. If too soft, add more flour. 

Or, one pound of cocoa-nut, one of sugar, half pound of 
butter, half pound of flour, six eggs. 

Or, br^fei^a cocoa-nut in pieces, lay it in cold water, cut 
off the rii^^d grate the white on a coarse grater ; put 
the whites of four eggs, with half a pound of white sugar, 
powdered ; beat them till very light and white ; add to it 
some essence of lemon and grated cocoa-nut, until it as thick 
as you can stir it easily with a spoon ; lay them in heaps 
about the size of a nutmeg, on a sheet of paper, let them be 
placed at least an inch a part ; lay the paper on a baking 
tin, bake them in a quick oven ; when they begin to look 
yellowish, they are done. Let them remain on the paper 
till they are perfectly cold. 

Or, one cup of butter, three of sugar, one of milk, four 
of flour, before sifted, four eggs, one tea-spoon of cream tar- 
tar, half spoon of soda, one cocoa-nut grated fine. 



CAKES. 87 

225. OTSTEB COEIT CAEE. 

Take one quart of green corn, rasped with a coarse grater, 
two cups of new milk, one tea-cup of flour ; mix the batter 
together, add two eggs, well beaten up ; season the batter 
with salt and pepper, and bake upon a griddle. These 
cakes afford as good an imitation of the taste of oysters, as 
can be made with salsify. The corn should be such as is 
most suitable for roasting or boiling. 

226. WESTERN CAKE. 
Three cups of sugar, two of butter, six eggs, one-half tea 
cup of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of soda, one-half pound 
raisins, one-half pound citron, one tea-cup of currants. Stir 
in flour till quite stiff. 

227. COMMON CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup of each of butter and sugar, one and 
a half cups of molasses, one tea-spoon of saleratus, one cup 
of sweet or sour milk, half a tea-spoonful of all kinds of 
spice ; flour to make it right. 

228. CIDEB CAKES. 
Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four egg3, two 
cups of cider, two small tea-spoonsful of soda, tea-spoon of 
clove and cinnamon ; flour to make as stiff as pound cake ; 
chopped raisins ; bake in loaf. 

229. ONE EGG CAKE. 
One cup of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one 
cup and a half of sugar, butter the size of an egg, one egg^ 
flavor with lemon ; flour enough to make it right. 

230. FROSTING FOR WEDDING CAKE. 

The whites of ten eggs, six pounds of sugar, one tea-cup 
of starch, pulverized, and four lemons. 

Or, the weight of fifteen eggs in sugar, to six beaten to 
a froth ; put one pint of water to the sugar, boil it to a can- 
dy, or until it will string from a knife ; then pour it gently 
apon the egg while hot, stirring all the time ; continue to 



88 CAKES- 

beat it till stiff enough to drop from a spoon, slowly. Flour 
the cakes, and wipe off the crumbs ; put it on so thick as 
not to frost it but once. 

231. GINGERBREAD. 

One and three-quarters pound of flour, one pint of mo- 
lasses, one tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a cup of 
milk, one spoonful of ginger, quarter pound of butter. 

Hard Gingerbread, Two cups of molasses, one of but- 
ter, half a tea-spoonful of saleratus, table-spoon of ginger, 
salt, stiff enough with flour to roll, 

Imperial Gingerbread. — Rub six ounces of butter into 
three-quarters of a pound of flour ; them mix six ounces of 
treacle with a pint of cream carefully, lest it should turn the 
cream ; mix in a quarter of a pound of double-refined sugar, 
half an ounce of powdered ginger, and one ounce of carra- 
way seeds ; stir the whole well together in a paste, cut it 
into shapes, and stick cut candied orange or lemon peel on 
the top. 

233. PORK CAKE. 

One pound salt pork, chopped fine, one cup of boiling 
water poured over it, three cups of molasses, one table- 
spoon of soda, three eggs, flour to make as pound cake, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins ; spice. 

233. HARRISON CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, one and a half of butter, two and a 
half of molasses, four eggs, one table-spoon of cloves, one 
tea-spoon of saleratus, two pounds of stoned raisins, a hand- 
ful of Indian meal, sifted ; bake slow. 

234. COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one of molasses, one of butter, one of 
coffee, half tea-spoonful of saleratus, all kinds of spice, one 
cup of chopped raisins j mix all together, stiffness of ginger- 
bread. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



OBSERVATIONS ON MAKING PUDDINGS. 

The cloths used to tie over puddings, or boil them in, 
should be nicely washed and dried in the sun, and kept in a 
dry place. When to be used, they should be dipped into 
boihng water, squeezed dry and floured. In all cases the 
eggs must be thoroughly beaten. If bread pudding, the 
cloth should be tied loose, to give room for rising. If bat- 
ter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pud- 
ding is put in, and it should be moved about for a minute, 
that the ingredients should mix evenly. Batter pudding 
should be strained through a coarse sieve when all mixed. 
In others, strain the eggs separately. The pans must al- 
ways be buttered before the pudding is put in, A pan of 
cold water must be ready, and the pudding dipped in, as 
soon as it comes out of the pot ; then it will not adhere to 
the cloth. 

235. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Eight eggs, eight ounces of butter, eight ounces of sugar, 
one nutmeg, grated. Beat up the eggs, put them into the 
stew-pan with the sugar and butter, nutmeg to taste ; set it 
on a stove or fire of coals, stirring it constantly until it 
thickens, then pour it into a basin to cool. Set a rich paste 
round the edge of your dish, pour in your pudding, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. A most deHcious and elegant 
article. 



PUDDINGS. 



236. CHESHIEE PUDDING. 



One pound of raspberry jam, one cup of cream of butter- 
milk, one table-spoonful of saleratus, four ounces of butter, 
one and a half pounds of flour. Rub the half of the butter 
into the flour, warm the milk, rub the saleratus fine with 
the broad blade of a knife on the corner of a paste-board, 
then scrape it in, and while it is effervesence, mix with the 
flour and the rest of the butter, and a dust of more salt if 
necessary, then roll out to fourteen or fifteen inches long, 
and eight or nine in width ; spread with the jam, and roll it 
up in the manner of collared eel; have a floured cloth 
ready and wrap it two or three times around and pin it ; tie 
it tight at each end. Boil in plenty of water two hours. 
Serve with thickened sweet sauce, with some rose-water and 
nutmeg, and juice of a lemon. 

Nice stewed peaches are fine in this dumpling, with cream 
sweetened, and nutmeg for sauce. Almost any acid fruit is 
excellent in this way. The crust should be light, and it 
must be eat as soon as done. 

237. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, seasoning, five eggs, one coffee cup of 
tapioca. Steep the tapioca in the milk two hours, put it in 
cold, let it warm a little, beat up the eggs well with sufficient 
sugar, a little essence of lemon. Bake half an hour, eat 
with butter. ^^ 

Or, pick and wash four table-spoonsfid of tapioca, and 
pour upon it a pint of scalding milk. Let it stand half an 
hour, then add a pint of cold milk, two eggs, sugar, spice, 
and raisins, if you like. 

238. QUINCE PUDDING. 

Scald the quinces tender, pare them thin, scrape off the 
pulp, mix with sugar, very sweet, and add a little ginger 
and cinnamon. To a pint of cream put three or four yolks 
of eggs, and stir it into the quinces till they are of a good 
thickness. Butter the dish, pour it in, and bake it. 



PUDDINGS. 91 

239. BAKED POTATO PUDDING. 

Twelve ounces of boiled potatoes, skinned and mashed, 
one ounce of cheese grated fine, one ounce of suet, one gill 
of milk. ]\Iix the potatoes, suet, milk, cheese, all together ; 
if not of a proper consistence, add a little water. Bake it 
in an earthen pan. 

Or, boil one quart of potatoes quite soft, and then rub 
them smooth through a hair sieve. Have ready half a 
pound of melted butter and six eggs, beat light ; mix the 
butter with half a pound of sugar ; stir in the eggs, adding 
half a pound of currants ; put the mixture into a thick 
cloth, and boil it half an hour. To be eaten with wine 
sauce. 

240. ALMOND PUDDING. 

One pound of blanched almonds, one-half a glass of rose 
water, six eggs, eight ounces of sugar, one-pint of cream. 
Put the rose-water to the almonds in a marble mortar, pound 
them fine ; beat the sugar and eggs together well, the sugar 
being nicely sifted ; put all into a basin, and stir them over 
a few coals, well together, until they are warm, then put it 
into a thin dish, put paste only around the edges, (or sides 
of the dish,) bake three-quarters of an hour. 

241. CUSTAED PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, six eggs, six spoonsful of flour, one 
nutmeg, sugar and butter. Boil the milk, and while scald- 
ing, stir in the flour ; set to cool half an hour before it is 
wanted, beat up the eggs nicely, and put to the milk with 
sufficient salt, bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Rub 
nutmeg, with nice sugar and butter for sauce. 

Or, one quart of milk, eight eggs, half a pound of sugar? 
season with lemon or peach, pour it into a pudding dish wet 
with cream, and set the pudding into a pan half filled with 
water, and put them into the oven to bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. If preferred, line the baking dish with delicate 
cream paste. Less eggs will make a good custard. 

Or, take a pint of milk, four spoonsful of flour, six eggs, 
spice to your taste and bake. 



^2 PUDDINGS. 

243. FLOITB PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, six eggs, six spoonsful of flour. Boil 
the milk, stir in the flour whilst scalding, let it cool ; have 
the water boiling. When sufficiently cool, beat the eggs 
well, and put them in with salt to taste ; boil hard one hour. 
Rub nutmeg with nice sugar and butter for sauce. 

Or, beat two eggs and a little milk, and stir in five table- 
spoonsful of flour, making a batter. Boil one quart of milk, 
and when it boils, pour in the butter, stirring well, while it 
is poured in. Let it boil slowly for a few minutes. Eat it 
with sweetened cream or milk, or whatever sauce suits you 
best. It is a cheap, quick way of making a very pleasant 
and wholesome dessert. Wheat meal, unbolted flour, can 
be used instead of flour. 

Or, one quart of milk, five eggs, nine tea-spoonsful of 
flour, braided sugar and butter for sauce. 

243. SAGO PUDDING. 

Four spoonsful of sago, one and a half joints of milk, four 
eggs, lemon peel, cinnamon, nutmegs, and sugar to taste. 
Boil the milk and sago nicely, let it cool ; beat the eggs up 
perfectly with some sugar ; add the ingredients, then mix 
all together, put a nice paste round the dish, pour in the 
pudding, and bake slowly. 

Pick, wash and dry, half a pound of currants ; and put 
in such spices as best suit the taste of those who are to eat 
it. Have ready six table-spoonsful of sago, picked clean, 
and soaked for two hours in cold water. Boil the sago in a 
quart of milk till quite soft. Then stir alternately into the 
milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and six ounces of 
powdered sugar, and set it away to cool. Beat eight eggs, 
and when they are quite light stir them gi'adually into the 
milk, sago, &c. Add the spice, and lastly the currants, hav- 
ing dredged them well with flour to prevent their sinking. 
Stir the whole very hard, put it into a buttered dish, and 
bake it three-quarters of an hour. It may be eaten cold. 

Or, boil five table-spoonsful of sago, well picked and 



PUDDINGS. 93 

washed, in a quart of milk, till quite soft, with a stick of 
cinnamon. Then stir in one tea-cup of butter, and two of 
powdered loaf sugar. When it is cold, add six eggs well 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix all well together, 
and bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Brown sugar, if dried, will answer very well to sweeten it. 

244. BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING. 

One pint of new milk, two spoonsful of flour, yolks of 
five eggs, orange-flower water, cinnamon, currant jelly. Mix 
the flour with the milk by degi'ees ; beat the yellows and 
other ingredients, with a little salt together, and put with 
the milk. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the 
batter in, and tie a floured cloth over it. Put in a kettle of 
boiling water, and turn it about a few minutes, to prevent 
the eggs from settling on one side. Half an hour will boil 
it. Pour currant jelly over, and serve with sweet sauce. 



245. RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four ounces of rice, one-half nutmeg, 
one stick of cinnamon, four spoonsful of rose water, eight 
eggs, salt. Boil the rice and cinnamon with the milk, stir 
it often to keep it from burning, cool, add the nutmeg and 
other ingredients, having beat the eggs well. Butter a pan 
or dish, or cover the dish with puff paste ; pour the compo- 
sition in, bake one hour and a half. Serve with butter and 
sugar. 

Or, one pint of cooked rice, one pint of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and the yolks of four eggs. Bake till done, 
then add the whites of four eggs, beaten to a froth, with 
four table-spoonsful of sugar. Bake again five minutes. 
Serve with liquid sauce. 

Or, half a cup of rice, cover it with milk, and boil it a 
little, butter a dish, put in three pints of milk, one tea-spoon- 
ful of flour or corn starch, while it is in the oven ; sugar 
and nutmeg. Bake one hour. If the crust form too brown, 
take it off before it is done. 



94 PUDDINGS. 

RICE PUDDING, BAKED OR BOILED. 

Wash in cold water, and pick very clean, six ounces of 
rice ; boil it in one quart of milk, with a bit of cinnamon, 
very gently, till it is quite tender ; it will take about an 
hour ; be careful to stir it often. Take it from the fire, 
pick out the cinnamon, and stir in a tea-cupful of sugar, 
half a cup of butter, three eggs well beaten, a little pow- 
dered nutmeg ; stir it till it is quite smooth. You can line 
a pie-dish with puff-paste, or bake it in a buttered dish, 
which is better ; three-quarters of an hour will bake it. 

If you wish it more hke custard, add one more eggy and 
half a pint of milk. 

If you boil it, you can add whatever fruit you like ; three 
ounces of currants, or raisins, or apples minced fine ; it will 
take an hour to boil it. Serve with wine sauce or butter 
and sugar. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Add to one pint of milk four eggs well beaten, and one 
and a half table-spoonsful of ground rice ; boil these togeth- 
er, stirring them. Pour the mixture, while hot, over two 
ounces of butter, sugar to the taste, and add the grated rind 
with the juice of a middle sized lemon. Line the dish with 
puff paste before putting in the mixture, and bake. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of rice, one of molasses, two quarts of milk, one 
egg, salt and spice. 

246. BOSTON APPLE PUDDING. 

Eighteen good apples four yolks of eggs, one white, one 
lemon, one-half nutmeg, one-quarter pound of butter, cinna- 
mon, cloves, sugar to taste. Peel, core, and cut the apples, 
into a stew-pan that will just hold them, with a little water 
and the spices, rasp the peel of the lemon in, stew over a 
slow fire till quite soft, then sweeten and pass through a 
sieve, beat the eggs and grated nutmeg together, with the 
juice of a lemon, them mix all well, line the inside of your 
pie-dish with good puff paste, put in your pudding, bake 
half an hour 



PUDDINGS. 95 



APPLE PUDDING DUMPLING. 

Put into a nice paste, quartered apples, tie up in a floured 
cloth, and boil two hours ; serve with sweet sauce. 
Pears, plums, peaches, &c, are fine done this way. 

Or, pare and stew two quarts of apples, mash them, add 
eight eggs, half a pound of butter, sugar and nutmeg, or 
grated lemon peel, and bake on short crust. 

Or, peel and core six very large apples, stew them in six 
table-spoonsful of water, with the rind of a lemon ; when 
soft, beat them to a pulp, add six ounces of good brown 
sugar, six well-beaten eggs, a pint of rich cream, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice ; line a dish with puft' paste, and 
when baked, stick all over the top thin chops of candied cit- 
ron and lemon-peeL 

247. INDIAN PUDDING. 

Three pints of milk, seven eggs, one-half poimd of rai- 
sins, one-quarter pound of butter, seven spoonsful of Indian 
meal, spice, salt, and sugar to the taste. Scald the milk, 
and stir it in the meal whilst boiling ; set it to cool, stone 
and put in the raisins, salt and spice ; then beat the eggs 
well, and if only milk-warm, put them in, stu* all well to- 
gether, bake an hour and a half' good heat. 

Or, sift a pint of Indian meal, and scald it with boiling 
water. Place over the fire a quart of milk, cut up a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and melt it in the hot milk, add a pint 
of sugar-house molasses, and mix them together until the 
milk boils. Stir it into the meal, mixing it well with a 
wooden spoon. Beat seven eggs, until they are perfectly 
light, pour them into the bowl that holds the meal, with ten 
drops of the essence of lemon, or a little lemon juice. 

Stir the mixture till it seems quite light, and bake it in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Or, one quart of sour milk, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, 
half a cup of molasses, a tea-cupful of chopped suet, meal 
enough to make it stiff 



96 PUDDINGS. 

Or, take one pint of milk, and one-quarter of a pound of 
Indian meal, and boil it smooth ; then add one-quarter and 
half a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of 
sugar. When cool, beat m the yolks of six eggs ; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a froth and add them last. Put in 
spice to your liking. Bake the mixture on shallow plates. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. — Take sweet milk, stir into it 
fine corn meal sifted, until as thick as can be conveniently 
stirred with a spoon : add a little salt, some berries ; put the 
batter thus prepared into a bag made of strong linen or 
cotton cloth, not quite full, because the meal will swell ; tie 
the bag with a strong cord ; put it directly into boiling 
water; let it boil as fast as possible for three hours ; serve 
up with sauce, which may be made of cream and sugar. 

248. LEMON PUDDING. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-half pound best butter, one 
lemon, five eggs, one glass of rose water, one glass orange- 
flower water. Beat the rose-water and butter to a froth, 
prepare the sugar and eggs as for pound cake, grate the yel- 
low part of the lemon rind in, (but not a particle of white,) 
have a nice puff paste ready in your dish, and, after incor- 
porating the pudding well together, pour it into your paste. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Orange pudding is made in the 
same way, using a pounded orange instead of a lemon. 

Or, beat together three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one 
half a pound of butter, five eggs, beaten to a froth, two 
large spoonsful grated bread, the juice of one lemon, and 
half the rind grated. Bake in plates, with paste below. 

Or, half a pound of bread crumbs, quarter of a pound of 
suet*, quarter of a pound of brown sugar, one lemon, juice 
and rind, and one Qgg ; to be boiled in a mould one hour. 
Serve with a little wine sauce, if approved. 

Or, half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet cut very 
fine, half a poimd of crushed sugar, the rind of two lemons, 
and the juice, and one or two eggs ; boil it four hours in a 
shape. Served up without sauce, it is excellent. 



PUDDINGS. 97 

2^9. VERMICELLI PFDBINa. 

Four ounces of vermicelli, five yolks, three whites eggs, 
one pint of milk, lemon peel, cinnamon, loaf sugar, salt to 
taste. Boil the milk, with the lemon peel grated in, sweeten 
and strain through a sieve, put in the vermicelli, boil ten 
minutes, cool, have the eggs well beaten ; when sufficiently 
cool, put them into the pudding, mix well together, and 
steam one hour and a quarter, or bake half an hour. 

Or, soak four ounces of vermicelli in cold water for one 
hour ; pour the water off, put on the fire with a quart of 
sweet milk, shake it till it boils, di-aw it aside until the milk 
is all soaked in. Beat up four eggs, with two ounces of 
sugar ; mince two ounces of lemon peel. JMix all together, 
and bake in a pudding dish. If boiled, it will require six 
eggs instead of four. Put in a buttered shape and boil two 
hours. 

250. SUET PUDDING. 

Four ounces of suet, one-half pint of milk, three table- 
spoons of flour, two eggs, one spoon of ginger. Mince the 
suet fine, and roll it thin, salt it, mix well with the flour ; 
beat the eggs well, and mix with milk and spices ; flour a 
cloth that has been dipped into boiling water, tie it loose, 
put into boiling water, boil hard an hour and a quarter. 
Serve with sweetened sauce, with the squeeze of a lemon in 
it. 

Or, one cup of suet, one of molasses, one of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of cloves, and one of allspice, half a 
nutmeg, one cup of raisins ; mix with flour enough for a 
stiff batter, boil it three hours. For sauce, egg, sugar and 
butter. 

251. SPRING PUDDING. 
Four dozen sticks of rhubarb, (or pie-plant,) one lemon, 
one-half pound of loaf sugar, one spoon of cinnamon. 
Wash and peel the rhubarb, cut short, throw it into a stew 
pan with the grated rind of the lemon, and cinnamon, and 
sugar; set it to cook, reduce it to a marmalade, pass it 
through a hair sieve, have a pie-dish lined with a good puff 
paste, and pour the pudding in ; bake half an hour. 



98 PUDDINGS. 

252. BATTEE PUDDING. 

Six ounces of Hour, three eggs, salt, one pint of milk. 
Have the milk boiled, and beat the eggs well ; add milk un- 
til it is smooth, the thickness of cream, mix all well together, 
then have a dish buttered that will just hold it ; or it is nice 
to boil as before dii-ected. Boil one and a half, or two hours. 

Or, beat two eggs and a little milk, and stir in five table- 
spoonsful of flour, making a batter. Boil one quart of milk, 
and when it boils, pour in the butter, stirring well while it 
is poured in. Let it boil slov/ly for a few minutes. Eat it 
with sweetened cream or milk, or whatever sauce suits best 
your jDalate. It is a cheap, quick way, of making a very 
pleasant and wholesome dessert. Wheat meal, unbolted 
flour, can be used instead of flour. 

253. BREAD PUDDING. 

Four eggs, one pint of milk, one pint crumbs of bread, 
one stick of cinnamon, sugar, nutmeg, salt to taste. Boil 
the bread and milk with the cinnamon ten minutes, then 
cool, jDass through a sieve, beat the eggs very well, and add 
to the batter, sweeten and salt, mix well together, bake half 
an hour ; or, boil one hour and a quarter. 

Baked Bread Pudding. — Broken pieces of bread are 
good soaked in milk until soft, then add two eggs to a quart, 
a little salt, butter, lemon-peel, nutmeg, or cinnamon, and 
sugar. Bake an hour. This is wholesome, and best for 
common use. 

Or, half a pound of stale bread crumbs, one pint and a 
half of boiling milk, poured over six eggs, beat light, and 
added when the milk cools, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, one nutmeg, and 
three-quarters of a pound of currants. Melt the butter in 
the milk, beat the eggs and sugar together, and butter the 
dish in which the pudding is to be baked. 

254. CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 
Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, stone and chop 
one poimd of raisins ; wash, pick, clean from grit, and dry, 



PUDDINGS. 99 

a pound of currants ; soak half of a sixpenny loaf of bread 
in a pint of milk ; when it has taken up all the milk, add 
to it the raisins, currants, chopped suet, and two eggs 
beaten, a table-spoonful of sugar, one wine-glass of brandy, 
one nutmeg grated, and any other spice that may be liked. 
Boil four hours. For sauce, beat a quarter of a pound of 
butter to a cream, then stir into it half a pound of powdered 
loaf sugar. Or, melt butter and sugar, and if liked, add 
more "brandy. 

Or, one pound of raisins, stoned, one pound of currants, 
half a pound of beef suet, quarter of a pound of sugar, two 
spoonsful of flour, three eggs, a cup of sweetmeats, and a 
wine-glass of brandy. Mix well and boil in a mould eight 
hours. 

255. PLTJM PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of raisins stoned 
and chopped, and some currants washed, picked and dried ; 
use milk enough to stir easily with a spoon ; add half a 
pound of suet chopped flne, a tea-spoonful of salt, and four 
well beaten eggs ; tie in a floured cloth, and boil four hours. 
The water must boil when it is put in, and continue boiling 
until it is done. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Take one loaf of baker's bread, broken up, (save the 
crust,) and pour over it three pints of warm milk, and let 
it stand for an hour. While warm, put in a piece of but- 
ter as large as an egg, half a pound of raisins, six eggs, 
and half a pound of currants, adding citron, nutmeg, and 
any thing else you please. Bake it three hours, and eat it 
with wine sauce. 

PERPETUAL PLUU PUDDING. 

Three pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds of brown 
sugar, three pounds of currants, three pounds of grated 
bread, three pounds of suet, shred fine,4hree pounds of eggs, 
one pound of citron, three table-spoonsful of flour, quarter 
of a pint of wine, quarter of a pint of brandy, two nut- 



100 PUDDINGS. 

megs, a little raace, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix the in- 
gredients well together, and divide into six equal parts ; tie 
each part in a separate cloth ; put them in water already 
boiling, and boil four hours. If they are to be jiept, hang 
them in a cool place, and when wanted for use, boil them 
again from one to three hours, according to the time they 
have been hanging. 

256. EYE PUDDING. 

Five table-spoonsful of rye meal, and one pint of milk, 
well beaten, one small table-spoonful of butter, a little salt ; 
boil in a bag one hour. 

Or, a table-spoonful of rye-meal, one pint of milk, well 
beaten; one small table-spoonful of melted butter; salt; boil 
in a bag one hour. 

257. APPLE CUSTAED PUDDING. 
Take apple pared, cored, and slightly stewed, sufficient to 
cover the dish, eight eggs, one quart of milk, spice to your 
taste, bake it one-thu'd of an hour. 

258. BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 
Put into three pints of boiling milk, six crackers pounded 
fine, and one pint of raisins. When cool, add four eggs, 
well beaten, a little sugar, and five good sized apples, pared, 
with the core carefully removed. To be eaten with w^arm 
sauce. 

259. BEERY PUDDING. 

One quart of flour, one and half tea-spoonful saleratus, 
two tea-spoonsful cream tartar, dry ; stir in the berries and 
wet them with milk and a little water ; boil in a bag. Sauce 
for same. — One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, and a 
piece of butter two-thirds as large as an egg ; boil up and 
pour into a bowl ; add a little nutmeg. 

Or, one quart of flour, one and a half tea-spoonful of sale- 
ratus, and two tea-spoonsful of cream tartar, dry ; stir in the 
berries and wet them up with milk and a little water ; boil 
in a bag. 



PUDDINGS. 101 

260. SUET PTJDDING. 

One cup suet, one do. molasses, one do. milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one of cloves, and one of allspice, half a nut- 
meg, one cup of raisins, mix with flour enough for a stiff 
batter, boil it three hours. For sauce — egg, sugar and butter. 

Or, 4 ounces of suet, half pint of miJk, three table-spoons- 
ful of liour, two eggs, one spoonful of ginger. Mince the 
suet fine and roll it thin, salt it, and mix well with the Hour, 
beat the eggs well, and mix with milk and spices ; flour a 
cloth that has been dij^ped into boiling water, tie it loose, put 
it into boiling water, boil hard an hour and a quarter. Serve 
with sweetened sauce, with the squeeze of a lemon in it. 

261. COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, three do. of flour, one of sugar, one 
table-spoonful melted butter, half tea-spoonful of soda, one 
egg. Baked about half an hour. 

Or, one tea-cup of sugar, one of milk, two heaping cups 
of flour, three table-spoonsful of melted butter, one egg, one 
tea-spoonful of soda, one do. of cream tartar. If made of 
sour milk, omit the cream. 

262. ENGLISH PLAIN PUDDING. 

One loaf of bread, two quarts of milk, ten eggs, one pound 
of suet, two ounces of citron, two pounds of raisins, two 
pounds of currants, one cup of brandy, one of sugar, one of 
molasses, one tea-spoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, one 
nutmeg. Tie in a cloth and boil two hours. 

263. CORN PUDDING. 
Six ears of sweet corn, one quart of milk, two table- 
spoonsful of flour, three eggs, sugar and salt, to taste ; cut 
the corn through the center, then cut it off. Bake one hour. 

264. ARROW ROOT PUDDING. 

From a quart of new milk take a small tea-cup full, and 
mix it with two large tea-spoonsful of arrow root ; boil the 
remainder of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrow root ; 
add, when nearly cold, four well beaten eggs, with two ounces 



102 PUDDINGS. 

of pounded loaf sugar and the same of fresh butter broken 
into small bits ; season with grated nutmeg ; mix it well 
together, and bake it in a buttered dish fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Or, wet three table-spoonsful of arrow root in a little 
milk, add one or two well beaten eggs, boil one quart of milk ; 
when boiled pour the above mixture into it all the time. Let 
it boil five minutes. This should be eaten cold like blanc 
mange with sugar and cream. 

265. CEACKES PUDDING. 
Eight crackers, pour over one quart of new mDk, and let 
stand over night ; four eggs ; raisins ; if a little stiff, add a 
little more milk. 

266. COCOA NUT PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, six eggs, one cocoa nut, large, one 
table-spoonful of flom', one of butter, sugar to taste. Bake 
in crust. 

267. PINE APPLE PUDDING. 

Peel and grate one Pine Apple, take the weight in sugar, 

half its weight in butter ; rub them to a cream ; then stir in 

the apple, five eggs, one cup of cream, salt. Bake one hour, 

with or without a crust. 
-» 

268. PUDDING SAUCE. 

One pint of sugar, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a piece of 

butter the size of an egg ; boil fifteen minutes ; add a little 

nutmeg ; boil with the sugar in nearly a pint of water, a 

large table-spoonful of flour. 

Or, boil some orange or lemon peel, or some peach leaves, 
in half a pint of water ; take them out and pour in a thin 
paste, made with two spoonsful of flour, and boil five min- 
utes, then add a pint of brown sugar and let it boil ; then 
put in two spoonsful of butter, and take it up immediately. 



DOMESTIC WINES. 



269. GKAPE WINE. 
To each gallon of bruised perfectly ripe grapes add a gal- 
lon of water, and let the whole stand a week ; then draw off 
the liquor, and put to every gallon three pounds of best 
sugar ; when fermentation in a temperate situation is about 
over, stop it close. Bottle it in about six months. 

270. CTJREANT WINE. 
Put together the same measurement of good ripe currants, 
and pure water ; mash the currants till reduced to a pulp ; 
strain through a thick woolen bag. Put it in a barrel, with 
four pounds of sugar to every gallon of juice, leaving suffi- 
cient space in the barrel for the liquor to ferment. Bung it 
close, and set it away in a cool place to ferment. Rack it 
off in November following, bottle it up, when it is fit for use 
— improves with age. 

Or, one gallon of water, one quart of currant juice, and 
three pounds of sugar. This will make a pleasantly vinous 
drink, not in the least heady, and very refreshing in a hot 
day. It will keep as long as it is bottled tight and improves 
by age. We have used it a long time, and though it may 
not be equal to " native wine," so called, yet every one who 
drinks of it pronounces it delicious. 

Or, squeeze the fresh, but fully ripe berries, till the juice 
ceases to run freely. Pour over the pulp as much water as 



104 FAMILY BEEB. 

there is juice, and press again. Repeat the process, which 
will extract all the juice and form a liquid of the proper 
consistence, viz : two parts water and one part juice. Add 
one-third of its weight of white sugar, and place in wide, 
open vessels, in a moderately cool phice, to ferment. In two 
or three days it will be ready for bottling. Great care is 
-required that the fermentation be not rapid, tending to form 
vinegar. When this is the case, place in a cooler position. 
It is sometiroes desirable to have the fermentation go on 
quite slowly, in which case put it in casks, leaving the bung 
open and keep in a cool place for a week, or two even, be- 
fore drawing off or bottling. Add cloves or' cinnamon to 
flavor it, if you desire. 

Or, bruise the currants, and to each gallon of the juice 
add equal weight of sugar, and to each gallon of this liquid 
add a gallon of water ; put it into a cask, and in about twenty 
days add brandy in proportion of a pint to fifteen gallons. 
Bottle in March. 

271. ELDEEBEREY WINE. 
Fill the kettle with water even with the berries ; boil till 
the berries are soft ; then strain them and squeeze out the 
juice. To five quarts of juice add six pounds of sugar; 
then boil the syrup ; when cool add yeast enough to have it 
ferment ; then skim and boil again ; when cool it is ready 
for bottling. 

272. EHUBAIIB WINE. 

One gallon of juice, three gallons of water, twelve pounds 
best sugar, one slice of bread, toasted, soaked in yeast. 

273. COTTAGE BEER. 

Take a peck of fresh wheat-bran, j^ut into ten gallons 
water, with three handfuls of hops ; boil the whole together 
in a brass or copper kettle, until the bran and hops sink to 
the bottom. Then strain it through a hair sieve or a thin 
sheet into a cooler, and wlien lukewarm, add two quarts of 
molasses. As soon as the molasses is melted, pour the whole 
into a ten gallon cask, with two table-spoonsful of yeast ; 



FAMILY BEER. 



105 



when the fermentation has subsided bung it close. Tap in 
four days. 

274. GINGER BEER. 
A gallon of boiling water is poured over three-quarters of 
a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce of ginger, and the peel of 
one lemon; when milk-warm, the juice of the lemon and a 
spoonful of yeast are added. It should be made in the eve- 
ning, and bottled next morning, in stone bottles, and the cork 
tied down with twine. Good brown sugar will answer, and 
the lemon may be omitted, if cheapness is required. 

275. HOP BEER. 
For a half barrel of beer, take half a pound of hops and 
a tea-cupful of ginger ; boil it in a pailful and a half of water. 
When brewed, put it warm into a clean cask, with two quarts 
of molasses ; shake it well, and fill the cask with water, 
leaving the bung open. Fill the cask when it works over. 

276. MEAD. 
Three pounds cheap sugar, three pints boiling water, two 
ounces tartaric acid. After all mixed, bring it to a boil ; 
after boiling add essence lemon, spruce or any flavor you 
like ; put away in bottles ; put in a tumbler of water, two 
or three table-spoonsfuls, and stir in a half tea-spoonful sal- 
eratus, and drink while foaming. 

277. SPRUCE BEER. 

Allow an ounce of hops and half a table-spoonful of ginger 
to a gallon of water. When well boiled, strain it, and put 
in a pint of molasses, and half an ounce of the essence of 
spruce ; when cool, add a tea-cupful of yeast, and put into a 
clean, tight cask, and let it ferment for a day or two, then 
bottle it for use. You can boil the sprigs of spruce instead 
of the essence. 

278. TABLE BEER. 

To eight quarts of boihng water put a pound of molasses, 
a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two bay leaves ; let 
this boil for a quarter of an hour, then cool, and work it 
with yeast, the same as other beer. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 



COOKERY FOE THE SICK ROOM. 

Too little attention is generally paid to the preparation 
of food for the sick, and when we consider that " kitchen 
physic is often the best physic," it is a matter of surprise 
that so important a subject should be so frequently neglected. 
The palate of a sick person is usually more nice, and less 
easily pleased than one in good health, and the utmost deli- 
cacy is required in preparing nourishmg articles of diet. 

The cookery for the sick room is confined to the proces- 
ses of boiling, baking and roasting ; and it may be useful to 
offer a few remarks upon the principles which render these 
processes serviceable for the preparation of food. By cook- 
ery, alimentary substances undergo a two-fold change ; their 
principles are chemically modified, and then- texture is me- 
chanically changed. The extent and nature of these changes 
greatly depend on the manner in which heat has been ap- 
pled to them. 

279. BOILING. 

Boiling softens the animal fibre, and the principles not 
properly soluble are rendered softer, and easier of digestion. 
In boiling meat, the water should be scarcely brought to the 
boiling temperature, but it should be long kept at a lower 
than the boiling point of water, or in .that state which ap- 
proaches more to stewing than to boiling. The nature of 
the water is also of some importance. Dr. Paris observes, 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 107 

that meat boiled in hard water is more tender and juicy 
than when soft water is used ; while vegetables are rendered 
harder and less digestible when boiled in hard water. 

280. BAKING. 

f Excepting in the preparation of light puddings, the pro- 
cess- of baking is inadmissible for the sick. 

281. ROASTING. 

Roasting softens the tendonous part of meat better than 
boiling, and it retains more of its nutritious principles. Care 
should always be taken that the meat be neither over nor 
under-done ; for, although in the latter state it may contain 
more nutriment, yet it will be less digestible on account of 
the density of its texture. It has of late years been much 
the fashion to regard under-done roasted meat as being well 
adapted for weak stomachs ; but no opinion is more erroneous. 

282. ARROWROOT. 

A tumblerful of this may be prepared in a few minutes. 
Put a tea-spoonful of powdered arrow-root into a bowl, mois- 
ten it with a table-spoonful of cold water, and stir it till free 
from grains ; then pour on boiling water, stirring it all the 
time till it changes from a thick to a transparent substance ; 
a little lemon juice and sugar makes this a delicious draught 
of thickened lemonade. Arrow-root, prepared with milk 
instead of water, is more substantial food, and may be sea- 
soned with salt. It may be made as thick as blanc-mango 
and eaten cold with cream and sugar. 

283. CALVES-FOOT BLANC-MANGE. 

Put a set of calves' feet, nicely cleaned and washed, into 
four quarts of water, and reduce it by boiling to one-quart ; 
strain it and set it by to cool. When cold, scrape of the 
fat, cut it out of the bowl, avoiding the settlings at the bot- 
tom, and put it to a quart of new milk, with sugar to taste, 
and boil it a few minutes. If flavored with cinnamon or 
lemon-iDcel, do it before boiling ; if with rose-water, do it 
after. Boil ten minutes and strain it through a fine sieve, 
and stir it till it cools. An excellent dish for the sick or 
well. 



108 COOKERY FOR THE BICK. 

284. BEEF TEA. 

Take a piece of lean but juicy beef, wash it nicely and 
cut it up into pieces about an inch square, put these into a 
•wide-mouthed bottle, and cork it up closely ; then set the 
bottle in a pan of water, and boil it for an hour or more if 
you have time. In this way you will get the pure juice of 
the meat, undiluted by any water, and a smaller quantity 
will answer the purpose of nourishment. 

Or, cut a pound of lean beef in thin slices ; put it into a 
quart and half a pint of cold water ; set it over a gentle 
fire, where it will become gradually warm ; when the scum 
rises, let it continue simmering gently for about an hour, 
then strain it through a sieve or napkin, let it stand ten min- 
utes to settle. 

But to make beef tea, mutton broth, and other meat soups, 
the flesh should be put in cold water, and this afterwards 
very slowly warmed, and finally boiled. The advantage de- 
rived from simmering, — a term not unfrequent in cookery 
books, — depends very much upon the effects of slow boiling, 
as above explained. 

285. CHICKEN JELLY. 

Avery young chicken will not yield any quantity of jelly ; 
a full grown one is the best, but even an old fowl will do 
very well when no other can be obtained. 

Break the bones of a full-grown chicken, and cut the fowl 
into pieces. Put it into a clean pan and fill it with water. 
After boiling the chicken gently for four hours or more, strain 
it through a jelly bag. Add a little salt but no other sea- 
soning. When the liquid is cold, it should be a clear jelly. 
They may be boiled again and yield more jelly. 

286. GETTEL. 

Indian, rye, oat, rice, and wheat meal, are used for gruel. 
Wet two or three" spoonsful with cold water, and stir it into 
a quart of boiling water, and boil until it is well cooked. 
Indian meal should boil full half an hour. 

287. PEASL SAGO. 
When a sick person is tired of slops, pearl sago boiled in 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 109 

water till it cools to a jellj, may be used ; it may be eaten 
with powdered loaf sugar and a little cream. 

283. EGGS. 

Weak persons may take eggs in the following manner : — 
Beat an egg very fine, add some sugar and nutmeg, pour 
upon it a gill of boiling water, and drink it immediately. 

Or, an egg broken into a cup, or beaten and mixed with 
a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea 
alone. 

SIffg Gruel. — Boil a pint of new milk ; beat two new laid 
eggs to a light froth, and pour in while the milk boils ; stir 
them together thoroughly, but do not let them boil ; sweeten 
it with the best of loaf sugar, and grate in a whole nutmeg ; 
add a little salt, if you like it. Drink half of it while it is 
warm, and the other half of it in two hours. It is said to be 
good for dysentery as well as nourishing. 

289. WATER GRUEL. 

Mix with one spoonful of wheat flour, two of Indian meal, 
and cold water enough to make a thick batter. Stir it into 
a pint of boiling water, if the gruel is liked thick ; if thin, 
into more water ; boil about forty minutes, putting in a little 
salt, and stirring it frequently. Take it off the fire, and add 
a little salt and butter, and pom- it on small pieces of toasted 
bread. 

290. MINT, BALM, AND OTHER TEAS. 
Put either the fresh or dried plants into boiling water, 
in a covered vessel, which should be placed near the fire for 
an hour. The young shoots, both of balm or of mint, are 
to be preferred, on account of their strong aromatic quali- 
ties. These infusions may be drunk freely in feverish and 
in various other complaints, in whicli diluents are recom- 
mended. Mint tea, made with the fresh leaves, is useful in 
allaying nausea and vomiting. 

291. MUTTON BROTH. 

Take a neck of mutton, cut it in pieces, reserving a good 
sized piece to serve in the tureen ; put it into cold water 



110 COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 

enough to cover it, and cover the pot close ; set it on coals 
until the water is lukewarm, then pour it off, and skim it 
well ; then put it again to the meat with the addition of 
five pints of water, a tea-spoonful of rice or pearl-barley, 
and an onion cut ujd ; set it on a slow fire, and when you 
have taken all the scum off, put in two or three quartered 
turnips. Let it simmer very slowly for two hours, then 
strain it through a sieve into the tureen ; add pepper and salt 
to taste. 

292. AREOW-EOOT CTJSTAEDS. 
Four eggs, one dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, one pint of 
milk sweetened and spiced to taste. 

293. AEEOW-EOOT JELLY. 

If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bow- 
els. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of 
sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg and fine 
sugar ; boil it once up, then mix it by degrees into a d-essert 
spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth with two 
spoonsful of cold water ; then return the whole into the 
sauce-pan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

294. A QUICK MADE BEOTH. 

Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off 
the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce-pan 
that has a cover, with three-quarters of a pint of water, the 
meat being first beaten and cut in thin bits ; put in a bit of 
thyme and parsley, and if approved, a slice of onion. Let 
it boil very quick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely 
to be too weak, or else cover it. Half an horn- is sufficient 
for the whole process. 

295. VEAL BEOTH. 
Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very 
little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of 
mutton, extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades 
of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, a large bit of bread, 
and three-quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers 
close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. Ill 

up and been skimmed ; or bake it ; strain and take oS' tha 
fsit; salt as wanted. It will require four hours. 

296. BROTH OF BEEF, MUTTON AND VEAL. 

Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, 
one pound of scrag of mutton, three ounces of pearl barley, 
sweet herbs and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, 
with seven quarts of water; to simmer to three or four 
quarts, and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion, 
if approved, or the white part of leeks. Soup and broth 
made of different meats, are more supporting, as well as bet- 
ter flavored. To remove the fat, take it off when cold, as 
clean as possible ; and if their still be any remaining, lay a 
bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the 
basin, and it will take up every particle. 

297. CALVES' FEET BROTH. 
Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and 
set it by ; when to be used, take oflf the fat, put a large tea- 
cupful of the jelly into a sauce-pan with half a glass of sweet 
wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it till it be ready 
to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the 
yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter the size of a nut- 
meg, stir it altogether, but don't let it boil ; grate a bit of 
fresh lemon peel into it. 

298. CHICKEN BROTH. 

Put the body and legs of the fowl, after taking off the 
skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one 
blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper- 
corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavor ; if not 
water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of 
sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water flne, boil it in 
the broth ; strain ; and when cool remove the fat. 

299. TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Tapioca, one pound ; water, six pints. Put them together 
over night ; next morning boil quite clear, and of a proper 
consistence, then flavor to taste. 



MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 



300. MEDICAL PEEPAKATIONS AND HERBS 
AS EVERT FAMILY OUGHT TO KEEP ON HAND. 

Castor Oil — Dose, for a child a year old, a tea-spoonful ; 
for an adult, a table-spoonful. Sweet Oil. SyrajD Squills 
— Dose for a child half a tea-spoonful. Paregoric — Dose 
for a child, from five to twenty drops. Wine Ipecac — Dose 
to act as emetic, fifteen drops, repeated every fifteen minutes 
till it operates ; for an adult, a tea-spoonful repeated as 
above. Senna — Dose for an adult, a table-spoonful of the 
leaves, steeped. Camphor. Composition — Dose, for an 
adult, a tea-spoonful. Hot Drops — Dose, adult, a tea-spoon- 
ful. Ground Mustard. Rhubarb — Dose, an adult, a tea- 
spoonful of the powder. Sage. Thoroughwort. Catnip. 
Spearmint. Horseradish leaves. Pennyroyal. Valerian. 
Lobelia — Dose, adult, a tea-spoonful once in fifteen minutes, 
till it operates. Burdock leaves. Hoarhound. Yarrow. 

SOL POISON AiniDOTES. 

For Oil of Vitriol or Aqua-Fortis, give large doses of 
magnesia and water, or equal portions of soft soap and 
water. 

For Oxalic Acid, give magnesia, or chalk and water. 

For Tartar Emetic, give Peruvian bark and water, or a 
Btrong decoction of tea, until the bark can be had. 



MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 113 

For Opium or Laudanum, give an emetic of mustard, and 
use constant motion, and if possible the stomach-pump. 

For Lunar Costic, give common salt. 

For Corrosive Sublimate, give the whites of an egg mixed 
with water, until free vomiting takes place. 

For Arsenic, doses of magnesia are good, but freshly pre- 
pared hydrated per oxide of iron is better. 

When bitten by a Rattle-Snake, apply salt and indigo to 
tli3 place bitten as soon as possible. Make a tea of blue or 
white indigo violet, and drink freely. Bind the herbs on 
or above the wound to prevent swelUng. 

To cure the poison of ivy, chew freely and swallow limit- 
edly, the leaves or green tw^igs of the white pine. 

To cure the sting of a Bee or Wasp, apply at once strong 
potash water, if obtainable : else, saleratus. 

A sure antidote against poison : — a large tea-spoonful 
of made mustard mixed in a tumbler of warm water, and 
swallowed as soon as possible. It acts as instant emetic, 
sufficiently powerful to remove all that is lodged in the 
stomach. 

A poison of any conceivable description and degree of 
potency, which has been intentionally or accidentally swal- 
lowed, may be rendered almost instantly harmless, by simply 
swallowing two gills of sweet oil. An individual, with a 
very strong constitution, should take twice the quantity. 
The oil will most positively neutralize every form of vege- 
table,, animal or mineral poison, with which physicians and 
chemists are acquainted. 

HYDKOPHOBIA. 

A celebrated physician, having been exposed to hydro- 
phobia by attending a patient who died of it, was one 
day suddenly seized with all the symptoms. He resolved 
to terminate his life by stifling himself in a vapor bath. 
Having entered one for this purpose, he caused the heat to be 
raised to 170 degrees Farenheit, when he was equally sur- 
prised and delighted to find himself free from all complaint. 
He left the bathing room well, dined heartily, and drank 
more than usual. 

Since that time, he says he has treated in the same man- 



114 MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 

ner more than eighty persons bitten, in four of whom the 
symptoms had disclosed themselves, and in no case has he 
failed, except in the case of one child, who died in the bath. 
The same doctor relates the case of a French musician, 
who was bitten by a mad dog at the same time with many 
other persons, who all died of hydrophobia. For his part, 
feeling the first symptoms of the disease, he took to dancing 
night and day, saying he wished to die gaily ; he recovered. 
Attention is drawn to the fact, that the animals in which 
madness is most frequently found to develope itself, are 
dogs, wolves and foxes, which never perspire. 

ANOTHER. 

A person, on being bitten by any rabid animal, should 
use the following remedies without a moment's delay. The 
place of the bite should be washed clean, (and cupped if 
convenient) ; then take nitrate of silver, (lunar caustic) and 
burn the wound out in a most thorough manner, so as to 
destroy the virus. Take large doses of salt and senna, (or 
other physic,) for a week or longer if necessary ; keep the 
bowels open. If any sj^mptoms of the disease should ap- 
pear, take a thorough lobelia emetic, vapor baths and injec- 
tions, every day for a week, or until the symptoms subside 
entirely. 

802. TO RESTOEE LIFE TO APPAEENTLY DROWNED PERSONS. 

Avoid all rough usage. Do not hold up the body by the 
feet, nor roll it on casks or barrels, or rub it wdth salt or 
spirits, or apply tobacco. Lose not a moment in carrying 
the body to the nearest house with the head and shoulders 
raised. Place it in a warm room if the weather is cold ; if 
the weather is w^arm, have the windows open. Preserve 
silence, and positively admit no more than three intelligent 
persons. Let the body be instantly stripped, dried and 
■wrapped in hot blankets, which are to be frequently re- 
newed. Keep the mouth, nostrils and throat, perfectly 
free and clean. Apply warm, dry substances to the back, 
spine, pit of the stomach, arm-pits and soles of the feet. 
Rub the body wdth heated flannels, or cotton, or warm 



MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 115 

hands. Warm injections ' f salt and mustard, or of brandy 
and water, may be thrown up into the bowels, and stimulat- 
ing vapors be applied to the nose. Attempt to restore 
breathing by gently blowing with the bellows, into one nos- 
tril, closing the mouth and the other nostril. Press down 
the breast carefully with both hands, and then let it rise 
again, and thus imitate natural breathing. Keep up the 
application of heat, continue the rubbing, increase it when 
life appears, and then give a tea-spoonful of warm water, or 
wine and water. Persevere for six hours. Send for medi- 
cal assistance quickly. 

303. CURE FOR THE EAR-ACHE. 

Prepare a mixture of oil of sweet almonds and laudanum, 
and put it into the ear ; or, apply a small poultice, in which 
is put a raw chopped clove of garlic ; or, roast a small 
onion, and put as much of the inside into the ear as you 
conveniently can. 

301. EPILEPSY. 
Dr. Chapman, editor of the Westminster Review, has 
been proving an important discovery the past year, viz. : 
the cure of epilepsy, and many diseases hitherto deemed 
incurable, by means of the external application of ice and 
hot water, in India rubber bags, at various parts of the spi- 
nal cord, acting thus upon the sympathetic nerve, and 
through it upon the most important and vital regions of the 
body. Most of the worst and most inveterate feminine dis- 
eases have yielded to the new cure. The treatment is as 
simple as it is grand. Any one who is troubled with the 
pressure of blood on the brain, will find that by holding a 
bag of ice on the nape of the neck ten minutes, an equable 
flow of blood can be secured. Those who are troubled with 
habitual cold may find relief by applying ice to the small 
of the back. Seven hospitals are already under Dr. Chap- 
man's practice, and as yet no one can bring forward an in- 
stance of failure. 

305. RHEUMATISM. 
Skim off fi'om the top of a No. 1 mackerel barrel, a half 



116 MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 

pint of oil, the best you can get, warm it, and on going to 
bed, rub it on the body or part affected, thoroughly, before 
a good fire. At the same time, drink some brandy, a strong 
dose of composition or cayenne, to prevent sickness at the 
stomach. Afterwards wrap the whole body in a warm 
woolen blanket for the night. In the morning, wash with 
warm water and soap before a fire, and afterwards with 
brandy or New England Rum. Be careful and not take 
cold. The operation is not so pleasant as could be wished, 
but one or two applications have afiected perfect cures in 
many cases of long standing. 

306. CANCEE. 
Place a piece of sticking-plaster over the cancer, with a 
circular piece cut out of the center, a little larger than the 
cancer, so that the cancer and a small ch'cular rim of healthy 
skin next to it were exposed. Then a plaster, made of 
chloride of zinc, blood-root and wheat flour, was spread on 
a piece of muslin the size of this circular opening, and ap- 
plied to this cancer for twenty-four hours. On removing it, 
the cancer will be found to be burnt into, and appear of the 
color and hardness of an old shoe sole, and the circular rim 
outside of it will appear white and parboiled, as if scalded 
by hot steam. The wound is now dressed, and the outside 
rim soon supurates, and the cancer comes out in a hard lump, 
and the place heals up. The plaster hills the cancer, so that 
it sloughs out like dead flesh, and never grows. The remedy 
was discovered by Dr. Fell, of London, and has been used 
by him for six or eight years with unfailing success, and not 
a case has been known of the reappearance of the cancer 
where this remedy has been applied. 

307. CURE FOR THE ASIATIC CHOLERA. 

The usual premonitory symptoms of this disease are loose- 
ness of the bowels (diarrhoea), with or without pain, and 
sometimes vomiting, which may be cured in ninety-nine cases 
out of a hundred if attended to in season, but if neglected 
may suddenly advance to a more dangerous stage and termi- 
nate fatally. Take paregoric, tincture of rhubarb, tincture 
of cinnamon, of each equal parts and mix together. Take 



MEDICINAL DEPARTMENE. 117 

a tea-spoonful of this each hour until thoroughly physiced, or 
the diarrhoea is stopped. If it grows worse use camphor, 
laudanum, hot drops, and such powerful remedial agents as 
the case may require. For the spasms, dissolve one ounce 
of camphor 'in a pint of alcohol, and rub the patient smartly 
with a coarse flannel, wet with this mixture, or rub on any 
of the powerful external remedies of the day. 

308. BLEEDING PILES. 

Make a strong tea of yarrow, and drink freely ; or, take 
a piece of garget-root about the size of a hen's egg, put it 
into a pint of boiling water, and let it steep a few hours, 
when cool, take from one to three table-spoonsfuls, as the 
stomach will best bear daily, before eating. 

309. CHOLERA. 

Rev. Dr. Hamlin of Constantinople saved hundreds of 
lives by the following simple preparation during the terrible 
raging^of Cholera in that city a few years since. In no 
case did the remedy fail where the patient could be reached 
in season. It is no less effective in cholera morbus and or- 
dinary diarrhoea. A remedy so easily procured and so vitally 
efficacious should be always at hand. An ordinary vial of 
it can be had for 25 cents or so, and no family should be 
without it over night. The writer of this received the recipe 
a few days since, and having been seriously attacked with 
the cholera morbus the past week, can attest to its almost 
magic influence in affording relief from excruciating pain. 
Its prompt application will relieve pain and presumptively 
save life. . . 

Take one part laudanum, one part camphorated spirit, two 
parts tincture of ginger, two parts capsicum. 

Dose — One tea-spoonful in a wine-glass of water. If the 
case be obstinate, repeat the dose in three or four hours. 

310. REMEDY FOR DIPTHERIA. 

The treatment consists in thoroughly swabbing the back 
of the mouth and throat with a wash made thus :— Table 
salt, two drachms; black pepper, golden seal, nitrate of 
potash, alum, one drachm each. IMix and pulverize, put mto 



118 MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 

a teacup half fiill of water, stir well, and then fill up with 
good vinegar. Use every half hour, one, two and four hours, 
as recovery progresses. The patient may swallow a little 
each time. Apply one ounce each of spirits turpentine, 
sweet oil and aqua ammonia, mixed, every hour, to the whole 
of the throat, and to the breast bone every four hours, keep- 
ing flannel to the part. 

311. CURE FOE CEOTTP. 

As soon as the first symptoms are discovered, apply cold 
water suddenly and freely to the neck and chest with a 
sponge ; then lay a cloth wet with cold water on the chest, 
and closely cover with cotton batting (nothing else will do 
as well), and the breath will be instantly relieved. Give the 
patient plenty of cold water to drink, and cover it warm in 
bed, and it will sleep sweetly. There is no danger of taking 
cold by the operation. 

312. TREATMENT OE SPRAINS. 
Give the part rest ; apply warm fomentations. If in- 
flammation set in, or a large joint be affected, put on leeches 
and cooling applications, which may be removed at intervals 
if necessary. When the inflammation subsides, use friction 
and stimulating liniments ; bandage with flannel. If very 
severe, apply blisters, or poultices made of bread and vine- 
gar and water. 

313. BLEEDING AT THE LTTNGS, OR SPITTING BLOOD. 

To check the bleeding, let the patient eat freely of raw 
table salt. Loaf sugar and rosin, equal parts powdered, 
take a tea-spoonful four or five times a day ; it will be found 
of great use. A tea made of yarrow, is very useful in this 
complaint. Choose a light diet, chiefly of milk and vegeta- 
bles, and avoid all hot and stimulating drinks. A plaster 
compounded of tar and hemlock gum should be worn upon 
the side and breast, if the patient suffers pain. 

314. BOILS. 
Make a poultice of ginger and flour, and lay it on the 
boil ; this will soon draw it to a head. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



815. STJBSTITXTTES FOR TEA. 

The first young leaves of the common currant bush, gath- 
ered as soon as they put out, and dried on tin, can hardly bo 
distinguished from green tea. The line green leaves of the 
red raspberry, gathered in a fair day, and cured in an open, 
airy room are not inferior to the ordinary teas of China, and 
far more healthy. They should be gathered in September 
or October. 

316. TO TAKE OUT INK, FEUIT SPOTS, AND IRON MOULDS. 
On cotton goods and colored silks, spots of common or 
durable ink can be removed by saturating them with lemon- 
juice, and rubbing on salt, then putting them where the sun 
will shine on them hot, for several hoars. As fast as it dries, 
jDut on more lemon-juice and salt. When lemon-juice cannot 
be obtained vinegar will do. Iron moulds may be removed 
in the same way. Mildew and most other stains can be re- 
moved by rubbing on soft soap and salt, and placing it where 
the sun will shine on it hot. Where soap and salt will not 
remove stains, lemon-juice and salt will generally answer. 
The above things will only remove stains in warm weather, 
when the sun is hot. 

For fruit stains, let the spotted part imbibe a little water, 
without dipping, and hold the part at a proper distance over 
a bit of lighted brimstone. The sulphurous gas which is 
discharged soon causes the spot to disappear. 



120 MISCELLANEOUS. 

817. RED ANTS. 
Place in a closet, or wherever thej appear, a small quan- 
tity of green sage. 

318. EATS AND MICE. 
They can be very easily got rid of, if people will only use 
the means. Get live plaster of Paris and flour, mix them 
dry in equal quantities, lay it in dry places and sprinkle a 
little sugar among it. Both rats and mice eat ravenously, 
the plaster sets firm directly after it is moistened, becomes a 
lump inside of them, and kills to a certainty. 

319. TO MAKE HENS LAY IN WINTER. 

At any time when the hens cannot hunt bugs and worms 
to supply their demands for meat food, they should have bits 
of chopped liver or even boiled beef; but raw, fresh meat is 
best, fed with theh' corn or other grain. 

320. BORAX. 

The washerwomen of Holland and Belgium, who get up 
their linen so beautifully white, use refined borax as a wash- 
ing-powder instead of soda, in the proportions of a large 
handful of borax powder to about ten gallons of boiling 
water ; they save in soap nearly half. All the large washing 
establishments adopt the same mode. For lace, cambrics, 
etc., an extra quantity of the powder is used ; and for crino- 
lines (required to be made very stiff,) a strong solution is 
necessary. Borax being a semi-neutral salt, does not injure 
the texture of the finest hnen. 

321. GILT FRAMES. 

Boil three or four onions in a pint of water. Then with 
a gilding brush do over your glasses and frames, and rest 
assured that the flies will not light on the articles washed. 
This may be used without apprehension, as it will not do the 
least injury to the frames. 

322. TO PRESERVE FURS. 
Wrap some cloves or peppercorns with them, and keep in 
a dry place. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 121 

323. HAIR WASH. 

Get one ounce of borax, half an ounce of camphor, powder 
them finely, and dissolve them in one quart of boiling water. 
When cold the solution will be ready for use. Damp the 
hair with this frequently. It not only cleanses and beauti- 
fies, but strengthens the hah', preserves the color, and pre- 
vents early baldness. 

324. REMOVING STTNBTTRN. 
Take a handful of bran, pour a quart of boiling water on 
it, let it stand one hour, then strain. When cold put to it a 
pint of bay rum. Bottle and use it when needed. 

325. VALUABLE DISINFECTANT. 
One pound of green copperas, sulphuret of iron, costing 
eight cents, dissolved in one quart of water, and poured 
down a privy, will effectually concentrate and destroy the 
foulest smells. For water-closets aboard ships and steam- 
boats, about hotels and other public places, there is nothing 
so nice to cleanse places as simple green copperas dissolved 
under the bed, in anything that will hold water, and thus 
render a hospital or other place for the sick, free from un- 
pleasant smells. For butcher stalls, fish markets, slaughter 
houses, sinks, and wherever there are offensive putrid gasses, 
dissolve copperas and sprinkle it about, and in a few dn^a 
the smells will pass away. If a cat, rat or mouse died about 
the house, and sends forth an offensive gas, place some dis- 
solved copperas in an ojDcn vessel, near the jolace where the 
nuisance is, and it will soon purify the atmosphere. 

326. TO WASH FLANNEL WITHOUT SHRINKING. • 
Make a strong suds and put in your flannel or white woolen 
stockings, while the water is boiling hot. Then squeeze 
and pound them with a pestle till the water is cool enough 
to put your hands to the work. You will find there is little 
need of rubbing. Rinse in water as hot as the hands will 
bear. If their is a little soap remaining in the rinsing 
water, it is all the better. The sooner they are dried, the 
less they will shrink. This method, from an old house- 
keeper, is sure to prove the right way, if strictly followed. 



122 MISCELLANEOUS. 

327. STARCH. 

There is no better way for making nice starch for shirt 
bosoms, than to boil it thoroughly after mixing, adding a 
little fine salt, and a few shavings of a star or a spermaceti 
candle ; the star or pressed candle, is quite as good as 
sperm. Let the starch boil at least ten minutes, and it will 
give a gloss, if neatly ironed, fully satisfactory to the exqui- 
site taste of a dandy. 

328. SCARLET ON WOOLEN. 

For two pounds of goods take two ounces of cochineal, 
and two ounces of cream of tartar. Boil the dye fifteen 
minutes, then dip in the goods, and air till the color suits. 
Color in brass or copper. 

329. TO REMOVE GLASS STOPPERS. 
To remove a glass stopper, if fixed in a bottle so as not 
to be removed, j^our a few drops of sweet oil around the 
same ; set it in the sun, and it will soon work down and re- 
lease the stopper. 

330. TO SEASON NEW EARTHEN WARE. 

Before using, place it in a boiler with cold water, and then 
heat it gradually and let it remam in till the water is cool. 
This will render it less liable to crack, especially if used for 
baking in. 

331. TO CLEAN ALABASTER. 

For cleaning alabaster, there is nothing better than soap 
and water. Stains may be removed by washing with scap 
and water, then whitewashing the stained part, letting it 
stand some hours, then rinsing off the whitewash and rubbing 
the part stained. 

332. MARBLE STAINS. 
Mix up very strong lees with quicklime, to the consisten- 
cy of milk, put it on to the marble with a brush, leave it on 
for twenty-four hours, and afterwards wash it off with soap 
and water. Should this fail, the following may be tried: — 



MISCELLANEOUS. 123 

Take two parts of common soda, one part pumice stone, and 
one part finely powdered chalk ; sift through a fine sieve, 
and mix with water. Rub it well over the marble, and 
wash with soap and water. 

333. THE TEETH. 

Every body admires a full, well-formed, and clean set of 
teeth. A handsome set of teeth is a passport to favor. To 
eat without sound teeth is next to impossible. They are 
essential alike to c^ood looks and irood livinsf. Their useful- 
ness and beauty are appreciated, but they are often neglect- 
ed till decay begins its unwelcome inroads. The preserva- 
tion of the teeth is a matter which should be carefully 
urged upon children and young people, because the causes 
of decay may generally be traced to a neglect of the teeth 
in the early period of life. The teeth may easily be 
kept clean and sound if a person enjoys fair health. They 
should be cleaned after every meal, in order to remove the 
particles of food that would otherwise be converted into 
acid, and act injuriously upon the enamel. No dentrifice is 
required. Pure water, neither hot or cold, but tepid rather, 
should be used, and the brush should be applied to the 
edges and inner side of the teeth, as well as to the outside. 
A wooden or quill tooth-pick (metalic ones are injurious) 
may be used to remove any particles of food clinging be- 
tween the teeth. By this method they may be kept per- 
fectly clean, and their soundness insured for a much longer 
period than is usually the case, while the unnecessary pain 
and expense occasioned by dental treatment may be avoided. 
Nothing either very cold or very hot should be allowed to 
come in contact with the teeth. 

334. INK STAINS. 

Ink stains may be removed from linen by dipping the 
spotted part into hot melted tallow ; that of mould candles 
is best if made of ordinary tallow ; composite candles will 
not answer the purpose. The linen may then be washed, 
and the spots will then disappear. 

To take stains out of table-linen, if they be caused by 



124 MISCELLANEOUS. 

acids, wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood ; 
then rub it well, and afterwards rinse it in clean water. If 
the stains wine, fruit, etc., have been long in the linen, rub 
the 2-)art on each side with yellow soap ; then lay on a mix- 
ture of starch in cold water, very thick ; rub it well in, and 
expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. 
If not removed in three or four days, renew the process ; 
keep the dressing moist by sprinkling it with a little cold 
water. 

335. SCOURING KNIVES. 

A small clean potato, with the end cut off, is a very con- 
venient method of applying brick dust to knives, keeping 
it about the right moisture, while the juice of the potato as- 
sists in removing stains from the surface. A better jDolish 
can be got by this method than by any other, and with less 
labor. 

One of the best substances for cleaning knives and forks, 
is charcoal, reduced to a fine powder, and applied in the 
same manner as brick dust is used. This is a recent and 
valuable discovery. 

336. TO MEND CROCKERY- WAEE. 

One of the strongest cements and easiest applied for this 
purpose, is lime and the white of an egg. To use it, take a 
sufficient quantity of the egg to mend one article at a tim^ 
shave off a small quantity of lime and mix thoroughly. Ap- 
ply quickly to the edges, and place firmly together, when 
it will very soon become set and strong. You will mix but 
a small quantity at once, as it hardens very soon so that it 
cannot be used. Calcined Plaster of Paris would answer 
the same purpose. 



INDEX. 



MEATS. 

Selection of Meats 5 

Beef £' 

Mutton o 

Lamb 6 

Pork 6 

Venison ^ 

Bacon ° 

Hams 6 

PrcparincT Meats Y 

To roast Ceef » H 

To roast Veal 12 

To roast Mutton and Lamb 1^ 

To roast Torlc 13 

Eolled Neck of Pork IJ 

To roast a Pig !■* 

To roast Venison 1^ 

Boiled Beef 1-5 

Beef A-!a-mode 1^ 

Stewed Beef Steak IG 

Beef Steaks broiled 16 

Beef, cold tenderloin 1^ 

Beef, cold steaks to warm 1^ 

Beef, minced 1^ 

To stew a sboulder of Mutton 1? 

Mutton Chops 1° 

Sweet Bread, Liver and Heart lo 

Minced Meat 1° 

Broiled Ham and Eggs 1° 

Boiled Ham 1^ 

Pork Steak 1^ 

To boil a leg or Mutton 19 

Good pickling for Beef and Pork Ij^ 

Observations on Carving I'^l' 

Moat Broth 21 

Beef or Mutton Soup -| 

Sandwiches 21 

Dried Beef 22 

Sausages 

Tripe 



PICKLES. 

Pickling ••■23 

Cucumbers oi 

Mixed Pickles 21 

Cold Slaw 2* 

Pickled Tomatoes -* 

Pickled Oysters -^ 



POTJLTEY. 

Chicken Pie 2G 

Chicken Pot-Pie ^6 

Boast Turkey -J 

Rooist Ducks and Geese 27 

Roast Chicken 23 

Pigeons ^^ 

Chicken Soup -^ 

Sauces for Game or Poultry ^9 

FISH AND OYSTERS. 

New England Chowder 30 

To fry Cod, or other Fish 30 

To broil Shad 21 

To fry Shad 31 

Salmon 

Boiled Salmon 



31 
31 

Broiled Salmon ^1 

Broiled Fish \-i 

Salmon rolled , ^^ 

Fried Smelts 



Clam Soup 

Oyster Soup 

To fry Haddock. . 

Brook Trout 

Dish cf fried Cod 
Cod-fish Cakes 



Fried Shad ^ J 



Salt Mackerel 



34 



2iiFresh Mackerel, soused.^..... ^^ 



126 



INDEX. 



Broiled Cod 34 

Fried Cod 34 

Salt Cod-fish 3J 

Dried Cod-fish 3 

Stc.vcd salt Cod 35 

A dish of cold boiled Cod 35 

Eel Broth 3j 

Stewed Oysters 35 

Oyster Sauce 36 

To Iry Oysters 36 

Fish Sauces 36 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes 37 

Coukincf Potatoes 37 

Vegetable Soup 38 

Brilla Soup 38 

Soup 38 

To dress celery 38 

Drying Pumpkins 39 

Green Peas 39 

Onions 3D 

To cook Tomatoes. 



Green Beans 40 

Sweet Corn 40 

Baked Beans and Peas 40 

Corn Oysters 4C 

BSEAD AND BISCUIT. 

■White Bread 41 

Indian loaf bread 41 

Rye and Indian bread 41-43-41 

Good brown bread 42 

Brown, or Dyspei)sia bread 42 

Brown bread 44 

Dyspepsia bread 44 

Pumpkin bread 44 

Sago bread 44 

Cheap bread 44 

Corn meal bread and cake 45 

Pace bread 46 

Scotch bread 47 

Eye meal bread 47 

Premium Avheat and Indian bread 47 

Eice bread and Muffins 47 

Milk biscuit 47 

Soda biscuit 47 

Biscuit, or rolls 48 

Arrow-root drops, or biscuits 48 

Block Biscuits 48 

Cinnamon Biscuits 48 

Eeceipts for making yeast 48-49-50 

PRESERVES AND JELLIES. I 

To preserve Barberries CI 

Easpberry Jam 51--2 

Peach Jam 62 

To preserve Damsons '2 

The Tomato as food £2 

Tomato Catsup 53 

Tomato Sauce 53 



Tomato Figs 53 

To boil Pears ^ 54 

To stew Pears 54 

Preserved Pears ; 4 

To preserve Grapes 54 

Strawberry Jam 54 

To preserve Quinces 54 

To preserve Peaches, Plums, &c 55 

Scotch Marmalade 56 

Honey Butter £6 

Apple Butter £6 

Currant Jelly 56-57 

Rhubarb Jam 67 

Apple Sauce 57 

Ai pie Island 57 

Orange Marmalade 58 

Apple Jelly 58 

To bake Apples 58 

DESSERT AND SIDE BISHES. 

Poached Eggs 59 

To boil Egcs 59 

Egg Omelets 59 

Fruit Cream 59 

Charlotte Russe 59 

Blanc Mange 59-63 

Brandy Peaches 63 

Cup Custards 63 

Orange Custards 63 

Ice Currants 61 

Icing f T Cake Gl 

Ice Cream 61 

Ice Crram, with fruit 63 

Snow Cream 63 

Cream Custard 63 

Cheiry Ice Cream 62 

Currant Ice Cream 62 

Pine Apple Cream 63 

Lobster Salad 63 

Asparagus and Eggj 63 

Asparagus boiled 63 

PASTRY. PIES. 

Pic Crust 64 

Plain Custard Pie 64 

Rhubarb Pies 64 

Custard Pies 65 

Pumpkin Pies 65 

Pigeon Pi2 65 

Ovster Patties 66 

Potatoc Pie 66 

Mince Pie 66-67 

Lemon Pie 67-63 

Mock Apple Pie 63 

Squash Pie 63 

Rice Pie 63 

Tomato Pie 69 

Peach Pie 69 

Corn Starch Pie 69 

Chicken and Tui-key Patties 69 

Apple Pie 70 



INDEX. 



127 



Quince Pudd5n» 90 

Baked potato puudiuij 91 

Almond Pudding 91 

Custard Pudding 91 

Flour pudding 92 

Sago pudding 93 

Boiled custard pudding ^^ 

Uice pudding 93-9-t 

Boston apple pudding 91-93 

Indian pudding 9o-96 

Lemon pudding 9G 

Vcrrpicelli pudding 97 

Suet pudding 97-101 

Spring pudding 97 

Batter pudding 98 

Dread pudding 93 

Christmas pudding 98-99 

Plum pudding t9 

Bye pudding 100 

Apple custard pudding 1C9 

Bird's nest pudding 100 



Cherry Pie 70 

Whortleberry Pie 7-.- 

Berry Pies 70 

Bmail Puffs 7u 

"Washington Pie 71 

Cream Pie 71 

CAKES. 

Eye Cake 71-72 

Corn Cake 72 

Corn Griddle Cake 72 

Tea Cake 72-73 

Tuml.ler Cake 73 

Sponge Cake 73-74 

Seed Cake 74 

Lfmon Cake 71-75 

Queen Cake 75 

Short Cake 75 

Cold Water Husk 75 

Pound Cake 70 

Prairie Cake 70j Berry pudding..... 100 

Louisa Sponge Cake 76, Cottage pudding 101 

Loaf Cake 76jEnglish plain pudding 101 

Temperance Cake 77 Corn pudding 101 

Indian Meal Puffs 77] Arrow root pudding 101 

Bread Cake 77jCraeker pudding 102 

Bice Cake 77-78'Cocoa-nut pudding 103 

Green Corn Cake 78 j Fine apple pudding 102 

Cookies 78 Pudding Sauce 103 

Jumbles 79 

Washington Cake 79 

Buckwheat Cake 79 

Pan-cake 80 

Indian Cake 80-8ll(j„pe ^;ne 103 

Hard \\ afcrs 81' Cnnant wine 103 

Plum C^ke • • -SllElderbcrry wine 104 

Cream Cake 8l-83:p^,i^i,,arb wine 104 

Doughnuts 82-83 Cottage beer 104 

Apple Fritters . .83 (jigger beer 103 

Hoe Cake 83-84 ij,-,p i^ggr 105 

Ci-^^l'*^i-s ..84]yiead 105 

Gingcr-nuts 84-85 'c,pi.„(,e l,eer 105 

Muffins ......... 85 rj, ijle Ijcer 103 

Gold Cake— Silver do 80 

Cocoa-nut Cake 86| COOKESY FOR THE SICK. 



DOMESTIC WINES AND FAMILY 
BEVERAGES. 



Oyster Corn Cake 

Western Cake 

Common Cake 

CidtrCakc 

One ogg Cake 

Frosting for Wedding Cake 

Giiigcrtiread 

Pork Cake 



.87| 

, 87 Cookery for the sick room 106 

. 87 Boiling 106 

, 87 Baking 107 

,87 Roasting 107 

. 87 A rrow root 1C7 

,83 Calves-foot blanc-mange 1C7 

. 88 Beef tea 108 



Harrison Cake , 83 Chicken jelly 108 

Coffee Cake 88 Gruel 1C3 

j Pearl sago 1C8 

Esjgs, and egg gruel 1C9 

I Water gruel l'"9 

Observations on making puddings 89 Mint, balm, and other teas 1C9 

Transparent pudding 89 Mutton bruth 109 

Cheshire pudding 90 Arrow root custards 110 

Tapioca pudding '. 90 Airow root jelly 110 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



128 INDEX. 



Quick made broth IIOJ MISCELLANE0T7S. 

Veal broth H^^c u .-^ x ^ m 

Broth or beef, mutton or veal Ill ' Subslitutes for Tea ..... 119 

Calvcs-fcct broth Hi! To take out ink, fruit spots, and iron 

Chicken broth IllLino"!^!^ 119 

Tapioca jelly Ill J^'^J Ants 23 

^ •" • Rats and Mice 120 

To make hens lay in winter 120 

Borax 120 

Gilt Frames 120 



MEDICINAL DEPAETMENT. 

Medical preparations and herbs, as every 

family ousjht to keep on hand 112'To preserve furs 120 

Poison antidotes 112-113 Hair Wash I'Jl 

Hydrophobia 11?-114^ Removing sunburn 121 

Drowned persons, to restore 114 Valuable disinfectant 121 

Ear-ache 115 To wash flannel without shrinkinsf. ...121 

Epilepsy 115 Starch "". 123 

Rheumatism 115 Scarlet on woolen 122 

Cancer llG|To remove glass stoppers 123 

Asiatic Cholera llGjTo season new earthen ware 123 

Bleeding Piles 117 |To clean alabaster 123 

Cholera 117 j Marble stains 123 

Diptheria, remedy for 117|Thc teeth 123 

Croup, cure for llSjTnk stains 123 

Sprains, treatment of 118, Scouring knives 124 

Bleeding at the lungs, to check 118 1 To mend crockery-ware 121 

Boib lisl 



— ^-". yfe ? 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




ROBERTS 

No. 143 Wo shin 

014 488 485 1 # 

jiBI.IHH 

"VlT'hioh. will l>e >ieiit free, to any addresH, .>ii rect^iq 
of tLe fidvertised price. 



•lean Ingelovv .s Poems. 1 vol. gilt top 5^1 .7,") ; 

Jean Ingelow's Studie.- for Stories. 1 vol. cloth 1 7'^ ' 

David Gray's Poems. 1 vol. gilt top 1 .)(i 

Alger's Poetry of the East. 1 vol. cloth 1 .00 

Charles Swain's Poems. Blue and gold, 1 2o 

Bulwer's Drain*«s aad Poems. Blue and gold, 1 li."» 

The Seei", or, Common Places Refreshed. By Xtv.u.u 

llr.NT '1 \..l^. gilt top, 3.00 

Memoirs of my L'fe and Writing.s. ]>y Edward Gibbon. 

(the Historitm.) 1 vol, rrjlt t(.M > .>o 






The Prince^ the IBousc; or David. 
The Pillai^of Fire. " 



The Throne of David 

Eno!) in ono volnine, 12ino 




;ed, cloth, ^\\t. Ti 



The J^ttptilar ** Heaven Hooks, ' ;i 
Heaven our Home. 
Meet fci^ Hoavv !i 
Life in '*^n^,i.i. 
Ta^or .-^ J'oarbings, or, the "\Ceil Lifted. 

Kacl in oue volume, 16ino. Clotli. 1' 



