
IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-S) 




fe 




// 







£ 






A 







y, 
^ 






1.0 



I.I 



11.25 



^1^ IIIM 

1^ 12.2 



Hi 



lAO 



2.0 



iiil 

U 11.6 



V] 



<? 



/^ 






^>. 




Hiotographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 873-4503 






! 




^ 


CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 


fCMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 



iV 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 






;"'^^WP^^'' 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any 
of the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming, are 
checked below. 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 



n 

I I Covers damaged/ 



D 



Couverture endommagee 

Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restauree et/ou pellicul6e 



□ Cover title 
Le titre de 



missing/ 
couverture manque 



D 



Coloured maps/ 

Caites geographiques en couleur 



□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. 



D 



D 



D 



n 



autre que bleue ou noire) 



Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material/ 
Relie avec d'autres documents 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La reliure serree peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distorsion le long de la marge interieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have 
been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajout^s 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
fTiais, lorsque cela etait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas ete filmees. 



Additional comments./ 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



This Item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction mdique ci-dessous. 

10X 14X igy 



J 



12X 



16X 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il 
lui a k\k possible de se procurer. Les details de cet 
exemplaire qui sont peut-£tre uniques du point de vue 
bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier une image 
reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une modification 
dans la methode normale de f ilmage sont indiques 
ci-dessous. 

□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 

□ Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommagees 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaurees et/ou pellicul^s 

~~7\ Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
^ ' Pages decolorees, tachetees ou piquees 



Pages detached/ 
Pages detachees 



Showthrough/ 
Transparence 



mpression 





Quality of prini varies/ 
Qualite inegale de I'imp 

□ Continuous pagination/ 
Pagination continue 

□ Includes index(es)/ 
Comprend un (des) index 

Title on heeder taken from:/ 
Le titre de t'en-tfite provient: 

□ Title page of issue/ 
Page de titre de la livraison 

□ Caption of issue/ 
Titre de depart de la 



□ Masth 
Gener 



livraison 



Masthead/ 

ique (periodiques) de la livraison 



22X 



26 X 



3C; 



20X 



24 X 



28X 



32 X 



j'il 
:et 
ie vue 

tion 
es 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

National Library of Canada 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ► (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may bo filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



L'exemplaire film6 fut reproduit grfice d la 
g6n6rosit6 de: 

Bibliothdque nationale du Canada 



Les images suivantes ont dtd reproduites avec Ie 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nettetd de l'exemplaire film§, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 

Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimde sont filmds en commenpant 
par Ie premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par Ie secor 
plat, selon Ie cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmds en commengant par la 
premidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche, selon Ie 
cas: Ie symbole — ^ signifie "A SUIVRE", Ie 
symbole V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent §tre 
film^s d des taux de reduction diffdrents. 
Lorsque Ie document est trop grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul clichd, il est filmd d partir 
de Tangle supdrieur gauche, de gauche d droite. 
et de haut en bas, en prenant Ie nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



1 


2 


3 




32X 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



SOUSMOLD HECIFES 



t 




OB 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



MY 



A MONTREAL LADY* 



/ /^ c/^^**<»^ *«>^^r/ 



«»■■•> 






MONTREAL i 

FSISrrg© SY i*, A. STSVEKSOK, 37. tSUNCOIS SA7!£R ST. 

1865. 



F.nteMd according to Act of the Provincial Legislatnro, in the year 
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, by C. Hannah, in the Office of 
the Registrar of the Province of Canada. 



; 



I'laEllP^OE. 



; ■^'" 



Kany ladies in the fashionable ciioles of Montreal 
have urgently commended the exoellenoe of the Recipes 
contained in the following pages. They combine the 
greatest novelties in the art of cooking with those ap- 
proved Recipes, which have generally entered into ordi- 
nary use. It will be observed that particular attention 
has been bestowed on the mode of preparing Side-dishes 
or UntfeTnets, an omission which ha,8 been much com- 
plained of in other works on the aame subject. The 
Authoress has endeavoured to supply a want which has 
been long experienced in the culinary department, and 
trusts her efforts will be appreciated by the publiOr 



Montreal, DecembeTf 1865* 



HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. 



i 



' « » » » »■ 



I.— VERMICELLI SOUP. 

The stock for this soup should be made from poultry 
cither turkey or fowls ; when sufficiently done, put ir 
a good pinch of saiTron, a couple of blades of mace, blends 
cd fine, pepper, salt, and a saucer-full of vermicelli, le- 
it boil a quarter of an hour; the red cayenne pepper i1 
preferable. 

2. — SOUtB JULIENNE. 

Take three carrots, ditto turnips, onions, celery, and s 
half of a cabbage, cut them all as small as possible, take a 
lump of butter, about a quarter pound, put it in a sauce- 
pan and fry your vegetables in it, have your beef stock 
made the day previous, put it down in a pot to boil with 
all your vegetables, adding some parsley, pepper and salt ; 
leave it boil at least three hours, then serve it. 

3^. — PEA sour. 

A quart of split peas, to two galbu^} of water, when 
boiled three hours, put in a handful of dried mint, a 
couple of tea-spoonsful of thyme, pepper and salty have 
ready a fryii^-pan witb a small piece of butter, slice five 
onions in it, when fried throw all in the soup, keep stir- 
ring it constantly, so as to* thicken it, leave it boil four 
hours, this soap when made of whote peas, after they are 
boiled must be mashed through a cullender, fry %i&€ 



— 6— 

fittle pieces of bread, put them in the soup-tureen and 
pour the boiling soup over them. 

4.— -MOCK TUETLE SOUP. 

BoU some beef to make the stock, a carrot, some thyme, 
a couple of onions, allspice^ and whole pepper, which must 
be tied m a bag, then parboil the oalve's head and foet, 
when boUed sufficiently, so as to come easily oflF the bone 
cut It m small pieces, strain the broth, and mix it with the- 
beef stock; make some forced meat of veal, chopped very 
fine, suet, thyme, savory, a little grated crumbs of bread, 
one egg, some pepper and salt ; form this mixture into small; 
balls the size of marbles, flour them and fry them in 
suet, a nice light brown ; take three eggs, boil them hard, 
take the yolks and pound them fine, roll them in flour 
which you throw with the rest of the ingredients inU) 
the soup, add some wine, ketchup,, and cayenne pepper 
to taste. ^^ 

5. — OYSTER SOUP. 

Strain the juice of the oysters, add a Uttle water, as^ 
much milk as juice, a good lump of butter, three blades 
of mace well blended, salt, pepper, add a little flour or 
crackers, rolled fine ; let it boil, pour the boiling juice over 
the oysters, after placing the latter in the soup-tureen. 
Some persons boil the oysters in the liquor, but that takes 
all the flavor of the oyster away and diminishes them in. 
size. 



< 



s 



4 



6. — BARLEY SOUP. 

Make your brotL of beef, when boiled akin it thoioudi. 



' 



! 



-^7 — 

ly, put in two or three onions, some celery chopped fine, a 
couple of turnips, season it with salt and pepper, »dd 
half a pound of barley, after being well washed, and 
leave it boil an hour and a half. 

7. — MACOARONI SOUP. 

Make a stock of beef, put in red cayenne pepper, and 
salt to taate, boil some maccaroni in milk, add this to the 
broth, with some ground mace, and serve it hot. 

8. — BALL SOUP. 

Make rich turkey broth, which season with mace, 
pepper and salt, fry some onions with a small piece of 
suet, roll some soda crackers fine, beat up two eggs, mix 
with the onions a little ground ginger and the eggs 
together with the rolled cracker, and form them into 
balls ; if not moist enough add a little boiling water, throw 
the balls in the boiling broth, leave them boil a quarter of 
an hour, they should rise to be twice the siae they were 
when first put in ; this is considered a very choice Boup. 

9. — GRAVY SOUP. 

Make a good beef stock, grate a carrot fine, skin half a 
dozen tomatoes and mash them through a cullender; 
flavor wit 1 port wine, ground allspice, black pepper and 
salt ; this is a fashionable soup for company, it is not ex- 
pensive and very simple to make. 

10. — BEEF TEA FOR INVALIDS. 

Take a piece of the surloin of beef, which cut in very 
email pieces, put it down with boiling water, leave it boil 



i 



— 8 — 

till all the juice of the beef is extracted, add a very little 
suit and servo it with dry toast ; be careful to remove all 
the bcum that arises* 

11. — UARE sovy. 
Wash and clean three hares, put them down to boil 
with a good size pieoe of pork, when the hares are half 
boiled take them up, cut off tlic meat fj-om the back 
bones and thighs, put the remainder of the bones back in 
the pot to boil, when all is sufficiently cooked strain the 
broth through the cullender, put it on the lire a<xaiu with 
the meat previously taken off the hares chopped fine, 
add some wine, allspico, pepper and salt, onions and celery 
chopped fine, or any other vegetables according to taste ; 
this soup can be made with either beef or pork. 

12. — BEAN BOUP. 

Make a good stock of beef m the usual manner, put 
your beans over night to soak in cold water, throw them in 
the soup with three or four onions, chopped fine, salt and 
pepper to taste, leave them boil an hour and a half, then 
serve it.. 

SAUCES. 

13.^ — MUTTON SAUCE. 

Sauce for boiled mutton, should be made with the 
yolk of one egg well beaten, a table-spoonful of flour, two 
table-spoonful of vinegar, put a cup of the boiled mutton 
broth into a sauce-pan over the coals, stir in the mixture 
till it thickens, then take it off, if you leave off stirring it 
the egg will turn, and the beauty <tf this sauce is ia hav- 
ing it .smooth. 



% 



>* 4 ♦ 



-d- 



% 



i ^ ^ 



14. — POWL SAUCE. 

A table-spoonful of butter, the sainc of f?our, then add 
boiling water; keep stirring it ever the fire till it thickens, 
to the consifttenoy you require it, if too thiek add more 
water* 

15.— MINI* SAUCE. 

Chop the leaves of green mint tine, put it down with 
some water, a little sugar, vinegar, and a little butter, 
serve this with roa«t lamb. 

16. — SAUCE A La maVonnaise. 

Put a sauce-pan on the fire, beat up three yoiks of 
eggs with salt and a little lemon juice, keep constantly 
Stirring it, whilst doing so add some olive oil, put aa 
much oil in as will thicken it well, this is used for chick- 
en or fish salad and makes a nice dish for supper. 

n.—OVSTEB SAUCE. 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and the same quan- 
tity of milk, a small piece of butter, gome mace, pepper, 
salt and a little of the ju'ico of whatever poultry you are 
boiling; mii in some flour to thicken it, then add the 
oystefs and serve it in the sauce boat. 

18,-^TOMATOE SAUCE. 

Put down to boil a dozen tomatoes, (after having 
skinned them by pouring boiling water over them,) with 
a good siate piece of butter, four large onions cut in pieces, 
a tumbler of beef broth, parsley chopped fine, a couple 
of oIOTes, salt, whole pepper and some grated nutmeg. 



; li 



1 



—10— 



Btir it constantly, when well mashed pass it through the 
euUender ; this sauce can be made in the same manner 
as tomatoe ketchup. 

19.— SAUCE A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Melt together some butter, parsley, chopped onions, 
salt, pepper, and some lemou juice at the time of serving 
your meat, vegetables or fish ; you pour this sauce over 
them. 

20. — FISH BAUCE. 

A table-spoonful of flour, ditto of butter, take a little 
of the water the fish is boiled in, put iu a little anchovy 
catsup, which gives it a nice flavor, and stir it over the 
fire till it thickens. 

21. — DRESSING FOR LOBSTER SALAD. 

Boil three eggs hard, take the yolks, mash them fine 
with a spoon, and beat them up with a little flour of 
Qiustard and some olive oil, until it become* perfectly 
smooth, then add some vinegar and pour this over the 
lobster ; this is the Italian way of dressing it. 

22.— PUDDING SAUCE. 

Put down a tumbler of wine, a little hot water, and a 
imall lump of butter^ a tea-epoonful of flour, and sugar 
to taste, stir it till it bolls ; this sauce is used with all 
kinds of boiled puddings. 

23. — ►APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare and quarter your apples, put them down with 



/. 



t * \ 



! . 



^ -^ > 



sufficient water to coYor them, add sugar and a little 
piece of butter, and three or four clovei; this sauce ia 
used for roast goose and pork. 

24.— CRANBERRY SAUCEr 

Cranberries being very sour, you must put a good deal 
of sugar to them and a very little watsr as they make a 
great deal of juice, add some whole cinnamon broken in 
pieces ; the fruit must be all burst before removing it from 
the fire. 

25.- BF D SAUCE FOR PARTRIDGES. 

Put down some milk 'to boil, crumble in some stale- 
bread crumbs, leave it boil till rather of a thick consist- 
ency, and serve it with gravy sauce,. 

2"B.— GRAVY SAUCE. 

Take the gravy of whatever you aie roasting, stand it 
over the fire with a little flour, pepper and salt, leave it 
boil a few moments and then serve. 

'27. — CBLERY OR ONION SAUCE, 

Chop the celery or onions fine, boil it in water till 
tender, mix a little flour in milk, stir it into the boiling 
8&uCe, adding a small piece of butter and a little salt. 

28.— FISH. 

Boiled fish in general never takes more than a half aD 
hour to cook, it should invariably be boiled in a cloth, 
and served at the table on a napkin, garnished with greeo 
parsley ; boiled sal^ott should be served with fennel sauce, 



4 I 



-12- 

29.-— FRIED SALMON. 

Out the salmon in slices of a half an inch in thicknessy 
Wash it and dry it well with a cloth, then roll each piece 
in flour, have a couple of the yolka of eggs well beato i, 
roll the pieces in the egg and have some sweet oil in the 
frying-pan ; when well heated lay your fish on the pan, not 
too crowded, strew a little salt over them, when fried a 
light brown color lay them on the dish, gartiished with a 
lemon sliced in pieces^ 

30. — ^^FRIED FLOUNDEBS AU GRATIN. 

Put some butter down to heat, have your fish well 
dried, crumble some bread with parsley, eschalots cut 
fine, mushrooms, pepper, salt and grated nutmeg ; roll 
your flounders in this mixture, and fry them a light 
color. 

81.— BROILED FISH. 

All fish to be broiled should be well dried in a cloth, 
and the gridiron made perfectly hot, otherwise the fish 
is difficult to be cooked without breaking, put a little 
melted butter over the fish when cooked. 

32.— STEWED PISH, WHITE 8AUCB. 

Out dor^ or esturgeons in slices a half of an itich 
thick, put down the stew pan with sorae butter, or two 
or three table-spoonsful of salad oil ; slice four or five 
onions, sorae chopped eelery and some parsley, fry these 
in the butter or oil, then add a little water, salt, red pep* 
per chopped fine, groundl mace and a little safirou, put 
in your fish, the water should half cover it, let it stetr 



V /I 



-13- 

slowly, have ready three yolks of eggs with some Iemo» 
juice or vinegar, if lemons cannot be procured a couple of 
table-spoonsful of vinegar will be suflScient, dredge a lit-- 
tie flour in the stew, take out the fish when cooked, lay 
thera on your dish ; take off the stew pan off the fire, add 
the eggs and lemon juice to the gravy and stir it a min- 
ute or two till it thickens, do not let it boil or it will 
curdle, throw the gravy over the fish on the dish and 
garnish it with slice lemons ; this way of cooking fish ia 
preferred when cold. 

33.— STEWED FISH WITH BALLS. 

The fish must be cooked as above, the livers of the 
fish must be chopped fine, with onions, pepper, salt, mace, 
nutmeg, and a little ginger ; beat up a couple of eggs and' 
add them to this mixture, add some bread' crumbs and roll 
them in crumbs of bread the size of a marble, throw these 
into the stew and leave them boil, then serve as above. 

^J.— STiiWED FISH; BROWN SAITCE. 

Cut your fish as before-mentioned, have ready sliced 
onions, allspice, pepper, salt, garlic and ginger, put all 
these down in a sauce-pan with vinegar, put in the 
fish; add two table-spoonsful of brown sugar, then mix 
sonie flour wi'th an ounce of butter, that is if the fish 
is not fat, if 80, only brown some flour and add it to the 
sauce which should be cooked with the fish ; oome put 
treacle instead of sugar. 

3.5, — STEWED PISH WJTH POET TflNE. 

Prepare everything as for the brown stew, only add 



lomeport of claret wine" with a little water, and onlj 
one table-spoonful of sugar .^ 

36.— FRIED OYSTERS. 

Have acme bread crumbs on a plate with salt, thyme, 
pepper, and one egg well beaten ; roll each oyster in the 
mixture, and then frvm.lard or butter a light color. 

37.— FISH PIE.( 

Line the dish with paste as for any other pie, boil cod 
or haddock, it is best when cold, take out all the bones 
and skin, lay the fish ia layers, season it with salt, red 
cayenne pepper and, a little ground mace, to each layer 
throw some mushrooms, broken in pieces and some an- 
chovy sauce, make some small balls of butter rolled in 
flour, the size of small marbles, stew them over each 
layer till the dish is filled, add a half cup of the water the 
fish was boiled in, coyer it with j^aste^and then bake it., 

B'8. — FISH BALLS. 

Boil some salt ood, when cold take out the bones, 
chop it fine with some onions and a good quantity of cold 
potatoes, season it and roll it in flour or bread crumbs 
in balls the size of an apple, and fry them in hot lard or 
butter ; this mixture is nice, put in a pudding dish and 
baked instead of being naade in^allak^ 

SST—FISH ' SANDWICHES.'^ 

Cut two thin rounds of bread and butter, then have 
some fish "boiled, lay liume fiikes on the buttered bread, 
jpd 1^ some anchovy paste slightly over them, and cover 



( ' ^ 



; ' 



i\ 



i V 



/ ' 



4\ 



it wiOi tlie other round of bread, cut it in diamond of 
square shapes, lay them on a dish, and garnish with 
parsley. 

40.— MEATS*- 
• To boil a Le^ of Mutton. 
To M\ ft leg of mutton it should be put down ivr 
feoUing water, it will talce an hour and a. half to cook ;. 
if large, two hours; make egg sauce, which has been 
previously expliuncd under the appellation of mutton 
sauce, throw a little over the mutton, mixed with capers ; 
boiled muttou should be served with boiled turnips as a- 
garnish. 

41.— BOILED^ TTmKET OR FOWLSv 

A turkey will take two hours to cook, make oyster 
or celery sawe for this dish and always have boiled 
onions whole served up as a vegeUble with it, the liquor 
will make good soup. 

42.— BOILED BA€ON AND BEANS. 

The baeon should be put down and allowed to stew 
slowly, when the beans are well boiled it must be put in the 
oven and baked. 

43.'— CORN BEEP. 

If a brisket, two hours and a half will boil it, if a^ 
round ax hours; garnish a round of beef with carrots 
and beets, cut in shapes. 

44. — STEWED FOWLS. 

Q^ wmsr chickens in pieces, the thighs, legs, wings, 



neok, breast-bone out in two, back-bone in two, meiry- 
thousht and giblets, put all down and half cover J^^^ 
water, steW it an hour andi a quarter,, season it witb> salt, 
l«pper, mace well blended, parsley chopped tine and some 

iarlic add a Uttle ftour Mended in water, when cooked 
^ke up the fowl, have prepared the yolks of two eggs, 
two tablc-spoonsfui of vinegar, pour this m the pan, stand 
a on the fire, stir it till it thickens, then throw it over the 
chickens. 

45. TO COOK calves' BfiAINS. 

Soak the brains in water, then drrdn them, and lay 
a piece of butter in the sauce-pan, put them m thebutt^, 
when melted then put iu some crumbs of bread, grated 
nutmeg, some onions, pepper, salt,, thyme,, and parsley,, 
a glass of wine and a half a cup: of water.. 

4'6.— A ROAST-BEEF HASH. 

If there is any cold roast-beef it makes a nice hash for 
breakfast, cut it up in small pieoes, cover it half with 
water, dredge some flour, pepper, salt, (the whole red- 
pepper chopped fine is preferable), three omons, n d if the 
beef is not fat, a small lump of butter or suet, stew jt 
one hour. 

4'T. — IRISH STEW. 

Put down three pounds of mutton chops, half a dozen' 
potatoes cut in pieces, so as to thicken the gravy, a 
couple of carrots cut small, three small turnips, and 
three onions, all cut fine, salt and pepper, not quite as 
mueh water as will cover them, an* one table-spoonful ot 
augar, let it stew an hour and a half, add as many pota- 



1 






— IT— 

toes as is required for dinner, to come up whole to tfie' 
table, leave it cook half an hour. 

4&. — STBEWED PiOBONS. 

Cut the pigeons in pieces or stuff and cook them 
whole, with some six onions cut in ulices ; pepper, salt,. 
and a little water, brown a couple of table-spoonsful ot 
flour and when of a light color, throw a little of the 
gravy on it tiU quite blended, then stir it in with the 
pigeons till it thickens the- stew. 

49. STEWED LAMB WITH ASPARAGUS. 

Cut your lamb- in pieces, put it down wi».h pepper, 
gait, and a conple of blades of mace, add your asparagus or 
young peas, tdme enough to cook them, take the yolks ol 
three or four eggs weU beaten with four table-spoonsful 
of vinegar, or the juice of a lemon, and' a table-spoonful of. 
browu sugar ; take out the lamb, add the eggs to the 
gravy and thicken it over the fire, then throw it on the 
lamb and asparagus. 

50.— STEWED SWEET BREAD.. 

Ha-e some veal broth made, add some marjorum,oi 
thyme, mace, pepper, and salt, stew the sweet^bread, 
when done, thicken the gravy with a little flour and the 
beaten yolks of two ^s. then throw it over the sweet- 
bread. 

51. — STEWED VEAL. 

Cut the fore quarter of veal, taking off the shoulder 
into small pieces, put it down with some cloves, whole 



gmgor, 



garlic chopped fiae, and pepper and* salt ; stew. 



a 



— 18— 

slowly two hours, brown two table-spoonsfiU of flonr, whicb 
naix with the gravy till it thiokens.- 

52. — STBWBD BACON AND BEAN8. 

Piit down your bacon witba cup of vinegar and water 
anough to cool it, add ginger, pepper, salt and allspice, 
string your beans and cut ttrem in halves, put these on 
time enough ta cook them and add browned flour to 
thicken. 

53. — TO BROWN DOWN A ROUND OP BEXF. 

Cut hole* all over your beef, have some stuffing made^ 
thus crumbs of bread of a two pound loaf, save the crust" 
to stew with thyme, parsley, sweet marjorum, red pepper, 
out fine,^ half a pound of suet chopped fine, allspice and 
salt ; fill up the holes in the beef with this stuffing, put- 
some fat on a sauce-pan, when melted skeworyourround',- 
tie it with a cord, flour it and put it down to stew ; keep 
kurniug it until itis browned,thea take away all the grease-; 
put on a pint of water, some of the crusts of bread, two- 
carrots cut in pieces, and some truffles, keep turning the 
beef often, and if the liquor is much reduced add some- 
more water I i* tdces three hours and a half slow cooking.- 

64. — VEAL CUTLETS. 

Prepare some bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and savory,, 
roll your cutlets in this mixture, and fry them in lard or- 
fot previously made hot. 

55.. — MUTTON PATTIES. 

Boil your mutton, then cut it in pieces, take a little of 
the water it was boiled in, grated nutmeg, mace, salt and 



. 



r 

i 



M 



i 



a little of tbo dried pepper, a small piece of butter, some 
flour dredged on, line your patty pans with paste, fiU 
them with the stew ; when cool cover them with paste 
eruBt, let them bake a light brown j to brush the yolk o£ 
an egg over the crust, gives it a good color before taking 
out of the oven. 

56.— FORCED MEAT BALLS. 

Buy some tender beef that is not stringy, chop it fine, 
some suet well chopped, thyme, salt, allspico, a couple of 
of eggs, roll them in flour, fry them in hot lard, fat or 
butter ; a quarter of an hour will cook them. 

57. — BEEFSTEAK. 

Always beat your steak well before putting it on the 
gridiron ; some cooks never wash a steak, but it is pre- 
ferable to wash it, as there is a good deal of handling 
before it is purchased; have your gridiron well heated, 
lay the meat on ; have ready a dish with some boiling 
water, pepper and salt, when your steak begins to brown, 
turn it in the gravy on the dish ; do this frequently be- 
fore it is cooked, this manner of cooking it makes a rich 
gravy; when finished lay it on the dish and throw a 
table-spoonful of melted butter over it ; some persons 
like onions sliced and fried to be served up with the 
meat. 

58. — VEAL CUTLETS EN PAJPILLOTBS. 

This is a dish I have frequently eaten of and can 
answer for its being good ; have your cutlets out the 
same as mutton chops, put in a dish some salad oil, 
.Ifimon or vinegar, savory, thyme, salt and pepper, put 



—20— 



your ctitleta to soak an hour in this miiture, then roll 
it in crumbs of bread ; have some white paper, soak the 
paper in oil, roll eaoh outlet in a separate paper; tie the 
paper at the bone, well, so as th<^ oil won't run out, have 
it drawn tight over the cutlets, fry them with a good 
piece of lard on a slow fire so as the paper won't burn ; 
serve it with the papillotes on. 

59. — BOAST BEEF. 

The flurloia and the ribs are preferable for roasting ; if 
possible roast before the fire in a spit, the taste of meat 
cooked in this manner ia quite different to being baked, 
put a little water at the bottom of the roaster ; pepper 
and salt as well on the beef aa in the gravy, dredge it 
well with flour, baste it frequently with the drippings, a 
piece of ten pounds takes two hours and a hdf, allow 
a quarter of an hour for each pound. 

60. — ROAST TtJREET. 

Cut under the leg of the turkey so as to take 
out the insides, be careful not to break the gall, if 
you should do so, wash out the inside immediately two 
or three times, cut off the gall from the liver, open the 
gizzard and clean it hy pulling off the «kin which is in- 
side, open at the neck, take out the craw which contains 
the food, and wash the inside of the turkey thoroughly ; 
put your dressing in at the neck, when well stuffed tie 
the dressing down to the neck, the dressiag is made the 
same as for wild birds and fowls, with bread crumbs, 
salt, {^pper, thyme, a lump of butter, melted, and one 
egg, the French roast chestuuts, chop them £ne and stuff 



• < 






— 21 — 

the turkey with it, skewer the legs and thighs down, break 
the breast bone so as to flatten it, roast it in the same 
manner as beef; pour some of the gravy over the turkey 
and the remainder serve in the sauoe boat. 

61. — EOAST MUTTON. 

Is done in the same manner as beef, only served tip 
with cranberry or currant jelly, also serve mint sauce. 

62. — ROAST GOOSE OR DUCK. 

Should be stuffed with sage and onions, put down in a 
sauce-pan with a little butter, when cooked mix some 
bread crumbs with it and stuff the goose or duck, season 
it with salt and pepper ; some cooks prefer mashed pota- 
toes instead of onions, the former is the most fashionable. 

C3l — SAtrSAGES- 

Should be fried for breakfast or boiled with rice for 
dinner, they take but twenty minutes to cook, forms a 
nice side dish with boiled turkey ; sausage meat is made 
in the same manner as forced meat previously explained, 
and filled in the dried entrails of ozen or pigs. 

64.— ITALIAN SALAD OE CHICKEN SALAD. 

Roast a fowl, boil some beets, chop fine all the meat 
that is on the fowl with the exception of the l^s as 
they are too sinewy, chop wqual quantity of beets, one 
large head of celery and four hard boiled eggs, two of 
which you mix with the ingredients; dress them with 
plenty of vinegar, olive oil, the red cayenne pepper, salt 
and mustard ', when all is well mixed, put the mixture in 
your glass dish, garnish it with a sprig of parsley, the 



—22-. 

"Other two hard boiled eggs, out in roond trenohes and 
Bome of tho beet out ia small shapes, put each piece 
alternately vrhioh has a very pretty offeot, showiog four 
colors, green, white, red and yellow. 

65.-^TO BONE TURKBT IN JBI.LT. 

Begin at the neck of the turkey, take a sharp knife, 
loosen all the meat around the bone, as each member is 
finished take out the bone, when all is out, have l Jt 
tongue ready boiled and skinned, lay it in the centre of 
vthe turkey, the latter looks like a mass of skin till it is 
.stuffed; have some veal chopped fine, suet, crumbs of, 
bread, allspice, ground oloves, pepper, salt and savory, 
with a cup full of wine ; stuff your members of the turkey 
with this mixture so as each member may look like the 
original before the bone was taken out, also underneath 
the tongue as well as over, so as it may lay in the centre^ 
tie the turkey in a cloth and boil it one hour ; have some 
beef boiled down to a jelly, some white wine, the white 
of an ^g well beaten, pass your jelly through a flannel 
bag so as to clarify it, pour some of this in your turkey 
mould, sew up the skin of the turkey wherever it is broken ; 
if well stuffed it should be like a fat turkey, put it in a 
mould, cut a carrot in shapes, hard boiled eggs, cut in 
rounds and an olive laid all over *] u> >vi>3apt of the -tnikey , 
jpour oa the remainder of your ieily I ''- should ♦^e vvell 
filled, let it stand till cold, theii tma itxmt on a dish by 
bolding a doth wrung outof hot water to the mould a few 
minutes; this boned turkey has a very pretty effect with 
the olives and carrots shining throngh the jelly as also 
,wben cut down sUoifig the .red tongue in iheiseotre. 



1 1 



i\ 



i 



I 



>fl 



( 



> I 

I 



— 23-. 

60.— PRiEi) n^^y AJVD J 

pa-ley. „hen brown i,^ h m'T^^'i' f' """ '''"f^'' 
over tho meat. "'"tieflour; throw this gray; 

Cut «„m, ,."~"'''^'' SANDWICHES. 
'-'Ui; tsome slices of } ^ 

of corn beef off the round". '""' '"'"" '"^ * "■'» P'«« 
P»' - little „,u.t,.rd on thomeaTa?/ '."" """ '""""^i 
f'co of bread aud but.er , ?.^ °"!'' " > ''"" "no^her. 

-''-irtheeru3t,vone;;:r:ro:'t;::r^ 

'•-.ourbr£~::r:,;:--- 

.f PP«n put it to .oak in rlZlT' ""'^''^ ""^ "-ole 
'* ^^ery day; then p„t it dlwn with "' ^''' *^'' "'™ 
a eouple of earrota and a "erv h ^ """"S"'-''" "' "' «""- 
^0- Ming .Wiy; a roal^^:';:;':^' ' ^' " ^^'^ 

"""•t break it, beat „p th i ,t of """'''"'^^^^i"" •, 
over the head, have some brea , t T" "-"' '"'' «"-■" 
popper, st«,w it over the held .T'''' "'^'"''' '^'' »oJ 
»uet and some of the liqnor it ''t'? ". ^""^ '^^ "' 
oven to brown, add a Lie off,! r "^ '"' P»' '' " *» 
brains after being parboiled mat' '"•""'' ''^»* «P the 
" • -gs, a quarter of a pound of fl/" ^ ^^"P^^ 

oiiveoiJandaUttlen.ili'^-" 'f,^'^^^ ^ spoonful of 

"^;«^ix the brains with the j^aste 



" 



i 



— 24 — 

or batter and drop it by spoonfuls in boiling lard or butter ; 
garnish the head with the brains which ehould resemble 
small cakes, this is a nice looking dish. 

70. — ROAST PARTRIDGE. 

Wild birds should have the heads as well as feet left 
on, and turned over the breast under the wings or legs, 
they should be stuffed the same as turkeys and toasted 
bread should be laid on the dish under them ; the yolk 
of an egg bmshed over the breast of a partridge before 
being cooked gives it a goou appearance. Many don't 
»tuff partridges. 

71.— MINCE VEAL. 

i 

Boil the veal with a very small quantity of water, 
chop it up fine, put it clown again in the same water it 
was boiled in, with salt, pepper, a couple of onions chop, 
ped £ne, some ground mace and allspice, dredge a little 
flour to thicken the gravy. 

72. — MINCE MEAT FOR IPIEB. 

Boil a small piece of the round of beef or fresh tongue 
will answer the same purpose, chop it fine, pare, core 
and chop fine some apples, equal quantities with the 
meat, currants, raisins, some sliced citron, brandy, wine, 
brown sugar, ground cloves, allspice and nutmeg all to 
taste ; this preparation should be put in a crock and a 
half cup of molasses thrown over it, will preserve it foi 
ax months. 

73.— MUTTON CHOPS. 

Take the fore quarter of lamb, out Ae chops and 



fatten with a rolling pin, roll them in flour and fry them 
in their own suet, add pepper and salt and when well 
browned lift them on a dish, put a little flour in the pan, 
water sufiicient to make your gravy, stir all up well to- 
gether and pour over the meat ; another way to do mut- 
ton chops is to roll them in bread crumbs with thyme or 
savory instead of flour, the latter way is far preferable. 

SIDE DISHES. 

74, — OYSTER PATTIE8. 

Stew the juice of the oyster with a little milk, a 
small lump of butter, a blade of mace blended fine, a little 
salt and some flour to thicken it well, when boiled take it 
off the fire and throw in the oysters, fill your patties, which 
you have previously warmed with this mixture j cover 
them and serve. 

75. — SWEET BREADS, 

Stew the sweet bread with a very little water, pepper, 
salt, a little thyme, chopped parsley, a fi3W morelks or 
mushrooms broken up and stewed with them, dredge 
flour over it, and add a very small piece of butter ; sweet 
bread arc also very nice rolled in bread crumbs, and fried 
in butter. 

76. — RIS0LLE8. 

Chop some beef as if for forced meat, add some pepper, 
«alt, ground allspice, summer savory ; form this meat 
in long thick rolls ; roll them in bread crumbs and fry 
them in fat or butter, a couple of eggs beaten up and 



—25— 

added to the other ingredients is a great improvement to 
tnis dish. 

77. — STEWED GIBLETS. 

Take the necks, gizzards, Uvers and hearts of any poul- 
tpr, putthemdown tostewwith water, a couple of onions 
chopped fine, pepper and salt; the red garden pepper is 
preferabe fcr thisj brown two table-spoonsful of flour 
and thicken ti e gravy with it. 

78. — VilAL CROQUETTES. 

Chop some of the breast of veal fine, put it down to 
stew with a cupful of white wine, a little water may be 
added, pepper, salt, thyme, and a little ground alkrice 
when cooked have ready some bread crumbs, mixed with 
a Jittle summer savory or thyme, and roll them in it in 
the shape of flat cakes, fry these brown in fat, butter, or 
lard. ' ' 

79.— ROULADES DE FILLET DE VEAU AUX CHAMPIGNONS 

Cut slices from oflF the breast of veal, roll them flat with 
a rolhng-pin, make a stuffing with bread crumbs in the 
usual way, take a small lump of tMs and lay it in the 
middle of each slice of veal, roll the veal over it and tie 
It up with a piece of string or cord, fry these roulades in 
butter on the frying-pan; make a stew of mushrooms or 
champignons and lay these round the side-dish with the 
roulades in the centre. 

80.— CROQUETS DE VEAU AUX HUITRES. 

Put down a piece of veaJ to boil, when done mince it 



/- ] 



J 



—27— 

«iiG with tbe usnal aeasoeing, adding a little groimd all- 
spice, mace and summer savoury, beat up three eggs light- 
ly, roll these ingredients into small baUsin bread crumbi 
and fry them in butter; fry some oysters as in No. 36, 
fill the side^iah with them, putting the croquets in the 
oentre. 

81.— VBAL CUTLETS BN PAPILLOTBS. 

Make the same according to the receipt No. 58. 

82.— STEWEDBOQNONSA LA SAUCE AU CHAMPAGNE. 

Cut up a beef's kidney into small pieces, put it down 
in a sauce-pan with a cupful of champagne and a very 
little water, a good lump of butter and some onions chopped 
fine, season with salt, pepper and any other spice, accord- 
ing to taste, and thicken it with browned flour. 

83.— TRIPE A LA SAUCE D'hOMARD. 

Take the tripe which you have previously put in salt 
and water for a couple of days, boil it till tender, make a 
sauce with butter, flour and water, pick out the meat of 
a lobster, chop it fine, put it down in the sauce to cook 
with crumbs of bread and a little pepper, add the tripe to 
it, boil the whole together thoroughly for a quarter of an 
hour and serve; this dish can be made in a deep plate 
with a pie crust under and over it. 



Al 






Potatoes plain boiled should be pared first and strew 
•alt o^er them whilst boiling, half an hour will cook them, 



— 28— 

drain off the water and let them dry a conple of minutei 
on the stove before senring. 

85. — MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil your potatoes soft, mash and mix them with butter, 
ground black pepper and salt ; a little milk or cream sof. 
tens them, lay them on a buttered common plate, form it 
round with a spoon, figure it with a fork, let them brown 
in an oven for an hour, when browned nicely pass them 
quickly off the plate into the vegetable dish, 

86.— POTATOES A liA MAITEB D'HOTEL, 

Take your cold boiled potatoes, chop them fine and 
put them down in a sauce-pan with some butter, parsley, 
salt, pepper and a cup of cream ; stew them ten minutes , 
this is a nice dish for breakfast. Potatoes sUced thin and 
fried crisp is also a nice way of cooking them. 

87.— ASPARAGITS 

Should be boiled in soft water without covering the pot 
as it keeps it gieen by being uncovered ; they should be 
tied in small bunches and part of the stalk cut off each 
one, toast, some bread,lay itonthe dish, untie the bunches 
of asparagus, lay them over on the toast,make some butter- 
aaucc and pour it over them. 

88. — GREEN PEAS.. 

Green peas, if young, take but twentyminutes to cook, 
if old, a half an hour, the same precaution is to be obser- 
ved about keeping them uncovered as with asparagus, 
either mint or lettuce should be boiled with them, puss 



.. 



1 -.' 



—29 — 

♦hem through the cullender and add butter, pepper, and 

•alt. 

89.— CRANBERRY BEAN. 

Cranberry bean should be podded and pat down with 
plenty of water, they take one hour to cook, season them 
the same q& peas. 

90.— 8AC0TASH. 

Boil some com and the long french bean, string them 
and cut them in pieces, cut the corn off the cob and 
when the beans are boiled mix and chop them with the 
cut com ; add butter, pepper and salt. 

91. — SPINACH. 

Spinach should be put in water to soak a couple of 
hours so as to take out alt the sand that ia under the 
leaves, wash it well through two or three waters, then 
put it down to boil ; it should only take a quarter of an 
hour to cook, slice some onions and fry them in butter, 
mix this with the boiled spinach when cooked, coddle 
six eggs, dress the spinach with butter, pepper and salt, 
lay each egg separate on the top of the spinach. To 
coddle eggs have some water boiling in a pot, crack the 
egg and let it fall in the boiling water ; in a minute the 
yolk will be all covered with the whites, they are then 
sufficiently done. 

92. — MORELLES AND MUSHROOMS 

Mushrooms have a great deal of sand in them, they 
therefore should be well washed through manj^waters, they 
should be put down to stew with half a cup of water at 



' -30- 

tlicy make a great deal of liquor^ a little salt, pepper, a 
lump of butter and a little flour, twenty minutes wilt cook 
them. To put a few of them in any stew you are making 
(as they impart a nice flavor to it,) you should pare ofF a 
little of the end like asparagus ; to dry them for winter 
use, they sheuld be strung on a thread and hung in some 
dry place, when required to use should be put in tioak 
over night. 

93. — EGO PLANT. 

Egg plant should be cut in thin slices and soaked for 
three or four hours so as to allay the bitter taste, have a 
batter made of milk, flour and eggs, lay each slice in th» 
batter and fry them in butter. 

94. — SQUASHES. 

Squashes should be cut in pieces when boiled tender ; 
then naashed and seasoned with butter, pepper and Halt. 

95. — STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel the cucumbers, put the blade of your knife in the 
side, icoop out as much of the end-part as possible, put 
your stuffing in the inside, which is made as follows: — 
boil a Httle real, chop it fine with some broad-crumbs, a- 
little of the broth of the veal, savory, salt, red pepper chop- 
ped very fine, some grated nutmeg, mix with it a couple 
of yolka of eggs, put in your sauce-pan some lard, lay in 
your cucumbers, cover them with a little more lard and 
some mince veal, lieave it cook slowly ; when tender lay 
the cucumbers in a vegetable dish, pour in a wine-glass 
of wine, a little butter and a littlt; flour,, reduce it a little 



— 31 — 



•acre, then throw this liquor over your cucuiahers which 
i* is necessary to have kept warm. 

96. — TOMATOES. 

Put in a sauce-pan a dozen tomatoes, having pre- 
fiously thrown boiling water over them so as to skin 
them ; a little salt, pepper, sugar and a lump of butter 
and some crackers rolled fine, let it stew slowly and 
serve. 

97. — CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower must be well washed a» there are a good 
many insects in them ; they take an hour and a half to 
boil, when done serve them with butter sauce. 

98. — JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Should be boiled, and when cold cut in pieces and 
dreased as a salad with oil, vinegar, mustard, salt and 
red cayenne pepper ; if preferred hot, should be serred 
with butter sauce the same as cauliflower. 

99. — BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Brussels sprouts are a peculiar kind of cabbage, each 
head being no larger than a very small sized apple, they 
should be boiled and served up to the table with butter, 
sauce the same as above; aU other vegetables are gener- 
ally cooked in the same manner. Beets when put down 
in the pot, should not be cut, untU after they are boiled. 

PICKLES. 

100.— BAST-INDIA PICKLE. 

Two ounces of tumene, a quiui^t wx » ^uu^• v. —»»• 



n' 



1' 



— 32— 

iwi seed, (quarter of a pound of flour of mustard, half an 
ounce of ground ginger, a tablespoon of curry powder, 
an ounce of ground popper and a litUe red cayenne pop- 
per, mix these ingredienti with two quarts of vinegar, 
let it boil and pour over the vegetables while hot, the 
vegetables should be composed of cauliflower cut in small 
pieces, small whole onions, small green tomatoes, small 
gherkins and the long red bean pepper, these should be 
put in a brine of salt and water for three days, then into 
cold water for three days, at the end of which time pour 
the hot liquid over them, they should be stirred with a 
wooden spoon every day for at least three mouths, then 
bottled and corked tight ; >bis pickle is only fit for use 
at the end of a year.. 

tot. — TJUTTERNUTS. 

Butternuts should be procured the last week in July 
whilst they are small and tender, put them to soak in 
brine for three days, then iu cold water three days more ; 
put down some vinegar to boil with whole allspice, whole 
blaok pepper and whole cloves ; this should be poured 
boiling hot over the nuts, they arc not fit to eat for tlirec 
or fou'r months. The liquor of this makes a good cat- 
sup. 

102.— GREEN TOMATOES OB GHERKINS. 

Prepare the brine as above mentioned, boil the vinegar 
wltli some whole green pepper and a very small piece of 
ahwn,, pour this boiling vinegar over the vegetable, in a 
week turn it off and boil it over again and pour it a 
second time over the vegetubles. , 



! 



V 1 



V \ 



—sa- 
les. — PICKLE FOR BEEP. 

To ono gallon of water, one pound of salt, a quarter 
•f a pound of moist brown sugar, half a quarter of an 
ounce of saltpetre, boil and skin it well, when cold use it, 

104. — PICKLE FOR PRESERVING EGOS. 

A half pint of salt and a half pint of unslacked lime 
to three gallons of water; boil, when cold have your eggs 
packed in the tinnct or tubj points downward, be careful 
to put down none but fresh eggs; the best way of try- 
ing them is to look each one through by candle light, 
when the pickle is cold pour it over the eggs. They 
should be well covered ; some preserve eggs by pack- 
bg them point downwards in layers of coarse salt, 
others rub the shell with butter and preserve them in 
this manner ; I prefer the lime water. 

105. — SOUSED SALMON. 

Boil your salmon and take the bones from it, it must 
be boiled in vinegar instead- of water, slow siuunering^ 
add whilst boiling some green fennel or dill and some 
blades of mace with a little of the red ground cayenne 
pepper, when cold this is a delightful relish for lunch. 

106.r— PICKLED OYSTERS.. 

Open the oysters and take each one away from it» 
Kquor, boil some vinegar equal quantities witii t^eUquor 
of the oysters; put in some whole mace, drop the oysters 
into the boiling liquor and lift them speedily from the 
fire, then bottle them ; this method keeps the oysters from: 
shriveliing. 



f' 



I 



I 



— 34 — 

107.— PASTET, PITDDINGS AND JELLIES. 

Paflte or rathur puflF paste nhould be wei^lled equal 
quantities of flour and butter, roll the butter as thin as 
can bo rolled in the flour, lay each piece of rolled butter 
on one side; tako the rest of the flour, put it in a bowl, 
add a little salt and some sprin- water, turn it with a 
spoon till the flour is all uiixed in the dou^^h, touch ,.aste 
^ little as possible with the hands as it makes it heavy • 
get some fresh flour, sprinkle your board with it, lay your 
dough on, roll it, then lay your rolled butter and flprinkle 
a little flour over it, roU it up, then roll it out and so on 
till you have used up your rolled buit.M-, which should be 
done in two or three turns, then put it ou your pie plates 
or patty pans and bake it in a hot oven a very li-ht brown 
•take a camel's hair brush and brush it over with the 
yolk of an egg, this gives it a golden color ; endeavour 
io make your paste as quickly as possible. 

108. — PIE CRUST. 

Take a half pound of batter to one pound of flour 
take your butter, break it in little lumps, then add a lit^ 
tie water t« your flour, reserving some of the flour to 
sprinkle with, make it into paste, lay your lumps of 
butter on it, sprinkle a little flour over them, roll them 
out three times laying the lumps of butter each time on 
It and beat it hard with a rolling pin ; when all the butter 
IS used up lay it on your pie-platea ; never roll paate but 
»a one side and put the thickest crust on the top. 

109. — APPLE PIE, 

Cut your apples in quarters, core them •na put them 



^ \ 




T f 



^ \ 



— 35 — 

down to stow with sugar and a little water, as also a 
bait a dozen cloves, teo minutes will stew them, lay your 
ortist on your pie-plate, get some dried orange peel oi 
preserved quince, cut it in little pieces and mix it with 
the Btcwtd apple, put this in the pie and cover it with a 
crust having wet the corners all round which makes tho 
top crust adhere better to the bottom one. 

110. — CHERRY PIE. 

Lay your crust on a deep pie-plate or pudding dish 
Btone your che, ies, put then in the pudding dish with 
a layer of sugar, then cherries, then sugar and so on till 
the dish IS filled, put on your crust, make an ornament 
of paste for the centre and bake it, be careful to use a 
deep dish as cherries make so much juice they require 
.no water. 

111. — MINCE PIES. 
Make y(mr mince meat a few days before nsin^ it 
which mixture can be made with or without the mea't as 
previously explained ; put it in your pie-plate or patty 
pans and cover it with a rich crust; you can hardly tell 
the difference between this way of making it with the 
toinced fruit or that which has the meat added to it. 

112. — COCOA-NUT PIES. 

Weigh three quarters of a pound of grated cocoa-nut 

having first pared off the brown part and grate it on 

that side ; cut up a half a pound of butter and a half 

pound of powdered sugar, stir them together to a 

^~m, »aa a wiu€ jjiaos yi Wine and some roso watei 



r 






', 



beat the whites of twelve cgga to a standing froth, then 
itir in the cocoa-nut, sugar and butter, which ought to 
have boon well beaten ; butter a dish, lay your puff paste 
on, put in your mixture and bake it a half an hour in a 
moderate oven ; grate sugar over it wheo cool and turn 
it off the baking dish on to your plates.. 

113,— RASPBERRY TART 

Lay some puff paste on a pie-plate, take your pre- 
served raspberries, lay them on ; put a bordering of paste 
around the plate, take some narrow lengths of paste, 
twist them, lay them from one corner across to the other; 
continue that, leaving half an inch between, when cover- 
c 1 cross them the reverse way, which leaves the pre^iervea 
Bliowing between the strips of paste ; then bake it ; any 
other preseiTed fruit ean be done in the same manner. 

114. — PUMPKIN PIE. 
Cut your pumpkin in slices, take out the seeds, stew 
tlicm with whole ginger, sugar, lemon juice and three 
eggs ; add the eggs when the pumpkin is stewed ; lay it 
on your paste and bake it. 

115. — RHUEARB PIES. 

Take the rhubarb and string it, cut it in small pieces, 
line your deep dish, put in your rhubarb with every layer, 
covered well with sugar and a little grated cinnamon, buke 
it till the rhubarb looks well cooked ; this pie can be co. 
Tered with a crust if you wish. 

116.— CUSTARD PIE. 

Make a custard with six eggs, a pint of milk and suffi-^ 



t 



( 



4 



doQi flour to thicken it, flavor it with six drops of rata^- 
fia, lay this mixture on your pie-crust and bake it quickly 
in a middling hot. oven, 

117. — POTATO PIE. 

Boil some sweet Carolina potatoes, mash them and put 
to them a pint of milk, a good lump of butter, three eggs, 
a wine glassful of wine, sugar and a little grated nut-meg, 
three potatoes are enough for this pie ; put the mixture 
in your pic aud bake it.. 

118.— LEMON PIE. 

Grate and put in the juice of a couple of lemons, three 
• eggs, a cup of molasses and some sugar, grated nutmeg, 
and half a cup of cream, mix this well together and pour. 
ft in your pie, bake it in a slow oven. 

119.— LEMON PIE (no 2.) 

Take three lemons, grate the rinds and squeeze the 
juice, add the yolks of three eggs, a table-spoonful of 
flour, a cup of white sugar and a cup of milk ; mix all. 
the i'ngrediente well together and pour it into the pies, 
beat up the whites of three eggs to a standing froth and 
mix with it two table-spoonsful of pulverised sugac ; 
when the pies are nearly cooked pour on this icing over 
them and sprinkle a little grated sugar on the top, when 
browned; this mixture will fill two pies and is considered 
a delicious pie. 

120.— PANCAKES. 

Make a batter of flour, a quart of milk, six eggs,* 



—38 — 

couple of tea^spoonsful of brandy; be careful to blend the 
flour well so as to have no lumps in it, put a little piece 
of butter, say the size of a hen's egg on the pan and pour 
a quarter of a cupful of batter on it. Pancake batter 
should be very thin, when the cake is done slip a knife 
all around it, turn it over quickly and let it fry slightly 
on the other side, lay them on the dish, sprinkle pulverl- 
sed white sugar over them, roll them up and lay each 
pancake over the other; instead of sprinkling the cake 
with sugar lay a thin layer of preserves, then roll it up, 
his way makes it very rich, some prefer no sugar, if so 
then serve It with golden syrup. 

121. — RICE AND MILK. 

it Iw ' r K T? f "'''' p^'^ '^^ ^^^^^ ^' ^«» ^"d put 

t down to boil with water ; when sufficiently cooked add 
three pints of milk, sweeten it to your taste and put in 
^me whole cinnamon, let it boil about ten minutes, then 
take three eggs well beaten and stir it in until it thick- 
ens ; serve it m a soup tureen. 

122. — COKN AND MILK. 

The corn hsBhi you wUlget in th« market, they also 
bring m.lk frozen to go with it; put the com down to 
ko.1 m water leave it boU half «> hour, drain off the 
water and add the frozen milk, stir it tUl it is melted, 
then add sugar to taste, when done beat up three e™ 
mix .t and serve it a, above mentioned; when cold to 
« delicious and considered a very wholesome didi. 

123— A Jf0ni4> OP BIOI AND COSTABD. 
A min nf ritm waU Iv-:i.ji ; 

— r "* "-- Wvii Muucma wttWE, wliea oeariy jtrnt 



I ■ * 

I 



J 



/ 



»dd a half cup of milk, let it boil till it floal^ op tfir 
inilk, then pour it in the shape; let it stand till cold: 
then loosen it around the mould with a pin or knife and 
turn It out on the glaas diah ; make a rich cuat^rd 
and pour it over the rice, some pour plain cream over 
the rice and lay a little lump of jam all around the dish 
as well as over it, this way is equally as nice as with 
custard. 

124.—SOET CTTSTARDS. 

Have a pot of boiUng water, what the French call a 
hain-manehoW your milk, beat up six eggs to the quart 
of milk, add a tea-spoonful of flour and a little essence 
of vanilla or ratafia; stir your egg while pouring the 
boilmg milk over them, add a tea-cup full of sugar, liave 
the eggs m a jug or tin-pail, stand your ju- in the pot 
of boiling water or bain^ane, keep stirring your custard 
till It thickens; when it feels thick to the spoon it is 
done, It takes but a quarter of an hour after standin- it 
m the boiling water ; pour your cust.-ird in custard cupg 
and let it cooK 

125.--CUSTARD BOUFPLfi. 

Cut a sponge cake into slices, lay them in soak in^ 
brandy, then put it on the bottom of a puddins dish 
throw a rich soft custard over it, then beat four whites 
of eggs to a froth, add three ounces of pulverised sugar 
lay the froth or souffle on the custard, stand it in the 
oven to brown, it takes but a few minutes to turn color 



i26.- 



-APPLE SOUFFLfi, 

Beat a dozen whites of eggs to a standing froth, mix ^ 



— 40 — 

pound of pulyerised sugar with it, stew down wmeapple. 

of the puddmg d«h pour your eggs on the top .nd put 
them ,„ the oven ; let it remain tUI it takes a light brown 
«.lor ; serve it immediately as it faUs if left any time, it 

whufllLrr"'"' "* ""' • ""'^ ''^'"' ^ *« ^ 

127.-APPLE CHARLOTTE, OR CHARLOTTE DB 

POMMES. 

when"', ^7 "''f ' i" '''"" ''"'^"' ™'* "'«' l-"" ">«■» ; 

mud tilt f" " "T' • "'*' *^'' '' -«"» 

round ,11 ,t forms a pyramid by having a quarter apple 
on the top, throw a rieh whip cream weU sweetened oL 
ftem, 80 as to look perfectly white, 

128. — CHARLOTTE KPSSE. 

This is an expensive dish, but a very dcrcious one- 
make a soft custard according to receipt before-mention: 
ed d,«olvc an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a litl 

U with a httlo vamlla, take a quart of cream beat it u„ 
w. h a whisk to a froth, sweet'en it, add it to he cu^T 
butter a mould and put sponge cakes in narrow sS 
ladies fingers cuttmg off the round, tops and botCI 
agamst the s.de of the shape as neati; as^posJble whTn 

It, pour It m the shape, lay your sponge cake in thto 

P'r "" ?" *"P' '*' '* »'»»«' «« boL ^d then tul U ' 
out on a glass dish. "™ '' 

I 



I / 






D some applef 
t the bottom 

top and put 
k light brown 

any time, it 
I to the eggs 



rTE DE 

boil them ; 
5 a smaller 
arter apple 
etened over 



cious one; 
e-mention- 
in a little 
it, flavour 
beat it up 
e custard, 
' strips or 
i bottoms 
)le; when 
arely stir 
3 in thin 
'n turn it 






—41 — 

12d.— BLANC- .VTANQE. 

Boil a quart of milk and sweeten it with white sugar 
to taste, dissolve an ounce of isinglass with a little milk, 
when dissolved add it to the milk; flavor it withessenc^ 
of ratafia or vanilla, twelve drops to the quart of milk, 
pour it in your mould, stand it on a plate of coarse salt 
till it hardens; if in summer, it is better to make it the 
day before it is required \ loosen the blanc-mange all 
around the mould, lay your hand on the top, when you 
find that it has the shape, lay a plate on the top and turn 
it over ; if you cannot succeed in this way a cloth wrung 
out of boiling water and held around the mould for a 
minute will loosen it sufficiently to turn out; this mode 
is applicable to any kind of jelly. 

130. — BLANC-MANGE iMADE WITH &TOCK. 

After making your stock of calf's feet for jelly take a 
small part of it, measure it, add equal quantity of milk, 
sweeten and flavor it, mix it with your melted stock, stir 
it constantly till cold, then pour it in the mould ; this 
blanc-mange is not as stiflf as when made with isinglaas. 

131.— WHIP CREABI. 

Take a quart of -cream, sweeten it to your taste, add 
white wine and some grated nutmeg, beat up your cream 
to a thick consistency, either with a couple of small 
silver forks or a whisk, put a tea-spoonful of jam, say 
strawberry, in your jelly-glags and fill it up with croam; 
sprinkle a little colored sugar over the top of each glass,, 
this kind of sugar can be bought at the confectioner'e. 



—42— 



132.- 



-8TEWED APPLES WITH ALMONDS. 

Pare a do«en large sizedappies, put them-with a pound 
if clanfied sugar to boil and a little water when the 
apples are perfectly tender and of transparent color, take 
each one up with a spoon carefuUy, ho aa not to break 
them lay them on your dish, boil the juiee till suffi- 
cicntly thick to stand from a spoon, blanch your sweet 
almonds by throwing boiling wat^r over them, the skins 
come oflF easily, cut them in strips the length of the almond, 
cut strips of candied citron equal length with the ahnond, 
stick a strip of the citron in the apple, then an almond 
then a clove and so on till the apple is weU filled with 
them, when all is done pour the syrup over them, this is 
a nice dish for supper. 

133.— PIl/E-APPLE WATER ICE. 

Take a half pint of pine-apple syrup or the jelly from 
your preserved pme-appk, squeeze the juice of twolemons 
and add apmt of water, freeze it in your iecK^ream mould, 
which you keep constantly turning in a tub or bucket of 
^e and coarse salt, loosen the water iceasit formsagainst 
the side of the mould or else it becomes lumpy. 

134.— FRESH FRUIT WATER ICE. 

Mash a pint of fresh fruit through a sieve, put in four 
ounces of sugar and a pint of water, freeze i;,'then Z 
It m your Shane.. *^ 

135.—LEMON ICE-CREAM. 

Sweeten a quart of cream, flavor it with a few drops 
•f essence of lemon, whip it to a froth, then freeze Z 



J 



J 



J 



fONDS. 

■with a punnd 
ter when the 
snfe color, take 
not to break 
iitee tiUsuffi- 
rh your sweet 
em, the skins 
f the almond, 
b the almond, 
a an almond, 
U filled with 
them, this is 

le jelly from 
F two lemons 
•earn mould, 
)r bucket of 
•rms against 

?y. 

E. 

put in four 
> then put 



few drops 
freeze vt 



( 



-43— 



imooth as butter: when frozen put it in your ice-cream 
mould. 



136. — ICE PtTDDING. 

Crumble sponge cake, mix it with some raspberry or 
strawberry jam, pour a thin custard over it, take a good 
pmch of gelatine, which melt with a little hot milk ; add 
fchia to the other ingredients, cut four ounces of candied 
citron peel, put all together in a shape, stand it to cook, 
when cold turn it out like a shape. 

137. — ALMOND PUDDING. 

' Blanch two ounces of almonds, chop them fine, grate 
some lemon peel, boil a pint of milk and sugar to taste, 
when It begins to boil, stir in slowly a large cupfuU of 

i ground rice and let it boil ten m-nutes putting in a mould, 
when cold turn it out, put two ounces of white sugar in 

i a pan with a little water, stir it until melted and becomes 
a light brown, add the yolks of four eggs to the strained 
milk and stir it until it thickens j when this is cold pour 

J U around the pudding. * ^ 

] 138. — APPLE DtJMPLINaS. 

Make a paste of suet, take large cooking apples, core 
them, and fill them with sugar; then cover each apple 
with a piece ef the paste,- put them down to boil for two 
hours m a greased pudding dish with plenty of su-ar- 
before serving them at the ta. 'i dust some cinnamon over 
them. 

139.— PLUM PUDDING. 

Six ouncei of bread crumbs, eight ounces of flour, one 



• — 44-**- 

pound of chopped suet, one pound of stoned or sultana 
raisins, one pouad of dried currants and a quarter of a 
pound of candied citron ; cut in small pieces a couple of 
blades ofmacQ pounded fine, a wine-glass of brandy, one 
large cup of milk, a grated nutmeg, eight eggs and a 
pound of brown sugar : put aJl these ingredients in a 
pudding cloth, leave a little room for it to sweU, have 
your pot of water boiling; for all boiled puddings put 
your cloth in boiUng water, take it out without wringing 
It, dust flour over it, put in your mixture, tie it, and 
leave it boil six hours, turn it out on a dish, pour a cou- 
ple of table spoonsful of brandy over it, then light a piece 
of paper, set the brandy « i fire and serve it in this way 
with wine sauce. 



140. — RICE PUDDING. 

Taka and wash a half a pound of rice, boil it soft 
with water and then drain oflF the water ; put in the 
rico whilst hot two ounces of butter, four ounces of 
sugar and four eggs beaten light, add a quart of good 
rich milk and some ground cinnamon ; after putting it 
in the baking dish grate some nutmeg over it and then 
bake it in a hot oven. 

141. — GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Take five table-spoonsful of ground rice flour, a quart 
of milk, boil the milk and stir in gradually the rice till 
it becomes thick and smooth like paste, then take it from 
the fire, add a quarter of a pound of melted butter and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar; add six eggs woU beaten, 
^hen All are weU mixed, put it in your pudding dish and 



gi'ate nutm^ over it, then stand it in the oyen and lot ii 
bal^e a light brown color, 

142. — BOILED RICE PUDDING. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice with a pint 
of milk, simmer it over hot coals, stirring it all the time 
80 as to keep it from being lumpy, when it is smooth 
take it oflf and pour it in an earthen pan, mix a quarter 
of a, pound of butter, the same quantity of sugar and a 
half pound of rich cream or milk, stir in the rice, add- 
ing nutmeg) the grated rind of two lemons, and some 
rose water j beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of 
two, when light, stir the whole very hard, butter a mould 
or large bowl, put in the mixture, tic a cloth lightly ovex 
it, boil it two hours and serve it with wine sauoe 

143. — CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Boil a quart of milk, it is equally as good when made 
without boiling the milk ; beat up sixeggg light, sweeten 
the milk to your taste, add the eggs, flavor it and bake 
either in a pudding dish or in cups, grate nutmeg over 
it and some sweet almonds blanched and pounded fine, 
Btrew it on the top. 

144. — A BREAD PUDDING. 

Crumble a good half-loaf of bread, boil a quart of 
milk and pour it over the bread, sweeten it to taste, add 
cinnamon and six eggs well beaten, a good lump of 
butter, beat them all hghtly together, mix in it a half a 
pound of stoned raisins or a cun of currants r^nt it in 
the pudding dish ; grate nutmeg over it and bake it in • 
quick oven 



•••fc ■ il 



ill 



ii • 



— 46 — 

145.— PUMPKIN PUDDINO. 

A quarter of a pound of stewed pumpkin, three e^gs 
^ quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a pint of cream 
a quarter of a pound of white sugar, half a glass of 
wine and brandy mixed, half a glass of rose water, a 
tea-spoonful of mixed spices; nutmeg, mace and cinna- 
mou, stew some pumpkin with as little water im possible, 
dram it m a cullender, press it till dry and pass it 
through a sieve ; mix your spices, sugar and butter, as 
also the hquor and beat them well together, then stir in 
three eg^i,, cover a-deep pie plate with a puff-paste and 
put in the mixture, when cold grate sugar over it. 

146. — COCOA-NUT PUDDING, 

Peel and grate a pound of cocoa-nut, then mix it with 
three smal sponge cakes grated, stir together till very 
light a half pound of butter and a half pound of sifted 
sugar, beat six eggs very light, stir them gradually intc 
the butter and sugar, in turns with the cocoa-nut, stir it 
very hard, put it in a buttered dish and bake half an 

147.— MONTREAL PUDDINO. 

Beat up three egga, strain them through a sieve era- 
dually add a gill of milk, stir these welf togethT' fdd 
two ounces of brown sugar and some nutmeg,' mix 
these in the eggs and milk and add four ounces of flour, 
beat It m a smooth batter by degrees, add seven ounces 
of bread crumbs, mix all thoroughly at least half an 
hour b...re you put the pudding in the pot; have an 
earthen bowl or mould well buttered, tie a cloth tight 



>T> 



—47— 



ihree egga, 
of cream, 
a glass of 
e water, a 
ind cinna- 
s possible, 
<i pass it 
butter, as 
2n stir in 
)ast€ and 
•it. 



X it with 
till very 
of Bifted 
illy intc 
Lt, stir it 
half an 



ve, gra- 
er, add 
g, mix 
•f flour, 
ounces 
lalf an 
ave an 
h tight 



>T> 



over it, let it boil three hours without stopping, add i 
half pound of raisins if you like. 

148. — A BATT£B PUDDING. 

Six eggs well beaten, six table-spoonsful of flour, three 
half pints of milk, mix the eggs and flour together, then 
by degrees, the milk ; boil it in a cloth dusted with flour 
and serve it with wine sauce ; it takes two hours to boil. 

149. — ALMOND PUDDING (nO. 2.) 

Blanch and beat in a mortar to a paste, a half of a 
pound of sweet almonds, a half an ounce of bitter ones 
with a table-spoonful of orange water, add to this thre«j 
ounces of butter, melted in a wine glass of hot cream, 
four eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg and a glass of 
brandy, boil it in a tin mould, it will answer for a baked 
almond pudding if put in a dish with puff-paste. 

150. — SWEETMEAT PUDDING, WITH OE WITHOUT 
PUFF-PASTE. 

Put a puff-paste all over your dish, lay a layer of 
sweetmeats at the bottom of the dish, slices of pre- 
served citron is the most preferable to be used, then take 
six eggs, a half a pound of sugar and half a pound of 
butter, and beat them altogether, then pour it over the 
sweetmeats; the oven must not be too hot. . 

151. — CARROT PUDDING. 

Grate three good sized carrots, add one pint of milk, 
fivo eggs, a couple of dozen bitter almonds pounded fine, 
a half a pound of sugar, a table-spoonful of butter, mix 
all well together aud bake it. 



Ill 



— 4S— 

152.-.A BOItED APPLB PUDDING. 
Make a pnsfce of suet instead of butter, fUI the paste 
with apples cut in pieces, cloven and dried or^J! 
pee, cover t with sugar; take up aU the comers o^tL 
paste and draw them to-cther *?« U ^ I 

153.— SWEETMEAT HOLEY FOLEY. 

Make a common paste of butter, lay your ian, in •* 
^ It oyer round, then la, U in yourUrfren; *! 
flour It and tie it at the ends, lay a t^Iate in 7^ . J 
then put your pudding sa.l oyTr it^ " *'' ^* ^"^ 

154— A BAKBD BATTEB PTOBIJfO 
Five eggs, a smril pioce of butter n,elted, .ugar, flour 
<n.d mukorwAter m.,Io into a batter .ho thickncr!f 
paucake batter and boater Iik« , ^. 7 ' ,"= " 

oearl,bak.d«pri.kloso::-J;!:;r4:''^''"-' 

155.— FRENCH PtTDDING. 

One eup of butter, one of sugar, one of milk, three of 
flour, four eggs and baked. ' 

156 ORANGE PUDDING. 

iuife^wi^Mf "^ *^ """S'' "■» "f^x^ ••heir 
juwe weigh half a p«,„d of butter, the .ane of mZ 

■'«d s,x egg. weU beaten, line ,«„ ^ddiTd^Bh wX 

puff paste, put the mixtu,. in it, it^te, tCquaS» 

of an hour to bake ; grate sugar over it ' 

157.— LEMON PUDDING. 

Bight ounces of butter, eight ou«e« rf «^, ^j, 



r 



r 



— 4&-. 

eggs, ten dances of bread crumbs, the grated rind o^ 
three lemons and the juice well squeezed out, stone a fe^ 
raisins and garnish each length of a tin melon shaped 
mould with it, pour in tho mixture, cover and boil it 
two hours and Serve it with wine sauce ; this pudding 
when eold can be sliced and fried with butter, it is a nice 
relish for lunch. 

158. — BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Take five table spoonsful of tiiilk from a quart, mix 
them with two large table-spoon»ful of flour, set the rest 
of the milk to boil, flavour it with bitter almonds, when 
it has boiled st4r m the cold milk and flour, set it awav 
till cold, beat the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of 
four, stir them in the milk with a half glass of wine and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar ; butter a 'arge mould or 
bowl, put in the pudding, tie a cloth tightly over it and 
keep it always covered with water ; when it is cold turn 
ii out and serve it with a sauce. 

159. — SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve a half a small package of Cox's gelatine in a 
half pint of water, add a pOund of sugar, the juice of 
four lemons and the whites of two eggs, beat all up till 
very light^and spongy, pour it into a mould, turn it out and 
serve it with a custard around it made with the yolks of 
the two eggs. 

160. — CAMBRIDGE PUDDING. 

Two ounces of guirar, two oudggs of butter two ounces 
of flour, three eggs, the whites of two and a half pint of 
milk, melt the butter in the milk, mix the whole together, 



— 60 — 

put it in 4oa.cups and bake it a half an hour; semit 
with wmo eauco. 

161 GOOSEBERRY OR RHUBARB FOOL. 

Boil your gooseberries, or rhubarb to a pulp : add sugar 
to your taste and three eggs well beaten, stir in slowly 
over the fire till thickened ; spices to suit the taste cai 
be added. 

162.— calf's feet jelly. 

Boil the head and four feet in six quarts of water, rb- 
duce It to three, take it off, pass it through a muslin 
sieve and leave it stand till the nezt day, take all the 
flesh Aom the bones which makes a good cheese head 
tor hve:^K^a^u w],ich I shall give in another receipt ; skin 
oft • il Mio fat, put your stock down to melt in -x pre? Tvin^' 
pan «.,th the third of a bottle of wine, sweetenin-^ with 
White sugar to taste, lemon or Kme juice about half a cup 
tun, ground cmnamoii and a good pinch of Spanish saffron 
whici. gives it a pretty color, the whole should come to 
a boil, beat up the whites of six eggs with their shells, 
pour this m ; when it boils up to cover over the sheila 
have your flannel bag ready attached to your jelly stand 
close to the fire; Uft your pan very slowly off; and pour 
It in the bag, be careful not to shake it, you must have a 
deep dish under the bag on the floor to receive your 
jelly, cover over your bag with a blanket so as the steam 
will not escape, have no draft in your kitchen whilst the 
jelly IS running as it must be kept warm or the jelly be- 
comes too glutinous to run ; if it is not clear the first tim- 
pour it back in the bag and so on tiU it is aa clear 



as 



crys- 



; seireit 



L. 

idd sngar 
in slowlj 
tasto can 



ater, re- 
' muslin 
> all the 
se head 
■'t ; skin 
Mjrving 
ig with 
If a cup 
saffron, 
some to 
' shells, 
e shells 
J stand 
d pour 
have a 
5 your 
steam 
1st the 
Uybe- 

it tllTii* 

scrys- 



—51 — 

tal, lift the dish from under the bag veiy carefully, replao 
cing by another, and fill your moulds and glassej. 

163.— MOULD OP JELLY ORNAMENTID WITH BLANO* 

KAMQfi. 

Fill the flower of the mould with blano-mange, leave 
it harden, then pour on an inch thick of calf's foot jelly, 
leave that harden, then blano-mange, and so on till tht 
mould is filled. 

CAKES. 

164. — TIPSY CAKE. 

Pour a pint of wine over a sponge cake, let it stand 
till thoroughly moistened, blanch and cut m strips, a 
half an ounce of sweet almonds, stick them in the cake, 
lay around it some ratafia, pour over th- whole a rich 
CUP 1, add two table-spoonsful of brandy and pour 
owr the cake. 

165. — DOVER CAKE. 

A pound of sugar, a pound of flour, a half pound of 
butter, a half pint of milk, half a tea-spoonful of soda 
dissolved in the milk, a little cinnamon, a grated nutmeg, 
a glass of rose water and six eggs, heat all up lightly and 
bake it in two hours. 

166, — PLUM CAKE. 

A pound of sugar, a pound of butter, a pound of 
flour, four pounds of sultana raisins, four pounds of 
currants and two pounds of citron cut in pieces, a pound 
of sweet almonds blanched and chopped fine j eight eggs, 




nnp g\m of brandy, ope glass of wiV, one mm of 
ro»i water, two blades of mace grounded fine, some 
cloves and ground allspice, beat your butter to cream, 
thep add your sugar, beat tfee yolks and whites of eggs 
sep.rately ; mix all well together, rdl your fruit in flour 
and then add them ; when all is well mixed, tie tJiree 
sheets of paper around your hoops so as the cake may not 
bum, butter it weH and pour in your mixture, when it 
browns wdi on the top lay a sheet of paper over it ; it 
takes four hours to bake. 

167.— CfOOKTES. 
A dinner plate ©f flour, a cup of sugar, a cup of 
«Our milk, a, tea-spoon^il of soda and a small lump of 
butter ; roll it out and cut it in small cakes and bake- 
them. 

168. — COOKIES (no. 2.) 

Take half a pint of milk, mix it with a half pound 
of powdered sugar, sift three pounds of flour into a pan 
and cut up in it a pound of butter^ rub the butter very 
firio ill tbe flour, a4ji a gratei nutmeg and some cipna> 
mn with rose water j work in the sugar; make the 
whole into ^. stiff j)a8te, adding, if necessary, a little 
more milk,, then dissolve a tqaspoonfiU of saleratus; 
knead the dough tiU it becomes quite light, roll it 
rather more than an inoh thick, cut it into cakes, add 
some carraway seeds and cook io a brisk oven. 

169.— cookies (no. 3.) 
Two teacups of sugar, with one of butter, two eggi> 
well beaten, dissolye a teaspoonfUl of soda in a cup of 



, 



le omioe of 
fine, some 
r to cream^ 
tes of eggs 
■uit in flour 
d, tie Uiree 
ike may not 
re, when it 
over it ; it 



a cup of 
11 lump of 
and bake 



lalf pound 
into a pan 
utter very 
me ciiina>^ 
make the 
y, a littb 
saleratus ; 
t, roll it 
akes, add 



two epf*^ 
a cup of 






—53- 

milk anxi grate a nutmeg in H, mix all the ii^redientB 
together into aff much ^ur tm it will raquire to roll out 
OD the board y tbo paste must be half aa inch thick, bAke 
in a moderate OTen, 

170.— NEW TEAR OOOEOBB^ 

A half pmt tnmblevful of milk, whieb i^ fhit cake 
is best sour, atamblerof bwtter, twoof pcywder^d engaf , 
and four cups of sifted flour ; stir the butter and sugar 
till quite light, beat five egg«^ stir them hi the mixtwre, 
grate a nutmg and add lemon Juice and cinnamon,, dis- 
solve lastly a teaspoonful of saleratus in vin^ar or warm 
water, then add the flour, bake them in small tins in a 
moderate oven, twenty minutes. 

171. — THE JESSIE CUP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour and 
four eggs;^ flavor with nutmeg. 

172,— -MONTREAL CAKE. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, quarter of a pound of 
butter, a teaspoonful of saleratus in a cup of sour milk 
or cream and ^ grated nutmeg ; raisins can be added if 
liked, 

173.— NOUGAT. 

Blanch a pound of almonds which you eut in strips, 
put them to dry, put down two ounces of sugar to melt 
in a buttered sauce-pan ; keep stirring the sugar constantly, 
T-..,.« tui; .^ujjdx i^fjgino w fcuui a uitiUj inrow m youi 
warm ahnonds which you have kept dried in the oven. 



il 



I ' 



I I : 



— 54~ 

itir until the sugar is all turned with the ahnonds, turn 
them out oa a plate» 

174.— 80DA LOAt«. 

Four breakfast cups of flour, one of melted butter, 
one of sugar, one of warm milk, one tea-spoonsful of soda, 
dis.solved in the milk, currants and a grated nutmeg. 

175. — POUND CAKE. 

A pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, twelve 
eggs, a glass of rose^watw, beat the butter to a cream, 
then add the sugar and rose-water, beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately, mix the yolks with the other in- 
gredients, which must be beaten to a standing froth ; sift 
in the flour at the last, beat up all as light as possible 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

176. — FRENCH CAKE. 

Five tumblers of flour, three of sugar, one of butter 
one of milk, three eggs, a grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful 
of soda dissolved in the milk, a half pound of almond* 
blanched, cut them in strips, beat up your butter to a 
cream, the eggs separately as before mentioned, almonds 
floured and mixed in the last of all. 

177.'— CtTBBANT CAKE. 

A pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound 
of brown sugar, the same of currants, three eggs and a 
half a pint of warm milk i diasoive a tea spooniul of soda 
in the milk. 



i 



-.65 — 



konds, turn 



ied butter, 
III of sodsiy 
utmeg. 



(ur, twelve 
• a cream^ 
yolks and 
e other in- 
froth ; sift 
ts possible 



of butter^ 
i-spoonfui 
i* almonJd 
itter to a 
, almonds 



fa pound 
1(8 and a 
il of soda 



i 



178. — RICE CAEJ. 

A pound of rice, a pound or r.ugar, a little mow than 
half a pound of butter, seven eggs, the juice of two le- 
mons, or a few drops of ratafia if preferred, bake in a 
Kjuare tin pan, lay a piece of thick paper well buttered 
on it, pour in your mixture and when nearly baked sprinkle 
some pulverised sugar over it, cut it in square pieces. 

179. — SPONOE CAKE* 

One pound of sugar, a dozen eggs, the weight of sir 
<^gs m flour, beat the whites of eggs to a standing froth 
mix the yolks with the sugar and then the whites; flavo^ 
It with a few drops of ratafia, after all is well beaten stir 
around very slowly; the flour to be sifted in by degrees; 
do not beat it after once ..he flour is put in, bake in a 
slow oven one hour. 

180.— GINGER SNAPS. 

One half pound of butter, twoeggs, a pint of molasses, 
a tea-spoonful of saleratus, three table-spoonsful of ground 
giDger, a pound and a half of flour and a half pound to 
roll them with ; they should be stamped and roUed over 
a stick. 

181. — CHEAP CAKES. 
A pint of milk, a table^poonfuJ of butter, a heaping 
tea-spoooful of saleratus dissolved in the milk, a pint of 
molasses, two table-spoonsful of ground ginger, mix aU 
these ingredients in two pounds of flour. 

182. -A VERY NICE KIND OP SMALL CASES. 

A half pound of butter a half pound of sugar, an ounce 



I 



tl 



ill ;: ■:!. 



— 65— 

«f cinnamon and roll it out in email cakes ; it takes twa 
pounds of flour and a good de^ of working to be able to 
roll them oat as tbey are ahart j if they are too hjo-d 
add a couple of eggs, a little piece of oandied citron, 
or orange is laid in the ceatre of fchese cakes, bake them 
ia a moderate oven^ 

183. — CUP CAKE. 

Two large tea-cups of molasses, the same of browtt 
sugar, the same of fresh, butter, a cup of milk, one of 
powdered allspice a'..d cloves mixed, a half a cup of 
ginger and five cups of sifted flour., 

184. — KISSES. 

These cakes require a good deal of trouble in the shap- 
iiig. To one pound of pulverised loaf sugar, heat the 
whites of four eggs to a standing froth, mix the sugar 
with the whites of eggs,, add a few drops of essence of 
lemon, have ready a shoe* of white paper which wet 
with a brush in a little water, lay it on your baking pan ; 
take a tea-spoonful of any kind of stiff jelly, lay it in, 
lumps on your paper, take a table-spoonful of your mix- 
ture lay it well over the lump of jeHy as. smooth as. 
possible so as. to form an oval shape ; stand them in a 
cool oven tiU they turn a Uttle, then take them out ; take 
ofl" two of them, lay them together and stand them again 
in the oven till they stick, having the appdaranoe of an 



egg- 



185. — A CRULLEK CAKE. 

A quarter of a pound of butter, add the same quaixtity ^ 
—'-pj'*, a ii>iw.c ^jrouQii cmnamou,, lOur ^^^3 auu. asi 



. 



; it takes twa 
; to be able to 
r are too h»4rd 
landied citron, 
:es, bake them, 



ime of browtt 
f milk, one of 
iiUf a cup of 



Ic ib thft shap>- 
igar, beat the 
lix the sugar 
of essence of 
^r which wGt 
r baking pan j 
illy, lay it in. 
of your mix- 
is smooth as> 
ind them in a 
em out ; take 
d them again 
sarance of an 



, 



/ \ 



lame quajo^tity 
(^3 aud. ua 



BHwh flour as you wiH requiw to loU tiieiD oat ftwbt 
them in any shape you please, fry them in lard or buttcj, 
when they are of a l%ht color take them out and sift 
sugar over them, 

186 LOAP OAKE. 

Sift two pounds of flour, setting aside a half pound 
to spnnkle with at the last j a pound of butter, a pound 
of pulverised sugar, four eggs, a pound of sultana raisins, 
chopped fine, a half pint of milk, a glass of brandy a 
table-spoonful of mixed spices, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon 
and a half pint of brewer's yeast j this is a substantial 
c&ke for lunch. 

187. — JELLY CAKE, 

Take a round sponge cake, or pound cake baked on 
flat dmner plates, cut the cake through twice making 
three round slices, cover eaeh layer with a jelly pretty 
thick lay a thin icing over it, flavored with rum and 
spnnkle colored sugar on t^a top. 

188. — GOLD CAKE, 

Take the yolks of eight eggs, one cup and a half of 
Sugar two cups of flour, a half eup of butter, one tea. 
spoonful of cream of tart^j, a half a tea-spoonful of 
soda dissolved in a half cup cf mUk, flavor with essence 
of lemon or ratafia, 

18^*— SILVER OAKB. 

mites ^ eight eggs, two cups of sugar, two and a 
half cups of flour, half a cup of butter, hdf « nun «f 
milk, half u tea^spoonful of soda with one and a half 



■1 ;: 
f i 





it 



!il 



I'.t 



li! 



^58- 

t6a*spo0tiful of cream of tartar, flavor it and bake them 
in square tins ; cut them in square cakes. The silver 
cake lA much improved by icing : both these cakes X can 
highly recommend. 

190. — jcmb.es. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, a table- 
spoonful of rose Water, a grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful 
of cinnamon, thfee eggs and a half a pound of sifted 
flour ; roll them ''ut in thin strips and shape them round 
with a hole in the centre like a ring^ 

191. — JUMBLES (No. 2.) 

Three pounds of flour, one pound and a half of butter 
and a pound of sugar, stir to a cream the butter, beatup 
the yolks and whites of eggs separately, then mix the iu' 
gredieuts with soiue essence of lemon or rose water and 
any spices according to taste ; add some of the flour ; 
flour your board ; stir the mixture, hand out the shapes 
as before mentioned and cook them on buttered tins ; 
when done sift sugar over them. 

192. — ALMOND POUNi) CKE. 

A pound of Imttery a pound of sugar, one of flour, 
one of citron, one of almonds, a glass of brandy, a glass 
of rose water and twelve eggs. 

193,—- SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Take a sponge cake and cut in thin slices, lay a layer 
of currant jam or jelly, then cover it with another slice 
of the oake and cut them in triangular shapes. 



« 



/i\ 



1 bake them 

The silver 

cakes X can 



^ar, a table- 
tea-spoonful 
lid of sifted 
them round 



alf of butter 
tter, beat up 
mix the iu' 
e water and 
F the flour; 
b the shapes 
ttered tins ; 



le of flour, 
idy, a glass 



lay a layer 
Qother slice 



■. ( 



/i\ 



i. 



194.— GINGER BEEAD. 

A cup of butter, a cup of sugar, a cup of milk, a cup of 
molasses, two tea-spoonsfd of soda, five eggs and four cups 
of flour, dissolve the soda in milk and melt the butter 
with the molasses ; put ginger to your tasto, beat this aa 
light as possible for at Icdst a half an hour, bake them in 
small patty-pans ; it will rise double the height of the 
mixture. It keeps fresh a Iwig time ia a damp place. 

195.— GINGER BREAD (m 2.) 

Six eggs, a pound of butter, beaten up to a cream,- 
0, pound of sugar; a pint of molasses, a tea cupful 
of ground ginger, a tea-spoonful of pearlash dissolved in* 
milk, nutmeg, cloves, allspice and twa pounds of flour ; 
fruit is an improvement, this cake can also be made with' 
out eggs. 

196. — CRITLLEBS. 

Use what sour milk you have to spare, mix in a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, use your own judgment as tO' 
the quantity of sugar ; a t«a-spoonful of saleratus to the 
pint of sour milk, two eggs ; mix well with the hand into 
flour suflGieient to enable you to roll out easily, fry in boil- 
ing lard, fat or butter : spices can be added if liked and 
they can be twisted in any shape. 

197. — MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds Wanchedf, pounded fine 
in the mortar with a little rose-water, half a pound of 
pulverised ausrarj the lind of a lemon fi-rated. the whites 
of three e^s whisked to a standing frothy mix all weU 



1 


j n 


i i 


'!■ 


1 11 

ill i 




HI 



I 



! / 



ii| ;l 

ii! i 






! i; 



i^iher and drop a spoonful oo an oilediwi ; then «afce • 
AorMime to bake, lift them with a knife VhUst^hot. 

A cupof butter.one of si^ar, a taWe-spoonful of cream 
t^o eggs, a grated nutmeg, a little soda, and aa much 
flour as will mix it. 

199^ ^SCOTCH BEO&T BKEAD. 

Rub into a pound of flour, four ounces of butter four 
^ sugar, one ^, a table-spoonful of cream, roll it and 
^ake m a moderate oven, strew carraway comfits on the 

200.— BraSTOL CAEBi 

Six ounces of sifted sugar, six ounces of fresh butter, 
four whites and two yolks of eggs, nine ounces of flour! 
three quarters of a pou^d of picked currante, mix all 
well together and butter an iron ; then drop the mixture 
with a spoon, and bake them in a hot oven, 

20I.--A NICK COMMON OAKB, 

Take four pounds of flour, add one and a half pounds 

nutmeg a table-spoonful of brewer^a yeast, mix it up 
weU with cream or milk and bake it in a quick oven. 

202.— PLAIN SHOEr BREAD. 

wT^'ofT; !"^A*^^r^^ P^-^t -toapoi^ 
^ot «o«F,n.!H*r7iflgthewaMwicteTtoroUitwith^ 



» 



Bejr take i 
1st hot. 



I of cream, 
M much 



itter, four 
oil it and 
ts OD the 



ih butter, 

of flour, 

mix all 

mixture 



'pounds 
pice and 

Ix. it up 
oveo. 



and SIX 
a pound 
it with > 



tut it in any shi^ nearly an inch thick, prick ii with » 
ibrk and strew eomfits on the top ; lay the cakes ow 
white paper dusted with flour and, then on tim, cook in- 
moderate oven.. 

203. — sKRBWSBuar cake. 

A pound of butter, one of sugar, a little cinnamon,, 
four eggs and some carraway seeds, when well beaten) 
add a pound and a half of flour to the ingredients, then 
take what extra flour you require for rolling, roll them- 
very thin, cut them with, a tumbler and watch them as 
they bake quickly. 

204. — QUEEN'ft CAKE. 

A pound of butter, the same of sugar, twelve eggs 
and a good table-spoonful of soda dissolved in a little 
cream and three pounds of flour ; beat the butter to a. 
cream and the eggs beaten separately. 

205 OOOOA-NUT BALLS. 

Peel the black skin of the cocoa-nut and grate it 
on that side, weigh it and put half the quantity of sugar 
to it, one white of an egg beaten to a standing froth, roll 
them in the hand a little pointed, butter a flat sheet of 
kin and flour it, then lay the balls on and bake in a slow 
oven ; when brom) a little ftt the top, take them out, and 
Uft th^m with a broad bladed knife. 

^6.»-^]0C0A-NirE BOUND GAKJU 

Take a pound of sugar, half a pound of batter, a tea- 
capful of milk, a tea-spoonful of saleratui dissolved in 
the milk, a table^poonfUl of lemon juice and four eggs;. 



-.6^-. 



I i 



6eat the whole well together till light and creamy, then 
itic in the grated cocoa-nnt, lino % square tin pun with 
well buttered paper and put in the mixture an inch and 
a half deep, bake it in a quick oven and out it in square 
pieces when done j icing is a great improtement. 

207. — BISCUIT AU CHOCOLAT. 

Take six eggs, three ounces of flour, an otinoe and a 
half of sweet chocolate grated fine and ten ounces of 
sugar, beat the yolks of the eggs with the chocolate and 
sugar, until they are well mixed, then add the whites 
beaten to a froth ; stir in flour without ceasing, then put 
in a battered mould. This cake is generally iced. 

208.— DI» ECLAIRS. 

Cook sponge cake dough in small diamond shapes or 
lady's finger moulds, scoop out the centre and fill with a 
thick rich custard, put the two halves of the cake together 
and ice them with chocolate icing made as follows : — Two 
whites of eggs beaten to a froth, some pulverised whito 
sugar and grated chocolate to make it of a thick consis- 
tency ; lay the icing on with a knife and stand it in a 
cool oven to dry ^ this icing made with cofleee and flavor- 
ed with rum if preferred. 

209«— BOSTON CBEAU CAKE. 

Half a pound of batter, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a little 
salt and a pound of floor^ pour it all into a quart of 
boiling milk, stir it until it cleaves from the pot, put it 
aside to cool, break in eight or ten ^;gs, mix it thoroughly 

xhuix ciU\a %« vvci-cjJOvuxux jjx pacvxaluo iupov&v^VK 2U a iicu& 

tea-oup of milk, put this on buttered pans, rub oyer with 



— R,1. 



a feather the yellow of egg on each one ; when done f «l 
them open and fill them with a thick custard. 

210. — ROSE CAKE. 

Beat up to a cream twelve ounces of butter, mix with 
it a wine glass of wine and a pound of sugar , boat the 
yolks and whites separately of eight eggs, stir them in 
the butter and sugar, a pound of flour and just befoie 
baking add a half pound of raisins, a half pound of cur- 
rants, a quarter pound of citron and n quarter pound of 
blanched almonds, butter your pans and after beating 
the eake, light fill your moulds and bako it. 

211.— DROP CAKE. 

Half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter,, 
three eggs, a Kttlc nutmeg, some rose water and a half 
pound of flour, drop them on buttered tins and sprinkle 
sugar over them. 

212.— CREAM CAKK» 

Rub to a eream a half a poand of butter, half a pouud 
of sugar, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
a pound and a quarter of sifted flour and add a cup of 
rich cream before baking, 

213. — iciNO paa a plum cakb. 
Four whites of ^s, a pound of pulverised sugar and 
four tea-spoonsful of gum-dragon melted in cold wnter. 
lay it on the stove till dissolved, beat up the whites to a 
standing froth, mix the sugar and g n-dragon, flavor it 
Willi essence of leruon or ratafia and lay it on the eakd 
with a knife ; the cake must be floured first ; stand the 
icing till it is dry and then put on a second coating. 



Ill laSBM 



— 64— 

214.— BBIAD. 

Three pints of boiliog water mixed withtiireo pfnts of 
jold water, put in two galbncr of flour and add a spooa- 
ful of salt, when aH is luke warm mix in a half oup of 
brewer's yeast, mix all thoroughly with a spoon a»d knead 
ta the flour free of lumps, ooyer it over with a eloth an^ 
«tand it in u warm plaec to rise ; bread is better byboing 
ict to rise over night ; the next morning put it on your 
board and knead it up with flour, k should be well kneads 
ed, stund it in buttered pansagain to rise, k should be 
left to rise at least three hours longer, out it with a kuife 
across the top before baking to prevent it cracking, whei» 
baked leave open the doors of the oven and let it stand 
a half an hour to dry if the crusts are hard, damoen a 
eloth and roll it around them.. 

215. — SODA EOLLS; 

Rub in a quart of fiour two tea-spoonsful of cream of 
tartar, one of soda and one pint of milk ; the soda must 
be dissolved in the milk ; a couple of table-spoonsful of 
butter and a littlo salt \ if re(|uired take a little more flou» 
but they must be mi^d quite soft. 

216.— ROLLS (No. 2.) 

Put your milk to be heated luke-warm, say a quart ; 
cut up a very small piece of butter in it, take three table- 
spoonsful of yeast, a little salt and one egg Iwoken into* 
it ; then- worit in tho flour like bread,, roll it an inch thick 
and cut them in round cakes ; stand them in your baking- 
pan in a warm place to rise, mix them at twelve &'clock 
jfor tea at six, they only take ten minutes to bake. 



• 



I 



iref> pfnts of 
dd a spoon- 
half oup of 
D amd knead 

a elotb aucl 
iter bjbdng 

it OQ yottv 
) well kncad^ 
b should be 
with a kuifo 
ckiDg, whm 
let it stand 
, domoen a 



5f' cream of 
^soda must 
jpoonsful of 
e more flou» 



J a quart ; 
three table- 
l»'oken into' 
Q inch thick 
jjcour baking' 
dve »'olook 
bake. 



217.— -BOLLfl (no* 3) 

Three pinto of flour, one ounce of talt, a half ftoiq> of 

brower'3 yeast and one pint of luke-warm milk, Uke a 
Uttle more flour to knead it with, make a hole in the mid- 
dle of the flour, stir in the warm milk in the yeast and 
add it, fitir it to make a stiff batter, sprinkle gome flour 
over the ton, set it in a warm place to rise for four hours, 
then a a hal:.* ;x cup-ful more of warm milk and knead it 
with I Kf^ ilowj into a dough for at least ten minutes f. 
then diruis it uto small pieces, knead each separately,, 
form tht:. id to rolls, eorer them and set them to rise aa 
hour and a half longtr, then bake them. 

218.— ROLLS (NO. 4.> 

Put some fiour in a bowl forming it all roun<l the sides, 
pour in the middle a tea-cupful of milk, which you must 
warm with a lump of butter the size of a hen's egg, thea 
add some luke-warm water, a half a cup of white sugar, 
ood a tea-cupful of baker's yeast, pass the luke-warm wa- 
ter with the baker's yeast through a pitcher oace or twice 
to make it frothy, then stir it in the flour ; take but a 
small quantity of the flour to mix with it, leave the bat- 
ter thin, stand it to rise for four hours, then take a spoon 
fnl of the thick batter after having previously stirred ia 
all the flour that was in the bowl and mix it with the 
band in a little more flour so that the dough will be soft 
without sticking to the board or plate, butter a tin paa 
and bake them. 

219.— BUNS. 

Four pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter;, 



» I 



two ounces of sugar, a pint of milk, two eggs and three 
tablc^pooQsfui oi'yenat, kuead them well uod'^t them to 
rise uQ hour, 

220.— BATH BtJNSi* 

A half a pound of butter, a pint of warm milk, a (}ii«r* 
ter of a pint of fresh yoast, a tea-spoonful of tialt, four 
egga well beaten and two pounds of flour, let them rise 
for an hour, make it into thick ca]tes the size of a dinner 
plate, buke them in a quick oven, cut them in threo 
rounds, butter and serve hot. 

221.— SALLY LtTNN 

Take a pound and a half of flour, make a hole in the 
centre, put in two ounces of s«gar, cut up in a pint of 
warm milk, a tea-spoonful of salt, three eggs and a couple 
of tablc'spoonsful of brewer's yeast, mix the ingre- 
dients well together pat in a greased tin baking pan, 
cover it and set in a warm place to use, bake it in a mo- 
derate oven and send to the table hot. 

222- — POTATO CAKES. 

Boil half a pound of potatoes, bruise them and add to 
them one ounce of butter and as much milk as will 
make them pass through a cullender, take four table- 
spoonsful of yeast and a quarter of a cup of warm 
water j mix it with the potatoes, add some salt and two 
and a half pounds of flour,knead it well; if not of a proper 
consistency put a little more milk to it, stand it to rise 
in a warm place, bake them a half an hour in an oven not 
quite as hot aa for bread ; yoa can 1i6ast and butter them. 



.11 



i and three 
wt them to 



Ik, a qts«r< 

flalt, four 

them rise 

•f a dinner 

I in threo 



liole in the 
a pint of 
d a couple 
ihe ingre- 
Mng pan, 
t in a mo- 



nd add to 
k as will 
)ar table- 
of warm 
t and two 
f a proper 
it to rise 
1 oven sot 
;ter them. 






-67- 

223. — BUTTER BISCUIT. 

Two pounds of flour, a half a pound of butter, half 
» pint of milk and a tea-spoonful of salt. 

224.~S0PT WAFFLES. 

Six ^s, a quart of milk ad sufficient flour to make 
It m a batter a little thicker than pancake batter, heat 
your waffle irons well, then pour in some of the mixture 
and cook them a light color ; when one side is browned 
turn the other, grease your irons with a Httle bit of 
butter enclosed in a piece of white cotton, after each 
waffle IS finished have ready a little melted butter, sugar 
and cmnamon, which you throw over each one and s^e 
very hot. 

226. — ^HARD WAFFLES. 

Make into a dough, a lump of butter, a couple of e^gg 
a httle cream or milk, sugar can bo added if desired' 
work It with a spoon in the flour to a thick dough, cut 
It in lumps, butter your hard waffle irons and heat them 
weU, lay a lump of dough, shut to and squeeze it hard 
€00k them as the soft waffles, they are very pretty loot 
lag as well as nice tasted, being Btamped in flowers. 

226. — SOFT MUFFINS. 

Beat up five eggs, miz it with a quart of milk, a couple 
of ounces of butter, a large tea-spoonful of salt, three 
table-spoonsful of brewer's yeast, enough of flour to 
make it a stiff batter, warm the milk and butter tnc.o*h-T 
add to them the salt and eggs, stir in the yeast and lastly 
the flour, cover the mixture and set it to rise in a warm 



:place about tliree lionrS; wheti it has risen sufficiently, 
greAse tile baJdttg paoa and muffin rings, set the rings on 
the pan and pour tiio batter in,; bake them a light brown. 
When you split them to put in the batter do not cut 
them with a knife as it makes them heavy, pull them 
open with your hands. 

22?.— INDIAN MEAL CAKB. 
Take one egg, a little sugar, three pints of Indian 
meal, and sufficient flour to mix it, roU it out square, 
then cut in cakes and bake it on a tin. 

228.— CORN BREAD. 
To two tumblers of Indian meal 6ne of flour, a tea- 
spoonful cf soda dissolved in a cup of milk, a half a cup 
of molasses and a small piece of butter; mix all thorougWj 
with a little milk or water, add aHttle salt, butter flat 
tin dishes and flour them and pour in your mixture ; 
when baked cut them in squares, this cake can be made 
^ith three eggs instead of using the soda, some prefer 
imuscovado sugar to molasses, but the first mentioned is 
the true imerican mode of making it. 

229.— BUCKWHEAT OAKIS. 

Take a couple of pounds of buckwheat flour, add to it 
three salt spoonsful of .fine salt, pour in hot water almost 
amountmg to a boil ; when well mixed with the flour add 
told water to make it luke-warm and a pretty thick bat- 
ter, add two good table-spoonsful of brewer's yeast set it 
to rise over night, rub yonr gridiron with a Uttle fat or 
butter and cook the cakes very thin ; butter each one 
wU\&t hot, some trefer eating them with golden syjTxp. 



frr- 



-6&-. 



I sufficientJy, 
Ihe rii^ on 
light browQ. 
r do not cat 
f, pull tbem 



\b of Indian 
out square, 



flour, a tea- 
i half a oup 
1 thoroughly 
, butter fla-t 
r miiture; 
sin be made 
some prefer 
lentioued is 



r, add to it 
'^ater almost 
ie flour add 
' thick bat- 
yeast set it 
ttle fat or 
r each one 
so ■ymp. 



i 



230. — FLAP-JACKS. 

Mix flour with luke-i^ann water, and aome brewer-'a 
yeast, set it to rise as in the before mentioned recipe and 
bake them m the same manner as buckwheat cakes. 

Ital,— SPANISH WAPERfl. ' 

Take three eggs, mix it with as much flour as you 
would take ^ roll it as thin as possible, then put them 
tlown in your frying-pan with a small quantity of salad 
^ ; when hot fry each one by themselves ; if they are » 
aige dize they rise a good deal, take them out with a 
ladle, lay them on a dish to dry and throw some sugar and 
ground cinnamon over them. 

232.— A NICE DISH FOR TEA. 

Take some slices of hread cutting off the crust, male 
a batter of three e-gs and a pbt of milk, soak the bread 
in It puf some butter in the frying-pan, fry the slices of 
bread till brown, then sift a Httle sugar, and cimiamon 
over It. 

233 CREAM OP TARTAR BISCUIT. 

Take a good quantity of flour say two pounds, crum- 
ble mto It a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful 
of soda, two tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar diasolfed in 
a cnp^ful of milk, add a little saH and stir this into the 
flour with a spoon ; then take some tjold milk or water 
till you have ail the fiour osed np into a liough, take 
exti-a flour and roll out the dough, cut the biaduit ia 
found shapes an inch thick. 






—70— 

prp:serve& 

234.-8TRAWBERRy, EA8PBEREY, OE ANY SMALL 

FEUIT8L 

' ioZt. " ''""■"'•f ""«"■ *<• *« f^^ of f^t. put 

ttT^^ii T "'n " 7"^ '"''^"'*^' ^nd throw in 
the fruit; ,hen well cooked it should hang from the 

jonhfc. a thread, put thorn iuto ja,B and Cpi^: 

235 — PMSEBVED PINI-APPMS, 
Peel them and cuS in thin shoes or chip them in 
small p.eoe, if preferred ; some eoots grate them b<^S 
the p^^e-apple first in water, then add the suga .nd 

iet the ►■ up boil to a thiek eonsistency. 

236.— QOINCE PRESERVE. 
Peel and core the quinces; the apple quince is the 

best for preserving, hoiUhem until j^u ca^passabrol 
apUnter through them, take them up and drL J„2 
« eullender, boil the seeds in a smaU bag ^th the 
quinces, put down a Uttle of the water the qlinccs „ re 
boikd m to make the syrup, which you ha™ prcv 'on ,y 

;^ : „"!' 1", t^^"" -«' ^t^y "-n" « Pin"^ cole, take 
H>e» v .ud leave .ae syrup, reduce tiU sufficiently thick. 



OE ANY SMALL 

ound of fruit, put 
ater and throw in 
lid hang from the 
irs and lay a piece 
tn ; then cover up 

equire tohavethe 
done in the same 
ed, 

*PLES. 

or chip them in 
grate thera; boil 
d the sugar and 
up the slices and 



i. 

3 quince is the 
can pass a brown 
i drain through 
i bag »rith the 
lie quinces were 
have previously 
quinces and let 
pink color, take 
ifficieotly thick. 



—71 --. 

^37.-— CaA3 APPLE PRESERVE. 

Crab apples are the best for preserving when the frost 
<<ouches them ; take a darning needle and prick each apple 
through with it in one or two places, weigh them, pound 
of sugar to pound of fruit, make the syrup and squeeze 
in the juioa of a couple of lemons, throw in the crab 
apples, let them boil in the syrup till clean but not tu 
pieces, when each one ig ^nished take them up with their 
^alks on ; leave the syrup reduce and then pour Hi py^y 
the crab apples. 

238.^)01TRON PRESERVE. 

Peel the citron melon, cut theu» in pieces, talfe of ^e 
part which conjtains the seeds leaTing merely th^ rjnd to 
preserve, weigh it equal weights of sugar and citron, put 
down the citron in water to boil with whole ginger and 
the green parings, when boiled so tender that you can 
pass a broom spUntcr through it take up the pieces and 
drain through a cullender, take a portion of the water the 
citron was boiled in to make the syrup, as well as the 
pieces of whole ginger already boiif^^l, give the syrup 9 
good boil up, put in the pieces of citron, leave them cook 
till perfectly clpar, xsut up three lemons to ei^ pounds of 
fruit in slices and leave them boil in the syrup, when the sy- 
rup is done it should hang from the spoon like a thread, and 
pour this over the citron; if tLo next duyitlook- v .fcery 
boil the syrup up once more, when well reduced pour it 
over the preserved citron; after it has stood a week I;, 
assumes a green appearance, whiqh is caused from bavii 
boiled thejparings vfitk it. 



j 



It 



H 



— 72— 

239. — «G0 PLtTM J»tE.«rjeHvJ5, 

Egg pluma should be prc^serted mih the gtaiks oft; 
pour boiling water over them and remove the skins, piat 
down the sugar to boil %/ith a very small 'Quantity of wafc^r, 
throw the egg plum m, l&y?e tlom boil about twenty 
minutes, take ^aem up and Lottie them, tadi co iha symip 
one half, pour it boiling over the egg-pj.jms, leave them 
Stand two days, then take the syrup and give it another 
good boii up, then pour it over the plums for the last 
time, this is a beautiful present for small tartlets. 

240. — TOMATO 3?RSgERVE. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes and skin them ; 
after being ikinned weigh them pound for pound, put 
the sugar ^own to boil with a little water and throw in 
the tomau sj then throw in some whole ginger; the to- 
matoes should be taken up whole and put in the crocks, 
leave the syrup boil to a proper Consistenoy and pour it 
over the tomatoes, the syrup requires to be boiled the 
following day as the tomatoes make a great deal of liquid ; 
this makes a most delioious preserve. 

241.— OBEEN LIME PBESEBVE. 

Soak the lime in a brine for three days, then in fresh 
water for three days, make a small hole with a skewei 
at one end of the lime, scoop out t) e seeds and insidea, 
put the sugar down to boil, throw Umes in after hav- 
ing boiled them as in th? itr preserve; when tho- 
rovi'iy cooked lift them an* Is^.a the syrup reduce tc 
one half, pour it^jver the limts, « d let itstadd by for a 



if 



ji 



—73— 



stalks OH; 
skins, put 
ty of watfr, 
>vit twenty 
5 ih.fi syrup 
eave them 
it another 
)r the last 
tlots. 



dn them; 
ound, put 
I throw in 
r ; the to- 
te crocks, 
Qd pour it 
boiled the 
of liquid ; 



a in fresh 
a skewez 
d insideS] 
ifter hav- 
^hen the* 
reduce tc 
by for a 



U 



couple of days, boil the syrup again as with other J>re- 
serves. 

242. — BLACK BUTTER PRlJSERViB. 

Take strawberries, raspbei-ries, blueberries, damson 
or Orleans plumbs, mix these all together and weigh 
them a pound of fruit to a pound of sugar, put this down 
to boil J to be right it should be boiled thick with very 
little syrup about it ; this preserve is very good, spread 
on bread instead of butter for children. In France it is 
sold on paper by the pound. 

243.-*-CRAB APPLE JELLT. 

Take the small crab, put them down to boil well 
covered with water j when boiled to a pulp, strain them 
through a wire sieve, put down tho mixture already 
strained to boil with the sugar till it becomes a complete 
JeUy. 

244. — HEN S NEST. 

Take four eggs, make a hole with a pin in one end, 
take out all the yolk and Irhite, fill this with a liquid 
blanc-mange, stand each shell in an egg cup and put it 
away to cool ; put some orange marmalade on a die**, when 
the blane-mange is hardened, break off the shetlg and 
stand the whole ^gs in the centre of the orange marma* 
lade. This lo(^s like a nest <^ eggs and has a pretty ef- 
fect for a sapper table. 

245.— ORANOX LIQtnETJR OR CtTRACOA. 

Cut ike white off oi the peel of the orange, break it 



/ ! 



• I 



! i 



I 
s. 



■} 



— 74—- 

up in pieees and put them in a bottle ; tlie tottle shoull 
be helf full of the peel, fill it up with white rum, leave 
it steep for three months, drain off the liquor and put a 
pound of sugar to a j)int of juice, put this sugar down to 
boil with a very small quantity of water, when the syrup 
has boiled for about five minutes pour this into the rum, 
pass it through a flannel bag and bottle it. The longer 
this liqueur is kept the thicker and better it gets. 

246.--0HOKE-CHERRT LIQUEFR. 

Pick the cherries and put them in rum to steep for 
three months, make the liqueur as in the before men- 
tioned receipt. 

247.~PEACHES IN BRANDT. 

Take a cloth and wipe the peaches dry, take a darning 
•aeedle and stick the peaches through here and there, 
make a syrup of a quarter pound of sugr. • to a pound of 
fruit, stand the fruit in your bottles, pour over them 
the syrup, fill up the bottles with pale brandy, stand 
the bottles in a pot of cold water on the fire and leave 
them come to a boU ; lift off the bottles, cook them quick- 
ly and set them away, these bottles should be air-tight or 
the peaches become dis-coloured. 

248. — ^RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To three pints of raspberries one pint of vin^ar, 
leaves these soak for a week or fortnight if required, 
then squeese the raspberries through a cloth ; to a pint 
of juice put ft pow^ of sugar; put the sugar down to 




boil with th« vinegar, it takes btrt a short time to thiokeir, 
pass through a flannel bag, and when cool bottle it. 

249. — oinoeb; bihsrv 

To a gallon of boiling water a pound of brttwn sugat, 
an ounce and a half of cream of tartar and the same of 
ginger, when it is luke-wann put in a tea-cupful of 
brewer's yeast, put it m a jar and cork it for a week; 
bottle it in ginger beer bottles, cork it and tie the corks 
down with a strong cord, put it in a damp place where 
it is kept cool. 

250. — MULLED ..INB. 

Put down a bottle of claret wine to boil with cloves, 
brown sugar and allspice, when well boiled grate some 
nutmeg over it ; some like adding the \alks of eggs 
well beaten to the wine. 

251. — CtJERANT WINK. 

Two quarts of currants to one quart of water and % 
pound of sugar, stir the whole together and then let it 
stand fcr three or four days : at the end of which time, 
should it be clean, bottle it, if not, leave it stand » 
little tim€ longer until fermentation ceases, 

252. — ORGEAT. 

Take a bottle of gin, add a few drops of ratafia to ii^ 
put down a half pound of sugar with a pint of milk, add 
this to the gin ; pass it through a flannel bog and bottle 
it, this is fit to drink in a couple of days, a small quantity 
of it is poured in a tumbler and fiUed up with water. 




) \ 



MISCELLANEOUS BEl^IFBS. 

253.— -TAITEB. 

Have a pound of butter, a pound and a half of sugar 
and a quarter-pound of treacle ; boil the ingredients 
together until i*. is cposeii which you know by putting a 
little in cold water ; if it hardens, it is finished, then but- 
ter plates, mis a little essence of lemon in it and pour it 
on. 

254. — TO HERMETICALLY SEAL AND KE^P T05IAT0E8 

Peel tha tomatoes and put them in a porcelain kettle, 
add one pound of sugar to about one hundred tomatoes, 
place them over ♦he fire and let them remain until they 
come to a boil y the bottles are then ' be placed in ^ 
kettle and covered with oold water, then put over the fire 
until the water boils, fill the bottles while they are hot, 
cork them with rosin and completely cover the cork. 

265. — TO KEEP PEACHES, V^IITTB RASPllERRIES, OR 
aTRAWBj&RRIES FRESH. 

Peaca€s shouiJ be first cored and quarter^'d, procure 
Harteirs Patent glass jars, fill the bottles half full of 
pc ,oi;cs, put in two or thro table-spoonsful of ground 
white sugar, fill the bottle with fl?oes of peaches and 
put over as mucb >.oce sugar till the liottle is complete* 
ly filled ; si d them in the boiler on the fire, fill in 
oold wat^ fa -a the neck i>f the bottle, leave the 
covers hang on each bottle j^ when the water comes to 
a boil take up the bottles quickly and put on the stop- 
pen or oov6f$ tight ^ after a time there wul mISO a 



T0iIAT0I3 



;eri£S, or 



— 77 — 

souitt or mould on each jw, rem«ire tlus %ni the remaio- 
der will be as perfect as picked frtdi ; th^^ method mil 
keep good all winter and is less expensive than pr ;8erve«. 

256.— TOASTED CHEESE, 

Cut np some mild cheese with a small piece of butter, 
mustard, vinegar and a little red cayenne pepper ; melt 
this in the oven ; when done hy it on sUces of toast and 
serve it. 

257. — OMELETTE. 

Take seven eggs, beat them up with a couple of table- 
spoonsful of milk, a little salt and some chopped parsley, 
put a piece of butter on the frying-pan ; pour in the 
omelette and whea baked on one side, gently turn over 
the one half and slide it on your breakfast dish. 

258. — C?nEESE HEAD. 

Take the meat from off the bones of the calf's head 
and feet, chop up the tongue with it, mix it with whole 
pepper, whole allspice, salt, thyme, and a cup full of the 
melted stock ; it takes a good deal of salt, put it in the 
mould and turn it out when ooiU; it k >aten with vine- 
gar, mustard and oil. 

259. — LOBSTER PIE. 

Pick out the meat of a good iaed lobster and chop it 
fine, put it in your pudding dish with some pepper, salt, 
crumbs of bread and a good lump of butter, put in more 
lobster .ud so on till the dish is Mod, having the bread 



-78*- 






iiii 



Crumbs with a lump of butter on the top, stand this in 
the oven to bake brown » 

260.— ALMONI) TAftTS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds blanched and pounded 
in a mortar, add a pint of thick cream, the yolks of five 
egga wtth a half a poiind of powdered sugar, then add the 
almonds and cream and some orange flower water : lay a 
puflf paste on your dish and fill it with the mixture j thia 
is an extremely fashionable tart. 

26i.^ — TO MAKE ONE BARREL OV 80AP. 

Take fourteen pouod^i of rosin bar soap, three pounds 
of sal soda, one pound of pulverised rosin, and eight 
ounces of table aalts ; put this into five gallons of soft 
water over a slow fire until dissolved, then put it into i» 
barrel and fill up with cold water, add two ounces of 
ispirits of turpentbe and stir it up. 

262* — AN EXCELLBNT COUGH REMEDY. 

Twenty grains tartar emetid, 
Forty graiiis pulverised opiiim, 
Four Ounces sWeet spirits of nitre, 
Two ounces of liquorice ; 

Twelve table-spoonsful of honey and one pint of whis- 
key. 

For an adult on6 dessert^spoonful three times a day, 
at night, when the cough is troublesome, take the same 
|)roportiofl8; fbr ohildreu a kear^woteful and so oa aieeord* 
kg to the a^ 



stand this io 



I and pounded 
! yolks of five 
', then add the 
water : lay a 
uixtare; thid 



50AP. 

three pounds 
n, and eight 
allons of soft 
put it into vt 
.wo ounces of 



lEDT. 



pint of whis- 

times a day, 
ake the same 
so Oft iieeord^ 



263. — HAIR one. 

Ti'wo ounces of oil of almonds, 

Two ounces of castor oil, 

Two ounces of spermicctti, 

A little bit of alkinot root about a penny-worth ; 

Stir ail well together before using it. 

264.- FOR A WHITLOW* 

The best salve for drawing without pain is honey 
mixed with flour, to the consistency of a salve, spread it 
on a piece of linen and lay it on the affected part. 

266. — EYE WATER FOR INFLAMMATION OP THE EYES, 

Half an ounce of white copperas to a quarter pound 
of white sugar. 

White of one egg added to a half pmt of water. 

If when applied to the eyes it smarts too much add a 
little more water. 

266. — SHINING GERMAN BLACKING. 

Break a cake of white wax into small pieces and put 
it into an earthen vessel, pour over it as much oil of tm^ 
pentine as will quite cover it, leave it for twenty-four 
hours closely covered up, by this time the wax will be 
dissolved to a paste, which is then to be mixed with as 
much real ivory-black in fine powder, as is necessary to 
give the ithole a very hlack colour; when h is wanted 
for use, take a little out of it on the point of a Tmife, lay 
it on the brush and rub it into the leather of the bocrts or 
ffhoes^; should it get dry in the jar add a littk fresh oA 
«f iuiipentine. 



.4-JL„, 



=-dl 



I ! 



1 

i i 



Dissolved two draxjhms of the extract of quassia m a 
half pmt of boiling water, adding a litUe sugar or syrup, 
pour the mixture on plates. 

268.— ro K^TMOVE grease-spots FR03I SILK, 
COTTON OR WOOLLEN GOODS. 

To tw ounces of spirits of wine add one of French 
ehalk and fiveounces of tobacco-pipe day, make tliis mix. 

them dry. This composition i^to be applied by rubbin- 
It on the spots, either dry or wet, and ufterwarda brnsh^ 
\ng the parts rubbed there witlu 

269.— CURE FOR A FELON, 

J^e cure h said to be certaii. and is published at tho 
particular request of a person who had experienced its 
success for a great number of years. 

Jtl' -f "^ f T^. ''^' '^"* *^^ ^ of ^ ^Inut 

n^t tTh?! 7- ''^^ " ' ^^^ °^^^ ^^^^^ but if 
»o to be had, :a a piece of brown paper well mJistened 

with water; lay it on hot embei^ and ,3over it up as if to 

roast for twenty minutes, take it up and powder it a. fine 

33 V^hletl^ take some hard soap and mix the powdc .. 

ed alt with It so as to make a salve, if the soap should 

contain but Uttle turpentine which its amell wUl deter' 

mine add soi«e more, but if it smells pretty strongly of 

ffected and m a short time it wiU totally destroy^ 
feloa and remove the p«in. ' wawoy iuq 



^ 



quassia in a 
;ar or syrup, 



M SILK, 

' of French 
ke tliis mix- 
?er and let 
by rubbing 
arda brush- 



shed at the 
rienced its 

F a walnut 
eaf, but if 
moistenetl 
up as if to 
r it as fine 
lepowdo-- 
►ap shouid 
will deter-- 
troDgly oi 
the part} 
5stroy the 



« V 



— 81 — 

270. — TO REMOVE INK STAINS PROM WHITE CLOTHS, 

Sixpence worth of oxalic acid to a pint of soft water 

271,— EXTRACT OP VANILLA. 

This delightful flavour is made by taking one quart 
of pure French brandy, cut up fine one ounce of vanilla 
bean and two ounces of tonqua bean bruised, add those 
to the brandy and set it by for two weeks, frequently 
shaking it, then filter it carefully and it is ready for use. 

272.—VARNISn FOR VIOLINS. 

Fine copal mixed with sulphuric ether is the ordinary 
varnish used on violins : if it is desired to colour the 
wood> dissolve one ounce of dragon's blood in one ounce of 
rectified spirits of wine, brush the wood over till it 
appears of the requisite colour. 

273. — A GOOD HAIR OIL. 

Tincture of Spanish fly one ounce, 
Oil of rosemary half an ounce, 
Oil of thyme half an ounce, 
Best castor oil four ounces, 
Cologne water two ounces j 
Mix well together. 

'274.— DOMESTIC CHAMPAGNE. 

Cider sixty galfcns. 
Clear spirits thrsc gallons. 
Honey two and a half gallons. 
Boil and ferment. 






. .<-ii ". . „ Ji 



i { 

1 












1 






1 





1 : 


* 


1 


i i 





1 f 

1 > 


1 







CONTENTS. 



fioupa 



Parley Soup < ..,...., 

Ball Soup ...,.;...., 

Bean Soup,. < ;, 

Beef Tea for Invalids - 

Gravy Soup . , , , 

Hare Soup 

Maccaroni Soup 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Oyster Soup 

Pea Soup.,... 

Soupe Julienne 

Vermicelli Soup 



6 

8 
12 
10 

9 
11 

7 
4 

5 
3 
2 
1 



SAUCES. 

Apple Sau<;e ...... 

Bread Sauce for Partridges .....*..* 

Celery or Onion Sauce .' ' ' .' ' ' " " " 

Cranberry Sauce * * 

Dressing for Lobster Salad .......[... 

Fish Sau6e 

Fowl Sauce . . , ' 

Gravy Sauce 

Mint Sauce 

Alutton Sauce. ,•. . . ,,» _^ // _' ' 

Oyster Sauce 

Pudding Sauce...,, _^ 

Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. . 

"huuce a la Mayonnaise 

Itoriiftso Sauce. ......... . 



23 
26 
27 
24 
21 

io 

14 
26 
15 
13 
17 
22 
19 



lit 



Page. 
& 
7 
8 
7 
7 
8 
7 

a 

6 
5 

ft 



10 

11 
u 
11 

10 

19 
9 

11 
9 
8 
9 

10 

10 



I 



iVo. 


^age. 


6 


& 


8 


7 


12 


8 


10 


7 


9 


7 


11 


8 


7 


7 


4 


t> 


5 


6 


3 


s 


2 


5 


1 


» 


23 


10 


!5 


11 


7 


11 


4 


11 


I 


10 





19 


4 


9 


6 


11 


5 


9 


3 


8 


7 


9 


2 


10 


» 


10 


'» 
J 


9 


J 


9 



FISH. 

firoiled Pish JJ 

f is fa Bal 1 3 .**.'".." 3 g 

Fish Pie ........'...!!!!!!!! 37 

, Fish Sandwiches ! ! 39 

I Fried Flounders au Gratin 30 

i Fried Oysters .'.'.'....... 36 

Fried Salmon.... .!......... 29 

Stewed Fish, White Sauce, ./...... 32 

Stewed Fish with Balls 33 

Stewed Fish, Brown Sauce. 34 

, I Stewed Fish with Port Wine 35 

MEATS. 

A Roast-Beef Hash . .t. 45 

Beefsteak -^ 

Boiled Bacon and Beans 42 

Boiled Turkey or Fowls 41 

Boeuf a la Mode gg 

Corn Beef. 43 

Forced Meat Balls 53 

Irish Stew 4Y 

Italian Salad or Chicken Salad 64 

} ^ \ Fried Heart and Liver , 66 

Meat Sandwiches .... Qtj 

Mince Meat for Pies 72 

Mince Veal . . ^j 

Mutton Chops 73 

Mutton Patties.. , , 53 

Roast Beef 5^ 

Roast Goose or Duck _ §2 

Roast Mutton qi 

Roast Partridge, 7q 

Roast Turkey...... qq 

r 'Sausages ••••••«•<.....»,,.,., &i 



IZ 

14 
14 
U 
12 
14 
12 
12 
13 
13 
13 



le 

19 
15 
15- 

23 
15 
19 
10 
21 
23 
23- 
24 

24 

24 

18 

20 

21 

21 

24 

20 



I 



iii 



StfWted Bacon and BeajM. . ^"j 

Steweil Fowls , ^ ......'..,'" 44 

Stewed Lamb with Asparagus ....]..'..' ', . . . , * ' 49 

Stewed Sweet Bread " 

Stewed Pigeons 

Stewed VeaL ...l...,.,\ 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton. . .',....' H 

To Cook Calves' Brains . , Zi 

To Brown Down a Round of Beef. " * 53 

To Bone Turkey in Jelly. . ...... * " g- 

To Brown Down Calfe Head.. «<> 

Veal Cutlets ..^ ]" ^^ 

Veal Cutlets en PapiUotes. . //^^ ....,.[.],][ 53 

SIDE DISHES. 

Asparagus. , ^ ^ 

Brussels Sprouts , 

Cauliflowers 

• ,. Q7 

Croquets dc Veau aux Huitres.. " oa 

Cranberry Bean 

E gg P 1 an t i ''.'*..'.'!."!'.! ^* * 93 

Green Peas • • • • ' 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Mashed Potatoes [ 

Morelles and Mushrooms [[[[[ ^ 

Oyster Patties \ \ ,- 

Potatoes a hi Mai t re d'llotel . . aa 

Risolles *'* °^ 

Roulades de Fillet de Veau aux ChampignonV '" ll 

Sacotash " ' T 

Spinach 

Sweet Breads „„ 

~ , . • ^ ^ ijg 

Squashes 

Stewed Giblets ...... ^t 

5ti:ffea Cucumbers _ ^k 



Pag0. 

18 

15 

17 

17 

17 

17 

15 

16 

18 

23 

23 

18 

19 



23 

31 

31 

26 

29 

30 

28 

31 

28 

29 

25 

23 

25 

26 

29 

29 

23 

30 

2G 



No. 

...... 62 

44 

49 

50 

48 

51 

4a 

45 

...... 53 

65 

69 

54 

' 58 

87 

..... 99 
. .... 97 

80 

89 

93 

..... 88 

98 

85 

92 

.... 74 
.... 86 
.... 76 
».... 79 
.... 90 
.... 91 
.... 73 
.... 94 
.... 77 

O.K 

r . 1 ■. ijru- 



Pag*. 
18 
15 
17 
17 
17 
17 
15 
16 
18 
23 
23 
18 
19 



23 

31 

31 

26 

29 

30 

28 

31 

28 

20 

25 

23 

25 

26 

29 

29 

25 

30 

26 






Stewed Rognons a la.Sauce an Gliampagne 82 

Tomatoes * gg 

Tripe a la Sauce d'Homard; ...'.... 83 

Veal Croquettes ^g 

Veal Cutlets en Papillotes, gj 

Vegetables ,.. ..!.'..*... 84 

PICKLES. 

Butternuts..., ... 

East-India Pickle ,.,... jqq 

Green Tomatoes or Gherkins ! ! . 102 

Pickle for Beef _ _ ' ' ' ' * ' " \q^ 

Pickle for Preserving Eggs . .* . ! 104 

Pickled Oystcra .' V. . . ! lOG 

Soused Salmon jq^ 

PASTRY, PTODINGS AxVD JELLIES. 

Apple Pie jq^ 

Apple Soufffe, 126 

Apple Chai-lotte,, or Charlotte de Pommes 127 

Almond Pudding *.. ' 137 

Apple Dumplings 133 

Almond Pudding (No. 2.) | _ 149 

Blaoc-Maage. J29 

Blanc-Mango made with Stock i:;,o 

Boiled Rice Pudding; 142 

Bread Pudding 144 

Batter Pudding j^g 

Baked Batter Pudding 154 

Boiled Apple Pudding 152 

Boiled Custard Pudding..,. ^gg 

Cherry Pie jjjj 

Cocoa-NutPies,. J22 

CHstard Pie' , , .. 

lib 

C6rii and Milk , j2<> 

Custard Souffle ^ ^^5 



2t 
31 
27 
26 
27 
27 



3a 

31 
32 
o3 
33 
3z 
33 

34 
39 
40 
43 
43 
47 
41. 
41 
45 
45 

47 

48 

48 

49 

35 

36 

36 

38 



I 



%:^ ^n 



1 



Cfcarlotte .nusse ^"^ ^"ii^- 

Custard Pudding. .' ..,, . ..* ' " " * ^^^ 4ff 

Cocoa-Nut Pudding ^^^ *^ 

Carrot Pudding ^^^ ^^ 

Cambridge Pudding. .'. .' ^^^ *^ 

Calf's Feet Jelly. . . ... * ' ' ' ^^^ 49 

French Pudding. ..." ^^^ ^^ 

Presh Fruit Water ice *.'.'...". ^^^ ^^ 

Ground ^ice Pudding. ....'*.'.' .^^* ^^ 

Gooseberry or Rhubarb Fool " ' "^^^ ^* 

Ice Pudding ••...161 50 

Lemon Ice-Cream. "^^^ ^^ 

Lemon Pie \ ^^^ 42 

Lemon Pie (No. 2.). .....*. ^^^ ^'^ 

Lemon Pudding. .. ., ... , . , ' ' * ^^^ ^7 

Montreal Pudding. " " ^^'^ ^8 

Mince Pies '^^^ *® 

Mould of Rice and Custard. J" ^* 

Pancakes.... "^^^ 48 

Pie Crust .'." \ [ | .' .'.* ' ' " * " " " • • . .120 37 

Pine-Apple Water Ice. *. . " " ^^^ ^"^ 

Plum Pud'ding ^^^ 42 

Potato Pie * "* ^^^ 43 

Pumpkin Pie ^^^ ^^ 

Pampkin Pudding. .......[...] ^^^ ^® 

Raspberry tart. "** ^^^ 46 

Rice and Milk • • •- 113 36 

Rice Pudding. ..... "'.J *^* ^® 

Rhubarb Pies ../,].., •••••.......... 140 44 

Soft Custards. ••..... U5 36 

Snofw Pudding. . . . .,,[ •••.•••..... 124 39 

Stewed Apples isrith Almonds .' l^ ^^ 

«weetmoat Puddinir. with ^- ^:.u„ ... ^'.'^ I ^^^ 42 



In 



^ 



^& 
45 

4e 

47 

49 

50 

48 

42 

44 

50 

43 

42 

37 

37 

48 

46 

35 

38 

51 

48 

37 

34 

42 

43 

37 

36 

46 

36 

38 

44 

36 

39 

49 

42 

47 



Sweetmeat Roley Foley . . !^f' 

Whip Cream [[[][[ ' ,, 

GAKES. 

Almond Pornd Cake...... jgg 

A Nice Dish for Tea ' '* 'oo. 

Buns ^^2 

Bath Buns ^l^ 

&ead...'::;;::;::::;::;:;;;:;:;:;;;;;;;;;-^2« 

Boston Cream Cake ,.....,. ....'.'!*.,'. ""309 

Biscuit au Chocolat. / '^ ^oT 

Butter Biscuit. .*.'.'.*.'.'.*.*.'.'.* ." 223 

Buckwheat Cakes ' '.*.*.'. '. * '.*.*.'..'.* " * * 229 

Bristol Cake ......//.... 200 

Cream Cake. , .",*..*.*.*.***.] 212 

Cream of Tartar Biscuit. .*.',* ,'.*.'.* 233 

Cookies .,....'... i e 7 

Cookies (No. 2.) iqq 

Cookies (No. 3.) '..'.'..".".. . ,' ' . * ' ' jg^ 

Currant Cake .'."..'. 177 

Cheap Cakes jg 

C up C ake 1 8 3 

Cruller Cake ^gg 

^^""^"•^ 'y^'.^y.'.zy.['.[',[m 

Cocoa-Nut Balls ^arl 

Cocoa-Nut Pound Cake 2O6 

Corn Bitead ., ''"" " ' ' ' ' * * 223 

Dover Cake .....'* jqa 

Des Eclairs ., "......,........206 

Drop Cake *...... ..I... 211 

Flap-Jacks .*....*.'.'.' .'.'.' .' '. .*.' .* .' ' * 230 

French Cake ..".'. .'.'*' ""iTe 

Ginger Snaps 

Oold Cake .'.*.'.*.'.'.".'.*.*.*.*.*.*.".'.'.".' I88 

Olnger Bread. ... , . . . . , . ».,»..., . . , [[ ][[[ ' " j^^ 



J'agt: 
46 
41 



68 

69 

65 

66 

C4 

62 

62 

67 

68 

60 

63 

69 

52 

52 

52 

54 

56 

56 

56 

59 

61 

61 

68 

51 

62 

63 

69 

54 

55 

57 



• 



vU 



Ginger Bread (No. 2 ) ^*- ^«»'- 

Hard Waffles ..\\"' *^* W 

icing for a Plum Cake! *. '.*. .*.* ^^^ ** 

Indian Meal Cake ,...,., ^^^ ^^ 

Jessie Cup Cake .. . .' ^^^ ^^ 

JurnWes WW * ^^1 53 

Jumbles (No. 2.).**.*. ^^*^ ^ 

Jelly Cake. ' ^^^ 58 

Kisses !..!...".. ^^^ ^^ 

Loaf Cake...'...,.'... ^^"^ ^ 

Montreal Cake. . *.' [. " * [[['\ ^^® ^^ 

Macaroons ' ^^ 53 

Nice Common Cake.. ^^^ ^^ 

New Year Cookies ^^^ ^'^ 

Nougat ''' 1^0 53 

Potato Cakes '.. ^^^ 53 

Pound Cake....*.'!] ^^^ ^^ 

Plum Cake.....!.'.'],'.'! ^^^ ^ 

Plain Short Bread. !.*.'.' '^^^ ^^ 

Queen's Cake .".* ^^^ 60 

Rice Cake ,[ 204 61 

Rose Cake ^^^ ^^ 

Rolls (No. 20*. !!*.!!! ! ^^^ ^^ 

Rolls (No. 3.)!.*.*.*.'.'.','.' ^^^ ^4 

Rolls (No. 4.) . . , . . *. ' ^^'^ <>5 

Soda Loaf. .,.*.*!.*.*.*!.* ^^^ 65 

Sponge Cake [ ^'^^ 54 

Silver Cake .......... ^'^ ^^ 

Sweet Sandwiches*. ! ! ^^^ ^^ 

Scotch Short Bread. !!.'.'.*.' ^^^ ^ 

Shrewsbury Cake .. . .* ^^^ ^^ 

SodaRoUa ..*...* ^^^ 61 

Sally Lunn.. '.***.*.'' ^^5 64 

Soft Waffles.....*.'*.* ^21 «jo 

Soft Muffins. 224 6^7 

2^^ ^ 



•• • 



No. 

195 

•225 

213 

r. •• . . 227 

171 

190 

191 

187 

184 

186 

172 

197 

201 

170 

na 

> • » • • uZA 
....175 
• » . » 166 
....202 

204 

....178 
....210 
....216 
....217 
...218 
... 174 
...179 
...189 
...193 
...199 
...203 
...213 
...221 
..224 
..226 



59 
»t 

63 

68 

53 

68 

58 

57 

66 

57 

53 

59 

60 

53 

53 

66 

54 

51 

60 

61 

55 

63 

64 

65 

65 

54 

55 

57 

56 

60 

61 

64 

6,7 

6;^ 



# 4f 



VUI 



Spanr'^ Wafers „??• 

TiP8> ;.ke Z'.y.Z'y^'^^l 

Very nice kind of Small Cakes ... , oo 

Very Nice Cake .'.'.*.'.'^' .'.*!!.'.* 198 

PRESERVEa 

Black Batter Preserve 042 

Crab Apple Preserve V.V.V.'. .* 237 

Citron Preserve '.',7.*. 238 

Crab Apple Jelly \\........ '. [[\ ' ' "243 

Choke-Cherry Liqueur ^.„ 

Currant Wiae *]*'' gM 

Egg Plum Preserve ..'........,...[[ 239 

Gioiger Beer .....'. 040 

'Green Lime Preserve « . , 

Hen's Nest ^^ 

Mulled Wine '.'.'.V.V.V.'V. *..' ^^* 

Orange Liqueur OP Curacoa .. . o.. 

Orgeat ^^^ 

° ,... 252 

Peaches in Brandy 

Preserved Pine-Apples '.'.'.'.V. '.'. .V»'. . ...V '235 

Quince Preserve , „. 

Raspberry Vinegar *. 243 

Strawberry, Raspberry, or any SmaU Fruit3.V.*.V234 
Tomato Preserve 

MISX7ELLANE0US RECIPES. 
A Good Hair Oil 

An Excellent Cough Remedy ......... ^^o 

Almond Tarts ^ ' ^ 

Cheese Head 

Cun^ for a Feloa .V. ... .. '. '"l^l 

Domestic Champagne 27 1 

Extract of Vanilla '/,[][ .......... 271 

Eye Water for InflammaUog of the Eyes. ... ...\a65 



69 
51 
55 
60 



73 
71 
71 
73 

74 

75 

72 

75 

72 

73 

75 

73 

75 

74 

70 

70 

74 

70 

72 



81 

78 
78 
77 
80 
81 
81 



IX 



Pof a XVhitlow ^<»- 

^ly Poison v.". ...2G4 

Jiair UiJ "" 267 

Lobster Pie ' ' " 203 

Omelette , ' 25y 

Shining German Blacking ^oT 

Taffbo ^ 2tJtJ 

toasted Cheese ... ^53 

To Ilermetically Soai and k^^p Vomal^c^ '?? 

To keep Peaches Whifo d l. ^^'^'■* 254 

borriea Sh . !. ''""™'"^' "' S""" 
to make aoe Barrel ofSoap "°' 

- ' 272 



Pay*. 
79 

80 

7a 

77 

77 

79 

TU 

77 

7<> 

7« 
78 

80 
81 
81 



X 7/5 /ysw ms /f^e^en .^z 



