
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



FBIZC MEDAL, INTEBHATIOirAL EXHIBITION, 1862, 
was awarded to 

MESSES. VIRTUE, 

for 

the " publication of 

WEALE'S SERIES 

See JURORS' REPORTS, 

CLASS XXIX. 

% RUDIMENTARY, SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND p*j 





8 



CLASSICAL WORKS, 



& FOB COLLEGES, HIGH AND ORDINARY SCHOOLS, ->£« 

%b AND SELF-INSTRUCTION; £j.*j 

£-!• MECHANICS' INSTITUTIONS, FKEE LEBEABIES, &c. &o, f£* 

i"£ PUBLISHED BY SG^- 

^ VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER, Jtfp 

£* * PATEKNOSTEE BOW. 



;?t£ %• THE ENTIRE SERIES IS FREELY ILLUSTRATED ON WOOD +£ 
|t^ AND STONE WHERE REQUISITE. 

jf£ 7%e Public are respect/idly informed that the whole of the 

$£p late Mb. Wk axe's Publications, contained in the following Cata- 

X*§ logue, have been purchased by Vibtue Brothebs & Co., and 

£* that all future Orders wUl be supplied by them at 1, Amen 



&3i 



I 

m 
ft 

I 



COBNEB. 



••• Additional Volumes, by Popular Authors, are in Preparation. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Natural Philosophy, Introduction to the Study of, for the 
use of Beginners. By Charles Tomlixson, Lecturer of Natural 
Science in King's CoUege School, London. Illustrated, Is. 

By Chables 



m 



"» 



& 



[gj Pneumatics; for the use of Beginners. 

;jj£r Tomlinson. Illustrated, Is. 

Jt§ Perspective for Beginners ; simplified for the use of Juvc- 

rfifr nile Students and Amateurs in Architecture, Painting, &c. By 

l £t GborgbPyhb. Illustrated, 2s. ^_ __ ^ 

5+ VIBTUE XBOXBXRB ft CO., 1, I^IHHHHhI 



■ii 




r 

i 

J 

r 
£.1 

* ! 

s 



pi 



.: 



"W? 






gpf 




The Mollusca, a Manual of; or, a Rudimentary Treatise 
•f Beeent and Fossil Shells. By S. P. Woodward, ApROciato of 
the Linnean Society, Assistant in the Department of Mineralogy 
and Geology in the British Museum. Illustrated, 5a. Gd. 

The Painter's Art, Budimcnts of; or, a Grammar of 
Colouring applicable to Operatire Painting, Decora ti to Archi- 
tecture, and the Arts. By George Field. Illustrated, 2s. 

Painting on Glass, or Gloss Staining, the Art of; com- 
prising Directions for preparing the Pigments and Fluxes, for 
laying them upon the Glass, and for Firing or Burning in the 
Colours. From the German of Dr. Gessert. To which is added 
an Appendix on the Art of Enamelling, &c. Is. 



Painting on Glass, the Art of. 
Fromderg. Is. 



From the German of 



The Law of Contracts for Works and Services. By 
Datid Gibbons. Is. 

Clay Lands and Loamy Soils ; comprising the Origin and 

Chemical qualities of each yariety of Land — Natural Properties of 
the Soils and Mode of Cultivation — Cropping and Value of the 
Lands, and changes effected by mixing with Hot Lime. By Pro- 
fessor Donaldson. Is. 

Music, a Rudimentary and Practical Treatise on. By 
Charles 'Child Spencer. 2s. 






The Pianoforte, the Art of Playing, with numerous Exer- 
cises and Lessons, written and selected from the best masters. 
By Charles Child Spencer. Is. 

VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, ^^^ttiiw^^Xatt^x^^v** 



*3S£ 



iSSaviV^ 



s? - -*^ 



B0DTMH5TARY TBEATISE FOE STUDENTS OP AORICOT.TURB. 



OUTLINES 



MODERN FARMING. 



BT 

ROBERT SCOTT BURN, 

BDITOB Or THE " TEAR BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL FACTS AHD AHBUAL RECORD 

OF FARMING PROOBES8 ; " 
OHE OF THE AUTHORS OF THF. " BOOK OF BARM IMPLEMENTS ABB MACH1BES," 
" ABD OF THR " BOOK OF FABX HUILDIBGS ;" AKD AUTHOR OF AB " AGRI- 
CULTURAL TOUB IB BELGIUM, HOLLAND, AKD OB THE BHISB." 



VOL. V. 



UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE.—IEKIGATION.— 
RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 




LONDON : 
VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER, 

PATERNOSTEE BONJ. 
1865. 

I- k 



10, 



7 



INTRODUCTION. 



The reader interested in the utilisation of town sewage 
— if not the most interesting, at least one of the most 
widely discussed questions of the day — must not expect 
to find in the division of the present work which 
discusses it an approval of the popular view respecting 
it. That view is one which, insisting upon the "enor- 
mous value " — we quote here a popular phrase much 
used in discussing the question — of our town sewage, 
maintains that our agriculturists are guilty of a gross 
absurdity in obtaining manurial agents from foreign 
countries, or in manufacturing them from special 
sources, at a high cost, while an agent as valuable is 
met with in abundance, and within their easy reach ; 
that agent being town sewage in its ordinary or 
normal condition. We have always maintained, and see 
no reason in the present aspect of the question why we 
should cease from maintaining, that this view is not based 
upon correct facts, neither is it altogether a generous 
one ; for it is clear enough that the agricultural body 
are not interested in the non-success of the utilisation 



IV INTRODUCTION. 

of town sewage, nor so prejudiced in favour of other 
manurial agents — such as guano — as to prevent their 
using town sewage. They have no interest, as some 
unfairly would assume that they have an interest, 
in preferring one before another ; with them it is, as 
with other business men, a mere question of paying 
consideration, a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence. 
If town sewage is so valuable as some maintain it to 
be, the farmers will gladly use it. But even if convinced 
of its thorough value, it is clear that it must be taken 
to them before they can so use it. Yet this has never 
been done on any scale sufficiently large to justify the 
conviction that those who talk and write so much about 
its " enormous value" believe practically that it possesses 
this. Else how is it that the principle of political 
economy, which we hear so much of now-a-days con- 
nected with " supply and demand," does not regulate 
this as it does other matters, where one party has some- 
thing to sell which is said to be valuable, while another 
not only is in want of this something, but can afford to 
pay for it ? Capitalists are not usually a retiring class of 
men ; on the contrary, they are eager to rush into specu- 
lations which afford even the smallest margin of profit. 
So that, after all the talk that has been made about the 
value of town sewage, as to the mine of wealth which 
lies locked up in it, one is somewhat disposed to believe 
that there must have been some over-statement of this 
value, since we see that capitalists, with a few solitary 
exceptions, have shown no desire to avail themselves of 
this so-called mine of wealth connected with it. We 



INTRODUCTION. V 

lo not ignore the fact that town sewage is valuable — 
ill that we would here insist upon is, that it is not 
w valuable as some positively maintain it to be ; and 
apart from the chemical and agricultural considerations 
which the reader will find discussed in the following 
pages — which prove abundantly, we think, that this 
value has been popularly over-estimated — does it not, we 
ask, afford a further proof of the above statement when we 
see that very little practically has been done in the way 
of utilisation of sewage ? Our numerous towns offer, but 
offer in vain, what some say are sources of great wealth, 
yet this is suffered to remain as a rule unappropriated. 
A substance may be valuable, but it may be presented 
in such a way as to render its utilisation impossible in a 
paying sense, — there is such a thing as buying gold too 
dear; we may crush the quartz which contains it, yet 
find after all that we have obtained by no means a 
sufficient quantity of gold to pay for the operation. 
Now, a consideration of this sort has a close bearing 
upon the subject we are discussing. Town sewage does 
assuredly contain elements of high agricultural value ; 
but it by no means follows that these elements are 
present in that readily and universally available con- 
dition, as to give the sewage which contains them such 
a pecuniary value as will afford a profit upon any 
scheme which conveys it from our towns to the 
districts in the country where it can be used. A 
number of points, as bulk, applicability to various crops, 
&c, have to be, and must be, considered before the reu) 
value it possesses can be decided upon ; a faAL &srn^ 



VI INTRODUCTION. 

sion of these the reader will find in the following pages. 
In the meantime, we point out that the agricultural 
body have really no interest in setting themselves 
against the use of town sewage. They wish, in fact, 
an abundant supply of good manure, and would be 
delighted to be ensured this, not troubling themselves 
with the fact as to whether it was of foreign or of home 
origin. The main point with them is, indeed, to get a 
useful manure as cheap as possible ; but they surely do 
not claim too much when they claim the right to know 
better than others who are not farmers, whether a 
manure offered to them is worth as much as those 
offering it to them claim it to be worth. This is, in 
truth, what English farmers do in this question, and it 
is simply a statement of a fact that they have, as a 
body, come to the conclusion that town sewage is not 
possessed of the extremely high value which some say 
it has, and that, moreover, the value, such as it is, 
is limited by the fact, which is nearly the universal 
belief of the British farmers as a body, that it is not 
applicable to all the crops of the farm. The reader will 
find all these points connected with the subject fully 
discussed in the following pages ; but since they passed 
through the press, one or two documents have been 
published which, bearing closely upon the question, 
require to be noticed here. We have said just now that 
it is the general belief amongst British farmers that 
town sewage in its usual condition is not applicable to 
all crops, and that its value is not to be taken as 
equivalent to the value of human excreta, which go 



INTRODUCTION. VII 

to make up part of its constituents, and which excreta 
are otherwise doubtless highly valuable in a raanurial 
point of view ; and this because the town sewage in its 
ordinary condition contains a very large amount of 
worthless materials, of which water is the principal. 
The bearing upon the whole question which these con- 
siderations have, will be seen in the following extract of 
a Report about to be authoritatively published, and to 
which, at a recent meeting of the British Association, 
distinct reference was made by Dr. Gilbert, the 
celebrated agricultural chemist : — 

" There is, of course, no question that if the manurial 
constituents resulting from the consumption of the 
corn and meat sent into our towns could be returned 
into the land from whence they came, its produce 
would be considerably increased ; for with the mineral 
constituents there would always be associated nitrogen, 
in amount which would serve to render effective a 
considerable portion of all, if not the whole, of some of 
these constituents. If, however, human excretal matters 
continue to be diluted with water to the extent recog- 
nised by the growing system of urban defecation, and 
if dilute liquid sewage cannot be distributed in small 
quantities over large areas at a much lower cost to 
the farmer than has yet been proposed, there is little 
hope that the manurial constituents derived from the 
human food sent into our towns can be re-distributed 
over the area from which they came. Indeed, having 
regard to the imipplicability of dilute liquid sewage to 
arable land, e* f *ept in small quantities weA m ^xnXssqNs^ 



V1U INTRODUCTION. 

seasons, and to the estimated cost of distribution, it 
appears probable that the most profitable mode of 
utilisation will be to limit the area by applying the 
greater part, if not the whole, to permanent or other 
grasses, laid down to take it the year round, trusting 
mainly to the periodically broken up rye-grass land, 
and to the application to arable land of the solid 
manure resulting from the consumption of the sew- 
aged grass, for obtaining other produce than milk or 
meat by means of sewage." 

The farmer will not fail to see how these considera- 
tions narrow very much the field of town sewage 
utilisation; for soils and crops adapted for irrigation 
are not met with extensively, in very district, and form 
only a portion of mixed husbandry or arable farms. 

But since the following pages were printed the ques- 
tion has undergone a very remarkable phase — one so 
remarkable indeed that it is impossible to see what effect 
it can ha\e upon the practical solution of the question, 
other than that of a retarding one. British farmers have 
been again and again told that the waste of the towns 
was the want of the country ; that in withdrawing year 
after year crops of corn and herds of cattle from the 
soil of their farms, and these to be consumed in the 
towns, without their waste products being returned to 
the fields, they were taking the surest and the quickest 
means to reduce their fertility, indeed to bring them to 
utter sterility. Baron Liebig has maintained this view 
with all his force and clearness. In his celebrated letter 
to Mr. Mechi the following sentences were given : — 



INTRODUCTION. IX 

" The loss of these elements [the elements of fertility 
in soils] is brought about by the 'sewerage system of 
towns.' Of all the elements of tlie field which, in tJieir 
products, in the shape of com and meat, are carried into 
the cities, and there consumed, nothing, or as good ms 
nothing, returns to the fields. It is clear that if these 
elements were collected without loss, and every year restored 
to the fields, these would then retain the power to furnish 
every year to the ciiies the same quantity of corn and 
meat ; and it is equally clear that if the fields do not 
receive back these elements, agriculture must gradually 
cease. In regard to the utility of the avails of the 
' sewerage of towns ' as manures, no farmer, and scarcely 
an intelligent man, has any doubt, but as to their 
necessity opinions are very various." 

After pointing out the fallacy of the opinion that 
corn and meat, like other wares, will always be forth- 
coming from other countries as well as from our own ; 
so long as the demand exists the supply will be certain — 
a fallacy which all history proves, inasmuch as there is 
a limit to corn producing which is soon reached — the 
Baron goes on to say — 

" It is impossible, in civilised countries, to raise the 
corn production beyond a certain limit, and this limit 
has become so narrow that our fields are no longer 
capable of a higher yield without an increase of their 
effective elements by the introduction of manures from 
abroad. 

"By the application of guano and bones the farmer 
of most limited capacity learns the real umgat\» <& ^\*s^ 



X INTRODUCTION. 

increase; lie learns that the pure system of stall or 
home-made manures is the true and genuine robber 
system. In consequence of his restoring in the guano 
and bones but a very small portion of those very same 
elements of seeds and of fodder which had been with- 
drawn from his fields by centuries of cultivation, their 
products are wonderfully increased. Experiments insti- 
tuted with special reference to this end in six different 
parts of the kingdom of Saxony, showed that each hun- 
dredweight of guano put upon a field produced 150 lbs. 
of wheat, 400 lbs. of potatoes, and 280 lbs. of clover more 
than the same sized piece of ground without guano ; and 
from this it may be calculated how enormously the corn 
and flesh production of Europe has been increased by 
the yearly importation of 100,000 tons, or 2,000,000 
cwts. of guano. 

" The effect of guano and bones should have taught 
the farmer the real cause of the exhaustion of his fields ; 
it should have taught him in what a condition of per- 
petual fertility he might have preserved his fields, if the 
elements of the guano which he has transported in the shape 
of meat and products of his field into the cities were recovered 
and brought into a form which would admit of their being 
restored to his fields every year. 

" To an understanding of this, however, the farmer 
has not yet come, for as his forefathers believed that the 
soil of their fields was inexhaustible, so the farmer of 
the present day believes that the introduction of manures 
from abroad will have no end. It is much simpler, he 
thinks, to buy guano and bones than to collect their 



INTRODUCTION. ." XI 

elements from the sewers of towns, and if a lack of the 
former should ever arise, it will then be time enough to 
think of a resort to the latter. But of all the erroneous 
opinions of the farmers this is the most dangerous and 
fatal." 

Now, from these statements and others of a like 
character, which have been put forth again and again 
by the advocates of the opinion that town sewage is 
highly valuable, as being directly and immediately 
available to all crops, and available moreover in the 
simplest and readiest of all forms, it is abundantly evident 
that one thing is meant, namely, that the elements of 
fertility withdrawn year by year from our fields are to 
be found in the sewer water of our towns, and that this 
being the case, sewer water must be a universal manure, 
that is applicable to all crops, just as much so as stable 
or dung manure. If these opinions mean anything, 
they must mean this; nothing can be more explicit, 
indeed, than the sentences which in the previous 
extract we have italicised. The lesson, then, which 
farmers have been taught to believe in for many years 
is, that the elements of fertility withdrawn from their 
fields existed in sewage, and that therefore by using 
this they were restoring these elements, and that 
no danger — on the contrary, much benefit — would 
arise from its use. What then must be the influence 
upon the minds of these farmers, and upon the general 
question of sewage utilisation, of a letter which has 
recently been addressed, by Baron Liebig, to the Chair- 
man of the Select Committee of the House oi Qwbsssmsb^ 



xii INTRODUCTION. 

appointed to inquire into the subject of town sewage 
utilisation ? — from which letter it appears that so far 
from the use of sewfcge being agriculturally a simple 
thing to use, its use is, on the contrary, attended with 
such " danger," that in view of its more extended use in 
Great Britain, Baron Liebig is oppressed, — to use his own 
language, — with an anxiety which is greater than he can 
describe. The whole letter is so important, and has such 
a bearing upon the question, that we deem it impera- 
tively necessary to give it here in extenso, only regret- 
ting that its date of publication was such as to prevent 
its appearing in the body of the work : — 

" The natural laws which govern the permanent fer- 
tility of soils and the increase of their produce are, 
from circumstances which I cannot detail here, very 
little understood by the British farmer, and hence 
nrises a fear that the use of sewage, which ought to be 
a lusting benefit to agriculture, may be regarded, after 
a few years, as a veritable detriment by the same farmer 
who, in the first years of its application, would assuredly 
give it his full approbation. In what may be termed 
its natural state, sewage is not a universal manure, like 
stable dung, which is efficacious at all times, and in all 
localities ; but a special manure, the continual and ex- 
clusive application of which tends to impoverish the 
land. 

" Stable dung contains all, a special manure only 
some, of the elements which ought to be restored to the 
soil in order to render it permanently fertile. Peruvian 
guano, for instance, belongs to the class of special 



INTRODUCTION. XlU 

manures; and experience has shown that, in certain 
countries of Germany and Scotland, the application oi 
guano on meadow land, which produced in the first 
years enormous crops of grass or hay, had later no effect 
at all, and that the same man who at first overrated 
the value of guano, eventually cursed its application 
(see my 'Natural Laws of Husbandry/ pp. 261 — 263). 
Sewage contains ammonia, potash, and phosphoric acid, 
like guano; but phosphoric acid in a much smaller 
proportion. On a soil rich (in its natural state) in 
phosphoric acid, sewage will have an excellent effect ; 
it will produce, for instance, large crops of grass, 
turnips, and corn, if the soil supplies the quantity of 
phosphoric acid wanting in sewage ; but as in each 
successive crop a certain quantity of phosphoric acid is 
abstracted, the total quantity in the soil is, by con- 
tinual application of sewage, gradually diminishing 
every year ; and a time must arrive when the phosphoric 
acid is insufficient for further crops, and when sewage 
ceases to produce its former effects. 

" By having the turnips eaten on the field, the soil 
(by the solid and liquid excrements) is exactly manured 
as if irrigated with a number of tons of sewage (con- 
taining the elements of voidings of the sheep), and the 
farmer knows that at the beginning of a new rotation 
he must manure his field with phosphates in order to 
get the former crop of turnips, corn, &c, in succession. 
The same field could not be rendered equally fit to 
furnish the same quantity of produce in a new rotation 
if it was manured year after year by the voidvc^ *& 



XIV INTRODUCTION. 

sheep only, or its equivalent of sewage, which would be 
the same thing. 

" By the increase of his crops in the first year by 
sewage irrigation only, the farmer, ignorant of the 
natural law, would be led to believe that the same effect 
would continue, and that he could dispense with other 
manures altogether, except, perhaps, with the stable 
dung which his farm produces; but he would be 
mistaken, and on discovering his error, as he would 
soon do, the revulsion of feeling caused by it would be 
most baneful. The agriculturist must be made aware 
that by the introduction of sewage his whole system of 
farming undergoes a change, and that he has to make 
an apprenticeship to learn to apply it rightly and 
economically, and in order to benefit and not to injure 
his fields. 

"If the agriculturist is left without proper instruc- 
tion on this head, the labours of years of men like 
yourself, Dr. Brady, and others would be lost. It 
would take a long time to recover the lost ground. 
When I think of the possibility, indeed I may say 
the probability, of this occurring, that the millions 
necessary to realise the proposed scheme should be 
expended in vain, that the great and important 
example of England should then be lost to Europe, 
I confess that my anxiety on the matter is very great. 
It would be one of the greatest misfortunes that could 
happen, should this contingency really occur. Every 
meaus, therefore, must be employed to prevent any 
misunderstanding, to clear up any false view regarding 



INTRODUCTION. XV 

the efficacy of sewage, and to guard against all error in 
the application of it. To you, therefore, my lord, I 
write on the subject, being sure you will give it your 
most serious consideration, and be willing to devise 
means for averting the threatened evil. 

" If clearly understood, and properly managed, the 
employment of sewage will prove a blessing to agri- 
culture; and those who, by unwearied perseverance, 
have at last seen the consummation of their labours, 
may justly be looked upon as the benefactors of their 
fellow-men. But loud would be the outcry should the 
agriculturist, either by his own ignorance or the want 
of forethought in others, find himself misled; our 
name would then become a byword, and instead of 
gratitude, be recollected with a curse. There are two 
things which must be done : first, it must be made 
intelligible to all that sewage in its natural state does 
not replace stable dung in its entire efficacy ; and that, 
if used exclusively, it will produce abundant crops only 
for a time ; secondly, that for each crop the composition 
of sewage ought to be corrected according to the nature 
of the soil by adding those ingredients which are want' 
ing in sewage, and which the plants to be grown 
require in the largest proportion. 

"The composition of sewage being once perfectly 
known, a recipe for what is to be added could be made 
out and put in the hands of every farmer who uses it ; 
and it remains a question whether it is not possible for the 
company itself to add those ingredients wanting in the 
sewage, according to the demand of the crop to be gro^^ " 



XVI INTRODUCTION. 

We have token the liberty to italicise certain portions 
of the foregoing, and from the points contained in 
these, and indeed from the whole of the letter, it is 
impossible, in view of the eminent talents and of the 
immense services which this distinguished chemist has 
rendered to agriculture, to underrate its vast importance. 
If its views are correct, the British Farmer has no other 
alternative than to unlearn, or at least very extensively to 
modify, all the lessons and opinions which have been put 
forward for so long in support of the utilisation of sewage, 
as a manure available for all crops, for all soils, and under 
all circumstances. The result of this new phase into 
which the question has entered must of necessity be to 
throw fresh doubts around it, and greatly to retard its 
practical solution. 

But while offering these important considerations to 
the reader's notice, we would regret if they conveyed 
to him the idea that we have no belief in the vnlue of 
town sewage, and that it should not be utilised. On the 
contrary, while we on the one hand do not join with those 
who give what we believe to be an altogether exaggerated 
value to town sewage, we, on the other, as little join with 
those who maintain that it has none. We endeavour to 
hold the middle view between these two extreme points, 
— which view is, that town sewage has a certain value, and 
that, therefore, it is unwise for the community to allow it 
to be wasted and to pollute our rivers, when, to a certain 
extent, it might be used to fertilise land under special 
town circumstances. But we insist that this wise use of 
sewage is retarded mainly by those who most per- 



INTRODUCTION. XVU 

sistently advocate the use of it, and this simply because 
they attach to it an exaggerated value, and withdraw 
the attention of the conservators of the health of towns 
from the only question with which they are really con- 
cerned — namely, the sanitary one. If they can get a 
price for their town sewage, so far so good; but their 
primary duty is to get rid of it, because it is a nuisance 
to the towns. But if they put off doing this duty 
in the hope that they can adopt some system by which 
they will not only get rid of it, but at the same time get 
such a price for it as to pay for its removal, and thus to 
gain an ultimate profit on the transaction, we are 
most assuredly convinced that the problem of town 
sewage utilisation will not meet with its solution in our 
day. The corporations have a duty to perform to their 
constituents, and that is to remove the nuisance of 
town sewage from the neighbourhood of their houses. 
This must, we take it, be done at their own risk, and 
done altogether irrespective of such a question as to 
whether they will get repaid for doing it. While, there- 
fore, we do not join with those who denounce all 
attempts to utilise the town sewage as vain, and their 
realisation altogether unprofitable, neither do we join 
with those who foresee a brilliant future when corpora- 
tions will find a ready market, and obtain a high 
price, for their sewage. It needs, we think — if one looks 
carefully at the whole bearings of the case, what has 
been done in connection with it, and what is likely to 
be done — no great power of prophecy to divine that 
whatever bodies may be enriched by the utiliaatvora. <& 



XV111 INTRODUCTION. 

town sewage, the corporations of our towns will not, as 
a rule, be so enriched. We look therefore upon it as 
a matter greatly to be deplored that corporations have 
been impressed by one agency or another with the 
belief that they had in their town sewage a source of 
corporate wealth ; for this has urged them, we fear, to 
delay doing their primary duty — the sanitary one — in 
the hope that they would be able to combine with it a 
financial success. When one reads in the public prints, 
or in more authoritative reports, of the value of town 
sewage being put down at a pound per head of the 
population per annum, it is worth while to take note of 
the pregnant facts, that^in the two districts of Croydon 
and Edinburgh, where sewage is most successfully used, 
the return per head obtained at Croydon is estimated 
at two shillings, at Edinburgh one shilling only; and 
further, that, in the latter place at all events, this 
miserable sum is not realised by the corporation, for they 
get nothing from those who use the sewage (see p. 74 
for some considerations bearing upon this point). 

While we write, the public prints announce that the 
Metropolitan Board of Works have agreed to grant a 
concession, extending over a period of fifty years, to 
certain capitalists, for the use of the sewage of London ; 
but it is worth while to note that these capitalists give 
no immediate payment for this sewage. Such pecuniary 
benefit as the Board of Works hope to obtain from it 
is contingent entirely upon the profits resulting from 
the completion of the scheme. We do not know enough 
of the details of this to warrant us to give an opinion 



INTRODUCTION. XIX 

as to the prospects of profits being realised from it ; 
but in view of the statements made above, as to Croydon 
and Edinburgh, and of others which the reader will find 
in the text of this work, we see enough to induce the 
guiding capitalists to look very narrowly into the details 
of the scheme before giving them their sanction, and to 
take every means to ascertain the nature of the circum- 
stances upon which they base their hopes of a valuable 
return for their outlay. It is right also to state that 
the scheme does not meet with the approval of some 
competent authorities. It has yet to be sanctioned by 
Parliament. While in no way hesitating to avow our 
belief that the scheme will not realise the sanguine 
expectations of some of those interested in it, we never* 
theless shall be only too glad — in the interests of a 
science we love — to be proved to be in the wrong, by 
the success with which it may solve a most important 
problem. 

The reader must pardon these long introductory re- 
marks, but the discussion of the question has within the 
last few weeks received such an impetus mainly from the 
circumstances already alluded to, that special reference 
to some of its most salient points was necessary, all the 
more that the following pages having been for some time 
printed, this reference could not be made where certainly 
it would have been best made — in the body of the work. 
It is right to say that the views generally maintained 
by the Author, on the subject of sewage utilisation, 
received their fullest, if not their first, development 
in two papers which he was privileged to pretax* tot 



XX INTRODUCTION. 

publication in the pages of the Journal of the Bath 
and West of England Society. It is due to the Council 
of that important Society that he should acknow- 
ledge — as with no small degree of satisfaction he 
here acknowledges — the spirit of liberality, and the 
desire to promote the interests of science, in which they 
accorded permission to him to make use in this work of 
such portions of those papers as he deemed likely to 
add to its interest or practical value. The Author has 
availed himself of this privilege, more especially in 
connection with the subject of irrigation, the whole of 
the illustrations connected with which, and the major 
portion of their descriptive matter, having appeared in 
the second of the two papers alluded to. To the two 
subjects of Utilisation of Town Sewage and Irrigation, 
a third, on the Reclamation of Waste Land, has been 
added, in the discussion of some of the details of 
which the author has availed himself of articles which 
he prepared some time ago for a leading agricultural 
journal. While fully conscious of the shortcomings of 
the present volume, and while claiming it to be con- 
sidered simply as an " outline " of the subjects which 
its pages embrace, the author, nevertheless, ventures to 
hope that it will be found in some measure useful, not 
only to those interested in the general literature — as 
literature— of the farm, but to those practically con- 
nected with its duily labours. 



Highfield Lodge, November, 18G4. 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



DIVISION FIRST. 

THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE, 

In another volume of the present series of agricultural 
treatises, we have drawn the especial attention of tbe 
reader to the fact that the art or science of agriculture 
was marked by the number of vexed questions which 
characterised it; and this mainly arising from the cir- 
cumstance that it is not a fixed science, of which the 
principles are determinate, but one, on the contrary, the 
results of which cannot be predicated with certainty, 
these being influenced by a variety of circumstances, 
— conflicting and often contradictory, — arising from 
differences in climate, locality, and soil, and of others 
not so much within the domain of observation or re- 
search. Of these vexed questions, of which in preceding 
volumes we have given illustrations or instances, there 
is perhaps none which possesses so many conflicting and 
contradictory features as that which forms the subject 
of this division of our present volume. By some,- the 
value of town sewage for agricultural purposes has been 
greatly overrated, by others as greatly underrated; 
while there are others again who maiut&YY^\x^^^^ 

B 



2 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING 

all evidence to the contrary — of which we shall have 
abundance presented us as we proceed with our investi- 
gations — that it possesses no agricultural value whatever. 
From all these conflicting and contradictory elements, 
the difficulty — by those who have no distinct bias in 
favour of any particular view of the subject — has been 
to extract informal ion which shall be accurate and trust- 
worthy, and capable of being applied to the everyday 
practice of modern farming. That there should be 
one view of the subject, which is on the whole fairly 
accurate in details, is obvious enough ; and this we take 
to be that which, avoiding both extremes — namely, 
that which represents town sewage as of immense 
agricultural value, and that which represents it as 
having none — maintains the middle course, "which 
ignores neither the value of town sewage, nor the diffi- 
culties which lie in the way of economically utilising 
it." 

We hope to be able to convince our readers that this 
middle view of the subject is the correct one, and we shall 
see as we proceed, that of the two extreme views above 
alluded to, that which maintains the high. agricultural 
value of town sewage is possessed of more truth than 
that which main tail, s that it has none. But it is, per- 
haps, at the same time, nevertheless true, that the advo- 
cates of the first view, who persist in giving so very 
high a value to town sewage, have done much harm in 
presenting to the public mind an exaggerated estimate 
of this value, and thus practically delaying the realisa- 
tion of all national or extensive schemes for its utilisa- 
tion. For it may be accepted as a truth that exaggeration 
in the detail of advantages to be derived from the prac- 
tice of any system, defeats the very purpose which its 
A-drocutcs have in view; for while they offer too much--' 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 3 

more, in fact, than the system at its best can yield — 
and this is not realised, the public are very apt to jump 
to the conclusion, that it in reality can offer nothing. 
It is safer to underrate than to exaggerate the merits 
of any scheme, more especially that about which there 
is so much conflicting opinion as the utilisation of 
town sewage. Of the two classes of disappointment, 
that is undoubtedly borne the easiest, which is usually 
designated as an " agreeable disappointment." It 
is better should we give ultimately more than we at 
first promised. The very opposite principle has, we 
regret to say, been the characteristic of the eager advo- 
cates of the schemes for utilising our town sewage : 
they have promised too much. In examining the 
arguments which they have brought forward in sup- 
port of what we are compelled to say is their extreme 
view of the subject, there are two fallacies which at 
once present themselves — fallacies, the persistent advo- 
cacy of which have done more than any other cause to 
hinder the progress of the question. These are, first, 
that " it is immaterial in the conduct of experiments 
whether we experiment with the same thing and under 
the same circumstances/' — and, secondly, " that in 
agricultural practice the results .of one experiment will 
show what will be the result of any number of other 
experiments." Of these two fallacies the first is 
evidently the most absurd, for, on the face of it, it 
Certainly does appear strange that experimenters should 
adopt so mischievous a principle as that which it 
involves ; of the second fallacy this much may be said, 
that while it is less absurd it is more dangerous, inas- 
much as it possesses an appearance of soundness to 
which the first can Jay no claim. Qn both these 
fallacies we have made some remarks in the ^u^t. 

b2 



4 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

which we contributed to the Journal of the Bath and 
West of England Society, on "Town Sewage," and 
which we reproduce below. 

In the evidence which was given by Mr. Miles 
before the Select Committee of the House of Commons, 
appointed to examine into the merits of the various 
schemes proposed for the utilisation of town sewage, it 
was stated that he found it highly valuable for all crops 
of the farm, cereal as well as grain crops. This, as we 
shall see as we proceed, is directly in the face of the 
opinion of such eminent authorities as Professor 
Voelcker, Mr. J. B. Lawes, and others, who maintain 
that town sewage is not applicable to all crops. But on 
examining the details of Mr. Miles's evidence, we 
discover that the sewage which he has at command is 
so far different in its constituents from that normally 
obtained from towns, that while, in the latter, the 
great defect is that it contains too much water, that of 
Mr. Miles has the opposite characteristic. The value, 
therefore, of the sewage used by Mr. Miles being greater 
than that of ordinary town sewage, it is evident that 
any experiments conducted with it must be useful only 
illustrating its own particular value, not as illustrating 
that of ordinary town sewuge, from which it differs so 
much in manurial value. Afier referring to this, we 
then, in the paper above alluded to, go on to say : — " We 
refer to this evidence, as it illustrates a very essential 
point to be considered in the investigation of an agri- 
cultural question. Are we experimenting with the same 
thing and under the same circumstances ? If not, then 
any comparative results attempted to be deduced from 
them must be perfectly worthless. If, in trying two 
steam engines, one of six, the other of twelve-horse 
power, one had only half the proper proportion of the 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 5 

fuel given the other, it would scarcely be pretended that 
it was a fair trial, or that the results were valuable as 
showing which was the better of two six-horse engines, 
when in fact one was not a six-horse engine at all ! 

" If this be a common -sense view of the matter, why 
should it be ignored in discussing the town sewage 
question P The truth is, the whole question has been so 
long placed under false aspects, from conjectural state- 
ments, and from lack of trustworthy facts, that it ought 
at once to be taken out of the range of haphazard con- 
jecture, and placed within that of careful and philoso- 
phical inquiry. It is dangerous, moreover, to rest satis- 
fied with the result of one or two experiments ; these, 
however carefully conducted, will not decide the ques- 
tion for all circumstances of soil and locality. Agri- 
culturists, therefore, who know how many modifying 
circumstances come into operation in all farming, will 
not agree with the statement in the report of the Select 
Committee, that 'in seeking for the solution of the 
sewage problem, it is not necessary to produce a mass of 
evidence to prove that by careful and judicious applica- 
tion of sewage, satisfactory and profitable results will 
be obtained ; one such case is quite sufficient, for what 
has once been done may be repeated ad infinitum. 9 Such 
a principle may be applicable to inquiries connected 
with any one of the fixed sciences, but it is not applicable 
to agriculture ; for, as we have elsewhere remarked, 
'agriculture is not a fixed science; there is no such 
thing as an agricultural theory adapted to all varieties 
of practice ; there are so many peculiarities tending to 
throw in disturbing elements, that the dictates of theory, 
however applicable to one locality, are found to be totally 
inapplicable to another. Hence the danger which arises 
to the real progress of agriculture from \X\& WKatoj ^v^ 



6 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

which some accept new notions, simply because they are 
new, and endeavour to make them applicable to all 
circumstaDces of soil, climate, and locality/ 

" The difficulties arising in the conduct of agricultural 
experiments, arising as they do from a complexity of 
causes, the means adopted to get rid of them must also 
be in some measure more or less complex. An isolated 
experiment here and there recorded may be undoubtedly- 
valuable ; but it is valuable only so far as it goes. We 
must therefore be cautious in adoptiug any view, how- 
ever convincing it may be in its general aspect ; and 
we should never forget that agriculture is perhaps of all 
pursuits the one to which it is the most difficult to apply 
rules applicable under all circumstances, inasmuch as 
an immense variety of modifying causes come into play, 
introducing disturbing elements which must be taken 
into account, and dealt with, if we really desire to arrive 
at a practically useful conclusion. Climate, soil, locality, 
all exercise an influence on agricultural practice, and 
must not be ignored. Nor is the difficulty lessened 
when we consider that the kind and degree of influence 
they exercise are continually fluctuating under varying 
circumstances. We have no constant, but rather fluc- 
tuating and uncertain, quantities to deal with in agricul- 
tural calculations ; hence the amazing difficulty of their 
solution. The difficulties are increased — and they may 
be said to be wilfully so, as we have the remedy easily 
at command — when we experiment with two materials 
unlike in value, and calculate upon the assumption that 
they are like. Considerations such as these are of im- 
mense importance in discussing this question of town 
sewage, but have been too often lost sight of by those 
engaged in the discussion. Possibly it may be said that 
they have not been thought of at all; and this is likely 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE, 7 

enough, seeing that no statement of them has appeared 
in the voluminous evidence given from time to time. 
Nor are such considerations less important in deciding 
upon many of the points involved in the engineering 
IVature of the question, hereafter to be entered upon ; 
for although remarks might be given in the details of 
irrigation us applicable to one locality, they would not 
be so to another presenting different features. Hence 
it is that details generally applicable can alone be illus- 
trated, leaving these to be modified according to circum- 
stances of locality." 

Having thus placed before the reader a general view 
of the position which the question of town sewage 
utilisation occupies at present in the public mind, and 
of the principles which we venture to believe are essen- 
tial to be kept in view while discussing it, we proceed 
to this discussion by noticing, first, the nature and the 
constituents of town sewage ; second, its pecuniary value ; 
third, the soils to which it is particularly applicable ; 
fourth, the crops for which it is be6t adapted ; and fifth 
and last, the various modes proposed to apply it to land. 

First, then, as to the nature and constituents of town 
sewage* The greatest bulk of town sewage, in its 
normal or ordinary condition, is made up of water 
received from two sources. The water of the first 
source is that which arises from the ruinfall, the over- 
flow of the sewers and drains in rainy seasons. This 
water is not altogether destitute of man u rial con- 
stituents, inasmuch as it contains in solution the de- 
tritus of the public highways, the dung of animals, the 
soot washed from the roofs, — all of which tend to give 
a certain amount of manurial value to the rainfall 
waters sent into our drains. The second source of the 
water which forms so large a portion of tk& W&l <& 



8 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

town sewage, is that which owes its existence to our 
domestic arrangements. This, therefore, possesses a 
higher value than that of the rainfall water, and is that, 
indeed, on which the manurial worth of town sewage is 
mainly dependent. The domestic water contains much 
vegetable refuse, and the highly valuable human excreta 
which passes from our water-closets. The substances 
thus present in the two classes of water, or fluids, are 
increased in number by the addition of the varied 
proceeds of manufacturing establishments, as soap, oily 
and vegetable matters, and the blood and animal remains 
from slaughter-houses, and the like. It will therefore 
easily be understood that town sewage is not characterised 
by the same constituents throughout the country, the 
sewage of one town varying from that of another in 
value, according to the richness, or otherwise, of the 
materials which are added to it ; further, that the value 
of the sewage of any one town does not remain a con- 
stant quantity, but is always varying with the necessary 
varying character of its constituents. Thus, in London, 
the richest sewage is that which passes from the sewer 
outfalls between the hours of eight and twelve in the 
morning, and the poorest from twelve at night to Ave 
and six in the morning. 

And here, at this stage of our inquiry, it is essential to 
point out the fact that " town sewage " is not the same 
as the " liquid manure " of a farm. These are often 
used as synonymous terms, as if they meant one and the 
same thing, and the result is, that another fallacy is 
added to the two to which we have already alluded as tend- 
ing to convey altogether wrong notions on the subject. 
Thus, in the various reports of the Board of Health, and 
of committees of the two Houses of Parliament, refer- 
ence is again and again made to the fact that " liquid 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SBWAGE. 9 

manure" is used with remarkable benefit on the farms 
of the Low Countries in Belgium, and on our own farms 
in this country ; and the corollary is deduced from this 
that therefore the use of our " town sewage " would be 
attended with the like beneficial results. But we have 
before publicly pointed out, as we now point out, one 
essential error that pervades this, which we may call, 
" official position." The liquid manure of the conti- 
nental farms, to which special reference is made thus 
officially, is not the same in value as that of the town 
sewage of this country. So very different, indeed, is it, 
that it is made up almost exclusively — so far as its liquid 
portion is concerned — of the fluid exuvia of cattle and 
the inhabitants of the farmhouse, and it is therefore rich 
in manurial value ; and so fur as its solid portions are 
concerned, it is made up of the dung of the animals and 
the excreta of the inhabitants of the farm, to which is 
often added large quantities of oil-cake.* This liquid 
manure is therefore a very different thing from the 
liquid sewage of our towns, which, as we shall see, as 
we proceed in our investigations, by far the largest bulk 
is formed of water possessing little manurial value. 
It is therefore altogether wrong for deductions to be 
made, as to what will be the result of applying town 
sewage to crops, from what are known to be results of 
the application of the far richer liquid manure above 
referred to. We have thus drawn the special attention 
of the reader to this point, as it involves considerations 
of the highest importance in discussing the subject of 
town sewage utilisation. 

* For more detailed informal ion on the manures nsed in the celebrated 
farms of the Netherlands, we venture to refer the reader to our " Notes 
of an Agricultural Tour in Belgium, Holland, and on the Rhine." 
London : Longman & Co, 

b3 



10 OUTLINES OF MODKRN FARMING. 

Having thus glanced at the nature of our town 
sewage, we shall now proceed to the consideration of 
its constituents in a manurial point of view. From 
what we have said as to the nature of town sewage, 
it will be perceived that it is made up of two classes of 
substances — " suspended solid matter " and " matter in 
solution." The following is an analysis of the solid 
matter contained in one gallon of sewage obtained from 
one of the London sewers :— 

Organic matter and salts of ammonia . • .301*82 

Sand and detritus of the granite from the streets. 20*69 

Soluble silica 12*51 

Phosphoric acid 10*44 

Sulphuric acid 1473 

Carbonic acid 15*59 

Lime [ . 2453 

Magnesia 2*87 

Per-oxide of iron and alumina .... 6*20 

Potash 14-13 

Soda 1-51 

Common salt • • 33*24 

492*26 

The solid portion of town sewage is made up of 
organic and inorganic or mineral matter, of which in 
one sample of town sewage analysed, there were of the 
latter or mineral, 72*15, and of the former or organic, 
30 70, in 102*85 parts. Although town sewage owes its 
manurial value to several sources, still the chief of 
these are in the solid and liquid excreta of the inhabitants 
of our towns. In examining, therefore, the constituents 
of sewage, it will be necessary to attend to the composi- 
tion of the solid excreta, which will necessarily give the 
characteristics of the best portion of the. solid part of 
town sewage ; and also to the composition of the liquid 
excreta (urine), which will give on the other hand the 
characteristics of the best portion of the liquid part of 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 



11 



town sewage. And, first, as to solid human excreta. Of 
100 parts of this, no fewer than 75 are composed of 
water; of 100 parts of the solid matter without this 
water, the following is an analysis by Professor Way : — 



Organic matter 










. 88-52 


Insoluble silicious matter 






. 146 


Oxide of iron 






. 0-54 


Lime . 










172 


Magnesia 










1-55 


Phosphoric acid 










4-27 


Sulphuric acid 










. 0*24 


Potash 










1-19 


Soda . 










0-31 


Common salt , 










18 



99*98 

As to the constituents of urine : from the mean 
result of a series of experiments on the urine or liquid 
portion of the excreta, it is found that this contains 
about 30 parts in 1,000 of solid matter. This solid 
portion of evaporated urine may be deemed to contain 
about the following ^proportions per cent, of different 
fertilising substances : — 



Organic matters and salts of ammonia 
Insoluble silicious matter 
Oxide of iron 
Lime • . 



Phosphoric acid 
Sulphuric acid 
Potash . 
Chloride of potassium 
Common salt . 



67*54 
0-09 
005 
0-61 
047 
4-66 
046 
1*83 
541 

18-88 

10000 



Messrs. Hoffmann and Witt, who were appointed by 
the Commissioners of the Metropolitan Drainage to 
make a series of chemical investigations into the matter 
of town sewage, give in the Commissioners' Report ela 
borate tables and analyses on almost every point con- 
nected with the subject. A brief resume <& <&& \ss^ 



12 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

important of their statements we now present to the 
reader. The elements of town sewage chiefly valuable 
for agricultural purposes, are nitrogen, phosphoric acid, 
and potash ; of these " Nitrogen is present in sewage in 
two forms, either as carbonate of ammonia, and other 
ammonial salts, or in combination with the organic 
matter. Phosphoric acid is also present in two forms, 
as insoluble phosphates (phosphate of lime and of mag- 
nesia), and soluble (phosphates of soda and ammonia) ; 
the soluble, it is almost necessary to say, being the most 
necessary in an agricultural point of view. The potash, 
like the nitrogen, of sewage is chiefly derived from the 
liquid portion ; the ratio of nitrogen to potash in urine 
being according to Berzelius 7 to 1. Potash, principally 
in an insoluble state, is also derived from the dibrte of 
the granitic pavements washed into the sewers." 

The following table shows these constituents in a 
gallon of London sewage : — 

Nitrogen, grains per gallon • • • 6*76* 

Phosphoric acid do. • • . l*85f 

Potash do. • . • • 1*03 

Organic matter do. • . . .30*11 

Of the agricultural constituents of the most valuable 
portion of sewage, namely, the solid and liquid human 
excreta, it will be useful to show the analyses. Thus, 
1,000 grains of normal urine of an adult contains — 

1% Nitrogen 14-24J: 

2. Phosphoric acid, in the form of soluble phosphates . 237 § 

3. Potash 2-00 

4. Organic matter 41*46 

Total valuable agricultural constituents in 1,T)00 grains 

of normal urine 60*07 

* Corresponding to 8*21 of ammonia, 

f Corresponding to 4*01 of phosphate of lime (bone phosphate)* 

4 Corresponding to 1*729 grains of ammonia. 

f Corresponding to 5-17 grains of phosphate of lime. 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 13 
In 100 grains of dry faecal human matter there are- 
Nitrogen 5*6 

Phosphoric acid 4*27 

Potash 1-19 

Non-nitrogenous organic matter • . . 82*98 

The following table shows the relative constituent 
values of the soluble and insoluble portions of normal 
sewage : — 

Grains per Gallon. 

Soluble. Insoluble. 

Organic matter and salts of ammonia . 57*32 23-00 

Sand with detritus of the granite of the streets 078 4450 

Soluble silica 1-16 12 09 

Phosphoric acid 2*57 164 

Sulphuric acid 0*28 363 

Carbonic acid 10-58 199 

Lime 7*40 8'37 

Magnesia . , . . . .0 07 trace. 

Peroxide of iron and alumina . • . trace. 2-66 

Chloride of potassium .... 2-60 0*72 

Chloride of sodium . , . . .27-27 2*10 

10900 100'70 
Grs. 

Ammonia in the soluble state . • .15*16 
„ „ insoluble „ . • 2*80 

17'96 

A remarkable feature of town sewage is this, that the 
elements or constituents which are chiefly valuable for 
agricultural purposes, are contained in the liquid portion 
in a state of solution, the solid portion, or suspended 
matter, having the least value. The proportion wlfich 
the solid «or suspended constituents of sewage bear to 
those held in solution is as 26 to 77. Thus, 100 tons 
of sewage contains 82*72 lbs. of suspended matter, of 
which the value may be set down at 2s. 2^d. 9 while it 
contains 245*95 lbs. of dissolved matter, the value of 
which may be set down at 15s. 4£d. 

These last statements bring us to tk^^Wi^V^^^vs^^ 



14 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the second section of our subject, namely, the pecuniary 
value of town sewage. From the concluding sentence of 
the last paragraph, it will be seen that Messrs. Hoffmann 
and Witt set down the value of 100 tons of sewage at 
17s. 7d. } or a little over 2d. per ton. Dr. Voelcker, the 
eminent agricultural chemist, estimates it, however, at a 
lower rate than this, namely, 1 \d. per ton ; and has 
shown very clearly the fallacies which govern the very 
much higher estimates which have been promulgated 
from time to time. In estimating the value of town 
sewage, it is usually compared with guano, and this 
without taking into account the quantity of useless 
matter which sewage contains. Thus, Dr. Voelcker 
estimates that in a ton of the dry constituents of sewage 
there are 163J lbs. of ammonia, 23 lbs. of phosphoric 
acid, 69 lbs. of potash, and "nearly two-thirds of 
worthless matter." Now, independent of the large 
quantity of water which town sewage contains, Dr. 
Voelcker maintains that it is not fair to make a com- 
parison of money value as between "the dry consti- 
tuents of sewage and of guano, without allowing a very 
considerable deduction for the useless matter." " This 
point," he continues, "has been overlooked by all who 
have made the calculations. They state that the solid 
matter in London sewage is worth a certain sum of 
Hio^ey, guano being worth £11 to £12 per ton. But 
you will at once recognise the error which creeps into 
these calculations. Quite apart from the enormous 
amount of water which exists in sewage, the calculations 
are wrong for the reason which I have just pointed out. 
Let us, however, examine for a moment the figures 
which have been given by various chemists. Professor 
Hoffmann calculates that a ton of sewage is worth, on 
the average, about 2d. per ton, or 17s. 7 d. per 100 tons. 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 15 

According to this, the whole sewage of London would 
be worth £3,796 per diem, or the enormous sum of 
£1,385,540 per annum. As the basis of the calculation, 
the price of Peruvian guano is taken at £11 per ton. It 
is calculated how much ammonia there occurs in the 
solid matter of sewage, and this is put down at £56 per 
ton. The value of phosphate of lime in sewage is esti- 
mated at £7 per ton, and that of potash at £31 per ton. 
It is likewise worthy of observation that the same 
chemist states that the total solid residue, entirely 
separated from the water, which occurs in excrementi- 
tious matter, would have a money value of £6 per ton 
guano being again taken at £11. Now, following the 
same track that other chemists have trodden, I find 
that, taking the average composition which I assume 
here, the value of the solid matter in London sewage 
would be about £5 2s. 4d. per ton. In this estimate I 
take ammonia at 6d. per lb., potash at 3d., and phos- 
' phoric acid at 2d., according to which a ton of sewage 
would be worth not quite If i£. These theoretical calcu- 
lations are, however, altogether fallacious. ,, And he then 
goes on % to show that the value of a manure depends 
upon other circumstances than its value as shown by 
analysis ; as, for instance, the amount and nature of the 
other substances with which it is mixed, its bulk, and 
the fact "whether we can use a bulky manure when 
and where we require it." 

Guano is a profitable manure, which can be applied 
when and where it is required ; by its aid we can manure 
a small portion of soil, and apply it at the earlier and more 
critical stages of the growth of plants, as, for instance, to 
the turnip crop. But if the same quantity of guano was 
mixed with a large weight of soil, the same beneficial 
effects would not be experienced, tta gtfc*X» ^>\x&» \s> 'wssy 



16 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

at being the application of the manure in such a condi- 
tion that it can be readily taken up by the plants in the 
early stages of their growth. From these and other 
considerations, which our space does not allow us to 
notice here, Dr. Voelcker deduces the truth that " the 
value of a manure, generally, depends quite as much on 
the facility with which we can apply the valuable fertil- 
ising material when and where we want it, as upon the 
amount of the fertilising materials themselves." It is 
this facility of proper application which is afforded by 
concentrated manures, such as guano and superphosphate, 
that their value as manures depends. Now, bulky manures, 
as farmyard dung and town sewage, do not afford us this 
facility of application, and it is a wrong principle to 
calculate their value as compared with guano. Thus, 
taking the instance of farmyard dung, we find on analysis 
that a ton of it, in a rotten or short state, contains on an 
average 8 J lbs. of soluble phosphate of lime; this con- 
tains 10 lbs. of potash, worth 2s. 6d. ; 16 lbs. of am- • 
monia, worth 8*. ; -12£ lbs. of insoluble phosphate, 
worth Is. ; thus making the value of the ton of dung 
13s. 6rf., theoretically ; but in practice this is from two 
and a half to four times its real value, which may be 
taken on the average as 4s. a ton. Now, if in practice 
we do not find the theoretical value of dung to regulate 
its price, but that other considerations tend to reduce 
this very much below the theoretical value, it is abun- 
dantly clear that the same principle will apply, not 
with less, but with greater force to the still more bulky 
manure, the value of which we are now considering, 
namely town sewage. " The fact is," says Professor 
Voelcker, " the more bulky a manure is, the less manage- 
able it is, and the less is its practical value." And 
he sums up his remarks on this point thus : " The truth 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 17 

is, that we cannot calculate the value of any fertiliser by 
the price of the constituents we put in the land; we 
ought to calculate the value by what we can get out 
through the instrumentality of certain manures, and 
following this plan, it will be found that the real fertil- 
ising value of the sewage of towns will not, perhaps, on 
the average, be more than a halfpenny per ton" It need 
scarcely be said that this conclusion as to the value of 
town sewage is not concurrent with the conclusions of 
others who have investigated the subject. Thus, in the 
report of the Select Committee of the House of Commons 
ordered to be printed, the value of one ton of average 
sewage matter is set down at 2d. per ton, the standard 
of comparison being guano, at £13 10s. per ton. But 
as we have shown above, this is not a fair standard; and 
there can be little doubt in the minds of those who know 
practically what agriculture is, and how much its results 
are rendered confused and uncertain by a number* of 
causes over which we have no control, that if Dr. 
Voelcker's reasoning on the circumstances which modify 
the theoretical value of a manure are not absolutely, still 
they are on the whole correct. 

We have seen that the circumstance specially 
alluded to by Dr. Voelcker as modifying the value of 
town sewage, is its bulk, which renders it so difficult a 
matter to apply it when and where we wish it. It will 
therefore be necessary to detail, as briefly as may be, 
the causes which tend to give town sewage this marked 
feature of bulk. And this at once brings us to the 
consideration of the sanitary features of the question. 
It may seem to be out of place here to advert to these ; 
but they are so inseparably bound up with the whole 
question of the agricultural utilisation of town sewage, 
and exercise so important an influence upon it& HvAxkfe* 



18 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

that if they were left out of consideration a totally- 
erroneous view of the whole circumstances of the 
question would be imparted to the reader. And here, 
at the outset, the fact has to be stated, that the sanitary 
requirements of our towns are antagonistic to all 
attempts at maintaining the original value of the 
manuriai constituents of town sewage. We say the 
" sanitary requirements ; " but perhaps the proper 
expression would be, the requirements necessitated by 
the modern system of removing the sewage from the 
neighbourhood of our towns, namely, " water " or 
" pipe sewage." This is not the place to enter into a 
discussion as to whether this " water conveyance " is or 
is not the best adapted to meet the sanitary require- 
ments of our population, — suffice it, meanwhile, to say, 
that many able authorities maintain that it is not, — 
enough for our present purpose to know that the 
" water conveyance " system is the one which is 
generally adopted ; and from what we have elsewhere 
said, and which we now reproduce here, its bearing on 
the agricultural features of the question will be obvious. 
" How the modern system of town drainage was ori- 
ginated, how it was nursed by government patronage, 
and backed by all the influence of men of science 
and philanthropists, need not be here detailed. No 
sooner was it felt that in a sanitary point of view our 
arrangements were defective, than Parliamentary Sew- 
age Commissioners were appointed to inquire into the 
health of towns, and parliamentary reports were pub- 
lished, giving most dreary accounts of the existing state 
of things, and showing, or attempting to show, that 
chief among the causes of the evils complained of, were 
the miasmatic emanations arising from cesspools, drains, 
and sewers of our crowded towns. With a knowledge 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 19 

of the disease came a desire for the remedy, and it was 
speedily discerned that water would be the readiest and 
cheapest vehicle whereby to convey the refuse of our 
towns to the rivers — the general carrier of former times. 
Viewed merely in an engineering and sanitary point of 
view, there is no doubt that water, in combination with 
tubular drains and sewers of improved form and con- 
struction, is the best vehicle for the quick removal of 
sewage matter from the neighbourhood of our houses, 
and that the river, if considered merely as to the readi- 
ness with which it acts as a carrier, is the best place to 
remove it to. This view, however, would ignore the 
moral obligation, that in removing a nuisance from our- 
selves we are bound to consider the consequences of 
transferring it to others. But we have at present to do 
with other considerations than such as this, and we pro- 
ceed therefore to note that, however the water-carriage 
system of modern town drainage may meet the sanitary 
necessity of the case, it in like proportion-introduces an 
element of difficulty which prevents the agricultural 
necessity from being met. Hitherto the advocates of 
sewage reform have altogether neglected the agricul- 
tural requirements of the question ; sanitary considera- 
tions alone have occupied their attention. The advocates 
of sewage reform have not, however, contented them- 
selves with thus acting, but have, in a way more zealous 
than judicious, again and again insisted that the refuse 
of the town is a manurial resource of the country, and 
have charged the farmers as a body with foolishness in 
not availing themselves of it. But they apparently 
forget that the very system which advocated so strenu- 
ously using water as a vehicle for removing the sew- 
age of the towns, is just the one which not only dete- 
riorated in an extraordinary degree the vaixifc s& ^^ 



20 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

manurial resource of which they are perpetually urging 
the farmers to avail themselves, but actually throws in 
the way of its being utilised the difficulties which the 
chemical and mechanical authorities of the day have 
not yet, after years of labour, succeeded in overcoming. 
Forced to admit that their water system reduces enor- 
mously the value of the town sewage — which in its pure 
excretal form, as already shown, is really very great 
indeed— r-the advocates of sewage reform next endea- 
voured to make the best of the position in which they 
were placed, by arguing that, upon the whole, it is 
really a fortunate thing that the sewage is so diluted 
with water ; for it ' is surely abundantly evident/ say 
they, * that if water is a first-rate and cheap article for 
removing the refuse from the towns where it is not 
wanted, it is obviously as cheap and effectual a vehicle 
for removing it to the country where it is required/ " 

We shall in a future section of the present work show 
that the con\seyance of town sewage in its liquid form 
ianot altogether the cheap mode which its advocates claim 
for it. Meanwhile we proceed to point out the important 
deterioration in value of town sewage brought about by 
the enormous quantities of water with which it is gene- 
rally diluted. The cost at which manure can be brought 
to the land to which it is to be applied, exercises a most 
important influence on its real value to the farmer. Thus 
it is quite obvious that he may purchase a manure at 
5s. a ton, and have to pay in carriage for it 20*., thus 
actually quadrupling its cost ; while a ton of guano may 
be transported the same distance for one-thirteenth of its 
cost. Again, the bulkier manure may have comprised 
in it many constituents not at all valuable as a manure, 
while the less bulky manure may be altogether of a 
fertilising nature. If the reader will refer to the first 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 21 

volume of the present series of works, he will find under 
the section of " Manures " a general statement of the 
principles on which they are dependent for their action 
on plants. Now, although there are two theories, and 
both apparently contradictory, of manuring, neverthe- 
less, as we have there shown, one is generally received 
amongst the farmers of Great Britain as correct, namely, 
that the value of a manure depends upon the amount 
of ammoniacai compounds contained in it. On this 
supposition, Mr. Lawes, to whom the theory owes its 
existence, and by whom it has been so ably demonstrated, 
shows the influence which the mere question of bulk has 
upon the real value of manure. 

"Farmyard manure," says Mr. Lawes, "contains, in 
rough numbers, about 11 lbs. per ton. To supply to an 
acre of land 100 lbs. of ammonia, raising 50 bushels of 
dressed corn, 17 tons of farmyard dung would be re- 
quired. Reckoning the cost of carriage of this from the 
depot, a distance of twenty-five miles, at 15$. a ton, 
£12 15s. would be expended in its transportation. The 
same amount of ammonia would be got in half a ton or 
10 cwts. of guano, or in 7 cwts. of sulphate, the cost of 
transportation of which would be only 7s. 6d. in the 
case of the guano, and less in the case of the sulphate 
of ammonia. This example," says Mr. Lawes, " clearly 
shows that it would be cheaper for me to give £10 per 
ton for guano, and £14 for sulphate of ammonia, 
than to have the dung as a gift. In the case of the 
guano and the salts of ammonia, pounds* weight only 
of manure are brought upon the farm to produce 
tons of growth ; in the other you bring tons to produce 
pounds." 

Now, when we state the fact that 1 cwt. of the manurial 
matter of town sewage, equal in value to 1 <wt* <a>l 



22 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

guano, is on the average mixed with 160 tons of water, 
the reader will at once perceive how much more closely 
Mr. Lawes* reasoning bears upon the utilisation of town 
sewage than it does upon farmyard manure. It is right, 
however, again to allude to what we have already 
pointed out : that the advocates of the modern system 
of town drainage — which thus, as we see, is the cause of 
the enormous dilution of town sewage with water — 
maintain that this very dilution enables the difficulty 
of accession of bulk to be got over, inasmuch as its cheap 
conveyance to a distance is secured. So much so that 
they draw attention to the fact that where a ton of solid 
manure, as guano, costs 15s. for its transmission to the 
land to which it is to be applied, 72 tons of town sewage 
can be conveyed. But this, as we have elsewhere pointed 
out, may be entirely fallacious, for it assumes that the 
72 tons of the town sewage, are as valuable as the 1 ton 
of the valuable manure, which in point of fact is not 
the case. On the contrary it has been shown that 1,500 
tons of average sewage have to be used in order to 
obtain the same fertilising value as yielded by 1 ton of 
Peruvian guano. But the calculation upon which this 
estimate of cost of conveyance of 72 tons of sewage 
is founded, is disputed by eminent engineers, who 
maintain that the conveyance of liquid through pipes is 
much more costly than the advocates of the " pipe dis- 
tribution scheme " hold it to be. But further than this, 
it has to be noted that it is not in the conveying of the 
enormous bulk of town sewage, which is required to 
give a certain manurial value to the land to which it 
has to be applied, that the main expense of the appli- 
cation lies ; it is in the original cost of the distributing 
apparatus by which the liquid sewage is applied to the 
land, and in the actual cost of distributing it whenever 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 23 

it is applied. These two form, as pointed out by an 
able authority, the main items in " irrigating land " on 
the pipe distribution scheme. 

The following from a paper by Professor Voelcker, 
bearing closely upon the point now under consideration, 
is worthy of perusal. The professor accepts as correct 
the estimate of Mr. Mechi of the cost of delivering the 
liquid manure to his fields, at from l%d. to 2d. per 
ton, and goes on to say, " Assuming its composition not 
to vary materially at different periods, 50,000 gallons 
of liquid manure, with the sediment, would yield 
50,000+5-476 grains, or 273,800 grains, or in round 
numbers 391bs. of ammonia. 

" Peruvian guano yields from 16 to 18 per cent, of 
ammonia. To produce the above-mentioned 39 lbs. of 
ammonia, we should require 2 cwt. of Peruvian guano 
of the best quality. At £13 per ton, the 2 cwt. would 
cost 26*. For this outlay of money the same amount 
of ammonia would be obtained which is yielded by 
50,000 gallons of Mr. Mechi's muddy tank-liquid. 

" Deducting the clay and earth which swell the 
amount of solid mutter in the muddy tank-liquid, and 
taking no account of the suspended organic matter, 
which may be done with propriety, since account has 
been taken of the nitrogen, the only valuable portion 
in it, we have as nearly as possible the same weight of 
solid matter in 2 cwt. of Peruvian guano which is con- 
tained in 50,000 gallons of the Tiptree liquid manure. 
But the solid constituents of Peruvian guano being 
more valuable than those in the liquid, a balance would 
be left in favour of guano. Allowing 4s. for sowing 
2 cwt., 30s. would cover the cost price and expense of 
applying the guano. 
, "If 1 ton of liquid manure, according to M£."S&fcdc&* 



24 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

eBtimate, costs for delivery 2d., 50,000 gallons =* 
500,000 lbs., will cost £1 17*. 2d, 

" The fertilising matters in 50,000 gallons of liquid 
manure thus will cost for delivery 7s. 2d. more than 
the price of the materials and expenses of application 
would amount to, were they put upon the land in the 
shape of Peruvian guano. Whether or not it is good 
economy to spend £1 17s. 2d. for the delivery of fer- 
tilising materials which are intrinsically worth about 
26s., or at the most 30s., is a question which may be 
safely left in the hands of practical men. It is a 
question which, I think, cannot be answered in a 
general way. On some soils, I believe, even a larger 
expense for delivery may be incurred, whilst on others 
less than a quarter the expense may be ruinous." 

But the views of Mr. Mechi himself should not be 
overlooked in discussing this point ; we therefore deem 
it right to give here what that well-known advocate of 
house sewage utilisation has said on the subject of its 
dilution. 

" Objectors to the use of town sewage urge that it 
loses its power by dilution. This objection will not 
stand the test of examination. It is admitted that 
1,270 tons of sewage contain the manurial elements of 
1 ton of best Peruvian guano. Now, every ton of 
guano spread over our fields receives from nature a 
much greater dilution by rain-fall than the much 
abused sewage; and, in fact, without rain-fall to 
intermix it with the soil, it would be valueless. 1,270 
tons of sewage per acre are equal to a rain-fall of 12£ 
inches. As our average annual rain-fall is 26 inches, 
or 2,600 tons per acre, and as a ton of guano is usually 
spread over 10 acres, it follows that it is actually 
diluted by, and mixed with, 26,000 tons of water, 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 25 

while its equivalent in sewage is only mixed with 1,270 
tons, to be added, in fact, to the natural rain-fall of 
26,000 tons. Our soil has the power of abstracting 
from water the manure contained in it, and the mere 
drainage of our lands has caused our rivers to be more 
pure by preventing the washing away of the farmer's 
manure and fine top-soil. Grass lands in our eastern 
and southern counties will, during summer, derive 
great advantage from town sewage. Sir Joseph Paxton, 
in his evidence, values water alone at 2d. per ton, at 
certain growing seasons. We know that pastoral 
districts are eminently those which receive the greatest 
dilution by a large rain-fall. The part that water 
alone takes in preparing the soil itself for the use 
of plants, is far too important to be overlooked in 
the sewage question, and it is fully explained by 
Liebeg and other scientific men. It is heat, com- 
bined with ample moisture, that gives the enormous 
vegetable growth described by Sir Joseph Paxton, 
in his evidence (2,427), 'I tried some experiments 
upon a bamboo cane some years ago, in order to see 
the most extensive growth that could be got upon 
a plant in a given period of time. This plant was 
kept excessively moist at the top, and moist at the 
bottom; there was a thorough drainage, it was in 
a high state of condition to try the experiment 
upon, and this plant, for twenty days, grew at the 
rate of 10 inches per day, which shows an enormous 
growth to have taken place in that time. In pro- 
portion, you may go on with experiments upon other 
plants, but you should always take, I think, for the 
purpose of sewage, those plants which will develop 
themselves with the lowest amount of temperature, 
in order that you may, by the application o»i ww^» 





26 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

get the greatest number of months in the year in 
which the plant can be developed/ If ever there 
was a doubt about the great superiority of town 
sewage over every other manure for pastures and 
artificial grasses, clovers, &c, that question has been 
settled for ever by the facts produced in evidence. 
Mr. J. B. Lawes says, — * I know from experience, in 
using dry manure, each addition, after a certain amount 
applied, does not increase the produce in proportion; 
with double or treble the amount of ammonia, you 
do not double or treble your produce. (518.) There 
is no proof in these sewage experiments that we have 
exceeded the profitable limits. We have gone up 
to 7,000 tons a year, and the produce is pretty nearly 
in proportion to the quantity of sewage used. (441.) 
The largest produce I ever obtained in these experi- 
ments with an enormous quantity of dry manure, was 
about 12 tons of green produce. The quantity obtained 
by sewage irrigation was 33 tons of green produce per 
acre. (443.) £12 is a large rent for a good irrigated 
meadow. If you put on sewage enough you would 
probably get £30 or £40 a year.' In plain English, 
Mr. Lowe's evidence shows that while an enormous 
application of dry or ordinary manure can only pro- 
duce £12 per acre in grass and grain crops, the same 
or a less quantity of such manure, diluted with several 
thousand tons of water, would produce £36 per acre, or 
an increase of 200 per cent ! What a lesson these facts 
teach the British farmer in the use of his farm manure 
on grass lands, where water is accessible ! What 
becomes of the objections to dilution for grass crops ? " 
But we have not yet exhausted the evils which we 
believe practically arise from the enormous dilution by 
water of town sewage. Concentrated manures, as guano, 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 27 

superphosphate, and the like, and ordinary farm-yard 
manure, may be said — especially the latter — to be uni- 
versal manures, in so far as they can be applied with 
more or less advantage to all soil and to all crops. But 
in further investigating the value of town sewage, we 
find that a remarkable circumstance comes into exist- 
ence tending very materially to reduce this, and this is, 
that according to the opinion of by far the great majority 
of authorities, town sewage is not economically applic- 
able to all soils and to all crops. The consideration of 
these points falls under the third and fourth divisions of 
our subject, namely, the soil and the crop to which the 
town sewage is applicable. 

In concluding our remarks upon the pecuniary value 
of town sewage, we venture to maintain that the view so 
pertinaciously insisted upon by many who have appeared 
of late years as advocates of the utilisation of town 
sewage, and which insists upon its very high value, is an 
exaggerated one, and is calculated to convey an impres- 
sion altogether erroneous to the general public. Further, 
that the mere estimated value of sewage, however correct 
this estimate may be, is not that which decides its agri- 
cultural value. Much on this point we have already 
given, more we are about to give ; meanwhile we con- 
clude this present division of our subject by pointing 
out the erroneous conclusion which may be drawn by 
assuming, as is too often assumed, that because the appli- 
cation of town sewage to land has a certain value, that 
therefore the application must pay, or in other words, 
that the utilisation of town sewage must in all cases be 
remunerative. It is worth while for those who maintain 
this view to consider well the following "common- 
sense " remarks of Dr. Gilbert, the able coadjutor of Mr. 
Lawes in his investigation on the au:b^t \ — 



28 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

"It cannot," he says, "for a moment be doubted, 
that an enormous increase of produce would result from 
the application to the land of the excretal matters of 
our town populations ; and certainly, least of all could 
those doubt it, who, like Mr. Lawes and myself, have 
devoted so much time and labour in investigating the 
chemical and agricultural bearings of the subject. Nor 
can it be doubted, that these excretal matters, even 
when distributed through the enormous bulk of water 
as in town sewage, would, if judiciously applied, enor- 
mously increase the produce, particularly of certain 
crops. But is there in these admissions alone any 
basis upon which to conclude that the increase of pro- 
duce would be obtained remuneratively ? Certainly not. 
All the evidence that can be adduced, showing the 
enormous increase of agricultural produce from the use 
of diluted liquid manure, is utterly irrelevant to the 
question in a commercial point of view, unless it can at 
the same time be shown that such an increase can be 
obtained at a profit." 

The consideration alluded to towards the end of the 
last paragraph, brings us to the third division of our 
subject, namely, the soil to which toim sewage is 
applicable. Although in this, as in almost every 
agricultural question a diversity of opinion exists, still 
this is not so marked ; for while doubtless some maintain 
that it is equally valuable for all soils, it is nevertheless 
the general opinion that its best and most economical 
effects are obtained on light soils. Dr. Voelcker has 
given to the investigation of this point much care, and 
in an able paper, published in the 19th volume of the 
Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, 
has recorded the results of this. The following is part 
of the evidence given by this same eminent chemist 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 29 

before the Committee of the House of Commons ap- 
pointed to investigate into the question of town sewage 
utilisation : — 

"My experience, which is based on an extended 
observation of various parts of this country, as well as 
what I have seen in districts on the Continent, where 
the liquid manuring system is very generally adopted 
by farmers, is that liquid manure may be applied with 
great advantage on light porous soils, and all soils 
resembling more or less in character such land; but 
that on heavy clay land it cannot be applied with 
advantage, especially when the land is so cultivated as 
to- produce in dry weather large cracks through which 
the liquid manure necessarily will flow, as it follows the 
easiest passage, and does not go through the stiff clay. 
With more or less disadvantage, liquid manure, especially 
when highly diluted, may be used on all soils which are 
not in an extremely highly cultivated mechanical state 
of cultivation, a state of cultivation which is not easily 
attained in many heavy soils. For this reason, on 
heavy soils the application of liquid manure, even when 
much more concentrated than sewage, is attended with 
loss to the person who applies it. 

" When the qualities of the soil have been so much 
improved that you get a porous surface soil through 
which the manure filters, without going, as I believe is 
the case with some of Alderman Mechi's land, into 
chinks through which it will of course flow off coloured, 
then it is a proper soil ; but when heavy land is in such 
a condition that it is stiff and cracks, it is then unfit for 
the application of liquid manure ; it is extremely diffi- 
cult to bring heavy soil altogether round so that it loses 
its natural character. I have seen the manure run from 
the surface on heayy rass land* If ^wl ^iA wo» 



30 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

into our neighbourhood, in Gloucestershire, where we 
have heavy land, you would find, in very rainy weather, 
the ditches almost as black as liquid manure, showing 
that Heavy rains wash off the droppings of dairy cows 
from the land, and that the manure does not pass 
through the soil. I believe that a very small quantity 
of soil, six inches of clay soil, perfectly deodorises and 
decomposes a very heavy dressing of manure, provided 
the soil and manure are well mixed together ; therefore, 
as a practical test, I would say that all soils from which 
the manure runs coloured into the drain or conduit are 
in an improper cultivation to receive liquid manure, for 
in such a condition many clay soils are at present, aad 
will remain so for many years to come. 

" You have in liquid manure a small quantity of solid 
matters, amounting to 70 or 80 grains in a gallon, and 
a large quantity of water. By applying a limited quan- 
tity of the liquid, it penetrates a large body of the soil, 
incorporating a large body of soil with a small quantity 
of real fertilising matter ; if we could extract that small 
quantity, and apply it as a top-dressing, so as to keep 
it entirely on the surface, we should manure that small 
portion of the soil, and it would there produce an effect 
upon the crop; but being all washed into the soil, it 
produces no effect unless we use a large quantity. And 
for this reason, I am a strong advocate, I must plainly 
confess, on theoretical grounds, for the application of large 
quantities of liquid manure. When we appl'y a large 
mass, say 7,000 or 8,000 tons, to a soil which is naturally 
porous and deep, we incorporate with a large body of soil 
a considerable quantity of solid, real, fertilising matter. 
By using such large doses upon grass crops grown on 
poor soil, these solid manuring matters which are dis- 
seminated through a large body of soil by capillary 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 31 

attraction are brought within reach of the roots of the 
plant. The evaporation which takes place from the 
leaves of grass-crops is very considerable ; the moisture 
from a considerable depth is drawn up, and with it all 
the solid matters dissolved in it. Then we see a marked 
effect upon vegetation, which will explain in practical 
experience why quantities of 300 to 400 tons an acre, 
even applied to grass, lead to no practical result, whilst 
large quantities applied to the extent of 8,000 or 9,000 
tons (and I am not sure that even larger quantities may 
not be used with advantage) produce a good result. 
That is a matter which is clearly determined by experi- 
ment." 

In another place the same authority has the follow- 
ing:— 

"In order," says this distinguished chemist, "to get 
a material advantage from the application of sewage, I 
believe it is necessary that it should pass through the 
soil ; and I think we shall obtain the most benefit in the 
case of those soils that act merely as the vehicles for 
holding the manure. We must never think of storing 
up the liquid manure in the soil. The fact is, that the 
soil does not store away these fertilising matters. It 
does not hold them. A great deal has been said with 
respect to the powers of soils to absorb manuring 
matters ; and it is true that all soils, not even the most 
sandy soils excepted, have the power of rendering in- 
soluble, to a great extent, the soluble fertilising matters 
that we usually find in manures ; but they have not the 
power of rendering them completely insoluble, and from 
very dilute liquids they take very little away indeed. 
.... In a general way the weaker the solution of 
soluble matter, the less the soil is capable of retaining. 
Thus, in operating with very dilute liquid contamisv^ 



32 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

very little ammonia, I find that hardly any ammonia is 
retained by the soil; and again, that the proportion of 
phosphoric acid which is left in the liquid after passing 
through the soil is just as large as it was before it was 
put in the soil. By filtering very dilute liquid, such as 
sewage liquids, through soils which like clay soils con- 
tain potash, you may even take out the potash. This is 
the case with an experiment I made upon Mr. Mechi's 
soil. By filtering some of his tank liquid through his 
clay land, I actually obtained more potash in the liquid 
that filtered through the soil than was contained in the 
tank liquid itself. Thus showing very plainly that from 
very dilute liquids the fertilising matters are not retained 
in the soil ; and that we must not therefore calculate 
upon storing during winter the fertilising matters of 
sewage in the soil." 

It is right, however, to draw the attention of the 
reader to the fact that opinions leading to conclusions 
other than those held by Dr. Yoelcker, are maintained 
by other authorities. Thus Professor Way has, as the 
result of a most elaborate series of investigations into 
the " absorptive powers of soil," come to the conclusion 
that all " soils remove nearly every particle of manuring 
matter from solutions which are filtered through them, 
allowing the water to run away, and so leave the fertil- 
ising properties in the soil." Again, an able corre- 
spondent of the Agricultural Gazette, has the following 
on this important point. In adverting to the paper 
published by Dr. Voelcker, and to which we have 
alluded, this writer says — 

" I cannot avoid noticing the interesting, but to toy 
mind unsatisfactory, line of argument adopted in en- 
deavouring to establish that liquid manure proves bene- 
ficial only on light soils, while on clayey soils and 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 33 

loamy clays it can produce no marked effect, and may 
prove injurious. 

" f All clay soils are generally more than sufficiently 
wet during the early part of the year ; the additional 
quantity of water supplied in liquid manure renders 
them wetter still; .... In summer clay soils crack in 
all directions, and the liquid runs through these cracks 
instead of passing through the soil ' in the usual way. 

" The first sentence in this extract presupposes that 
the farmer will apply liquid manure to his land when it 
is not wanted — when there is a sufficiency of rain to 
dissolve out of the soil enough of plant food ; while the 
fact of clay land contracting and cracking, as the 
author truly remarks, only proves the inestimable 
advantage of having it in our power to create artificial 
showers by which those cracks and fissures would be 
prevented. My opinion is in this respect totally at 
variance with Dr. Voelcker, knowing from experience 
that clay land feels most grateful for a judicious appli- 
cation of liquid manure, be it ever so diluted, in seasons 
of drought. 

" I by no means advocate the indiscriminate or ex- 
cessive use of liquid manure on heavy lands, believing 
that such a practice would render them more unman- 
ageable than they are ; but am equally strong in my 
advocacy of a judicious application of dilute liquid 
manure to such lands, especially when in grass, and, 
as already remarked, in dry or parching seasons/' 

And he further says, he " believes there is not in the 
United Kingdom a soil that would not be benefited by 
an application of this kind of manure in such a season 
as the past" (a dry one). It is right, however, to state 
that Dr. Voelcker is perfectly aware of the benefit of 
irrigation by sewage to heavy lands, but he maintains 

c3 



34 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

that this is chiefly due to the effect of the water. On 
this point he says — " I believe that on clay soil, with 
irrigation by the purest water — if it were possible to 
use it, distilled water — we shall obtain a very large pro- 
duce. Indeed, I find by experience, that in our neigh- 
bourhood (Cirencester), where well-drained clay soils 
abound, the spring produce is almost entirely regulated 
by the amount of rainfall. A showery spring gives us 
more grass in spring than any description of manure, 
whether it be natural or artificial, that we can put on 
the land. When, therefore, sewage produces on clay 
soils a highly beneficial effect, it is, I think, principally 
because of the amount of water it contains. Mr. Mechi 
has truly observed that in all the calculations on this 
subject the water has been neglected. In many cases 
water is the most valuable constituent. In the case of 
clay soils, in which we have such an abundance of fer- 
tilising matters, the water which is put on the land in 
large quantities, so as to soak a large mass of soil, 
renders these substances soluble, and they are by degrees 
brought within the reach of the growing plant. It is 
thus that water applied to clay soils has in many cases 
produced an extremely large quantity of produce. Well, 
then, on clay soils water is, I think, the most valuable 
constituent of sewage ; it is also of great utility on 
sandy soils ; and the fertilising matters in sewage are of 
the highest importance when they are placed in soils in 
which you must furnish everything if you are to obtain 
anything like good crops." 

In concluding this present section, we may remark 
that the evidence obtainable on the point under discus- 
sion very clearly points to this, that the best effects of 
town sewage are obtained on light soils ; but that its 
application is attended nevertheless with benefit also to 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 35 

heavy soils. It is greatly to be regretted that we have 
few facts to fall back upon in discussing this question- 
Many opportunities have been presented to the patient 
investigator, which if availed of would havo yielded 
much of that very kind of practically useful information 
which we so much desiderate. For instance, in the 
irrigated meadows in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, 
almost every variety of agricultural soil is met with, 
inviting, as it were, a series of experiments to test the 
disputed points which in this section we have been dis- 
cussing, ; and yet no experiments have ever been made — 
at least, if so, they have not been of that exhaustive and 
comprehensive kind required — in view of the important 
considerations connected with the town sewage utilisa- 
tion. Does it not, we may ask, seem a task to which 
our National Agricultural Societies may usefully devote 
themselves, namely, the conducting of careful experi- 
ments, in order to set at rest many of the points which 
at present are disputed, and the decision of which would 
secure most important practical ends ? 

We come now to the fourth division of our subject, viz., 
the crops to which town sewage is applicable. Although 
liquid manure has been applied, and with considerable 
success, to all crops, grain as well as forage crops, and 
although theoretically nothing can be brought against the 
practice of a strongly condemnatory character, neverthe- 
less we shall find in this, as in other departments of agri- 
cultural practice, that there are circumstances which very 
materially modify the dictates of theory. Thus, admit- 
ting for the present what, however, we need scarcely 
say, the majority of practical farmers will, we fear, 
scarcely admit, that town sewage is applicable as the 
sole manurial agent to the turnip or root crops, we find 
that the mere supply of manure is not all that is desi- 



36 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

derated ; for it must not be forgotten that oneof the prin- 
cipal advantages of the root crop is its use as a " fallow 
crop," that is, by which we can obtain the thorough 
cleansing of the soils of weeds, and that stirring and 
pulverising of it which is so beneficial to the grain crop, 
which usually in the rotation succeeds the grass crop. 
Now, by the use of liquid manure exclusively, this stir- 
ring of the soil, and this clearing it of weeds during the 
growth of the root crop, if not altogether impossible, is 
undoubtedly at all events rendered difficult and uncertain 
in its results. The editor of the Agricultural Gazette 
puts this point with his usual force and acumen : — 

" But the division of agricultural produce into seed 
and succulent growth respectively, is unfair towards the 
farmer, for the latter is entirely unadapted to the growth 
of many crops of the latter class. Turnips and mangold 
wurzel, and other fallow green crops, are grown, not 
merely for their produce to be consumed by sheep and 
cattle on the land, and to be the source of farmyard 
dung ; they are grown for the fallow operations which 
the land receives during their growth, on which its 
fertility for the next year's grain crop depends. And 
these fallow operations cannot be conducted except in 
dry weather, and on dry land. To feed a growing 
turnip crop as a grass field may be fed, by a stream of 
liquid manure flowing over its surface and trickling 
through its substance, would, even if possible otherwise, 
be fatal to the uses of the turnip as a fallow crop. And 
even though a continuous stream of water should be 
found capable of growing large individual turnips, or 
many tons of them per acre, yet there would be an 
entire loss of the advantage which is derived from 
repeated horse hoeings and stirrings of the soil, and 
this of itself would be fatal to the adoption of the plan." 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 37 

These considerations are of the utmost importance to 
be borne in mind, when we decide on the crops to which 
liquid manure is applicable, and it is remarkable that 
they have been so long overlooked. Further, we have 
the evidence of a large experiment to show that where 
sewage is applied to the turnip crop the turnips were 
much " trashed," and the soil greatly torn up by the 
force with which the water was delivered from the hose 
and jet, through the medium of which the sewage was 
applied to the land. Next, as to the cereal or grain 
crops ; in these the produce we aim at is a combination 
of straw aud grain, or seed, the latter of course being 
the most valuable. Now, if after the plants have reached 
acertain stage — that is, have got into a grassy condition — 
liquid sewage is applied, the greater produce obtained 
would be in the shape of straw, not of seed. Slow, 
steady growth is essential to the production of a good 
sample of wheat ; the more we force the growth of seed 
plants — as wheat — in their after stages, the poorer is the 
sample of seed which we obtain. Further, we find that 
in certain soils, as heavy clay lands, bulk is an essential 
requisite in the manure to be applied to them. This 
bulk is generally got in our ordinary farmyard dung, and 
exercises a most important and beneficial influence upon 
the soil (see Vol. I, of this series, section Manures). Now 
this cannot possibly be obtained by means of liquid sewage, 
and it is remarkable that those who advocate its appli- 
cation to all soils and to all crops, on the ground that 
the manurial agents are presented to the plant in the best 
state — that is, in the state of solution — for their ready 
absorption, forget or overlook the important influence 
which bulk in amanure has upon certain soils. These con* 
siderations then, if correct, naturally narrow the range 
of crops to which town sewage is applicable, to foxe^ 



38 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

crops — as grass ; and experience has shown, that of the 
grass crops, that known as Italian rye-grass js in every 
way the best calculated to repay the cost of a sewage 
application. On several of these points now adverted 
to, the following is the opinion of the eminent authority, 
Dr. Voelcker : — 

" Sew.age is not well adapted to benefit every descrip- 
tion of crop. Indeed it may be said with truth, and has 
been said, that its use should be restricted to grass 
crops — Italian rye-grass, and other grasses. It may be 
well to inquire why it is that grass is especially bene- 
fited by the sewage of towns. It is so because it is a 
quick-growing crop, which allows us to apply a fresh 
quantity of fertilising matter as soon as a given quantity 
is exhausted. We can repeatedly manure grass crops, 
and we cannot do so in the case of cereal crops. We 
should never get our white crop ripened, never get the 
grain formed, if after the plant had passed through its 
grassy condition, and arrived at some extent of maturity, 
we were to apply sewage to it. Nor can we well apply 
sewage to market produce, at least not on most soils ; 
for sewage has a tendency to close up the pores of the 
soil, and to incrust it, which is a practical inconvenience. 
But even without this objection, I question whether 
we could dispose of the sewage of a large town in market 
gardens. You must remember that the sewage of a 
town must be disposed of at all periods of the year, and 
we should therefore have to apply it in very large 
quantities at a time. Now on grass lands we can apply 
very large quantities, because grasses grow very rapidly, 
and enable us to give a fresh dressing of large doses of 
manure. The food which circulates in the soil in that 
way very greatly benefits grass crops/' 

We must now glance at the opinions of those who 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 89 

maintain that town sewage is applicable to all crops of 
the farm, and of this view it is to be noted that the 
government reporters on the subject are the most per- 
sistent advocates. For instance, they have taken every 
available opportunity to draw attention to the fact that 
liquid manure is applied to all crops in Flanders, that 
country so remarkable for its high cultivation. But, as 
we have elsewhere pointed out, the fact is overlooked 
that the liquid manure there used is not the same 
poor watery stuff which composes our town sewage. 
Having already alluded to this point, we need say no 
more upon it, but proceed to note another point which 
has been overlooked in the Reports above alluded to, and 
that is, in the districts of Flanders, where the liquid 
manure is applied to all crops, the soil is of precisely 
that character which both extended practice and correct 
theory (see Dr. Voelcker's opinion in the division of our 
subject last discussed) show to be best adapted to the 
application of a liquid manure. Further, the liquid 
manure used in Flanders is not only of a much richer 
quality than our town sewage, but it is generally allowed 
to ferment in the tanks before it is applied to the land. 
Now this fermentation we believe to be a most impor- 
tant point, and one which has been singularly overlooked 
in all our practice in this country with liquid manure. 
"We do not forget the fact that there are authorities 
amongst us who maintain that fermentation is not 
essential, on the contrary, that it is injurious ; neverthe- 
less there are others who are strongly impressed with 
the importance of securing it ; among others we find 
those who had the conduct of the extensive experi- 
ments — or rather trials — made at Alnwick, at the ex- 
pense of the Duke of Northumberland, who state as one 
of the substantial causes of the failure of the scheme f<K 



40 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

utilising the town sewage of that place, " the necessary 
application of the manure unfermented." Whatever 
evidence may be brought forward as to the inutility of 
fermentation, it seems to us obvious enough that if we 
are referred to the practice of Flanders as evidence that 
liquid manure is applicable to all crops, it is difficult to 
avoid taking all the lessons which that practice affords, 
and one of those lessons is that it is essential to ferment 
the liquid before it is applied to the crops. 

Mr. R. Russel, the editor of the " Transactions of 
the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland," 
an eminent authority on scientific farming, draws 
special attention to the importance of the fermen- 
tation of liquid manure, and to the fact that, in 
mftny cases, liquid manuring with fresh urine is at- 
tended with little or no effect. The fermentation of 
urine before it is applied to land is therefore, he states, 
essential to the successful application of liquid manure. 
By storing up liquid manure, allowing it to ferment, 
and keeping it till the season of active growth of the 
plants has commenced, and then applying it to them, 
we give to ammoniacal manures as great an effective 
power as that which we obtain from nitrates when we 
apply them in the dry condition ; indeed, we obtain a 
greater effective manurial power, " simply because by 
no other means can so much grass be grown upon an 
acre as has been done under irrigation with liquid 
manure." 

Again, those who urge us to go to the fields of Flanders 
for evidence in favour of their views, do not remember 
to point out to us the way in which the liquid is applied 
to the land. Now in that celebrated country the farms 
are very small, labour is abundant — at least with the 
industrious population it is not grudged — and the result 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 41 

is that the manure is applied in a painstaking, careful, 
and necessarily slow and tedious way, sometimes to the 
plants, and sometimes to the land, according to the 
dictates of certain rules, which would not be tolerated, 
nor indeed could be carried out, in our larger farms and 
with our high-priced labour. All these points are 
essential to be looked carefully at in discussing to what 
crops liquid sewage is applicable. It is applicable, we 
admit, to grain crops in certain soils, but we are not 
prepared to admit that it is applicable to grain crops in 
all soils. That the consideration we have before pointed 
out will always prevent its extended application to the 
root or fallow crops, we firmly believe. We have in our 
former part of the present section of our Division given 
Dr. Voelcker^s opinion, that it is not good to apply sew- 
age to the grain crops in the after stages of their growth, 
and that therefore this is an objection to its application 
to the thin crops. This objection is, however, met by 
the statement of other authorities. Thus, the well- 
known chemist, Professor Way, points out as an essen- 
tial principle in the application of liquid manures, " to 
manure the land and not the crops." And Mr. Paine, 
a farmer, who from his extensive practice is entitled to 
give an opinion upon the subject, states that the sewage 
should be applied to " the land before the seed is sown." 
In connection with this point, we have unfortunately 
little information to fall back upon to guide us to its 
decision. Opinions we have in abundance ; facts derived 
from carefully-conducted and accurately-recorded expe- 
riments we have very few of. Perhaps the most sug- 
gestive experiment made on the growth of wheat under 
sewage was that by the Earl of Essex, and pf which the 
following is a statement of results : — 



42 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

2 lands, 2a. lr. 4p., with 60,000 gallons of sewage. 
„ 2a. lr. without sewage. 

Sewaged land gave 11 J loads of straw, 124 bushels of wheat, 
Unsewaged „ ,9} „ „ 103 „ „ 

And per Acre : — 
Sewaged — 
Straw, 5 lo 
Wheat, 53 bushels at 6s. . . 15 18 



£ 8. d. £ a. d. 

Straw, 5 loads at 30*. ; . 7 10 O 



Straw, 4jload8 at 80s. x . . 7 2 6 
Wheat, 44 bushels at 6*. . 13 4 



23 8 



20 6 6 



In favour of sewage • • 3 16 
Deduct cost for sewage — 

For 1 acre, viz.: 30,000 gals. = 134 
tons, at ljd. 14 



Clear gain on sewaged land . . 2 7 6 

These experiments show that the grain, in place of 
being decreased in quantity, was increased, a result not 
anticipated by those who maintain that the contrary 
effect is brought about by the use of sewage. But we 
require much more extended experiments and under 
the widest possible range of circumstances of soil, 
climate, and locality, before the point can be decided as 
to whether town sewage is applicable to grain crops. 
Reference will be found in the opening remarks of this 
Division to this special case. 

Mr. Mechi, the well-known agriculturist, is a great 
advocate for the use of sewage liquid to all crops — cereals, 
the leguminous, the pulse, and the root crops, natural 
pasture, and Italian rye-grass ; inasmuch as it contains 
all the elements of every crop which is grown : it must 
be so from the nature of the articles consumed. Mr. 
Mechi further states that he has found the sewage 
applied with advantage to corn crops, in some cases 
applied directly, in some indirectly. By this Mr. Mechi 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 43 

means, as he himself explains, that " if the corn crop 
were taken on land which was not rich enough to pro- 
duce a large crop of corn, I there applied in the first 
instance dressing of sewage with the proper results, 
namely, a large and improved crop ; that, as a general rule, 
the corn crops are taken either after clover, or after roots, 
or after other green crops ; and it is considered safer 
farming to manure these previous greedy-feeding crops 
than to apply the manure directly to the wheat crop ; 
inasmuch as the latter may be made too luxuriant and 
fall early, and thus diminish its produce ; but were my 
land recently taken, and poop, I would desire no better 
or more immediately acting manure than the sewage of 
a town or the sewage of animals." 

Theoretically, it may be admitted that liquid manure is 
quite as capable of raising one crop as another; for all 
crops, being nearly composed of the same substance, 
will be manured by the same. But then, the habits of 
growth of the plants differ so materially, that a mode 
of application adapted to one crop will not be adapted 
to another ; the mode of application, in fact, must be 
suited to the habit of growth* Hence, what will do for 
Italian rye-grass will not do for turnips, Italian rye- 
grass requiring and taking repeated applications, which 
could not be given, however much required, to the 
turnip crop. Hence, the latter requires solid manure, 
which can be applied at the beginning, before the roots 
are growing, and from which the roots draw their 
supply during their naturally slow rate of growth. 
Again, in the case of the cereal crop, it is only at a 
certain stage of its growth that the application of liquid 
manure is advisable. Further, it should not be forgotten 
that the excellent crops obtained by liquid manuring 
have not been due to the liquid form m \i\sas2fc. *0&s> 



44 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



manure has been applied, because it is quite established 
that equally good crops can be obtained by the use of solid. 

Carefully reviewing the evidence met with in the 
records of the discussion of the town sewage question; 
we may come to the conclusion that by far the greater 
majority of authorities are in favour of its application to 
grass crops alone. Indeed, even the most strenuous 
advocates of the system of applying it to all crops, green 
and grain crops alike, admit that its most marked and 
most economical results are to be obtained by its appli- 
cation to grass crops, and of these the " Italian rye- 
grass" is the best ; and the parliamentary commissioners 
found as the result of all the evidence brought before 
them, that the only practicable method of utilising town 
sewage on the large scale is by the irrigation of grass land. 

The following shows the produce of Italian rye-grass 
obtained by liquid manure application. It is the result 
of the experience of Mr. Blackburn. On the old system 
only one good cut is obtained, seldom a second : — 





Actual results- 


-ft. 


in. 


1st cutting 
2nd „ 


. June 11th 


= 


1 


10 


. July 15th 


= 


2 





3rd „ 


. August 15th . 


= 


2 





4th „ 


. September 17th 
. April 22nd 




1 


10 




7 


8 


1st catting , 


1 


10 


.2nd „ 


. May 28th 


= 


1 


6 


3rd „ 


. July 1st 


= 


1 


10 


4th „ 


. July 29th 


= 


2 





5th „ 


. September 2nd . 


= 


1 


9 


6th „ 


. October 20th . 
1858. 




1 
10 


10 
9 


1st catting 


. May 22nd 


= 


2 


6 


2nd „ 


. June 28th 


= 


3 





3rd „ 


. August 10th . 


— 


3 


6 


4th ;, 


. September 17 th 


, = 


2 





5th „ 


. November 13th 


= 


1 






12 n 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 45 

But while on all sides it is agreed that town sewage 
is best applied to the production of grass crops, and that 
there is, by its use, an amount far above the average 
obtained by ordinary cultivation, still it is maintained 
by some that the grass so grown by the aid of sewage 
is not so valuable for feeding, or milk-producing pur- 
poses, as that grown by the ordinary mode. Thus 
Dr. Voelcker says in one of his recent papers : — 

" Whilst speaking of the advantages which may be 
realised by the application of sewage to grass land, I 
would make one remark in reference to the produce of 
grass. In most treatises which deal with the sewage of 
towns, it is stated that the produce from irrigated 
meadows, more especially meadows irrigated with sew- 
age manure, is superior, inasmuch as it is richer in 
nitrogenous matter, to the ordinary farm produce. Now 
I believe this is a mistake. I think that, practically, 
you will find that the grass from an irrigated meadow 
is greatly inferior in point of nutritive quality to the 
grass from natural pastures. Even the grass of water- 
meadows is inferior to natural produce, and I believe 
that in a still higher degree the grass of meadows irri- 
gated by the sewage of towns is inferior. In fact the 
more rapidly grass is grown, the less mature it is, and 
the more likely to produce various disorders in the 
animal economy. . Instead of being superior, practical 
men will, I think, all agree with me that the produce 
of irrigated meadows is greatly inferior to the produce 
from natural pastures. Indeed, bulk for bulk, the poorer 
the meadow the richer the produce : the more slowly 
and the more scantily herbage grows, the better and 
the more nutritious it is. Of course it is not desirable 
to grow scanty produce, and to leave off manuring our 
fields for fear of growing inferior produce ; but> ua%<st- 



46 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



theless, we must not shut our eyes to the fact that 
grasses from irrigated meadows are of inferior quality. 
Notwithstanding all such drawbacks, great sums have 
been realised by the application of large quantities of 
sewage to meadow-land." 

It is therefore of importance to know exactly how 
this matter stands, and to examine other evidence. We 
find this detailed in the recently published Report of the 
Parliamentary Commissioners. Let us glance first at 
the experiments conducted to ascertain the effect of 
sewage and of ordinarily grown grass upon the milking 
capabilities of cows. The following table shows the 
" mean composition of 100 pints of milk from cows fed 
with both kinds of grass " : — 





Cows f d on grass 
alone. 


Cows fed on grass 
and oil-cake. 


Cows fed on 
Sewaged 
rye grass 

and oil -cake 
1 Sample. 


Unsewaged 

Mean of 

9 Samples. 


Sewaged. 

Mean of 

10 Samples. 


Unsewaged 
Mean of 
4 Samples. 


Sewaged. 
Mean of 
4 Samples. 


Casein . 
Butter . 

Sugar of milk, &c. 
Mineral matter 


3246 
3-604 
4-405 
0-753 


3-241 
3-430 
4-218 
0-776 


3-352 
3-657 
4-561 
0-740 


3-423 

3-707 
4-689 
0-771 


3*125 
3-473 
4*700 
0-752 


Total solid matter 
Water 


12-008 
87-992 


11-665 
88335 


12310 
87*690 


12-590 
87*410 


12050 
87-950 


100-000 


100000 


100-000 


100000 


100-000 



On this, Mr. J. B. Laweshas the following remarks fr- 
" There is apparently but little difference between the 
average composition of the milk yielded from the un- 
sewaged and the sewaged grass, whether they be respec- 
tively consumed alone, or in conjunction with oil-cake. 
That from the sewaged and more succulent grass is 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 47 

slightly more aqueous, and contains slightly less of the 
organic constituents — casein, butter, and sugar of milk — 
and slightly more of mineral matter, during the early 
part of the season, when the cows had grass alone ; but 
these relations are reversed during the four weeks when 
oil-cake was given in addition. The addition of the oil- 
cake, both in the case of the unsewaged and of the sew- 
aged grass, but particularly in that of the latter, notably 
increased the proportion of the three organic constituents 
and of the total solid matter of the milk, but somewhat 
diminished that of the mineral matter. Again, com- 
paring the figures in the second and fifth columns, those 
in the latter giving the composition of the milk when, 
for a few days only during the progress of the experi- 
ment, the diet of the cows was changed from sewaged 
grass alone to sewaged Italian rye-grass and clover, 
with oil-cake in addition, the influence of the oil-cake 
is seen to be of the same kind as already alluded to — 
increasing generally the proportion of the organic con- 
stituents, and of the total solid matter of the milk, and 
diminishing somewhat that of the mineral matter." 

And in remarking upon the second table, giving the 
results of cows fed upon grass alone, which we give 
on the following page, Professor Way says, " the results 
show that the quantity of milk obtained from the 
produce of each acre of land depended very much upon 
the quantity of sewage applied. Deducting the value 
of the milk obtained fro'm the acre of unsewaged 
grass, reckoning it at 8d. per gallon, it appears that 
where the sewage was designed to be applied at the 
rate of about 3,000 tons per acre per annum, the pro- 
duce from each 1,000 tons of sewage actually applied 
gave an increased amount of milk to the value of 
£4 13s. lOd. ; where at the rate of about 6,000 tob&**& 



48 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



£4 16a. lid. ; and where at the rate of about 9,000 tons, 
of£4 5«." 



Tons of sewage ac- ) 
tually applied to > 
end of November ) 

Grass consumed per *) 
head daily . lbs. ) 

Average yield of \ 
milk per head, > 
daily. . lbs. ) 

Gallons of milk the ) 
produce of each ; 
acre would yield . ) 

Value of milk from ~\ 
the produce of 1 
each acre, at Bd. | 
per gallon . . J 

Value of milk fronH 
the increased pro- 1 
duce of 1,000 tons | 
sewage . . J 


Wi'hoat 
Sewage. 


With Sewage. 


Plot 1. 


Plot 2. 


Plot 3. 


Plot 4. 


•138-7 
2505 

850-7 

£ s. d. 
11 13 10 


1503 


8145 


4678 


1259 
2053 


562-3 

£ *. d. 
18 14 10 

4 13 10 


807*8 

£ a. d. 

26 18 7 

4 16 11 


947*4 

£ *. d. 
31 11 4 

4 5 



The following is the conclusion arrived at from the 
experiment made on the fattening of oxen : — 

"Oxen tied up under cover, and fed on cut green 
grass alone, whether sewaged or unsewaged, gave a far 
lower rate of increase than the average attained by 
animals fed on ordinary good fattening food ; but when 
for a few weeks oil-cake was given in addition to the 
grass, they yielded a good average rate of increase." 

The following table, with the remarks appended, will 
be valuable in connection with this point, as showing 
the results of the experiments with oxen when fed on 
grass alone : — 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 



49 



■f 



Tods of sewage to 
be applied per acre 
per annum 

Tons of sewage re 
quired to date of J 
last catting . . j 

Tons of sewage acO 
tually applied to | 
date of last cut- I 
tiug ... .J 

Grass consumed per ] 
head daily . lbs. J 



Weeks the produce ' 
of each acre would 
keep one ox . . 

Increase; in live- 
weight that the 
produce of each 
acre would yield 
lbs. 

Value of increase in "^ 
live-weight from 
each acre at kd. 
per lb 

Value of live in- ^ 
crease from the in- 
creased produce of 
1,000 tons sewage 



Without 
Sewage. 



Plot 1. 



90-3 



82*9 



867 



£ *. d. 
1 8 11 



Without Sewage. 



Wot 2. 



3000 
1846 

1872 



Plot 3. 



6000 
4385 

4788 



105-5 



450 


82-1 


132*8 


242-2 


£ 8. d. 
2 4 3 


£ 8. d. 
4 9 


8 2 


10 10 



Mot 4. 



9000 
6577 
6713 



99*7 



294*0 



£ *. d. 
4 18 



10 3 



" The oxen weighed more per head than the experi- 
mental cows, yet their daily consumption per head, 
both of wise waged and of se waged grass, was con- 
siderably less. It is quite obvious from the results 
given in the table, that grass of the description in 
question is not adapted for the fattening of oxen 
without the addition of other food. Indeed, one of the 
animals on the sewage grass weighed 52 lbs. less at the 
conclusion than at the commencement of .tha «s$rsix- 

o 



50 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

ment; and the maximum increase of any one was 
103 lbs. in the* 16 weeks, or at the rate of only 6'4 lbs. 
per week. And, taking the average of the two and 
the eight oxen respectively, those upon unsewaged 
grass gave only 4 oz., and those upon sewaged grass 
only 4£ oz. increase per 100 lbs. live- weight per week; 
whereas, feeding on good fattening food, such oxen 
should give about 1 lb. increase per 100 lbs. live-weight 
per week. In fact, these very animals did give increase 
at even a somewhat higher rate than this during the 
subsequent four weeks, when they had, in addition to 
the grass, 4 lbs. of oil-cake per head per day. There 
can be no doubt, therefore, that with a proper allow- 
ance of oil-cake, or some such food, a very different 
result would have been obtained. It was, however, 
desirable that, in the first experiment, the grass should 
be tried alone." 

We now come to the fifth and last division of our 
subject, namely, the " modes proposed to apply it to 
the land." These may be classed under two principal 
divisions, the " solid " and the " liquid." 

"We have already pointed out the influence which our 
modern town drainage system has in diluting the sewage 
with enormous quantities of water, and thus in propor- 
tion reducing its manurial value. Further, a sanitary 
evil is induced by pouring such enormous quantities of 
sewage into our rivers and streams, "the increasing 
offensiveness " of which thereby brought about is fast 
becoming "a national evil," demanding "immediate 
and serious attention." In view of these two evils, 
many schemes have been brought forward, by which 
the solid portions only of town sewage are proposed to be 
retained for agricultural purposes, leaving the liquid 
residuum, in a greatly purified condition, to pass into the 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 51 

rivers and streams. These schemes have been very 
numerous, and are indeed added to almost daily, so 
flattering are the prospects opened up by the successful 
adoption of a plan by which the manurial value of town 
sewage can be got entirely, or nearly, out of it in the 
shape of a solid manure. 

The mode which has been most extensively, if not 
the most successfully, adopted in the extraction of the 
manurial portion of town sewage is that known as the 
" lime process. " In this " quick lime," partly dissolved 
and mixed with water, is allowed in a certain propor- 
tion to mix with the town sewage. Coagulation speedily 
takes place, and the mixture is allowed to rest for a 
time quiescent, which permits the light flocculent matter 
to be deposited in the tank, while the separated and 
clear liquid flows away. The deposited matter is then 
removed from the tanks and mixed with town ashes, to 
take up a certain proportion of its moisture. The 
whole is then dried by various means and pressed into 
the form of blocks, which are sold as the solid manure. 
Very extensive works on this principle were worked at 
Leicester, but were not successful. Indeed, the same may 
be said of all the plans which have been instituted on 
this principle of utilising the solid portions of sewage 
only. It will, therefore, be useful to draw the attention 
of the reader to the reasons why this system is not 
successful. 

In another part of this treatise we have pointed out 
the fact that the greater portion of the valuable manurial 
matter of town sewage was in a state of solution, and that 
the solid parts are, agriculturally, the most worthless. 
The following table by Messrs. Hoffman and Witt shows 
that " six-sevenths of all the fertilising constituents of 
sewage are in the soluble form, and that \\i\X^\vs£*^ 

d 2 



52 



OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING, 



which results from the deodorising processes by lime 
and charcoal, a very considerable proportion of the 
soluble agents of the original sewage remains unre- 
moved." It is unnecessary to quote further evidence on 
this point ; suffice it to state that nearly all chemical 
authorities are opposed to the view that the valuable 
matter can be economically extracted from the liquid. 
An eminent authority says : — " The separating of the 
valuable matters of town sewage in a solid form, which 
can be sold and transported from place to place like 
guano, has never yet been accomplished, not that, in the 
present state of chemical knowledge it is absolutely 
impossible to accomplish it." The following is the table 
above referred to : — 





In its 

Original 

State. 


After 
Treatment 
with Lime. 


After Treat- 
ment with 
Stothert 

and Gotto's 
Mixture.* 


After 
Fi tration 
through 
Charcoal. 


After 
Shaking 

wish 
Charcoal. 


Valuable insoluble \ 
I matter . . .) 

Soluble matter . . 


s. d. 

2 n 

15 4£ 


3. d. 

Nil. 

11 11 


s. d. 

Nil. 

12 5 


s. d. 

Nil. 

11 H 


s. d. 

Nil. 

10 11* 


Total . . . 


17 7 


11 11 


12 5 


11 1J 


10 11* 



In a pamphlet by the well-known chemist, Dr. 
Gilbert, and ordered to be printed by the House of 
Commons, this point, now under consideration, is well 
discussed. Dr, Gilbert points out that if the constituents 
of London sewage could be conveniently applied to the 
growth of corn, the produce raised would be equal to 
one-third of the consumption of wheat by the popula- 

* Patent mixture composed of 70J grains of sulphate alumina, 34 
grains of sulphate of lime, and 73J grains of moderately fine charcoal 
to each gallon of sewage. 



THE UTILISATION OE TOWN SEWAGE. 53 

tion ; but then their " real practical value cannot be 
estimated according to their chemical composition in 
the manner done with respect to concentrated portable 
manures, because of the immense dilution of the manurial 
matter of the sewer water," "The difficulty ," he goes 
on to say, " and increased cost of the general distribu- 
tion are not the only disadvantages arising from the 
admixture of the manurial matters with an enormous 
bulk of water. Thus, if the excrementitious matters 
were in a dry, portable, and non-putrescent condition, 
like guano and other concentrated manures — on which 
assumption alone could their constituents be valued by 
the sain e tariff — they could, like these substances, be 
stored for any reasonable length of time, they could be 
applied to the land at the most fitting seasons, and, 
above all, they would be applicable to almost any crop, 
and especially to corn. But the same matters, if distri- 
buted day by day through (say) 4,000 times their weight 
of water, must inevitably be used, not only at the best 
seasons, but day by day, and at all seasons. This 
dilution and this constancy of supply must also almost, 
if not entirely, preclude the use of the matters in the 
direct growth of grain, for which purpose they would 
otherwise be the most applicable and the most valuable. 
They would, in fact, necessarily limit the use of the 
manurial matter*, on the large scale, to the growth of 
grasses, and perhaps some other succulent crops, by 
irrigation." 

To the suggestion as to whether solid manure can 
be obtained from sewer water, Dr. Gilbert, as a chemist, 
gives a most unhesitating negative, and illustrates it 
thus : — 

"By far the larger proportion of the nitrogenous 
compounds voided are found already dissolved. \»> ^^ 



64 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

liquid excrements. In sewage, these and the solid 
excrements are almost infinitely diluted with water, 
and the tendencies of the chemical changes they 
undergo is to convert the natural nitrogenous com- 
pounds into more, not less, soluble combinations. Indeed, 
with the exception of a very small amount of the voided 
nitrogenous matters, which remain as effete particles 
of food and animal substance in the faeces, the whole of 
the nitrogenous compounds voided are extremely soluble 
in water. In fact we should conclude, from knowledge 
of this kind, that somewhere about nine-tenths of the 
nitrogenous substance in sewer water must exist there, 
not merely as suspended matter, but absolutely dis- 
solved. Nor has any chemical method yet been proposed 
by which the so dissolved nitrogenous compounds can 
be re-precipitated, in the solid form, from so dilute a 
fluid as town sewage. All the excrementitious nitro- 
genous matter, therefore, which can be obtained in a 
sedimentary sewage manure, is that small proportion 
which exists in an undissolved state in the faeces, 
together with an immaterial proportion carried down 
mechanically, rather than chemically, with the sedi- 
ment," Dr, Gilbert, in summing up the matter, thus 
arrives at a conclusion :— " Keeping in view the great 
practical difficulties in the way of profitably applying the 
valuable matters of sewage for agricultural purposes, and 
looking, therefore, rather to the imperative necessity of 
cleansing our towns, almost at whatever cost, the most 
important step towards progress will be made when the 
public mind is sufficiently disabused of the present 
exaggerated notion of the agricultural value, in a prac- 
tical point of view, of highly dilute sewage matter." 

Mr.Mechi thus disposes of the " solid sewtige" schemes : 
" The extraction, in a dry condition, 0/ the valuable 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 00 

elements from the sewage, has not yet been satisfac- 
torily accomplished, farmers declining to purchase the 
residuum at a remunerative price. Recent experiments 
with perchloride of iron have been reported upon by 
Dr, Hoffmann to the Metropolitan Board of Works, as 
being more successful than former experiments with 
other substances ; but if Dr. Letheby's table of deodor- 
ising cost is correct, we must give up all hope of 
getting London excreta in a solid form. My own 
opinion is decidedly in favour of its application as 
sewage liquid as a matter of economy and profit. 
Water has a natural anch powerful affinity for the 
soluble and best portions of manure ; hence the ineffi- 
ciency of costly deodorisers to abstract them from 
sewage. But earth has a stronger attraction than water 
for those soluble treasures ; therefore it acts the part 
of a great fixative filter, which robs the liquor of 
its fertilising ingredients, and stores them up for 
the growth of vegetation as food for man and beast. 
This is well known to Baron Liebig and other che- 
mists, and has also been recently proved by Professor 
Voelcker's experiments with my own stiff clay and my 
liquid or sewage manure. Those who believe, as I 
do, in Baron Liebig's great mineral theory, will easily 
comprehend that the large quantities of soluble alkalies, 
and earthy phosphates and sulphates, detached from 
our granite and other pavements by frictional traffic, 
must be, when separated from the sewage by earthy 
filtration, necessary and beneficial to vegetation." 

But the above is not the only cause which operates 
so strongly against the economical realisation of plans 
for utilising the solid portions of town sewage; for, as 
pointed out by an eminent authority, "so small is the 
amount of valuable manurial constituents shown to ho. 
contained in such solid sewage manure, \XvvA. \X^3 ^s<&&- 



56 



OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 



only be useful if applied to the land, in several times, as 
many tons per acre as would be required in hundred- 
weights of guano or the pure dry excrement. It is 
obvious that such a manure would, on account of the 
cost of carriage, command no price at all beyond a 
very limited distance from its place of manufacture." 
The following table from a Parliamentary Report shows 
this very clearly : — 



In the form of Guano. 



£ s. d. 

In the immediate f 1 ton of guano 11 

neighbourhood \ Spreading . . 9 



11 9 



At a distance of f 1 ton of guano 11 
5 miles from the-! Carriage ..050 
works • • • I Spreading ..009 



11 5 9 



At a distance of 
10 miles • . 



1 ton of guano 110 
Carriage . . 10 
Spreading ..009 



11 10 9 



At a distance of f^ f e ^ anol l^ 



11 15 9 



At a distance of 
20 miles . . 



1 ton of guano 11 
Carriage ..100 
Spreading ..009 



12 9 



Ata distance of |^^8 uano M °° 



25 miles 



' [ Spreading 



5 

9 



12 5 9 



In the form of Lime-deposit. 



6 tons of lime-dep. 1 1 
Spreading . • • 



s. d. 

4 6 



6 tons of lime-dep. 
Carriage . . . . 

Spreading .. . . 



11 4 6 

11 
1 10 
4 6 

12 4 6 



6 tons of lime-dep. 11 
Carriage ... 3 
Spreading ... 4 6 



14 4 6 



6 tons of lime-dep. 11 
Carriage . . . 4 10 
Spreading ... 4 6 



6 tons of lime-dep. 
Carriage . . . 
Spreading . . . 



15 14 6 

11 
6 
4 6 

17 4 6 



6 tons of lime dep. 11 
Carriage . . . 7 10 
Spreading ... 4 6 

18 14 6 



TUB UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 57 

We have already shown that the chief mineral 
elements of town sewage are the solid and liquid ex- 
cret® of the population of our towns; attention has 
therefore lately been paid to the adoption of means by 
which these could be arrested and retained in their 
original condition without coming in contact with water 
at all. Of all the plans proposed to secure this, that 
adopted by what is called the " Eureka Manure Com- 
pany," has been carried out on the largest scale, and 
apparently with very fuir success. The following 
description of it we have elsewhere given : — 

" The Eureka system, as represented by its promoters, 
does not deal with the ordinary refuse water of the 
dwellings, which is carried to the sewers in the usual 
way, but it intercepts at the closet the excremeutitious 
matter, solid and liquid, which is at once deodorised, 
and iu due course removed, without having entered 
the cesspool or sewer at all. Thus the Company are 
relieved from the necessity of providing vast reservoirs, 
with machinery on a corresponding gigantic scale, the 
cost of which has gone so far to ensure the failure of 
many previous projects for the utilisation of the sub- 
stances in question. The arrangement of the closet is 
simple and effective. Instead of a cesspool or drain, 
as under the old system, is placed a movable box, 
so constructed as to receive a closely -fitting lid. All 
such boxes and lids are of uniform sizes. When it is 
considered desirable to remove the contents, a lid is 
taken from an empty box and inserted in a full one. 
The full box is then removed bodily, and placed in a 
covered van, whence the empty one has just been 
taken. The empty one is then introduced in its place, 
and the whole is the work of little more than a moment. 
Each box is provided with means for deodorising its 

1)3 



58 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

future contents before being placed in the closet. Boxes 
for the reception of the ashes are provided in like 
manner. These are removed separutely, and in neither 
case can the process of removal prove offensive in any 
way. The contents of the boxes are subjected to un 
lifter process of manufacture, which is perfectly inof- 
fensive and unobjectionable, and the matter, as thus 
treated, is wholly free from disagreeable exhalations. 
The deodorising process renders it impossible for any 
offensive effluvia to escape, as the gases are chemically 
fixed, and the evaporating process being conducted in 
close Btiil8, the vapour therefrom is reduced to a clear 
liquid before its emergence from the condenser. When 
the material is reduced to a thick consistency, the 
remaining moisture is then absorbed, and the manure 
rendered portable by admixture with fine ash, which 
latter has been previously calcined, sifted, and winnowed, 
and which, in this state, forms a valuable element in 
the composition of the manure." 

The following mode has been adopted at some of our 
military stations, carts being employed :— * 

" The carts and latrines are of wood and iron, each 
latrine being 5 feet long, 18 inches wide, and 2 feet 
6 inches deep, and capable, when full, of holding 115 
gallons. There is a spindle at each end, placed eccen- 
tric, and a movable cover, to be used when the latrine is 
carted away for the purpose of being emptied. Previous 
to removal a yoke is attached to each spindle, the yoke 
having side triggers, which preserve the latrine in an 
upright position, and admit of its contents being readily 
discharged. The cart is constructed on two wheels, 
having two arms projecting from the back, and resting 
upon the axle, with curved extremities, adapted to the 
yoke. The shaft acts us the long arm of a lever, the 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 59 

axle being the fulcrum. By this simple contrivance 
the latrine can be removed with great facility without 
risk of overflow, and its contents deposited without any 
manual labour being necessary, either for filling or 
baling out." 

The plan proposed by the Rev. Mr. Moule is also 
very simple, and we can speak as to its efficiency. 
It is obviously, however, best adapted for rural dis- 
tricts than for large towns. Indeed, as a rule, it may be 
accepted that, small as the trouble is necessitated by 
the process, that trouble would not be taken by the 
inhabitants of towns. Mr. Moule's plan consists in 
mixing the excreta with dried earth or clay — a deodor- 
ising agent of remarkable power ; so much so that the 
excreta may be mixed with the same clay or earth 
several times successively. In a very few minutes after 
the mixture is made, all traces of disgusting odour, 
and, indeed appearance, vanish, and the mixture may 
be handled with as much impunity as guano. The 
following is a description of Mr. Moule's mode of carry- 
ing out his scheme under ordinary circumstances : — 

" On one side of the privy should be a rough shed, 
opening in the same direction as the opening in an 
enclosure, behind and beneath the seat. It should be 
capable of containing and keeping dry a cartload of 
earth for daily use, and on the other side there should 
be a similar shed, opening in the same direction, into 
which the earth, having received the soil, should be 
thrown, day by day, for the purpose of mixing and 
drying. When dry, this should be used again, and 
the purposes of the two sheds reversed; and by thus 
repeatedly using the earth, and shifting it from shed to 
shed, both the specific value of the manure is increased 
in proportion to the frequency of the operation, and 



CO OUTLINES OF MODERN FAKMING. 

one load of earth will be found sufficient for five per- 
sons, certainly for six months, and, I believe, Tar 
twelve." 

The proposer of this plan has invented a particular 
form of closet for domestic use, which is, we under- 
stand, simple and efficient. 

What we have now given may be taken as descrip- 
tive of the general peculiarities of the various schemes 
proposed to utilise town sewage in a solid form, and 
the reader will at once perceive the reasons which 
militate against their being generally adopted; at all 
events, the " solid sewage" schemes have not as yet 
taken that hold of the public mind which permits of 
the hope being entertained that we shall see them 
adopted to the exclusion of the plans which we are now 
about to describe, and which have for their aim the 
utilising of the sewage in its normal or ordinary culti- 
vation as it is poured into and from the sewers. 

There are two modes in use by which the liquid 
sewage is used, namely, that known as the " pipe and 
jet" distribution, and secondly, the "gravitation" 
system, the features of which are exactly similar to 
those of the ordinary plans of irrigation of which a 
description will be found in the Second Division of this 
work. 

The "pipe and jet" mode of distribution may be 
briefly described. A series of iron pipes is laid a 
short distance beneath the surface, and is carried round 
or along the sides of the field or fields proposed to be 
irrigated. At various points "stand-pipes," or "cocks," 
are placed, to which can be easily connected a long 
length of flexible hose, to the extremity of which a jet 
or nozzle is attached. The sewage, or liquid manure, 
is forced through these either by steam power or by 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 61 

gravitation, and is distributed to the surface of the field 
by means of the hose and jet. If steam power is used, 
the liquid is pumped directly from the tank, or source 
of supply, and forced through the range of pipes 
and hose. If " gravitation " is employed, the liquid 
sewage is placed in a tank at a higher level than the 
fields which are to be irrigated, and it is forced through 
the pipes and hose with a power proportional to the 
difference between the level of the tank, or source of 
supply, and that of the fields to be irrigated. As a 
rule, the plan of using steam power to force the sewage 
directly through the pipes is that generally adopted. 
There are numerous instances of " pipe distribution " to 
be met with in this country; the most celebrated are 
those on the farms of Alderman Mechi, at Tiptree 
Hull, Essex; Mr. Neilson, in Liverpool; Mr. Black- 
burn, Stonehaven ; Mr. Telfar, Ayr ; Mr. Kenedy, 
Myre-mill, and at Alnwick, Northumberland. 

The following is a description of the mode of distri- 
bution on this principle, as originally carried out on 
the farm of Mr. Walker, at Rugby : — 

"The population of Rugby is stated to be 7,000, 
the quantity of sewage obtainable per day being esti- 
mated at 160,000 gallons. Most complete means have 
been provided to carry all the sewage to the outfall, 
cesspools being totally abolished, and even the humblest 
dwellings provided with water-closets. The original 
outfall for the drainage was into the river Avon, but it is 
now into an open brick reservoir, situated on Mr. Walker's 
land. The depth of the reservoir is 12 feet, diameter 
being 50 feet. A steam engine of 12 horse-power 
forces, by means of a pump 12 inches diameter and 2 feet 
stroke, the sewage into and through the system of cast- 
iron pipes distributed over the farm. The greatest 



62 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

elevation to which the engine is required to pump the 
sewage above the level of the reservoir is 60 feet ; but 
a considerable portion of the land is only 20 feet above, 
while some of it is 20 feet below, the level. To keep 
the sewage in agitation within the reservoir, and pre- 
vent the deposition of the solid matters held in suspen- 
sion, the engine works a small air-pump, the current 
from which is led to any part of the reservoir where 
agitation is required, through a gutta-percha tube, or 
pipe, 1^ inch in diameter. 

" The distributing pipes extend to a length of 5£ 
miles, and are laid over 470 acres, chiefly under grass ; 
this gives a proportion of pipe of 20 yards to the acre. 
The rising branch, or main, is 6 inches in diameter. 
Throughout the length of pipes, hydrants, or cocks, 
are laid at intervals, the distances between which are 
varied according to the requirements of the land. 
These hydrants are 66 in number, and afford junc- 
tions, to which lengths of gutta-percha tubing are 
attached wherever the sewage is required to be dis- 
tributed over the land in immediate connection with 
the hydrant. Mr. Walker, at first, employed the ball- 
valve hydrants, generally used at water- works. As 
the solid matter passing through the pipes frequently 
choked the valves, and prevented them from closing, 
he substituted for the hydrants vertical junction-pipes, 
providing the aperture of each with a simple flat cover, 
secured to the flange of the vertical junction- pipe with 
two nuts, a gutta-percha ring being placed between the 
curve and the flange of the pipe. The extremity of 
the gutta-percha hose is provided with a mouth-piece, 
which fits on to the aperture of the junction-pipe, the 
cap being removed when the liquid is required to be 
passed through the hose. The length of the gutta- 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 63 

percha hose employed is 140 yards, the diameter being 
2| inches; to the end of this two lengths, each 
100 yards long, of 1^-inch gutta-percha pipe are 
attached for distribution. The large pipe is made up in 
lengths of 20 yards each, these being secured together 
by screw caps. Five or six of the l£-inch distributing- 
pipes are in constant use. 

"The cost of the works has been nearly £3,000, 
averaging £6 7«. per acre, Mr. Walker, however, 
thinks that with the experience now gained, very com- 
plete works may be established at the cost of £o per 
acre; at the same time he would not advise the same 
quantity of sewage to be distributed over so great an 
area of land, a concentration in a less extent of land 
being more economical. The cost of distribution, in- 
cluding interest on outlay, rent of sewage (,£50 per 
annum), coals, labour, and all expenses, amounts to 
£1 per acre. Mr. Austin estimates the permanent 
increase on the value of the land obtained by the use 
of the liquid sewage in the manner above described 
at £1 per acre." 

Further details of this system will be found in the 
Second Division of this work; meanwhile we proceed to 
describe the second mode in use by which the town- 
sewage is utilised in its ordinary condition, namely, the 
"open distribution " or "irrigating" plan. 

Of the examples of this mode to be met with in 
this country, that which has been by far the longest 
time in operation, the best known, and probably the 
most successful, is that of Edinburgh. In nearly all 
the published accounts of these celebrated meadows 
a large amount of praise has been conceded to the 
inhabitants of Edinburgh for their worldly prudence 
and foresight in using advantageously that which in 



64 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING*. 

other towns is a nuisance. But the author of the 
present volume, having occasion to go pretty fully 
into the details of these meadows and their history, 
he discovered that the inhabitants of Edinburgh are in 
reality little deserving of praise in these respects ; for it 
appears that the mode of using the sewage waters, in 
place of being an application of recent, has been in 
reality one dating from very early times, at least from 
the reign of James III., owing its origin, apparently, 
to the members of an ecclesiastical establishment at 
Restalrig, a village not far from Edinburgh, and in 
the immediate neighbourhood of the irrigated meadows. 
The reader interested in the historical as well as prac- 
tical details of these meadows, will find them very 
fully given in a paper in the "Journal of the Bath 
and West of England Society," by the author of this 
volume; the following is a brief description only of 
their general features. 

The mode of distribution adopted is a rough modifi- 
cation of what is known as the "ridge and furrow" 
system of irrigation, details of which will be found 
in the succeeding Division of this volume. In this, 
main drains, which convey the sewage from the town, 
supply a number of open gutters, which are led over the 
surface of the fields in various directions. From these 
gutters the sewage is spread over the surface. Cuttings 
are taken, on an average, four times in the year, the 
average produce per acre being 40 tons, although in 
some instances as much as 60 and 80 tons have been 
taken. The average rent per a^re is put by the pro- 
prietor of the estate at £22 per acre. The growth of 
the grass under irrigation is described by the pro- 
prietor as " marvellous." 

Within the last forty years a new portion of land 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 65 

has been put under sewage; and this affords, perhaps, 
the most striking instance of the value of sewage in 
increasing that of poor land, for the part here alluded 
to was originally a sterile sandy range, not worth 
5$. an acre, and now produce is obtained from it which 
has raised its acreage value to £25 and £30. 

A very important example of sewage application on 
the "open gutter" or "irrigating" system has been 
recently established on the farm of Mr. Marriage, 
Beddington, near Croydon. In this, 300 acres are 
placed under the sewage, and although, from its recent 
establishment, no definite facts have been added to the 
history of sewage utilisation, the results nevertheless 
are very satisfactor}', the produce being estimated at 
35 tons per acre, taken in four or five cuttings in the 
course of the year. We visited this farm some time 
ago, and published a detailed account of it in a paper 
in the " Bath and West of England Society's Journal." 

Before concluding the present division of our sub- 
ject, it will be necessary to allude to the deodorisation 
of town sewage, about the importance of which so much 
has been written. It is worth while here to allude 
briefly to what will hereafter be fully gone into, namely, 
the fact that the best deodoriser is soil. If, therefore, 
the sewage is at once taken from our sewers and dis- 
tributed, under careful arrangements, over the surface 
of the land, no bad effects will arise from its use ; for, 
soil is not only the best, but it is the quickest deodoriser 
we have at command. But by many it is deemed 
advisable to have our sewage deodorised before it is 
applied to the land; and although this may be con- 
sidered of doubtful expediency where it is ultimately 
utilised in the irrigation of land, it is assuredly of con- 
siderable importance in cases where the sewa^ \^ ^» 



66 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

once delivered to our streams and rivers, to be by them 
carried to the 6ea. It is in such cases the evident 
duty of corporations to reduce as much as possible the 
nuisance created by this system of getting rid of the 
sewage of their towns. 

Although it may be open for us to doubt, as we are 
certainly inclined to doubt, whether the mere deodori- 
sation of the sewage brings about its disinfection, — two 
things which are generally taken as one and the same — 
a view, as may be seen from what we have just said, 
we are scarcely inclined to maintain, — the fact remains 
to be considered that the deodorisation of sewage is 
considered by many to be of importance, and sundry 
investigations have therefore been made as to the 
best mode of effecting it. The Metropolitan Board of 
Works requested the well-known chemists, Messrs. 
Hofmann and Frankland, to conduct experiments on 
the subject, and the following is the general result. 
The examination included the consideration of a vast 
number of schemes which have been proposed from 
time to time by various patentees and others. Of these 
the reporters state, of all "agents" proposed to be 
applied, "only one" appeared to them to satisfy, in 
the necessary degree, the conditions involved in the 
circumstances of the case. 

"The agent," say the reporters, "to which we 
allude is that described as 'Dales' Muriate of Iron/ 
essentially a concentrated solution of perchloride of 
iron, the disinfectant properties of which were some 
years ago pointed out by Mr. Ellermon. This we have 
submitted to an extensive series of comparative trials 
with the well-known disinfectants, lime and chloride 
of lime, which, probably owing to their long-established 
character, are not included in the proposals before us. 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 67 

" These trials lead to the conclusion that the deodori- 
sation of sewage may be effected either by the per- 
chloride of iron, chloride of lime, or lime; but that, if 
quantities of equal value* be applied, the perchloride 
of iron is markedly superior to either of the others, 
whilst chloride of lime acts much more powerfully than 
lime. 

" These statements refer both to the immediate action 
of the three agents upon sewage, and to the permanency 
of the effect produced ; but when examined from the 
latter point of view, the superiority of the perchloride 
of iron is exhibited even in a still more marked degree. 

" It may be stated that these results were obtained 
by operating upon sewage, such as flows from the 
mouths of the chief metropolitan sewers during the 
hottest season of the year, our experiments having 
been performed during the latter half of the month 
of July. 

" Since the calculations as to the cost of deodorisation 
are based upon these experiments, it may not be out of 
place here to mention briefly the mode in which they 
were conducted. In order to enable us to operate 
upon a sufficiently large scale, brickwork tanks, lined 
with cement, and holding 7,500 gallons each, were 
constructed at the outfall of the King's Scholars' Pond 

* " We have endeavoured to arrive at the average prices of these three 
agents. It appears that they are subject to considerable fluctuation. As 
the average result of our inquiries, we have taken the value of lime at 
9«. per cubic yard, = 1 8 bushels ; the value of chloride of lime of 36 
per cent, (about the strength of that used in our experiments), at £12 per 
ton ; and that of the perchloride of iron solution, specific gravity 1*45, 
at 6d. per gallon. Probably these prices would be subject to a certain 
amount of reduction if very large quantities were consumed. We should 
state further, that the estimation of the value of perchloride of iron is 
founded upon our knowledge of the price of its ingredients and the cost 
of manufacture, although Messrs. Ellerman and Dales, who have pro- 
posed this liquid, quote Is, 6d. as their maximum price per gallon." 



68 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

Sewer. The sewage was lifted into these tanks by- 
means of a steam pump, and the various deodorising 
agents were incorporated, either by their gradual intro- 
duction into the shoots during the process of filling, or 
by diffusing them through the mass of the liquid by 
means of mechanical agitation. 

"From a number of experiments thus conducted, it 
appears that each of the three agents above mentioned 
will effect the immediate deodorisation of 7,500 gallons 
of sewage when applied in the following proportions : — 

Perchloride of iron £ gallon. 

Chloride of lime 3 lb. 

Lime 1 bushel. 

" From these results it follows that 1,000,000 gallons 
of sewage require respectively : — 

£ a. d. 
66 gallons of perchloride of iron, costing . 113 3 
400 lbs. of chloride of lime . . . . 2 2 10| 
132£ bushels of lime . • ' . . .366 

" During the performance of these experiments, which, 
as already stated, were made during the hottest portion 
of a dry season, we were surprised to find that the 
liquid flowing from the outfall of the sewer was by no 
means strongly offensive ; it was only after preservation 
in tanks for twenty-four hours, or upwards, that a really 
powerful odour manifested itself. This circumstance 
rendered it of the highest importance to inquire more 
closely into the degree of permanency of the effect pro- 
duced by the several agents under consideration. 

"For this purpose three equal quantities of sewage 
were collected, and perfectly deodorised respectively by 
perchloride of iron, chloride of lime, and lime: they 
were then allowed to stand. After two days, the 
sewage disiufected by lime became slightly tainted, 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. CO 

whilst that deodorised by chloride of lime and per- 
chloride of iron remained perfectly odourless. At the 
end of three days, the lime sewage had become decidedly 
offensive, whilst the other two specimens still remained 
free from smell. After four davs, the odour of the 
limed sewage had become worse, but that treated with 
chloride of lime likewise begun to exhibit an offensive 
character, whilst the sewage to which perchloride of 
iron had been added remained perfectly inodorous. 
Even after the lapse of nine days, the condition of the 
latter had not changed. In other experiments the same 
relative permanency of effect had been observed. 

"Another important element in estimating the com- 
parative fi tries 8 of an agent for the treatment of sewage 
is, the time required for clarification after the addition 
of the disinfectant. In this respect, also, the results of 
the preceding experiments lead us to give a decided 
preference to perchloride of iron." 

The reporters draw special attention to the import- 
ance of withdrawing all mechanically suspended matter 
from the sewage before it is passed into rivers or 
streams. When this is allowed to remain, it " rapidly 
passes, in warm weather, into a state of active putre- 
faction ." 

Mr. McDougall, of Manchester, has paid considerable 
attention to the subject of deodorisation of sewage ; and 
has, after various experiments, decided upon the use of 
carbolic acid and lime. Mr. McDougall has practically 
advanced far before other proposers of sewage utilisa- 
tion ; inasmuch as he has leused the sewage of Carlisle, 
and applied his system to land in the vicinity of 
that town. The following is a description, from the 
Agricultural Gazette, of Mr. McDougall's plan, aa 
carried out at this place 2 — 



70 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

" At Carlisle, where the waste of 20,000 people is 
thrown into a stream of water of 5,000 or 6,000 cubic 
feet per hour, pumped up and mixed with carbonic 
acid, for disinfection and deodorisatiou, and spread over 
110 acres of alluvial grass land, the results, though not 
so good as those at the Edinburgh meadows, are still/ 
they say, sufficient for a profit on the outlay. 

u A five-horse power engine, working twelve hours a 
day, pumps the sewage from the underground channel, 
at the rate of 6,000 cubic feet per hour, and a stream, 
such as a teapot would deliver, is continually pouring 
into it a solution, containing 1 per cent, of carbolic acid 
and 5 per cent, of lime ; this effectually removes all 
offensive smell. The whole runs from the engine-house 
in surface cast-iron gutters, at the end of which it is 
allowed to pour out, five or six hours at a time, to each 
place, at half an acre or thereabouts apart. There it 
spreads about upon the flat over the meadow and ulti- 
mately sinks in. The produce at the end of April, 
when we saw it, was nothing like so abundant or so 
promising as that of the Edinburgh meadows, which 
they were then already cutting in heavy swathes. But 
we are informed that three cuts for hay had been made 
at Carlisle the previous year ; that a heavy stock of 
sheep and cattle had been kept on the land, and that, 
notwithstanding the high rent which the meadow com- 
manded, and the considerable cost for engine and 
works which had been incurred, yet the returns were 
sufficiently profitable. A comparison of Carlisle and 
Edinburgh leads to the conclusion, that the true way to 
obtain a full profit from sewage is to apply it to poor, 
light, and free soils, which can be had for about nothing 
— to soils, moreover, which present sloping surfaces, 
over which the stuff may pour — and possibly also to 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 71 

npply it in a putrid state, containing its elements in a 
condition in which they are at once ready to feed both 
the roots and the leaves of the plants among which it 
flows." 

We have already alluded to the Eeport of her 
Majesty's Commissioners appointed to inquire into the 
best mode of distributing the sewage of towns, and have 
drawn the attention of the reader to several of the 
important points taken up and discussed in its pages ; it 
will be advisable here to give a place to the conclusions 
arrived at by the Commissioners on the various aspects 
of the question brought before them during their inves- 
tigation. We only give a few of these ; those preceding 
have reference to the effects of discharging sewage into 
streams and rivers in its usual foul condition: — 

"(9.) That the only radical way of restoring the 
rivers to their original purity is to prevent the discharge 
of foul matters into them, and especially the discharge 
of sewage and other refuse of large towns; but that in 
various cases where this radical treatment has been 
deemed inadmissible, expedients for the purpose of 
depriving the sewage of its offensive and noxious pro- 
perties have been brought into practical operation, and 
have been attended with more or less success. 

" (10.) That among those methods, of which expe- 
rience is most satisfactory, no one is suited to the 
circumstances of all towns, some towns presenting much 
greater difficulties than others ; yet the more this sub- 
ject has been investigated the more convincing is the 
evidence that there is no town which might not, with 
reasonable care and at moderate cost, greatly mitigate 
the existing evils where it may not be practicable 
wholly to remove them. 

"(11.) That, for example, the chief natt ^t Vka 



72 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

nuisance arising from the discharge of sewage into 
rivers and streams, may be obviated by simply arresting 
the solid matter in suspension in the liquid, particularly 
in towns of small populations where tbe sewers dis- 
charge into considerable streams of water. In these 
cases it may be practically sufficient to adopt simple 
means of deposit combined with mechanical appliances 
for arresting the solid matter; and these may be of the 
most inexpensive character ; in other cases, however, 
and especially during summer, the addition of chemical 
agents may be required for the more complete separa- 
tion of the solid and the deodorising of the liquid 
sewage. But although, by such means as the above, 
sewage may be rendered inoffensive to smell, we cannot 
guarantee that, even after the best practicable applica- 
tion of such means, sewage can be allowed to flow into 
brooks or rivers without rendering the water unsafe and 
improper for drinking. 

" (12.) That among deodorisers, the material which, 
up to the present time, has been found to be the best 
for this purpose, is perchloride of iron, the only objec- 
tion to its general use being its comparatively high 
price, but in many cases the employment of the cheaper 
material — lime — may suffice. 

"(18.) That the value of the solid portions of sewage 
being small, all attempts at realising profits from its 
preparation as manure have signally failed ; but mixed 
with sweepings and other dry refuse of towns, a ready 
sale is found for it at 2*. or 3*. per ton, which is suffi- 
cient to pay a large proportion of the necessary working 
expenses for preventing nuisance. 

u (14.) That the cost of the operation has in various 
instances ranged from %d. to 3d. per head of the popula- 
tion per annum, including interest on the outlay for 



THE UTILISATION OF TOWN SEWAGE. 73 

works; there can, therefore, be no difficulty on the 
ground of expense in requiring the adoption of adequate 
means for a removal of nuisance in every case in which 
injury or inconvenience is shown to arise. 

. a (15.) That the most beneficial and most profitable 
method of disposing of sewage, where circumstances 
will admit of this use of it, is by direct application in 
the liquid form to land ; where such applications can 
only be conveniently effected near habitations, it may 
be desirable to employ some deodorising agent, but 
usually, if proper arrangements are made for conveying 
sewage on to the land, this expense need not be 
incurred. 

"There is reason to hope that trials and experiments 
instituted by the commission, and still in progress, in 
relation to the irrigation of land with sewage, will 
remove some doubts and difficulties which have hitherto 
prevailed in retarding a more general adoption of this 
desirable mode of disposing of and utilising the sewage 
of towns." 

In concluding the present Division of this work, it 
will be necessary to glance briefly at what we consider 
to be the future prospects of town sewage utilisation, 
and which of the plans we have described will most 
probably be that chiefly adopted. On this point we 
have very decided opinions, not hastily, we venture to 
state, arrived at, but resulting from a long-continued 
and careful examination of all the features of the 
question, aided by practical observation, both in this 
country and in those parts of the Continent where the 
most conclusive and the most celebrated examples of 
irrigation and manure application are to be met with. 
What these opinions then are will perhaps best be 
explained in the following extract from a paner «<&kV&s^ 



74 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING, 

"Some Cultural and Engineering Considerations con- 
nected with the use of Water and Town Sewage in the 
Fertilisation of Land/* published in the "Journal of 
the Bath and West of England Society " :— 

" The more we examine the question connected with 
the utilisation of town sewage, the more are we con- 
vinced that in the plan adopted — subject to such modi- 
fications as local circumstances will dictate — and so 
successfully adopted at Edinburgh, the best and most 
economical mode of realising this utilisation is met 
with. The towns must get rid of the bulk of sewage; 
and if in doing so they can pass it in the immediate 
neighbourhood of lands to which it is applicable, and 
if the preparation of these lands to receive it does not 
cost too high a sum, then we believe that the utmost 
economy will be obtained by the use of the sewage. 
But if special arrangements have to be made to lead 
at great expense the sewage to the fields, and if these 
fields have in addition to be prepared to receive it at 
a further outlay; and if, moreover, the corporation 
determine to demand a price for the sewage, then it is 
to our mind abundantly evident that the application of 
sewage will not pay. Corporations have wrecked all 
their schemes upon this same rock, so to speak, namely, 
the extravagant expectations they have formed of the 
high manurial worth of their sewage. It is not neces- 
sary to go into the details of the question as to whether 
this worth really exists— that we have done already, in 
the last number of this Journal ; it is sufficient for our 
present purpose to point out that the town sewage is 
a nuisance to the towns in which it is produced, and 
being a nuisance, they are bound to rid their people of 
it; and right glad should they be if, in getting rid of 
it, some farmers take toll of it as it passes by their 



THE UTILISATION OP TOWN SEWAGE. 75 

fields, as has been done at Edinburgh (see par. 2 of 
article already alluded to). If it does pass by their 
fields, and in such a position as to be easily applied to 
fields adapted to irrigation, farmers, to our mind, are 
very silly if they do not avail themselves of it. It is 
beyond all doubt or cavil, that irrigation with ordinary 
water does pay, if judiciously carried out ; if the same 
judgment is displayed in using sewage water, that 
application must pay also, and there is this additional 
value attached to sewage, that it does possess some 
directly manurial value over and above that possessed by 
pure water. In such cases it serves no good purpose 
to cavil at the precise amount of this value, for what- 
ever that is, it is, under our supposed circumstances, 
obtained for nothing. And this is, indeed, the strongest 
argument which can be advanced in favour of the utili- 
sation of town sewage where it can be obtained at the 
minimum of expense. 

" Admitting the value of sewage irrigation, and the 
sound policy of taking advantage of a supply of water 
where you have lands adapted to it, you are compelled 
to dispute the cavils of all antagonists to admit that a 
supply of sewage being obtainable, its value for irriga- 
tion purposes will not be less, but greater. And under 
the present aspect of affairs — which seems likely to be 
that of many years to come, — the whole question of the 
utilisation of town sewage is dependent upon these 
points now, and in our former article, advanced. It 
may be a misfortune, but we believe that it is neverthe- 
less a fact, that this view of the question forces us to the 
conclusion that the utilisation of town sewage will not 
be carried out to a large extent in our day; and that, 
in many instances, its utilisation at all will not be 
economically available, and that muck oi Wi^ «o^s^ Hss* 

E 2 



76 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

years to come must have the destination that it now 
has — the river or the sea — unless corporations convey 
it to or in the immediate neighbourhood of fields 
adapted locally and agriculturally to irrigation in its 
ordinary aspects/ 1 



DIVISION SECOND. 

IRRIGATION. 

In view of the immense advantages to be obtained from 
the practice of irrigation, not only in raising the value 
of land under cultivation for grass growing purposes, 
but in affording a ready means of bringing sterile soil 
into use, it is somewhat remarkable that so few exam- 
ples of irrigation are to be met with in this country, 
all the more so that innumerable localities are found 
where everything is presented that is favourable to the 
successful carrying out of improved plans. Irrigation 
may be said to be confined to one or two districts ; and 
although the peculiarities of these districts, so far as 
the surface and nature of the soil are concerned, and 
their supply of rivulets, streams, or rivers, are repeated 
in other parts of the kingdom, still a similar applica- 
tion is never thought of, although the same valuable 
results might with safety be looked for. Indeed, it is 
remarkable how valuable the application of water is to 
land when properly applied, and how by its means 
lands have been raised to the highest degree of pro- 
ductiveness from the lowest degree of sterility. It is 
to be hoped that a wider extension of the principle will 
be witnessed during the next decade than has been 
during the last. 

No theory accounting for the effects of pure water — 



78 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

that is, water in its ordinary condition as distinguished 
from sewage, which in our last Division we have been 
treating of — in raising the fertility or productiveness of 
grass lands, has yet been generally received. Many in 
this country maintain that it is not as a manurial agent 
that water acts; but by imparting warmth to the 
meadows, or possibly by preventing the reduction of the 
temperature which they already possess. In support 
of this view, Mr. Pusey, in his valuable paper in the 
'• Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society," has the 
following : — 

" We must suppose, then, that the water acts in irri- 
gation partly by the warmth it communicates to the 
soil. A curious proof of this view is afforded by the 
following circumstance : — There is a stream in Devon- 
shire which was useless in irrigation until it reached 
a station of the Atmospheric Railway, where, warm 
water escaping into it from the steam-engine, rendered 
it at that point, for the first timet beneficial to the land it 
passed over. In that county, where the warmth of 
springs is much studied on this very account, a wide 
difference of temperature is found in springs issuing 
from the same hill-side. Some springs freeze at once 
in a hard frost, a thick basin of ice forming round the 
well head. Another spring, a few hundred yards off, 
may be seen on a frosty morning steaming like a caul- 
dron. It not only does not freeze at the source, but its 
waters will continue to pass in a fluid state over mea- 
dows during a frost. The warm spring is selected for 
irrigation ; the cold one is kept aloof. It is also sup- 
posed that the south sides of hills yield warmer streams 
than the north sides, and these southern streams are 
therefore preferred for meadows. "We may safely con- 
clude, then, I think, though I have never seen it so 



IRRIGATION. 79 

stated in any agricultural work,* that the main prin- 
ciple of irrigation is the warmth produced by the water 
trickling over the surface. Warmth is a prime agent 
in vegetation ; and a slight difference in warmth has a 
marked effect in hastening or retarding the growth of 
plants. On hills of a very moderate height, as the 
chalk range in Berkshire, the harvest is sometimes a 
fortnight later than in the vale at their feet. The 
warmth of the London air opens the buds earlier. A 
southern wall, by reflecting heat, hastens the growth of 
vegetables near its foot. The warm spring, too, or 
river, does not merely flow over the surface, but sinks 
largely into the land if it be at all porous, and such 
land is most benefited by irrigation, some of the best 
water meadows being mere gravels, almost bare of soil. 
Thus the roots of the grass are kept in a state of geniul 
warmth. But the conclusive argument, as appears to 
me, may be drawn from a very curious operation called 
'Gurneyism/ of which an account was given in the 
seventh volume of this journal. 

" Mr. Gurney having observed what many may have 
remarked, that wherever any loose object, a bare branch 
or an old gate, lies on a meadow in March, the grass 
grows exuberantly beneath it, conceived the idea of 
spreading a field with straw, at the rate of about a ton 
to the acre, and thus promoting the growth of the 
grass. The scheme succeeded so well that it was 
adopted by many neighbouring farmers in Cornwall, 
and thus, curiously enough, a thin coat of dry straw 
produced the same effect which had hitherto been 
obtained only by a thin sheet of moving water. How, 

* Since the above was written I find that, though recent agricultural 
works deny the efficacy of warmth in irrigation, Sir H. Davy, himself 
a west countryman, asserts it in his " Agricultural Chemistry*" 



80 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

it may be asked, did the straw produce its effect ? I 
can see but one way. Gardeners, it is well known, 
spread light nets over their young orops in order to 
protect them from morning frosts in the spring. This 
effect is clearly due to the interception of the radiation 
of heat. The earth is constantly sending forth, in a 
perpendicular direction upwards into empty space, 
especially when the sky is clear, its warmth derived 
from the sun, just as a stove darts its heat around it ; 
but a very slight interruption, such as the gardener's 
net, is found to check the passage of the heat, and thus 
to prevent the morning frost on the surface, so much 
dreaded by gardeners. ' Gurneyism ' must act in a like 
manner, though on a larger scale, by preventing the 
escape of the natural warmth from the soil of a meadow. 
Irrigation, we have had reason to conclude, acts by im- 
parting to the meadow the superior warmth of the 
stream or the spring. The effect is the same$ the mode 
of action is the same, nearly. The difference is as 
between covering up a sick man with blankets, or 
placing him in a warm bath. The one is stronger 
treatment than the other, and so also irrigation acts in 
winter — ' Gurneyism ' only in spring. It may even be 
questioned, I think, whether irrigation does not also act 
in some degree by intercepting the radiation of heat. 
Mr. Gurney found that round rods of transparent glass 
suspended over grass, acted as well as opaque bodies in 
promoting its growth. Is it not possible that the rippling 
water may act like these rods of glass ? It is true that 
water, after passing over a portion of water meadow, is 
found to have lost much of its power when turned over 
another portion. This we should expect, because in 
travelling over and through the ground, it has parted 
with its native heat, and will produce a diminished 



IRBIGATION. 81 

effect. I believe that it produces still some effect, 
otherwise the conjecture must, of course, fall to the 
ground; the point need not, however, be pursued 
further. 

"But, it may be asked, if streams act by their 
warmth when turned over meadows, why do not all 
streams of the same temperature act equally well ? 
Why are some streams better than others ? Why do 
some not act at all ? The answer, I believe, is this. 
Several foreign substances, present sometimes in streams, 
are found by experience to be noxious to vegetation." 

A Continental writer, E. M. Gaymard, draws attention 
to the importance of attending to the temperature ; 
and states that a low temperature water exercises a bad 
influence upon vegetation. The same authority states 
that where water issues from glaciers it is Hot fitted fur 
irrigation. And as curiously corroborative of a remark 
as given above, of Mr. Pusey, it may here be named 
that M. Bonnard, another Continental authority, says, 
that the waters which descend from the southern sides of 
mountains are all better for irrigation than those descend- 
ing from the northern sides. Continental authorities 
almost always, however, are found to maintain, that 
the great benefit derivable from irrigation arises from 
the manurial effects of the waters, in virtue of their 
contained fertilising matters, and so far as we are 
acquainted with the practical literature of agriculture, 
it is to Continental authorities that we believe we must 
look, if we wish to find the most complete and the 
most suggestive statement of facts and surmises. Nor 
need it be matter of surprise to us when we consider 
that Continental engineers and agriculturists hav« had 
the most extended opportunities for studying the appli- 
cation of water to land under all its phases. Irrigation 

£ 3 



82 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

there is carried on to a most enormous extent ; whole 
countries — the phrase is scarcely exaggerated — owe 
their fertility to its means. We have seen vast spaces 
of a wild and savage district, and with a soil as little k 

productive as the sands of the sea shore, in the course \ 

of transformation into land smiling with verdure, and 
all by the aid of well-directed irrigation works. It will 
be well, then, if we cull from the books of Continental 
authorities a few points of interest, as introductory to 
our more practical details. 

In proof of the opinion that the waters of irrigation 
act as a conveyor of manurial matters, we find sundry 
statements and analyses in the work of one of the most 
eminent authorities. It is not, he says, directly — that 
is as a mechanical agent imparting warmth — that 
water acts, but by reason of the substances which it 
contains in solution — ammonia, carbonic acid, organic 
mutters, carbonates of chalk, of magnesia, potash, soda, 
and sulphur ; such matters as are in fact contained in 
farm-yard manure. True, the amount of these ferti- 
lising substances in a given quantity of water is very 
small, but by repeated applications these accumulate in 
the soil, partly by infiltration, partly, perhaps, by 
chemical combination, and are taken up by the plants 
at a period when the water is not applied to the soil. 
It is a belief held by some, that muddy waters, or those 
containing apparent evidences of having fertilising 
matters in suspension or solution, are the richest in 
manurial effect. But it happens that the most limpid 
waters are often the richest. We give here two analy- 
ses of very pure and clear waters : — 



IRKIGAT10N. 








Carbonate of chalk . 4 525 


„ of magnesia 






. 831 


Silica 






•594 


Sulphate of chalk 






. -138 


Chloride of sodium 






. '244 


Protoxide of iron 






. -131 


Alumina 






. -131 


Sulphate of potash 






•119 


Organic nitrogenised matters 






•462 


Ammonia and humic acid • 






•132 



83 



7219 • 

These were the number of grammes in 27 decimetres 
cubes. In another analysis of a very clear water, a 
litre of which was evaporated, leaving 15 grammes of 
solid matter, the following were obtained : — 

Organic matters 1*188 

Chloride of sodium (common salt) . . 9*952 

Chloride, bromine sodine .... 2*319 

Sulphate of magnesia 0*638 

Sulphate of chalk 0*874 

Loss ...... 0*029 



15-000 



Water containing much bicarbonate of chalk, or 
of chloride of sodium (salt) should not, say Continental 
authorities, be used for irrigating ; inasmuch as the 
disengagement of their contained carbonic acid sets 
free the salts, which exercise a bad influence upon the 
produce. Manurial waters containing much iron are 
also bad. 

That the quality of the water, arising from its 
constituents, has an important practical influence upon 
irrigation, there is every reason to suppose; indeed, 
reasoning from analogy, it is difficult to understand 
how the opposite opinion has been arrived at. Con- 
tinental practitioners state that a uniform result ob- 
tained in the irrigation of meadows with pure clear 
water is, that the best vegetation is obtained at the 



84 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

point where the water is first laid on ; the farther 
the place is from its original point of application, the 
less valuable is the vegetation, and the more frequent 
is the appearance of bad and poor plants. To obviate 
this evil of the decreasing value of irrigation water, 
Continental engineers sometimes arrange to lead off 
the water at the point where its good effects seem to 
lessen, and allow it to remain for some time in the 
drains or water- courses, after which it is found to be 
beneficial, the probability being that it has absorbed 
fresh supplies of carbonic acid and of nitrogenised 
matter. Although chemical analysis is the most satis- 
factory way of ascertaining the value of a water applied, 
or proposed to be applied, to irrigating purposes, still it 
is not always easily obtained ; some general rules, 
therefore, founded upon experience, may here be given. 
Of all the indices to the quality of water open to obser- 
vation, the plants which grow in the neighbourhood, or 
in contact with the water, afford the best and most 
trustworthy. If the habits of these were closely 
studied, and combined with careful analysis of the 
waters near which they grew, a very valuable set of 
rules might be obtained, and rendered available in the 
practice of irrigation. As a rule the water is of excel- 
lent quality if water-cresses {Nasturtium officinale), the 
aquatic ranunculus {Ranunculus aquatilis), grow near it ; 
or other plants, such as the pond weeds {Potamogeton 
perfoliatus, or P. fluitans), and the speedwells ( Veronica 
anagallis or V. veccabungal). The following plants 
grow in the neighbourhood of water of middling 
quality : — Sium cutifolium, S. agustifolium, the mints 
(menthce). If no plants are observable save the mosses 
and the sedges (Carex acuta and C. stricta), the quality 
of the water may be considered as bad. 



IRRIGATION. 85 

The soil over which water flows also exercises an 
influence upon the quality of the water itself. Water 
flowing over marl is generally good ; if it rises through 
thick beds of sand, it possesses poor irrigating qualities. 
The water supplied from the drainage of low marshy 
lands, and of which the subsoil is good, is valuable for 
irrigation, whilst that proceeding from mosses or peaty 
soils is generally bad. The water of lakes with sandy 
margins, and if the vegetation is chiefly rushes and reeds, 
is poor in fertilising qualities, and should be rarely used 
for irrigating purposes. . Water flowing from bare or 
stony hill-sides and mountain ranges is not good ; 
while that flowing over the surface and penetrating 
to the roots of the grassy turf growing on hilly sur- 
faces, is good for irrigation. In one part of France, 
the water flowing from a grass-covered mountain is 
exceedingly rich in manurial qualities. M. Bonnard 
states that it is the richest he knows of. Water pro- 
ceeding from deep wells or springs is rarely good for 
irrigation. The longer the water is subjected to the 
action of the atmosphere, the better it is. We may 
gather then, from these facts, that the value of a water 
depends upon its chemical as well as its mechanical 
qualities. In cases where the water is obtained 
from peaty and boggy land, or from lakes of inferior 
quality, the bad qualities are got rid of, to a large 
extent, when the distance to the place where they 
are used is considerable; the action of the air, the 
flowing over soil of good quality, and the deposition of 
much of their contained matter, having apparently good 
effects. Water has, of itself, rarely a distinctive effect 
upon good vegetation, the difference between a good and 
a bad water for irrigating purposes being the difference 
between their fertilising properties. One may be better 



86 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

than another in increasing the product of the meadows ; 
but, as a rule, water is rarely found to kill it completely. 
Water may be immensely increased in value for irri- 
gating purposes by mixing with it manurial compounds. 
Mr. Pusey — to whom British agriculture owes so much — 
was amongst the first, if not the first, to point out the 
valuable medium which water was for applying manurial 
ingredients to meadow land. The Continental prac- 
tioners have for a long time directed their attention to 
the subject ; and while some have carried out the prac- 
tice with great success, others believe that there is not 
much in it. 

It will be well to glance at a few of the considera- 
tions involved in the question. 

While admitting that water, by itself, acts as a 
powerful means of aiding the production of grass on 
meadow lands, at first sight it would, therefore, appear 
that the real value of irrigation consists in getting this 
increased produce without involving the use, and the 
consequent expense, of manure. Such is the opinion of 
one class of authorities. On the other hand, it is main- 
tained by a second class, that by adding manure to 
irrigating water, the produce obtained is in a much 
higher ratio than the cost of the manure so given. 
The necessity maintained by this class of authorities 
for adding manure to irrigating water is proved, they 
say* by the fact that water exhausts the soil rapidly by 
the very quickness with which it promotes vegetation, 
and by depriving it of much of its fertilising properties. 
On the other hand, it is to be noticed that water, even 
in its purest condition, conveys to the soil fertilising 
matter which secures a high degree of productiveness. 
In some cases this is so marked that it seems impos- 
sible to augment it, even by the addition of powerful 



IRRIGATION. 87 

manures. Where the supply of water is large, and of 
good quality, ^there seems to be no necessity to add 
manures ; but where the supply is limited, then they 
may be added, and with marked effect. The more 
frequent the cuttings also, it seems to be established, 
the more freely should the manures be added. 

The general result of the experience of Continental 
authorities seems to be, that the larger the supply of 
water, the less necessity there is for adding manures to 
it; and the converse when the supply is diminished. It 
should also be remembered, when manures are added to 
the water used for irrigating meadows, the grass of which 
is cut long at intervals, that the grass is apt to grow 
rank and coarse, and the roots to become blanched and 
to rapidly decompose. Of course the difficulty in many 
cases is to get this large supply of water, by means of 
which alone large results are obtained. Thus, in the 
province of Brabant, an irrigated meadow, of some 
12 acres in extent, gives a yearly produce of some 
30£ tons of hay, the cuttings being two a year, namely, 
the same as in our ordinary meadows — the first crop, 
and the aftermath, or eddish. But to produce this by 
water alone, to which no manure is added, the enormous 
quantity of 200 gallons per second per acre is required. 
Where, therefore, the extent of land is great, the quan- 
tity of water required would be so enormous, that the 
cost of supplying it — by artificial means — would be 
greater than the returns obtained. 

A modification of the rule above noticed is necessary, 
so that it may be cheaper to supply a larger surface of 
meadow with a limited supply of water enriched by 
manurial agents specially supplied to it, than to limit 
the area of the land and give it a larger supply of 
water. 



88 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

It may be useful here to point out the gradual 
decrease of produce of irrigated meadows with the 
gradual decrease of water supplied to them. Thus, 
with a certain supply of water where 4£ tons per acre 
of grass has been produced, by reducing the application 
to one-third, the produce has fallen to 2£ tons, while 
by reducing the application to one- fourth, the meadows 
did not pay the cost of their formation and maintenance. 
Where, then, the supply of water is limited, it appears 
to be of essential importance to apply manurial agents 
to it, so as to increase its fertilising powers. 

Of Continental authorities, M. Keelhoff seems to have 
paid the most attention to the practice of manuring 
irrigating waters. The manures chiefly used by this 
eminent authority were guano-soil, the sweepings of 
streets, and dried or burnt turf or peat. In applying 
these the nature of the soil of the meadows should be 
carefully considered. As a rule, where soil, or street 
8 weepings, or turf are to be used, their quality should 
be of the opposite character to that of the lands to 
which they are applied. Thus, if the soil of the 
meadow is sandy, the soil applied for manurial pur- 
poses should be clayey or calcareous. Enormous benefit 
has been done to sandy soils of irrigated meadows by 
applying to the surface clayey and calcareous soil. The 
quantity of soil applied will vary of course with the 
varying nature of that of the irrigated meadows. Where 
these have been for some time under cultivation, less 
will have to be applied than where the meadows are of 
new formation. 

In the district of the Campines, Belgium, where 
the soil is naturally almost pure sand, and is there- 
fore scarcely worthy of the name of soil at all, a fine 
vegetating surface is rapidly created by applying clayey 



IRBIGATION. 89 

soil. On Exmoor, ample proof has been given of what 
can be done in the rapid creation of productive soil 
through the agency of water, and we should be glad 
to see the principle extended amongst us, as extended 
it may be in many districts, and with markedly bene- 
ficial results. 

Guano, M. Keelhoff has found, can only be applied* 
by the agency of irrigating waters, to strong lands at 
least, with the best effects. When applied to light 
lands alone, he found it caused the growth of some of 
the grasses to be increased, and others to disappear. 
But by mixing the guano with a clayey base, in such 
cases he found this evil obviated, and the benefits very 
marked. A proportion which he found to be useful 
was 12 lbs. of guano to 1 cubic yard of clayey soil, or 
thereabouts. In cases of meadows formed out of boggy 
lands, abounding in decayed sour vegetable matter, the 
application of lime is found to be of great service. 

The following notes, by Mr. Pusey, will be read with 
interest, as bearing upon the point now discussed : — 

" There is another use which may be made of water 
meadows. The two streams employed here I have 
turned through two of the farm-yards. The cattle in 
these yards are kept loose, even while fattening, in the 
old-fashioned way, though tied up at feeding time. 
When heavy ruins come, the muck water is washed 
down into the passing stream, and distributed over 
the meadow without labour to man or to horse. In 
this case, and whenever a reservoir is filled with black 
water from other yards, as happens in sudden rains, the 
manager is desired to put only so much of this rich 
water on a piece of the ground as will sink into it, and 
then to turn the dark liquor over a fresh portion of 
meadow. This is done lest the soluble salts should be 



90 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

carried away over the surface of the field into the 
stream, and so wasted. As to the winter management 
of the water, it may generally be left on any particular 
portion for a fortnight at once. When the grass turns 
dark, the waiter should be taken off. A standard Scotch 
work on farming directs that it should be taken off on 
'the arrival of frost. The true rule, however, at least 
in Devonshire, is not to take it off nor to lay it on in a 
frost : — not to take if off, because the water, freezing on 
the ground, forms a coat of ice, which protects the grass, 
exactly as a covering of snow guards the young wheat ; 
not to lay it on, because the ground, being already 
frozen, can be no longer protected. 

" There is a novel use of irrigation which I may be 
permitted to mention, as it has answered in the only 
experiment I have hitherto made — the application, I 
mean, of artificial manures. The two chosen were, 
guano as an universal manure, and sulphate of am- 
monia — the refuse, I believe, of gas works — as being 
the most likely of chemical salts to favour the growth 
of grass. The guano was applied by mixing it in the 
gutter as the water was laid on ; the ammonia by dis- 
tributing it along the edge of the same gutter, in 
another part, where it was rapidly dissolved by the 
water. Both applications have succeeded ; the chemical 
salt answered the best. The land should be previously 
dry, that the solution may enter it." 

Mr. R. Russell, in a very able paper on the " Theory 
of Liquid Manuring and Irrigation," in the Journal of 
Agriculture, No. 50, draws attention to the "Selective 
power of the roots of plants " as having an important 
bearing upon the use of the water of rivers and springs. 
Saussure, in his experiments found that plants with 
huulthy roots absorbed or took up, in very different 



IRRIGATION. 91 

quantities, solutions of the same degree of concentration ; 
and accounted for this by supposing that the proportion 
of matter absorbed was in proportion to the thickness 
or viscidity of the solution in which it was presented. 
Trinchinetti's experiments, however, seemed to show 
that the roots of plants had a facility to absorb one sub- 
stance in preference to another, independent altogether 
of the nature of the substance. Mr. Russell, placing 
no reliance upon experiments, the results of which 
must often be fallacious, as the plants may be put 
in conditions which will make the roots unhealthy, is 
inclined to contend, " for a function in the roots of plants 
which has a close resemblance to a faculty of selection 
of certain substances that are specially adapted for 
building up the vegetable structure ; " and this faculty 
Mr. Russell proposes to name " Special Absorption/' 
implying " chemical affinity between the substances in 
solution and the roots of plants." All cultivated plants 
receive their food in the form of water, curbonio acid, 
ammonia, and the manurial or inorganic matters which 
are contained in their ashes. All these inorganic 
substances (see vol. i. of this series, section on manures) 
are " specially absorbed " by the roots of the plants ; 
this special absorption by the roots, and the assimi- 
lation of inorganic substunces within the plants being 
considered by Mr. Russell as " modifications of the 
same law.'' This able authority then comes to the 
conclusion, that if this theory of special absorption 
is not true, the practice of those irrigutionists, as in 
Belgium and Italy, is " altogether indefensible. " The 
practice here alluded to, is to apply a rich manure to 
the land in autumn, before the water of irrigation 
is applied. Now, as at that season the grasses cannot 
take up a tenth of the water applied, " an enormous 



92 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

waste of manure " would be the result, " unless the roots 
really had the faculty of taking up a greater share 
of the manure than the water which enters the roots." 
Mr, Russell maintains that the philosophy of irriga- 
tion can only be written by keeping the " manurial 
theory " (see vol. i. of this series) and this of special 
absorption in view. Finally, as bearing upon the 
theory of irrigation, and the quality of water em- 
ployed, we present the reader with some interesting 
notes of Dr. Voelcker, from the " Journal of the Royal 
Agricultural Society." 

" The Government of Egypt for some time past has 
actively encouraged agricultural improvements. In 
the course of an investigation into the agricultural 
resources of that country, specimens of Nile-water 
were lately sent to me, that I might endeavour to 
determine the causes of the remarkable fertilising 
effects which it produces, and to ascertain at whi 
period of the rise of the river the water is most 
valuable as a fertiliser. 

"The first specimen was taken at the beginning 
of the rise, and on examination was found to contain, 
in an imperial gallon : — 

Suspended matter 23*83 grains. 

Soluble matter 17*87 ,, 

The suspended matter, it will be seen, amounts to 
more than the matter held in solution. It was found 
to consist of: — 

Mineral substances (fine clay and sand) . 20*89 grains. 
Organic matter* 2*94 „ 

23*83 

* Containing nitrogen '11 

Equal to ammonia *3l 



IRRIGATION. 98 

The clear filtered water left on evaporation, when dried 
at 300° Fahrenheit, 17*87 grains of dry residue, which, 
on analysis, produced : — 

Organic matter 2*12 

Oxides of iron and alumina, with traces of phos- 
phoric acid *07 

Silicate of lime 1*85 

Carbonate of lime 4*36 

Carbonate of magnesia 2*81 

Carbonate of potash -66 

Carbonate of soda 3*26 

Chloride of sodium 2*30 

Sulphate of potash # 93 

Nitrate of potash. *18 

The proportion of soluble matters in this specimen 
of Nile- water, it will be seen, is very trifling. On 
the other hand, it contains a good deal of carbonate 
of soda and magnesia. When filtered, and deprived 
thereby of its sediment, which appears to be mainly 
instrumental in renewing the fertility of the land, 
Nile-water is wholesome and agreeable to the taste. 

"The second specimen of Nile- water was taken at 
the height of the flood, and distinguished from the 
first sample by a bright, almost blood-red colour. 

" On standing for a considerable length of time it 
lost its colour, and deposited, per imperial gallon, 
87*51 grains of solid matter, which consisted of : — 

Mineral substances (extremely fine clay and sand, 

containing a great deal of oxide of iron . . 81 66 
Organic matters . • • • • • .5*85* 

8751 

" The filtered and clear water on evaporation and 
drying at 300° Fahrenheit, furnished 11 -88 grains of 

* Containing nitrogen '26 

Equal to ammonia *31 



94, OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

solid residue per imperial gallon. This residue, on 
analysis, yielded : — 

Organic matter 1*54 

Oxides of iron and alumina, with traces of phos- 
phoric acid 1*04 

Carbonate of lime 1*41 

Silicate of lime 3 87 

Sulphate of lime 132 

Chloride of sodium *79 

Carbonate of soda *48 

Nitrate of potash *84 

Carbonate of magnesia 1*15 

"The red colour of this Nile-water I find not to 
be due to organic matter, but to extremely finely- 
divided oxide of iron. This red peroxide remains in 
suspension for weeks together, and thus imparts a 
bright red colour to the water. 

" There is a good deal of difference in the com- 
position of Nile-water taken at the beginning and 
at the height of the flood. In the latter stage the 
suspended matter is nearly four times as large as at 
the beginning of the rise. On the other hand, the 
amount of soluble matter is a good deal less. The 
decrease of soluble organic matter in the second speci- 
men is very remarkable, and as there is much more 
nitrate of potash in the water at the height of the 
flood, it would appear that the nitrogenous organic 
matter is rapidly converted into nitric acid, which, 
uniting with potash, forms nitrate of potash, a con- 
stituent which has been discovered before in Nile- 
water, but, as far as I know, not quantitively determined. 

"Although the soluble saline constituents which 
are present in this and other waters used for irrigation 
contribute to their fertilising properties, in the case 
of Nile-water it is chiefly the suspended matter which 
produces the well-known and astonishing effects upon 



IRRIGATION. 95 

vegetation. In this suspended matter we have both 
mineral and organic matters in a highly divided and 
most effective condition. If it be remembered that 
the second specimen of water contained a quantity of 
suspended organic matter, which on decomposition 
furnishes three-tenths per cent, of ammonia in round 
numbers, and that, consequently, every 1,000 gallons, 
in addition to an enormous quantity of mineral food 
for plants, contain an amount of organic matter in 
suspension which, when deposited on the land, will 
gradually generate no less than 300 lbs. of ammonia, 
no surprise will be felt at the results practically ob- 
tained in the irrigated districts of Egypt." 

The nature of the soil proposed to be irrigated is 
always an important element for consideration in the 
construction of meadows. To this department, as in ail 
others connected with the art of irrigation, the Conti- 
nental engineers have devoted much study, and a rapid 
resumt of the results of their application and experience 
may not be uninteresting. 

A soil best adapted for irrigation should possess the 
following attributed. It should be able to imbibe a 
large quantity of water, and should possess the power 
of retaining it for the proper time, so that it may not 
be retained too long, nor passed too quickly through it. 
An analysis of it should show the possession of con- 
stituents susceptible of combination with the fertilising 
matters contained in the water with which it is proposed 
to irrigate it. The particles should be fine, and not 
heavy or coarse, and so that it may admit the atmo- 
spheric effects, and at the same time afford a firm root- 
bed for the plants. 

Soils for irrigated meadows have been classified by 
M. Debay tinder three heads : — 1st. Sandy soils^ coil- 



96 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

sisting chiefly of silica or of sand. 2nd. Argillaceous 
soils. 3rd. Marshy soils, having much water and tannic 
acid in their composition — the product of vegetable 
decomposition. Of these three he awards to the first — 
the sandy soils — the highest value for irrigating pur- 
poses, the best being a clayey sand, warm, dry, and 
having some portion of marl in its composition. Where 
the sand possesses humus it is equally valuable for 
irrigating purposes, producing naturally a fine, short, 
grassy turf. When sandy soils do not possess these 
highly valuable characteristics, their value is propor- 
tionate to their tenacity, thickness, their permeability, 
and the depth at which the impermeable clayey subsoil 
on which they rest is found. The finer the grain of the 
Bund, the better adapted is it to irrigating purposes. 
Heavy, coarse-grained sand, or gravel of thick layers 
or strata, is bad, as the water drains with far too great 
a rapidity through it, carrying away the fertilising 
matters from or near to the surface, where it is required. 
Nevertheless, lands composed of gravel almost exclu- 
sively, and of gravel so large as to have the bulk of a 
hen's egg, have, by persistent applications of water, 
been made highly fertile, thus showing that there are 
few classes of soils which are incapable of being benefited 
by irrigation. It is questionable, however, whether in 
many localities it will be worth while to attempt the 
fertilisation of lands such as this, unless indeed they 
lie very favourably, as regards position and level, to the 
waters to be employed, and unless the quantity of 
these is large and constant at all seasons. Where 
detritus can be conveyed by the waters the soil will of 
course be all the more rapidly fertilised. 

Where in sandy soils the following plants are the 
spontaneous growth, it is essentially necessary to have 



IRBIGATION. 97 

an abundant supply of water available during the dry 
weather of summer, for if this is not attended to, the 
crop will infallibly suffer through the drought, which 
is inimical to soil of this nature. The following is a 
list of the plants alluded to: — (1.) Nardus stricta. 
(2.) Aira praecox. (3.) Aira canescem. (4.) Sedum 
acae. (5.) Panicum verticillatum. (6.) Panicum 
wride. (7.) Euphorbia cyparissias. (8.) Carex are- 
naria. (9.) Elymus arenaria. (10.) Guaphulia. (11.) 
Annuophila arenaria. (12.) Licuem. Where the sand 
is cold and moist, it is evidence of the existence of 
subterranean waters ; if these are of good quality the 
soil will bear good herbage, and the converse if bad. 
In all cases superabundant under water must be got 
rid of by drainage, on which point we shall have yet 
further to say. One feature connected with the irriga- 
tion of sandy soils remains to be noticed, and that is the 
abundance of reeds or rushes which they will produce 
when first placed under irrigation ; but these will gra- 
dually disappear as the plants of a higher class of 
vegetation increase. 

Of the second class of soils, the argillaceous, it may 
here be said, that the more tenacious they are and im- 
permeable to the* passage of the water, the worse 
adapted are they for irrigation ; and in such cases 
where irrigation is adopted, the soil should be well 
and deeply stirred and turned up before the meadow is 
laid down ; and this ploughing up should be repeated 
at intervals of not longer than twenty years. Drainage 
in such cases is essential. 

Marshy or boggy lands — the third class yet to be 
noticed — are the least valuable of all for irrigating pur- 
poses ; nevertheless, by careful drainage and treatment, 
they will often produce large yields. WhanlV^^sX.- 



98 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

lowing plants grow upon marshy lands, they may be 
set down as the most valuable of this class : — (1.) 1W- 
folium pratense. (2.) Trifolium repens. (3.) Vicia. 
(4.) Ranunculus repens. (5.) Ranunculus auricomus. 
(6.) Pra pratenses. (7.) Pon trivialis. (8.) Festucca 
pratenses. (9.) Alopecurus pratenses. (10.) Alopecurus 
geniculatus. (11.) Phalaris arundinaca. (12.) Meny- 
anthes trifoliata. Marshy lands of the second class bear 
amongst others the following : — (1.) Parnassia palustres. 
(2.) Polygonum vistorla. (3.) Cardamnie pratenses. 
(4.) Valeriana officinalis. (5.) Pedicularis palustres. 
(6.) Orchis latifolia. (7.) Ranunculus lingua. (8.) 
PLolcus lanatus. (9.) Epilobia. Marshy lands of the 
third class in value, bear amongst others the following : 
— (1.) Orchis canopsea. (2.) Carex calspitosa. (3.) 
Sawifraga Herculus. (4.) Mentha. (5.) Potentilla. 
(6.) Primula farinosa. (7.) Molima caeralea. The 
marshy lands of the fourth or worst class, bear amongst 
others the following: — (1.) Cedum palustre. (2.) Jonca. 
(3.) Andromeda polifolia. (4.) Myrica Gale. (5.) 
Vetulu pubescens. (6.) Vetulu fructicosa. (7.) Callima 
vulgaris. (8.) Empetram nigrium. 

Having thus given a rapid resumd of many points of 
great practical importance, evolved from the experience 
of British and Continental irrigation is ts, we are prepared 
to proceed to the practical consideration of the subject. 
And first, as to the preliminary operation of drainage, it 
would seem, at first sight, but an unnecessary cultural 
refinement to deprive lands of water to which water has 
to be regularly applied. But it is well established — and 
a very brief consideration will show why it is so— that 
the effect of drainage upon the productivenes of plants 
placed at intervals under the direct influence of water 
is the same as when placed under the ordinary circum- 



IRRIGATION. 99 

stances of cultivation. It may be taken as axiomatic 
that the more perfect the drainage is, the richer will be 
the grasses ; where drainage is not attended to the 
herbage will decrease in quality, and the land will 
simply become a marsh. Drainage will of course be 
modified in its details according to the nature of the 
land ; as an average rule, the depth of the drains may 
be from 3 feet 6 inches to 4 feet, the distance between 
them varying from 25 to 35 feet. More particularly 
the depths and distances may thus be stated : — in very 
retentive soils 4 feet in depth, and from 15 to 24 feet 
between the drains. Where of a porous or gravelly 
nature, the depth may be increased to 5 feet, and the 
distance between the drains to from 30 to 60 feet. 
Much will depend, of course, upon the under water, the 
presence of which, where, and in what quantity, will best 
be ascertained by means of trial pits. The slope or fall of 
the drains will best be made coincident with that of 
the ground. The ma\n . drains, leading off the supply 
of the smaller and parallel drains, should have a fall 
of say 1 in 30, the fall being greatest where the main 
drains are short and the supply of water small. Where 
drain clay tubes are used they should not be of smaller 
diameter than 2 inches. Much of the efficiency of 
otherwise carefully prepared drains is, in our opinion, 
lost through the habit of using too small diametered 
tubes. Where 14 inches in length, and the distance 
between drains 15 feet, it will take 2,490 tubes to 
drain an acre ; at 20 feet apart, 1,867; at 24 feet apart, 
1,560 ; and at 30 feet apart, 1,250. 

While on the subject of drainage, we must refer to a 
point which has been singularly overlooked, namely, 
the utilisation of the drainage water for the purposes 
of irrigation. In many districts boggy lands l\* fckvW 

*2 



100 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

foot of hill ranges. Now, a double benefit might in 
such cases be effected — first, by draining the hill-side 
pastures, and then applying the waters thus obtained to 
irrigate the boggy lands. The quantity of water ob- 
tained will be generally of ample quantity, and draining 
from grass-covered hill sides will be of excellent qua- 
lity. The probable quantity will be roughly estimated 
from the rain-fall of the district. 

The late Lord Hatherton, in Staffordshire, showed 
what. could be done by the drainage waters of high 
land. He collected it in ponds, and led it off, in the 
first place, to work a water-wheel, affording power for 
the labour of his farm steading ; and, in the second place, 
after working thus, he led it off to irrigate extensive 
meadows. Drainage water is, in fact, peculiarly valuable 
for irrigating purposes, containing, as it does, so much 
fertilising matter. We believe that in the collecting 
and utilising of drainage water coming from land high 
enough to give a moderate fall, lies a power of the 
value oi which farmers have generally little idea. The 
following note from an agricultural periodical, on 
uniting irrigation with drainage works, will be sug- 
gestive on this point now under consideration : — 

" There are many thousands of acres of deep-drained 
agricultural land in different parts of Great Britain, 
where the outfalls of the drains are at sufficient eleva- 
tion, and in suitable places, to allow of the water drawn 
off being used for purposes of irrigation. Lands, to be 
deep-drained, may also be laid out so as to work the 
subsoil- water of the upper portions over the surface 
and through the soil of lower lying districts. No 
available depth ol drain yields pure water, and it has 
been long proved by analysis that water from a manured 
field contains soluble salts oi any manures used: it 



IRRIGATION. 101 

must evidently be an advantage to pass such water 
over and through other lands. We throw out the hints 
for what they may be worth : we think deep-draining 
and irrigation may work together with advantage." 

In draining the hill sides surface drains will 
alone be required, taking care that the excess of water 
only be removed, leaving as much as will keep the 
grasses in good condition. An excellent size for the 
drains has been found to be 24 inches wide at top, 
6 inches at bottom, with a depth of 16 inches. Great 
care should be taken to cut the sides clean, and the 
bottom as level throughout its length as possible. 
The soil cut off and the earth taken out should 
be laid on the lower side of the drain, that is, towards 
the fall; this will prevent the drainage from the 
surface working them into the drains. The drains 
should follow the line of quickest descent ; but to pre- 
vent the scour of the water in the bottom, thus tending 
to make them too deep, it will be advisable to make the 
distances between the drains not too great, say 25 to 
30 feet, and their length as short as possible before de- 
livering their contents to the main drain, which should 
have a fall of 1 in 30. The drainage of the moss or 
peaty lands to which the waters are to be supplied 
for irrigating purposes is essential, and the cheapest 
way of securing this is to cut deep drains at 35 or 40 
feet apart. 

As in other points connected with drainage, so in 
this, of peaty or moss land, a great diversity of opinion 
exists. Some maintain that drains 12 to 18 inches 
deep are all that is required; others believe that a 
depth of even 10 feet will not be too great. There is 
one point, however, which the advocates ot shallow 
drains in peat or moss land should remember, and that 



102 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

is the gradual subsidence of the land under the effects 
of drainage; which tends to throw out the drains and 
lessen gradually the depth at which they are placed. 
This, which has been often overlooked, should be one 
reason why drains in peat or moss land should be made 
at first deeper than that which is thought best. "When 
mossy land is very wet, wide and deep ditches should 
be cut at parallel distances from each other, according 
to the degree of moisture, the depth being at least 
5 feet. Cross ditches or drains should lead into these, 
with a depth of, say 3 feet. When the land improves, 
proper or usual tubular drains may be pat in. In the 
preliminary draining of mossy land, it is essential to 
remember that the open drains or ditches must be kept 
well cleaned out, as they are very apt to rapidly fill up 
with a flue deposit of peaty matter. The following de- 
scription of a mode of draining peaty or marshy lands, by 
Mr. Prior, read many years ago before the Dublin 
Society, will be useful here : — 

" At the lowest part of your ground where the water 
is to run off, begin a trench 18 inches wide, taking care 
to cut the sod, that is commonly grassy and tough in 
such low grounds, 18 inches long and pretty thick, and 
not to break in cutting, and lay aside these sods to make 
use of afterwards. Then continue to dig your trench 
three, four, or five feet deep, according to the depth of 
your soil, till you come within a foot of the gravel or 
sand, and make it 17 inches wide at bottom. When 
you have carried the trench to the length you design, 
and cleared it to the depth of 3 feet, for instance, and 
made it even at bottom, you are to make use of a slane 
or spade 5 inches wide, with one wing, or rather two 
wings, to cut both sides at once. With this alane you 
are to cutout a turf 12 or 16 inches deep, in the middle 



IRRIGATION. 



103 



SECTION OP TRENCH. 



18 Inches. 



17 inches. 



Sin. 



of the bottom of your trench, or deeper if need be, so 
that then you will have a small trench of 5 inches wide, 
and 16 inches deep in the middle 
of the bottom of the larger trench, 
and the same trench will have at 
each side 6 inches wide. 

" When this is done, you take 
the grassy upper sod which you 
laid aside, and, turning the grassy 
side downwards, lay it across the 
small trench, at the bottom of the 
larger trench, upon the bank of 
each side of the small trench, and 
press the sod well on the ends 
thereof, that it may be stiff in the middle ; after the 
same way you must lay all the rest of the grassy sods, 
till you have covered the whole length of the small 
trench, and then throw in all the stuff you dug out 
before, and press it down. Thus you have drains that 
lie so deep, and are so well secured and covered with 
tough sods, as not to be liable to be injured, or pressed 
down by the treading of cattle. 

"These drains are not intended to receive any 
running streams into them, which may choke them in 
time ; they are designed for such grounds only as are 
much soaked and drenched with water, which they will 
not fail to carry off if there be a fall, and if they be made 
about 50 yards distance from one another ; and, in fact, 
we find that they have all the success that could be 
desired. 

" In running these drains, it will be of use to make, 
cross drains, to communicate with one another, which will 
both save expense and better intercept the water which 
may fall from higher grounds. 



104. OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

" The advantages of these drains are these — 

" 1st. The first cost in making them is very small 
and trifling, and when they are once made, they will 
last for ever, without any further charge to keep them 
in repair. 

"2nd. There will be no ground nor cattle lost in 
these drains ; whereas, open drains are very expensive 
at first, and must be scoured every year or two to clear 
them from weeds, which never fail to grow in them, 
and from mud, which is ever falling into them; 
besides, there is a loss of ground by such drains, 
and weak cattle are frequently drowned in them in the 
spring. 

" As for French drains, which are made by throwing 
in stones promiscuously in the bottom of a trench, it 
rarely happens that such stones are found near such 
low grounds; and if they could be got, the drawing of 
the stones and making the drains proves very expensive, 
and when they are made, they are frequently stopped 
and spoiled by cattle." 

For full details on all points connected with the 
drainage of land, the reader is referred to the treatises 
in this series, on " Drainage," by Mr. Dempsey. 

In carrying out plans of irrigation, it is important to 
know the quantity of water required per acre. It is to 
be regretted that we have few data upon which to 
found calculations or estimates in connection with this 
point; much is left to conjecture. It certainly is 
remarkable, that while so much attention has been paid, 
both by engineers and agriculturists, to the various 
details of irrigating practice, no experiments have been 
made with a view to determine the quantity of water 
required for various crops. The engineers of Lombardy 
have paid some attention to this point, and it is from 



IRRIGATION. 105 

these experiments — unfortunately not by any means 
extensive or complete — that what data we have on the 
subject are derivable. 

Captain Baird Smith, in his admirable work on 
"Italian Irrigation," gives interesting details on 
this point. He points out that the quantity of 
water employed may be estimated in three ways : first, 
by the volume of water in continued discharge re- 
quired to irrigate a given area of land; second, by 
the total depth of water spread over the soil ; and, 
third, by the total cubic contents of the mass of water 
employed. 

De Regi calculates that a continued discharge of one 
cubic foot per second, during twenty-four hours, is 
capable of giving a depth or stratum of water to four 
acres, equal to 6 inches, or 84,400 cubic feet. Estimat- 
ing the period of rotation during which the water is 
supplied to the land at fourteen days, and as there are 
twelve periods in the season of summer irrigation, the 
continued discharge of one cubic foot per second will 
give a supply for irrigating purposes to 48 acres. But 
this estimate is made upon the supposition that the soil 
absorbs the whole of this water ; this is not, however, 
the case in practice, for the absorption is rarely carried 
beyond a half, generally one- third. Taking it at one 
half, we have half the quantity available for further 
irrigation, or equal to two cubic feet per second ; but 
according to some practical irrigators — although it is 
right to state that the opinion is not held by others — 
the quantity of land capable of being irrigated by the 
second application of water, is just twice that of the 
first, so that we have 48 acres as the quantity irrigated 
by the remaining supply of half a cubic foot per 
second, thus making the whole quantity of land irri- 

*3 



106 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

gated by the continued discharge of one cubic foot per 
second, equal to 96 acres. 

But, as M. KeelhofF, a distinguished Belgian hydraulic 
engineer, remarks, " the quantity of water necessary for 
the irrigation of meadows depends upon the nature of 
the soil, of the climate, and upon the system on which 
they are established. It is, then, impossible to deter- 
mine a rule which will be applicable to all cases ; for it 
is evident that the quantity which would be necessary 
for a retentive would not suffice for a sandy and porous 
soil. Some authorities in this country give the quantity 
required for one day's irrigation, per acre, at 400 cubic 
feet, or, reckoning 6J gallons to the cubic foot, 2,500 
gallons. 

"We should much like to see, in some irrigation work, 
the adoption of a proper means of measuring the water 
supplied, as this would enable many of the points con- 
nected with its practice, which are at present purely 
conjectural, to be decided in a thoroughly satisfactory 
way. The whole subject is of such great practical 
importance, that we deem it will serve some useful end 
if we illustrate and describe here the mode adopted of 
measuring the water let off for irrigating purposes in 
the well-known plains of Lombardy, and which is 
known as the Milanese mode of measurement^ the illus- 
trations and description of which are given in M. 
Madault de Buffon's work on irrigation, and of which 
we give a free translation. (" Tracte d'lrrigation," 
vol. ii. p. 155.) 

The unit (or oncia) of measure in this system is the 
quantity of liquid which flows freely by or through a 
rectangular opening, as shown at A in Fig. 1, in which 
the height, a b in A, or d e in B, is equal to 4 Milanese 
inches (0 metres 20, or 7*86 English inches), the breadth 



1KBIGATI0N. 



1C7 



a c in A, Fig. 1, 3 local inches (0 metres 15, or 4*12 
English inches) ; the height of water above the upper 
edge of the opening, as from e to / in B, Fig. 1, being 
2 local inches (0 metres 10, or 3*93 English inches). All 




108 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

these conditions it is essential to fulfil; and especial 
care must be taken to have the height of water from 
e to / in B, Fig. 1, invariably the same. By what 
arrangement of sluice, &c., this is secured, we shall 
hereafter show. When it is desired to have the " mea- 
sure " arranged so as to admit of more than one unit 
being measured by it, this height from e to^ at B, in 
Fig. 1, must still remain the same, but the breadth must 
be increased according to the units required — a breadth 
of 4*12 English inches, or metres 15 being added to 
the width of the rectangular opening. The outlet, of 
whatever dimensions, whether comprising one unit or 
more, is carefully cut in stone; and to preserve the 
orifice so as to prevent its dimensions being altered, an 
iron ring, or plate, is fixed round it. 

In Fig. 1, at 0, we give a plan, and in Fig. 2 a 
section, of the arrangement of sluice, or " measure/' 
by which the constant height is maintained. The head 
of the sluice g h, Fig. 1, C, and Fig. 2, is carefully 
constructed of brickwork or of stone, the opposite walls 
being exactly parallel, and the level of the bottom is 
concordant with that of the feeder, or main channel of 
supply ; of which the sluice, or " measure," forms, in 
fact, a part. If the bed of the main channel is com- 
posed of soil liable to be corroded, it is made good by a 
pavement of stone, or of slate, for some distance both 
above and below the measure, the intention of this 
being to maintain the level of the bed of the main 
channel of supply. The breadth of the inlet at g h, 
Fig. 1, is the same as that of the unit, or measure, ij 9 
while its height is in proportion to the head itself. To 
this opening, g h, a sluice-gate is supplied, the object 
of which is to maintain the level of the water in the 
first chamber k so that its height shall give the due 



IRRIGATION. 109 

pressure at the unit, or measure, ij. This first chamber 
is constructed of masonry, and is covered in ; its length 
is 6 metres, or say 20 feet ; its breadth varies of course 
with the breadth of the opening g h, which, as before 
stated, is regulated by the breadth of the measure * ;, 
whether that be one or more units (4*12 inches = 
1 unit). But there is in all cases a " set-off," or pro- 
jection, on each side, making the chamber wider than 
the opening, the set-off being invariably 5 local inches 
(0 metres 25, or 1*64 English feet), or say 19 inches. 
The width, then, of the chamber nearest the inlet g h is 
always 19 inches more than the width of the outlet. 
The sole, or bottom, of the chamber k is not level, but 
has a rise from the sluice-gate at g h to the upper or 
inner edge of the measure at ij, this rise amounting to 
8 local inches (0 metres 40, or 15*75 English inches). 
The incline, it will be observed, is from the inlet g h 
to the measure % j, the height of the part / i being 
15 inches above the level of the opening at g h, and the 
purpose which it has to serve is to diminish the velocity 
of the water rushing in by the inlet g h, before it reaches 
the measure ij. 

The covered chamber k is provided with a wooden 
or stone cover m m. The height at which this is placed 
above the lower edge at B, Fig. 1, of opening of the 
measure i j, Fig. 1, is exactly the same as the height 
required to give the regular pressure through the outlet 
i j 9 namely, 2 local inches, metres 10, or 3*93 English 
inches. And the object of this cover is to deaden or 
still the agitation of the water entering at g h> and to 
allow it to pass from the chamber k through the mea- 
sure i j as much as possible under the influence of 
simple pressure alone. The entrance to the covered 
chamber k is obtained through an entrance covered by 



110 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

a stone slab n. The under surface of this slab is at the 
same level as the upper edge of the measure i j, corre- 
sponding to the edge e at B, Fig. 1 ; so that it is plunged 
in the water a depth of metres 10, or 8"93 inches 
below the under side of the cover m m, Fig. 1, 

The height of the rectangular opening, or measure, 
* y, being invariably the same, metres 20, or 7*86 
English inches, and that of the part I i — giving the 
inclination of the floor of the chamber k — being 
metres 40, or 15| English inches, above the level of 
the sill of the opening g h ; the height of under edge 
of the stone slab n is always metres 60, or 23 \ English 
inches, above the bottom or sill of the inlet g h 9 Fig. 1. 

In order to ascertain whether the level of the water 
in the chamber k is maintained so as to give a uniform 
height of metres 10, or 393 inches from e to / (at 
B, Fig. 1) of the measure, a groove is made in the slab 
n, to admit of a rod, or gauge. When the height of 
the water marked by this is metres 70, or 27£ inches, 
above the level of the sill or floor of the chamber k 
behind the inlet g h, the height metres 10, or 3*93 
inches, is known to exist. 

On the other side of the measuring outlet ij, Fig. 1, 
is the open chamber o p, of which the breadth of the 
end o is always metres 20, or 7*86 English inches, 
greater than th^ width of the measuring outlet i j, 
whether that be 1 or more units ; that is to say, there 
is always a set-off of metres 10, or 3*93 inches, on 
each side of the opening ij. The length of the chamber 
o p is 5 metres 40, or 17*75 English feet ; while the 
breadth of the farthest opening at q r, Fig. 2, is increased 
by widening out the walls — which are vertical, like those 
of the covered chamber k — so that it is metres 50, or 
19 £ inches, wider than that of the opening of the 



IRRIGATION. Ill 

measuring outlet ij. The floor of the chamber op is not 
level, but has a drop immediately behind the outlet ij, 
Fig. 1, of metres 05, or nearly 2 inches, while from this 
point to the opening at q r, Fig. 2,a fall of the same height 
is given. The whole incline, then, of the chamber o p 
for its length of 5 metres 40, or 17*75 feet, is metres 10, 
or 3*93 inches. This drop and incline are given to 
ensure the easy flow of the water from ij. By these 
arrangements the water — entering at some velocity 
through the inlet g h, and naturally tending to create 
an agitation in the chamber — is made to arrive at the 
outlet ij with the simple progressive motion necessary 
to maintain the flow. The length of a " Milanese " 
module, or measure, is, then, a fixed one, making a 
total of 11 metres 50, or 37*75 English feet, while its 
breadth is a variable one, this being regulated according 
to the volume of water one desires to measure. For a 
unit of one " oncia," or measure, the breadth of the 
covered chamber k is metres 65, or 25*54 English 
inches. 

To ensure the proper working of the sluice-gate at 
g h, Fig. 1, it is necessary that there should be a dif- 
ference, at the least, of metres 20, or 7*86 English 
inches, between the level of the water in the river, or 
feeder, from which the supply is taken at g h, and that in 
the chamber k. This will give the required minimum 
depth of the river, or feeder, of from metres 90, or 
35*37 inches, or nearly 3 feet. The volume of water 
passed per second by a single " oncia," or unit of the 
dimensions stated — 7*86 x 4*12 inches, with a head of 
3*93 inches — has been estimated by different authorities 
at various amounts; but 1*50 cubic feet seems to be 
their average. 

We have already pointed out the advantage i» V^ 



112 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

obtained by a combination of irrigation with drainage 
of land — a combination which in many cases has been 
carried out with singular success in several instances, 
where poor land has been quadrupled in value. In 
cases, then, of this nature it is obvious that a close 
relationship will exist between the extent of land to be 
irrigated and the land to be drained ; for on the supply 
of water derived from the drainage depends the supply 
to the lands to be irrigated. The quantity of water to 
be yielded from drainage of land is obviously dependent 
upon the rainfall in the locality ; and it is greatly to 
be regretted, as remarked by a writer on the subject, 
that the value of the "relation betwixt the accurate 
knowledge of the rainfall in any locality and the 
establishment " of irrigated meadows has not yet been 
extensively appropriated. In nearly all our sheep and 
dairy farms there are many acres which might, by a 
combination of drainage with irrigation, be made to 
yield a large supply of forage crops, and by closely 
studying the relation above alluded to. The writer 
then goes on to give the following : — 

" The problem will stand thus : — Given the amount 
of drainage outfall from each acre; how many acres 
will the gross produce irrigate? "Would it. then be 
worth while to collect and apply the drainage water in 
this way ? Previous practice yields some data already 
ascertained towards the answering of this question. In 
reporting to the commissioners for the drainage of the 
bogs of Ireland, Mr. Nimmo says : — ' If the rain-water 
of 100 acres be caught and reapplied during the 
descent of 1 Irish mile, the ground thereby irrigated 
will be 18£ Irish acres, or nearly one-fifth of the 
supply.' But Mr. Bailey Denton thinks that the 
amount due for England may more reasonably be taken 



IKBIGATION. 113 

at one-tenth of the supply. Of course, when more specific 
calculations are requisite, the records of rainfall in each 
locality must be consulted. As an approximate result 
of such calculations, we give the following, founded on 
a table taken from page 14 of Mr. Dempsey's ' Treatise 
on Draining/ It will be observed that the amount of 
rain permanently deposited in cubic feet per acre is 
given. As irrigation is only practised during the 
autumn and winter months, we purposely restrict our 
quotation : — • 

Cubic feet per acre. 

January 4,744 

February 5,616 

March 3,910 

April 1,111 

October 5,082 

November 11,826 

December 6,552 

38,841 

" This gives a mean average of 5,548 cubic feet per 
acre per month. As meadows are only irrigated four 
days a week, this gives us an available supply of nearly 
347 cubic feet per day per acre. If we take 2,000 
gallons as the amount requisite daily in the irrigation of 
an acre, the ratio given from this calculation will be that 
five acres will nearly irrigate one ; and so upwards with 
multiples of these numbers. These observations were 
made, we presume, in the flat central district of 
England ; but in hilly countries, where the rainfall is 
much greater, the number of acres requisite as a drainage 
area will be proportionally less. But here practice will 
be guided by local observations. In upland farms the 
drainage need be of a very inexpensive description ; 
sufficient it will be that the runnels be laid on a plan so 
that they may be concentrated at one point for the 
purposes of irrigation. The slopes of some of our moor- 



114 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

land hills might thus afford several irrigation areas of 
five or ten acres each. And it is easy to see, from the 
examples already quoted, how very materially this 
would add to the capabilities of a stock farm. In the 
more cultivated districts, where drainage operations are 
to be undertaken on a large scale, irrigation might also 
be practised from the same source. The advantage 
obtained would be double* — first, the thorough draining 
of itself; and secondly, the great additional one of 
irrigation, the profits of which would go far to pay the 
cost of drainage." 

With reference to the quantity of sewage water 
required for irrigating purposes, it is to be noted that a 
considerable diversity of opinion exists — some main- 
taining that application of from 3,000 to 4,000 tons per 
acre will be sufficient, while others maintain that these 
quantities will be altogether inoperative ; and that 
much larger application will be necessary, as from 
9,000 to 10,000 tons per acre. Much that has been 
written and said upon this point has been based chiefly 
upon conjecture ; but Mr. Cuthbert Johnson, F.R.S., 
has, in the Mark Lane Express, investigated the sub- 
ject in a very satisfactory way, and from whose paper 
we extract the following as thoroughly practical and 
useful : — 

"As regards the quantity of sewage required in 
irrigation, there are two ways of obtaining an approxi- 
mate result — either by the amount of water which a dry 
soil will absorb, or by ascertaining the quantity actually 
used in the irrigation of certain long celebrated water- 
meads. The first mode was that adopted by M. Schubler 
" Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society," vol. i. p. 
182) ; he found that the real quantity of water in a 
saturated cubic foot of earth was as follows : — 



IBRIGATION. 115 



Calcareous sand 
Silicious sand 
Sandy clay . 
Loamy clay 
Brick earth-clay 
Garden mould 
An arable soil 



318 lbs. 
273 „ 
38-8 „ 
414 „ 

45 4 „ 
48-4 „ 
40-8 „ 



€t If we calculate the mean amount of water in these 
seven varieties of saturated soils to be equal to 42 lbs. 
per cubic foot of earth, or 378 lbs. per square yard of 
soil a foot deep, then 378x4,840 (the number of square 
yards in an acre) gives 1,829,420 lbs. of water needed 
to saturate an acre of perfectly dry land to the depth of 
one foot, or about 816 tons. If we suppose that the 
saturation of the soil need only extend to a depth of 
nine inches, then about 543 tons of water would be 
sufficient ; if a depth of only six inches, then 408 tons ; 
and if to only a depth of four inches, then 273 tons 
would suffice. 

"The secondand more practical method of ascertaining 
the most beneficial amount of sewage necessary for irrigat- 
ing a given quantity of land, is by reference to the quan- 
tity employed at Edinburgh. Here we are fortunately 
aided by the report of two gentlemen well conversant 
with the management of those valuable meadows. It 
appears from the report of Dr. J. Stark (' Statement on 
Sewer Manure/ p. 49), that the celebrated Craigentinny 
Meads are annually irrigated with the city sewage 
about eighteen times. For instance: a certain plot 
was watered in its turn, in 1845, May 3 and 14, June 
3 and 20, August 15 and 31, October 8 and 29, Novem- 
ber 24, December 31 ; in 1846, January 30, February 
18, March 5 and 22, April 2 and 13. 

" Now, if we calculate that, on an average of months, 
500 tons of irrigation water would suffice to saturate the 



116 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

soil (always partially and sometimes thoroughly pre- 
viously moistened), then it would require 9,400 tons of 
water to give these eighteen irrigations to an acre of 
land. I deem the quantities I have stated as likely to 
be an average amount of sewage-fluid required for the 
irrigation of an acre of grass-land to be nearly correct. 
In thereport of Mr. George Buchanan, engineer to the 
Irrigated Meads of Crai gen tinny, to the Commissioners 
of Metropolitan Sewers, he states the quantity of water 
necessary per acre (p. 6) to be equal to a stream of 
sewer- fluid of 3| cubic feet per minute for twelve days 
of ten hours each. Now this I calculate to be equal to 
31 X 60 X 10 x 12 = 23,400 cubic feet, weighing 
62£lb8. per cubic foot, or 62* x 23,400 = 1,462,500 
lbs., or about 650 tons. It will be remarked, however, 
that the sewage-fluid in this case had to sustain the 
soakage, leakage, and evaporation during thirteen days 
of the month of May. This slow irrigation is far from 
being the most economical mode of applying the sewage 
— the more rapid and copious application being to be 
preferred, as affording little time for the soakage into 
the substratum and the drains. Mr. Buchanan also 
adds (ibid., p. 7) : ' In some parts the soil consists of 
very stiff clay, resting on a similar substratum, and 
other parts of a red sand, and the sand requires nearly 
twice as much water for saturation as the clay/ 

" We see, then, that the amount stated by Mr. 
Buchanan of about 700 tons per acre having been used 
at Edinburgh upon a mead, and subject to many deduc- 
tions from its saturating power, is not very widely 
different from the average amount of about 800 tons 
required, according to Professor Schubler, to saturate 
the same extent of nearly chemically dry earths. Then, 
again, by avoiding the soakage and drainage waste of 



IRRIGATION. 117 

twelve days, and taking the average of moderately 
retentive soils, a very material saving would undoubtedly 
be accomplished ; and, moreover, by raising the sewage- 
fluid to the contemplated elevations, it would be 
available for the use of the irrigator a second time. 
Upon the whole, therefore, we may safely deem the 
calculated quantity of about 9,000 tons per acre 
annually to be a tolerable approximation to the truth." 

The quantity here stated, it is worth noting, is sin- 
gularly corroborative of the opinions on this point of 
the eminent authorities, Professor Voelcker and Mr. J. 
B. Lawes. 

We are now prepared to describe the peculiarities of 
the different modes of irrigation practised. Where the 
object is to utilise stream or river water, the plans are 
confined to two — first, the ridge and furrow, or " bed 
work ; " and second, the " catch work system," where 
the utilisation of town sewage is the object aimed at. 
This may be attained by the use of one of the above 
systems; or one of which the peculiarities are essen- 
tially distinct, namely the " pipe and hose " mode of 
distribution. 

As the utilisation of town sewage forms an im- 
portant part of the subject discussed in this volume, it 
appears to us that some advantages will be gained, if 
we treat the subject of irrigation specially with this 
object in view ; it being of course scarcely necessary to 
point out, that all the details required to be attended 
to in the use of sewage involve those required in that of 
pure water of streams or rivulets. Where the details 
differ, or rather where those we describe connected with 
sewage are not required for irrigation with ordinary 
water, we shall draw the special attention of the reader 
to the point. 



1 



* f 






v. ~ v x 



•^ 



v-J. 



i i il ■■■■ mm i i" ■■ " i f 




IRRIGATION. 119 

First, as to the " ridge and furrow," or " bed-work " 
8}^stem. In Figs. 3 and 4 we give illustrations of this 
method. The land is laid out in a series of ridges, a a, 
Fig. 4 \ along the top of which the irrigating channels 
b b are led, and from which the water flows over the 
sides ; being taken up by the drains c c, placed between 
and at the lower parts of the sides a a. In Fig. 3, the 
nlan, the same letters are used, the main feeder being 
hown at d d> and the channel e e leading off the 
waters after they are used for irrigating. The follow- 
ing are the general dimensions : — The breadth of the 
ridge a, from side to side, varies from 30 to 40 feet, 
that is, each side slope is from 15 to 20 feet wide ; the 
length from 75 to 90 and even up to 200 feet, according 
to circumstances. The ridge should be finished at the 
ends with slopes, as shown at . 
a #,Fig. 5 ; the slope being of 
the same angle as the slope 
of the sides a a, Fig. 4. This F & 5 ' 

will vary according to circumstances, 1 inch of a ver- 
tical rise for every fo6t will be a good horizontal rise in 
ordinary circumstances. The width of the upper end 
of the channels b b, Figs. 3 and 4, where they join the 
main feeder d d, Fig. 3, should be 2 feet, at the lower 
end 18 inches. This construction is made in order to 
cause the water to flow over the edges of the channel 
to the side slopes a a. The depth of the channel b b, 
Fig. 3, at the end nearest the main feeder dd 3 i& 9 
inches, at the farthest end 12 inches ; this gives the 
required fall throughout its length. The dimensions of 
the catch drains c c are the same as the channels b b, 
but their positions are reversed, the narrowest end 
being nearest the main feeder d d, Fig. 3, the broadest 
near the drains e e. 




120 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

The great difference — and it is an important one — 
between this ridge and furrow system and the catch - 
work, is the preliminary operations, which it almost 
always involves. In the catch-work system, the natural 
inclination of the ground is taken advantage of in a 
manner as simple as it is direct ; but it is chiefly, if not 
only, available in localities where there is a considerable 
fall. In the " ridge and furrow" system, which is usually 
adopted in localities where the ground is flat, as in 
boggy marshy lands, or in the flats on the banks of 
rivers ; the necessary incline has to be given to the 
land, by making special arrangements, and in the skill 
with which the excess of land at one part is taken 
advantage of to make up the deficiencies of another 
part, lies the chief secret of economical success. We 
have seen some lands most beautifully adapted to this 
system, for the fall in the direction of the length of the 
beds has been so uniform, and the nature of the ground 
in the direction of the breadth has been so regular, 
that the minimum of expense in giving the inclines to 
the various beds was obtained. *?For in such cases all 
that was necessary to be done, was to place the crest, or 
highest part of the bed, at half its normal height above 
the level of the land, the soil taken out of the depressed 
angular part being exactly that which was required to 
make the raised angular part of the other. But lands 
proposed to be irrigated are not often so fortunately 
placed, and the expense, therefore, of making all the 
inclined surfaces specially is usually very great, rising 
sometimes, as it has done, to the rate of £30 to £40 per 
acre ; while that of the " catch- work" system, or of Bick- 
ford's, can be done at a sum varying from a tenth to the 
fifth of the cost. We are, however, inclined to believe 
with Mr. Pusey, that, in many instances, where the 



IRRIGATION. 121 

expensive ridge and furrow system has been adopted, 
the cheaper catch- work would have fully answered. A 
notion is prevalent with many, that a very pronounced or 
decided fall in the ground is necessary to enable the 
catch- work system to be adopted ; but any one who has 
examined closely the " behaviour " of water under 
various and varying circumstances, will soon become 
convinced that a very small fall indeed is requisite to 
enable water to flow regularly over irrigated land. 
From what has been now said, it will be observed that 
the chance of economical success of any plan of irrigation 
depends upon the nature of the ground to be irrigated ; 
and in the way in which its natural facilities are taken 
advantage of, is shown the skill of the engineer. In 
cases, as in flat meadows, or in boggy lands, the ridge 
and furrow system is the only one which can be made 
available, but in some cases it may happen that one 
part of the land presents facilities for the cheaper 
system of catch- work to be adopted, while another part 
may require to be done ridge and furrow. In such 
cases the opportunity to consult economy for the sake 
of establishing uniformity — a temptation often too great 
for some engineers to withstand — should not be neg- 
lected. 

In laying out the beds on the ridge and furrow 
system, some points should be observed, as follows. If 
the land has a covering of turf, this should be pared 
carefully off, cutting it into strips, some 15 or 18 inches 
wide, and either rolling them up on a small wooden 
roller in certain lengths, or cutting the lengths into 
squares, and placing them carefully aside. The inclined 
beds should next be made and all the levels properly 
adjusted. Then the channels of supply and the 
drains for leading off the water when used should be 



122 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

marked off. The cutting out of these is next proceeded 
with, taking care to begin with the leading channels 
of supply ; all the soil taken out of these and the drains 
being carefully spread over the surface of the inclines. 
As it is a rule in good irrigation, that the flow of the 
water over the land should be continuous, admitting 
of no stagnation at any point, it is important to have 
the sides of the inclined beds absolutely uniform, and 
possessed of no irregularities of surface which will tend 
to stop the water at any point. The channels being 
all cut, the next step is to replace the turf, this being 
done with the utmost care, so as to prevent all irregu- 
larities of surface. The great point, in short, to be ob- 
served, is that all parts of the irrigated surface shall 
receive their due supply of water. We have known 
of cases where, in the centre of the inclined sides, a 
hollow so decided has been mad© and left, that the 
water has stagnated there, and only flowed over the 
lower part when it overflowed the hollow. It is im- 
possible to obtain tlie best — nay, not even good results 
of irrigation, when stupidities in practice like this are 
perpetrated. We believe that the objections raised to the 
rankness and rottenness of sewage-groirn grass have fre- 
quently had their origin in the badness of the plan adopted 
by which the sewage was applied. It is a safe course, 
in pursuing any investigation into the merit or demerit 
of any system, to inquire in what way it is carried out, 
nnd whether it has been really so in accordance with, or 
in defiance of, its correct principles. "We regret to say 
that the opposite mode of this common sense one has been 
too often adopted in the determination of questions 
connected with agriculture, and has given rise to con- 
demnation where condemnation was not due. Before 
concluding our remarks on the bed-work system of 



IRRIGATION. 123 

applying sewage or water, we must draw pointed atten- 
tion to the necessity of proportioning the channels of 
supply, b b, and the drains of withdrawal, c c, Fig. 3, 
exactly to one another. One would suppose that this 
would be obvious enough ; but it happens nevertheless 
in practice, that the drains, c e, are often made so much 
less than the channels of supply, b b } that they cannot 
withdraw the water rapidly enough from the bases of 
the inclined beds, and the result is that the water 
stagnates there and produces rank grass, and promotes 
the growth of bad aquatic plants. "We do not overlook 
the fact that some of the water is absorbed by the 
irrigated surfaces as it flows over them, and that, con- 
sequently, there is less water to withdraw than was 
supplied ; and this consideration is probably the one 
which prompts the withdrawing drains to be made less 
than the channels ; but, nevertheless, as it is of the 
utmost importance that no stagnation of the water 
on the irrigated 'surfaces be permitted, it is by far the 
best plan to make the drains of withdrawal, c c s Fig. 3, 
not less in dimensions than the channels of supply, b b. 
The fall of these drains, b b, should be regular, to facili- 
tate the drainage of the water, and this will be all 
the more certain, if the level of the drain e e, Fig. 3, 
is below that of the mouth of the drain c c. One word 
as to keeping the channels and the inclines in good 
repair ; it must be obvious that if this is not done, a 
great portion of the first labour is entirely thrown 
away. It is of no use to exercise care at the first only in 
making the surfaces of the incline perfectly uniform; 
and the channels and drains of proper dimensions iand 
accurate fall ; if we, by carelessness, allow them to lose 
these peculiarities, we shall inevitably bring about loss. 
Let then the repairs be made carefully, so as to retain 

g2 



124 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the first impressions of accuracy, which, at no small 
cost and labour, we give them. Further remarks on 
this point will be found in that part where we describe 
Continental irrigation. 

The second mode of applying irrigation is what is 
called the "catch-work" system, and is that which we 
have already described as being much more economically 
carried out than the ridge and furrow, or bed-work 
system just explained. The " catch- work " system is 
specially adapted to steep and hilly ground ; indeed, as 
remarked by Mr. Pusey, "It is applicable to the steepest 
hill-side, hay being made in many a catch meadow where 
no cart on wheels can pass to carry it ; it is all drawn off 
either by hand on drays, and slides, or on the backs of 
pack-horses." Fig. 6 illustrates the general details of 
the " catch- work " system :— 




Supposing a to represent the section of a small stream 
which runs along at the upper level of steep or inclined 
ranges of ground from a to g 9 the level of this being 
such that it flows gently from a to a', see Fig. 7; at 
some distance on the side of the incline a small drain 
or gutter c is cut, running parallel, or nearly so, to 
the drain a ; at some distance below this another gutter 



IRBIGATION. 125 

is cut, as at e, and below this, say a third, e. Now if we 
suppose the stream a to be dammed or sluiced up at 
one point, so as to cause it to overflow, the water will 
run down or be shed over the surface of the ground 
behind the drain c, and the stream a, as the part 6. 
In the same way by overflowing the gutter c, the 
water will be shed over the inclined part d f and 
delivered to the gutter e, from thence over / to the 
final gutter g. In place of the flowing source of supply 
at a being a river or streamlet, this may be made a 
feeder or "main carrier " as it is called, having its 



Fig. 7. 

source of supply from a neighbouring river or stream. 
The main carrier should have a fall throughout its 
length of at least two inches in every drain, and the 
width be at least 18 inches, and the depth 8 inches. 
The small carriers or subsidiary drains, as c e, Fig. 6, 
are level in the direction of their length, and this 
necessitates the exercise of no small degree of skill on 
the part of those who lay out the land; for as the 
contour of the land will in almost every instance be 
continually varying, the level of the land will also 



126 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

be varying, so that the gutter must be made to meet 
this varying level. Few lands will be met with, for 
instance, where the gutter c c will run parallel with 
the gutter a a. The skill of the irrigator is sure, there- 
fore, to be called into account in keeping the gutters, 
as c c, e e, perfectly level throughout their length, 
however varing may be the surface of the ground. The 
distance between the gutters, or the breadth of the 
surfaces between them to be irrigated, varies from 20 
to 40 feet. It will easily be understood that the catch- 
work system is much more cheaply carried out than 
the bed-work, for in the latter all the land has to be 
laid out in the ridges and furrows, so that the sloping 
surfaces over which the water sheds may be formed ; 
whereas in the catch-work system, the sloping surfaces 
are formed by nature, and all that has to be done is 
to cut the gutters, and smooth the surfaces of the land 
between them. Thus, while bed- work irrigation may 
cost as much as £20 to £45 per acre, catch- work may 
be done at from £2 to £5 or £6 per acre. The forma- 
tion of irrigated meadows is now rendered much cheaper 
by the plan introduced by Mr. Bickford, of Crediton. 
In commencing the formation of a meadow on this 
principle, a main carrier is cut along the line of the 
highest ground ; this derives its supply from the stream 
or other source of the water. This has a fall given to it 
throughout its length, of 2 inches to a drain ; the width 
at its upper end is 18 inches, and its depth from 6 to 
12 inches. These dimensions gradually decrease till 
at the termination of the carrier, it "rtins out to 
nothing." Immediately below this main carrier a set 
of small " tapering carriers " are cut, the important 
office of which is to secure the even shedding of the 
water over the surface of the field. In the same general 



IRRIGATION. 127 

direction with the main carrier, and below it, at different 
levels, a series of " irrigating gutters " are cut. The 
office of these is to catch the water which overflows 
the main carrier, through the medium of the small 
" tapering carriers " above described. The " irrigating 
gutters " are cut quite level. The water, as it is 
shed over the different sections of the field, is caught 
up by tbese "irrigating gutters," and again distributed 
on other surfaces. These gutters are not, however, always 
and exactly on the level ; the exceptions to this rule 
being as follows : " In crossing any hollows the gutters 
should be kept rather higher, say an inch in 33 feet 
run, or the water will gather in the hollow, and over- 
flow too fast at these points. On passing along the 
projecting ground, on the other hand, the same dif- 
ference should be made in the contrary direction, viz., 
an inch lower than the strict level, in order that that 
portion of the ground may receive its due share of the 
water." The following is the mode of laying out the 
" irrigating gutters " : — 

"An instrument of wood is used, in form of an A, 
the legs of which are each 5 feet in height and kept 
4 feet apart at bottom by a bar, in the centre of which 
is a notch. A plumb line is suspended from the apex, 
which, when the legs are resting on a perfect level, 
crosses the bar exactly at the notch. Beginning at 
the side of the field nearest the head of the main cut, 
the operator holds this implement firmly in his hand, 
res u>g one of the legs on the ground, and turning the 
other about as he would the leg of a pair of com- 
passes, until he finds the plumb line exactly in the notch, 
which is a proof he has found a level. A lad then 
cuts a piece of turf at the spot, and the operation of 
turning the leg of the implement is repeated, and so 



128 OUTLINES OF MODERN FAKMING. 

on until he can no longer find a level, or has arrived 
at the other end of the field, when he must go back 
and begin in the same manner to lay another and 
another, until the whole is finished. These irrigators, 
if properly constructed, will convey the water evenly 
over the whole meadow, however irregular the surface 
may be ; and a little practice and observation will 
enable a person of common judgment to lay the gutters 
to the best advantage/' 

The next point to be attended to in the formation of 
meadows on Bickford's system, is the formation of the 
"outlet," or " drawing-off gutters." The office which 
these have to perform is most important, as it is of as 
great importance to "get the water off quickly as it is 
to get it on evenly." These " drawing-off gutters " are 
cut in the " same line along which the water would 
flow if left to itself to run." These gutters also act as 
feeders, for if it were not for them, "the land nearest 
the carriage gutter would always have the first water, 
and thus receive the greatest benefit, and the lowest 
portion of the field would come the worst off. In order 
to obviate this, the feeders, or transverse gutters, are 
cut from the carriage gutter at the top across all the 
level gutters to the lowest. By placing stops in the 
proper places, the water can be conveyed directly from 
the carrier to any of the catch gutters without passing 
over the intervening land ; so that the lowest part of 
the field can be watered first if thought desirable." 
The cost of carrying irrigation on this system is less 
than that of the two methods already described, not 
exceeding on an average £2 per acre. Mr. Bickford 
has patented a very ingenious plough, by the aid of 
which the gutters can be cut at one operation with 
amazing quickness. So rapidly indeed is the operation 



IRRIGATION. 129 

performed, that in place of cleaning out the gutters by 
manual labour, us is generally done in irrigated 
meadows, and at great expense, it is cheaper, on this 
system, to cut the gutters anew by means of the plough. 
Mr. Ellis has described, in a communication published 
in one of the agricultural journals, his method of form- 
ing water meadows — a mode substantially the same as 
that of Mr. Bickford. The following is Mr. Ellis's 
communication : — 

" The gutters of very many of our meadows and 
marshes are yet in a very wasteful and impracticable 
state, their width and depth being increased more 
than double the intended size, from the fact of their 
having been made perhaps fifty years, and some of them 
even longer, and from an annual clearing, oftentimes 
causing heaps by the edge of the gutters, and requiring 
to be carted away — a practice highly discommendable, 
as their sides become sloped and thrown out of level, 
and their size necessarily increases. Thus a great waste 
of land is occasioned, and an extra quantity of water 
retained in the gutters to soak away through the sub- 
soil and evaporate in the atmosphere after the water is 
shut off from the meadow; their margins also are 
covered with coarse grasses and sedges, instead of 
luxuriant herbage. 

" That thousands of acres of meadow and marsh land 
have these disadvantages cannot but be admitted, but 
the expense of re-cutting, though really trifling, is con- 
sidered by many too great to repay the outlay. It is 
often supposed to be a matter of some difficulty to pro- 
cure sufficient soil in the same meadow, or within a 
reasonable distance from it, to fill the existing gutters ; 
but I have almost invariably found that this apparent 
difficulty is easily overcome by slightly widening and 

g3 



130 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

deepening the ditches around the meadow, and by 
lowering a high place or two, which may be found in 
nearly every meadow. This should be done by first 
removing the turf and surface mould, then carting the 
soil away to the gutters, and replacing the mould and 
turf. The appearance of the meadow will not be 
improved by this, but it may be more easily and effec- 
tually watered. 

" The system I adopted for re-cutting a meadow or 
laying out a new one (where a good supply of water 
can be obtained), is to take a carrier gutter along the 
highest possible level of the meadow to be irrigated, 
the fall and width of the gutter varying according to 
the size of the meadow, the natural fall of the land, &c., 
tapering in size to its extreme end, to prevent the 
necessity of many stops to make it water regularly. 
Below the carriage gutter, and parallel with it, are cut 
minor watering gutters, about 9 inches wide by 6 inches 
deep, the distance between each averaging about 
4 poles, and an adequate fall, to enable them to carry 
sufficient water to their extreme end, supplied by a 
vertical feeding gutter, crossing the level once through 
a convenient part of the meadow, as near the centre as 
practicable ; the watering gutters branch right and 
left from the vertical gutter to the lower end of the 
meadow. Thus fresh water can be conveyed to the 
extreme, or any desired part of it, without first flowing 
over and depositing its valuable sediment at the upper 
end, causing, as may be noticed in any watered meadow, 
the upper part, which has the first deposit of the water, 
to possess a rich and luxuriant herbage, whilst the 
lower part of the meadow is but little benefited. 

"The chief objects to be kept in view in making 
watered meadows are, that sufficient witter be taken to 



IBIIIGATION. 131 

tlie most distant parts, and that the water be kept con- 
stantly in motion; for in meadows and marshes that 
are comparatively flat, there is danger lest the water 
should remain in a stagnant state, saturating the 
meadow instead of irrigating it. This evil is to be 
remedied by proper waste water gutters, to draw the 
water from the hollows and take it at once to the hedge, 
ditch, or outlet, instead of allowing it to remain in a 
stagnant state, to evaporate in the atmosphere or to be 
absorbed by the subsoil. 

" I find that the most practical way of managing a 
small stream, where the fall will admit of it, is to make 
a pond at or near the upper part of a meadow, varying 
in size according to circumstances, the quantity of acres 
to be irrigated, &c. &c, so that the stream may be 
collected and preserved in the pond until it is full, and 
then drawn off by means of a self-acting stop-plug, 
which will lift itself when the pond becomes filled, and 
fall again when it is empty, without the aid of any 
one to superintend it. An acre or two at a time might 
be thus irrigated with a flush, watering, from a source 
which would otherwise be absorbed by the subsoil 
before reaching the surface." 

In the application of town sewage to the irrigation of lands, 
one or other of the plans now described may be adopted, 
but there are certain points involved which require the 
most careful consideration, and which do not always 
come within the province of the irrigator under ordinary 
circumstances. These points have reference more par- 
ticularly to the " preliminary operations," which are 
much more difficult to be carried out than under 
ordinary circumstances of irrigation. In these the 
main feeder is there, in the stream from which the 
supply is taken, and thus all the expense and trouble 



132 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

involved in making it is saved. And the work involved 
in making main feeders is generally much more diffi- 
cult than the mere laying out of the meadows them- 
selves. In applying sewage water these two things are 
to be attended to — first, the laying out and cutting the 
main feeder, this taking the place of the stream in 
ordinary systems of irrigation ; and, second, the laying 
out of the meadows and the cutting of the trenches, by 
which the water from the main feeder is applied to the 
land. 

As regards the laying out of the course which the 
main feeder has to take, much will depend upon the 
nature of the locality. If the level of supply of the 
sewage is at a point high up on the side of the inclined 
surface, gradually leading down towards a lower level, 
from which the sewage can fall easily to the river, 
which is finally to take it up, then the " catch-work " 
system will be the best to adopt; but if the level of 
the supply is not much above the land to be irrigated, 
and the land itself is not sloping much, then the 
"ridge and furrow" system will have to be adopted. 
As before stated, everything will depend upon locality, 
and therefore it is here unnecessary to go into details, 
which however useful for one place, would not be of 
service elsewhere. Our remarks, therefore, will be con- 
fined to explaining the details of construction which 
will be applicable to all cases. 

In laying out the course of the main feeder, the 
utmost care should be taken to have the levels accu- 
rately adjusted. Too much id generally left to the 
eye; but even where, with long practice, the eye 
is wonderfully accurate in its estimates, its work 
hsould invariably be tested by the proper instruments. 
The great point to arrive at, is that the level should be 



IRRIGATION. 133 

uniform throughout ; that is, that the bottom of the 
trench, or feeder, should not be partly on one level and 
partly on another, thus causing a series of elevations 
and depressions, than which nothing can be more pre* 
judicial. In speaking of a level, it must be understood 
that it is a level in the exact sense of the term we 
mean. It is necessary that the feeders should have a 
" fall," or incline, throughout their length ; and it is 
in laying out this that the term " taking the level " is 
used. The fall given should be such that the flow 
of the sewage will be uniformly at the same speed 
throughout the length — not slow at one point, not 
quick at another. Further, that the speed, though 
uniform, shall not be too rapid, as in this case the sides 
and bottom of the trench will be worn away. Atten- 
tion to this point is necessary, as will be perceived 
from the following statements. A flow of water at the 
rate of a quarter of a foot per second, will scour fine 
clay of half a foot per second; fine sand, of nine inches; 
coarse sand, of a foot ; fine gravel, of two feet ; rounded 
shingle, one inch in diameter; while a flow of three 
feet per second will sweep along stones as large as an 
e gg« Where the soil through which the main feeder 
is carried is very loose and sandy, it will be advisable 
to puddle the bottom with clay, well rammed. As 
regards, then, the flow of water in the main feeder, 
it is evident that it will be dependent greatly upon 
circumstances. It should not, however, exceed twenty- 
four inches per second, even in the most consistent soils. 
A fall of 1 foot in 1,000 is said to be the most advan- 
tageous. An easy mode of ascertaining the quickness 
of a stream is to take small cubes of wood, and noto 
the time they take to pass from one point to another, the 
distance between which is known. This gives the surface- 



134 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



speed, and not the mean speed or rate of flow of the 
water in the whole body, which is usually reckoned at 
four-fifths of the surface-speed. In a feeder of which 
the speed of the surface-flow is 100, that of the mean 
flow is 80. 

The size or dimensions of the main drain of supply, 
or feeder, will of course vary with the quantity of 
water or sewage to be utilised. Approximatively, the 
quantity of water flowing through a drain of given 
dimensions by taking the section of the water and 
multiplying by the velocity with which the water flows. 
We have, in a former paragraph, shown how the mean 
velocity of flowing water may be ascertained ; but the 
following table may be useful.* 



Velocity at 


Velocity at 


i 


surface in inches 


bottom in inches 


Mean Velocity, j 


per second . 


per second. 


1 


4 


r 


25 


8 


33 


5-6 


12 


6' 


90 


16 


9* 


12-6 


20 


12- 


16- 


24 


15- 


195 


28 


18-4 


232 


32 


21-6 


268 



For many cases the following will be good dimensions 
for a main feeder : — 4 feet wide at top, 2 feet at bottom, 
and 3 feet 9 inches deep. If this is provided with a 
sluice 2 feet wide, and this be drawn up so as to give a 
vertical depth of 2\ feet, the opening thus made of 
5 square feet will allow 10 cubic feet per second to 
flow through, or 62£ gallons per minute, the velocity 
of flow being 2 feet per second. The muin feeder 



* MolesworuYs " Pocket Book of Engineering Formulae." 



IRRIGATION. 



135 



should not be cut square or rectangular in section, thus, 
Fig. 8, but in the form of a trapezoid, as in Fig. 9. 
Much of the expense usually entailed in keeping feeders 
in good repair arises from want of this precaution. 
When the sides are left perpendicular the soil is con- 
tinually dropping in, and although this may be imper- 
ceptible, still, in process of time, it adds materially to 
the labour of cleaning out and making good the sides. 




Fig. 8. 



Big. 9. 



The inclination of the sides will vary with the nature 
of the soil, the minimum slope being given where this 
is stiff and retentive, and the maximum where it is 
light and friable. A knowledge of the " angle of 
repose " of various earths, as given here, will be useful 
to some, but a practical knowledge of the soil as met 
with will enable the layer out to hit pretty exactly on 
the slope to be chosen. 

The angles of repose, or the slopes at which various 
materials will cease to slide down towards the horizontal 
position are as follows: — Wet clay, 16°; well-drained 
clay, 45° ; shingle, 39 p ; compact earth, 50° ; vege- 
table, or peaty soil, 28° ; wet sand, 22° ; dry sand, 38° ; 
gravel, 40°. The soil through which the main feeder 
is led will sometimes be found of so light and permeable 
a character that the water will infiltrate so rapidly that 
much of it will be lost ; in cases of this kind it has 
sometimes been found beneficial to place — resting on 



136 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



the sides, near the surfnce of the water, but covered 
by it, heaps of clay. As these are dissolved the par- 
ticles will fill the spaces between the light soil, and 
tend to prevent the infiltration. This precaution will 
not be required in cases where sewage matter is used, 
inasmuch as carrying much wafer in suspension, this 
will be gradually deposited, and tend to fill up the 
cavities in the loose soil. 

In some cases the soil through which the main feeder 
is led will be of such a treacherous character as to make 
it almost impossible to form it in the usual shape of a 
cutting. In this case economy will be better secured 
by making a good job of it at first, even at some extra 
expense, than attempting to carry it through in the 
ordinary way, which will always involve repairing 
expenses more or less heavy. The most substantial 
way will be to line the sides of the cutting with brick- 
work set in hydraulic 
. cement ; but it is 
questionable whether 
the following plans 
will not be as good. 
If carefully construc- 
ted, they will last a 
long time, and the 
plan in Fig. 12 will be 
found very economical 
and lasting. Of course 
the plan illustrated in 
Fig. 10 is the strongest, and may be adoped in cases 
of the worst, that illustrated in Fig. 12 of the best 
character of treacherous soils. In Fig. 10, a a represent 
piles of creosoted timber, which will last much longer than 
ordinary timber, driven into the soil at distances varying 




Fig. 10. 



IRRIGATION. 



137 



from 3 to 6 feet, according to the nature of the soil, on 
both sides of the cutting ; behind these, planks, b b b, 
also creosoted, are placed. The heads of ftie piles may 
be secured by string pieces, c c, and lateral pressure 
may be resisted by cross pieces, d d, stretched between 
the piles at intervals corresponding to the distances 



Fig. 11. 
between them. In Fig. 11, which is a side elevation of 
Fig. 10, similar letters of reference denote similar parts. 
Fig. 12 illustrates a mode of securing the sides of main 




Fig. 12. 
feeders by interlacing willows between vertical piles, 
these being secured against lateral pressure by cross 
pieces, as shown in Fig. 13. 

Main, feeders will sometimes be required to cross 



138 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 




accommodation roads. In these cases, a very common 
mode is to carry the water across in a wooden aqueduct, 
as shown in Fig. 14, which may be either closed or open — 
the open will of course be the cheapest. In connecting 
these aqueducts with the main feeders at each side 

mistakes are apt to be 
| made, and leakage is the 
result, through neglect- 
ing to carry the aque- 
duct, or trough, a good 
distance up the feeders. 
The distance, as shown 
by the dotted lines a a 9 
Fig. 14, should not be 
less than 4 feet, and 
the ends should be well puddled into the sides of the 
feeder with clay. Great care should be taken in the 
construction of the aqueduct, as it has a large weight of 
water to support. Cross pieces should be inserted at the 
upper side, at intervals of every 3 feet, and great security 
will be still better obtained by passing round the 
bottom and sides lengths of angle iron, bolted securely 
at the ends. The water may be led across the opening 
by means of cast-iron pipes, supported on pillars, or, 
better still, by a wrought-iron trough. 

Where the main feeder is to be carried, in its way 
to the fields to be irrigated, across a valley, or depression 
of some considerable length, an embankment may have 
to be formed. As the open drain carried along this is 
always liable to accident through the irregular settle- 
ment of the embankment, and the incursions of rats, 
moles, &c, the most economical mode of conveying the 
water will be to lead the water across the embankment 
by means of large sewer or drain pipes. If one is not 



IRRIGATION. 



139 



of sufficient dimensions, two may be used, laying them 
side by side. To prevent undue settlement and frac- 
ture the utmost care will have to be taken in laying 
the tubes. Saddles of brickwork should be made all 
along the trench made 
at top of the embank- 
ment to receive the 
tubes, the upper sur- 
face of which should 
be curved with a radius 
equal to that of the 
tube, and these should 
be placed' at such dis- 
tances as to support 
the tubes immediately 
behind the faucet joint. 
Invert blocks, of large fej 
dimensions, are now l* 
mude of earthenware, ' 
and these would be 
easier laid down to 
serve as saddles than 
those made specially 
of brick. Clay should 
be well puddled be- 
tween the saddles, to 
afford a good and even 
bed for the tubes to 
lie in, and the joints 
of the tubes should 
also be carefully puddled, to prevent leakage. When 
thus laid, the tubes should be completely and carefully 
covered up with earth, to prevent breakages, arising 
from parties tampering with them. 




140 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



The sluices provided to the main feeders should be 
carefully made. We by no means recommend the 
slip-shod plan of getting these up, too generally 

n 




Fig. 15. 

followed, to be adopted. Timber sills and side-posts 
are too often used ; these decay rapidly, and the sluices 



IRRIGATION. 



141 



become worthless, or are continually under repair. 
Figs. 15 and 16 show good forms. In Fig. 15, a a 
is the stone sill, b b the sftle quoins in which the grooves 
are cut in which the wood or sheet-iron sluice door c 
slides up and down. The stone flat d d supports the 
wooden uprights e e, carrying the cross-bar//, in which 
the pedestal of the toothed 
wheel g is fixed, this gear- 
ing with the rack of the 
stem of sluice door, e. In 
Fig. 16, a very neat form 
of apparatus for working 
the sluice is shown ; in this 
a a is the upper flat of stone, 
carrying a light iron frame 
b b, furnished at top with 
a box in which a pinion 
works, engaging with the 
teeth of the rack of the 
sluice door stem d. The 
importance of good and 
secure sluices cannot be 
over- estimated, for upon 
the readiness with which the 




Fig. 16. 



water is turned off from one plot to another, and the 
completeness with which leakage is kept off from 
the surface of the land not then under the irrigation, 
depends much of its success. To ensure this success, 
when the water is taken off the meadows, it should be 
completely so. 

In Fig. 17 we illustrate another form of sluice, which 
is worked by a screw, a a, passing through a projecting 
part, b, and a revolving nut, c c. This nut is fixed at 
one point by the part d, and as it is made to revolve 



142 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



by the handle e, and lever wheel e, the screw a a is 
made to rise and fall with the sluice/. In Fig. 18 

X 




F>g. 17. 

we illustrate another form of sluice ; this is lifted by 
the lever a a, and is kept at any desired height by 




Fig. 18. 
the catches in the quadrant b b. In place of having 



IRRIGATION. 



143 



> 



w/h.'/im 

J 

Fig. 19. 



the rack and frame, as in Fig. 15, a simple mode of 
fixing light sluices is shown in Fig. 19, where a a 
represents part of the cross beam 
corresponding to // in Fig. 15. 
b b y the stem of the sluice, passes 
through a slot made in this, and 
is kept at any desired height by 
a pin, d d, passing through holes 
made in a a and b b. Fig. 20 
represents a simple form of wooden 
<c stop" adapted for the small chan- 
nels; this is made up of two boards, 
a a, joined together, but kept sepa- 
rate, by pieces at the end into which the sluice board 
// is passed, being lifted 
up by the hand hole g, 
and kept apart at any 
point by the wedge h. 
The aperture to allow the 
water to flow through is 
b c d e, the edge c e being 
on a level with the bottom 
of the channel. 

One great objection has *&' ' 

been made to the open drains of the gravitation system 
on account of the bad influence of the emanations 
arising from the exposed surfaces of the sewage con- 
tained in them. While admitting that, in certain 
seasons and under certain circumstances, bad smells 
do arise from irrigated meadows where town sewage 
is used, we believe that the most has been made of 
the matter and that things are not so bad as they seem. 
Some men have a remarkable facility for putting things 
in a light, not as it should be, but as they wish it 



f ^ 


^ GD \ 


i r 


\ h 




rj 


c 


e 




a 


\** *A 



144 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

to be; and a very close acquaintance with the town 
sewage controversy has made us pretty well convinced 
that its most important points have been somewhat 
freely handled by men of this stamp. But if any 
nuisance exists from the establishment of irrigating 
meadows and sewage water, it arises from the water 
contained in the main feeders or drains, not from the 
surfaces over which it is passing. There is no deodoriser 
at once so powerful in effect and speedy in action, as 
the soil ; and we have repeatedly observed, that after 
the lapse of a very short space of time indeed, sewage 
water applied in a truly filthy condition to the land, 
is filtered and deodorised. We have known of the 
water passed from the soil at the lower end of the 
field to be drunk, and to be so clear and free from 
smell as to be totally unlike the filthy mess passed 
on to the soil at the upper end of the field — so filthy 
indeed, that a dog in the agonies of thirst would not 
have looked at it. If then the sanitary requirements 
of the case are so decided that the gravitation system 
must be modified, the modification must be made in 
the direction of the open drains which convey the 
sewage from the town to the various parts of the land 
where it is to be used. It is in this direction that Mr. 
Austin has given his attention, and the result of which 
is the plan proposed by him, and which meets, we 
believe, all the objections which can be made to the 
gravitation system. In place of open drains, Mr. 
Austin proposes to apply the sewage to the land by 
" a combination of underground mains with Beckford's 
system of contour gutters." The main feature, how- 
ever, is the underground mains, inasmuch as the mode 
of laying the sewage supplied by these pipes on to 
the land will depend, as we have already shown, upon 



IRRIGATION. 



145 



its local peculiarities. " The quantity which can by this 
method be delivered at a certain spot, and distributed 
over a given area, would only be limited by the size 
of the mains and the pressure applied thereon by gravi- 
tation or by engine power. By opening valves, placed 
at convenient points, the pipes would deliver into small 
troughs, whence the sewage would discharge into the 




Fig. 21. 
top gutters, and thence into cross feeders as required ; 
and with the same sized mains one lad could super- 
intend the distribution of many times the quantity 
that it is practicable to get on to the land by means 
of the usual small subsidiary pipes, and the hose and 
jet." Fig. 21 shows one of the ways in which the 




Fig. 22. 

tube or main, a, is connected with the trough or feeder, 
b, the water shedding over the land from the side c c. 
Or the arrangement shown in Fig. 22 may be adopted, 

H 




146 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

the tube a being at the side of the feeder c In both 
these cases — applicable to the catch water, or Beckford's 
system — the sewage is passed from the tubes through 
a valve placed in trenches, as shown. Where the 
inclined ridge and furrow system is adopted, this sub- 
sidiary feeder need not be made, all that is necessary 
being branches, b, Fig. 23, leading from the tube a at 
once to the upper end of the 
channels of supply b b, Fig. 23. 
To prevent fouling in the tubes, 
and otherwise to meet the sani- 
tary, or supposed sanitary, ne- 
cessities of the case, it is a part 
Fig. 23. f jj r- Austin's plan to separate 

the solid impurities of the sewage from the liquid 
before passing the latter into the mains. Mr. Austin 
reckons the cost of applying the sewage of a town of 
20,000 inhabitants to 260 acres of land, to be between 
£3,000 and £4,000, or an average of £13 10*. per 
acre; delivering about 12 tons for one penny. In this 
case he supposes two steam engines of 12 horse-power 
to be used to pump the water to a reservoir in order to 
get a fall ; but where the ordinary gravitation system 
could be adopted, 24 tons could be supplied for one 
penny. The mains by which the liquid manure is 
led from the town are of cast iron, from 12 to 9 inches 
in diameter ; the carrier mains, spread over the farm 
through the fields, being of stone or earthenware. 

We now come to the plan of distributing sewage by 
" means of underground pipes, hose, and jet," the sewage 
being forced through the pipes by steam power. Little 
description is needed to explain the peculiarities of 
this system. A series of underground pipes are laid 
over the farm so as to command the surfaces of the 



IRRIGATION. 147 

various fields ; the sewage or liquid manure is forced 
through these either by steam power pumping directly 
into them, or by steam power lifting it to a high or 
elevated tank, from which the sewage flows into the 
pipes. At certain points in the length of the under- 
ground pipes, hydrants are fixed, to which lengths 
of flexible hose can be attached, to the end of which 
are provided jets, through which the sewage is forced 
over the land. 

As affording some general idea of the mode and 
expense of practically carrying out the pipe and hose 
system, we here give the description of the works 
adopted on the farm at Shad more, to which we have in 
a former part of this treatise alluded, and which we 
take from a paper entitled the "Annals of a Liquid 
Manure Farm/' read before the Royal Agricultural 
Society of England, by Mr. Edwin Chudwiek, C.B., who, 
we need not say, is well known as the able advocate of 
this mode of utilising town sewage. The liquid manure, 
we may remark, by way of introduction to the extract, 
is pumped up a height or a "lift" of from 20 to 25 
feet by water power — about 4-horse power — the quantity 
applied daily being 180 tons ; the total cost of pumping 
up and forcing the liquid along a length of pipe of 
from a quarter to half a mile, and spreading it by 
the hose and jet, being three farthings per ton, against 
a cost of 3^d. per ton, when delivered and applied to 
the field by water, hoise, cart, and manual labour. 
The following is the description of the plan: — 

" My tanks were 8 feet deep, and the manure tank 
held 22,239 gallons, and the mixing tank is 25,293 
gallons. They were faced with wood — the rough slabs 
of the outside of trees, with a dry black mould rammed 
in at the back. They were covered with the cheapest 

II 2 



148 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

whole trees with the bark on, and a bed of heather 
on the top, to prevent soil falling through the inter- 
stices, and soil or road, stuff over the heather. The 
cost of both tanks, well covered, was about £12 or 
£13 each, and they lust very well. The bottom was 
a strong holding clay. I used 4-inch iron pipes, except 
at the extremities, where there were 3-inch pipes. My 
buildings, from their situation, required a larger extent 
of pipes than would, I think, under ordinary circum- 
stances be necessary. The pipes commonly in use on 
most of the liquid manure farms were about three 
inches in diameter. I should, to save power, have them 
much larger. 

''Would you not also avoid functions at right angles ? 
— Certainly ; and have used gentle curves. 

u What were your expenses for machinery, and the 
charges for it per acre P — They were as follow : — 

Expenses of Pipe Irrigation, 20 acres. 



Tanks .... 
Metal pipes, lead, and laying 
Cutting drains for ditto . 
Hydrants and brass joints 
Manure pumps and fitting 
Water-pump and fitting 
Shafting for ditto , . 
Gutta-percha pipe • , 



£ 


*. 


d. 


25 








86 


10 





2 








6 


8 





30 


10 





12 








8 








19 


10 






For 20 acres • . £189 18 

or £9 10s. an acre. The interest on £189 18s. at 7i 
per cent. = £14 6s. In some conditions I should use 
centrifugal pumps. If the machinery I have described 
be used on 10 acres yearly, it entails a charge per 
acre of £1 8s. 6d. for interest; if on 12 acres, a yearly 
charge of £1 4s. ; if on 20 acres, a yearly charge of 
14s 3£tf. per acre for interest and deterioration. 

"This 14.8.3d. being the rate of fixed charge per acre, 



IRRIQATIOK. 149 

say for such areas as the 20 acres, the variable charges 
per acre, with the number of dressings, which are 
about 12 in the year, is 16s. per acre for the expense of 
distribution." 

The system, as admitted by its advocates, is more 
applicable on an extended than on a small scale; 
"leading," in the language of Mr. Chadwick, "to 
high cultivation on narrow area's, instead of low culti- 
vation on wide i areas — to extensive cultivation giving 
heavy produce, instead of extensive cultivation and low 
produce." In support of this opinion — which we need 
scarcely say is not held by the majority of practical 
farmers — Mr. Chadwick gives the following evidence of 
the proprietor of the Strathaven farm : — 

" Undoubtedly the system will tend to the high 
cultivation of small areas of land. Some of my neigh- 
bouring farmers used to condole with me that I had 
not some 300 acres; to which my reply was, that I 
should have done better if I had had half the quantity, 
or 60 acres instead of 120, and had I been rid of the 
hard clay land. The clays in England are, however, 
I think, more manageable, owing to the climate. Large 
capital may, however, be more advantageously applied 
in the system in question than in the common methods. 
I have studied the question in this aspect, and I am 
prepared to show that 100 acres may be made to pro- 
duce the same amount of dairy produce as a grazing 
farm of 450 acres. I estimate this as in the following 
account, in which it will be observed that the rent alone 
in the farm of 450 acres, set down at 30s. per acre, 
would be £675, whilst on the smaller liquid manure 
farm it would only be £332, inclusive of an extra rent 
of 6s. per acre for additional buildings, including also 
£65 for the yearly interest and deterioration of the 



150 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

pipes, pumps, engines, and irrigating apparatus; in- 
cluding also £42 for coals, and £45 for the time 
occupied by the engine man. Viewing the system in 
relation to the conveyance to the land of the manure 
of such a quantity of stock, viz., 150 cows for a farm oi 
450 acres, in water instead of straw, I find the balance 
in favour of the liquid manure would be £469. 

Estimated Expenses op Pipe Irrigation for 100 acres of Grass 
Land, 1 hydrant to evert 5 acres. 



4-horse engine "with expenses, erecting, &c. 

T-pipes, cocks, and branches . . . 

3,400 yards of 3-inch and 4-inch pipe . 

20 hydrants, £25 ; lead and laying, £20 

2 sets of brass joints and 2 unions 

2 manure pumps, 6 J in. diameter, 2 feet stroke 

Shafting, connecting, and extras . 

Cutting drains for pipes . . . • 

2 lengths, 90 yards each, gutta-percha 

Circular brick tanks, 100,000 gallons . • 

Contingencies dependent on locality . • 



£140 

20 

380 O 

45 O 

5 O 

60 

10 O 

10 O 

40 O 

100 O 

50 



£860 O 
£860 at 7J per cent. = £65 yearly charge. 

Pumps will discharge 300 tons daily of 10 hours, and working for 
irrigation 150 days, at a daily expense of 18*., viz.:— 

8. d. 

Coals, 5 cwt 3 9 

Engine man 3 

4 women or boys 4 

Deterioration and interest on capital . 7 3 

18 
Which equals for cost of distribution § d. per ton, or per dressing of 1 
inch deep = 100 tons per acre, costing 6*., manuring at the rate of 3 
acres daily. 

estimate. 

Comparison between Water and Straw as Vehicles for Manure, 

150 cows on the box-feeding principle (the system 
adopted when straw is used as the absorbant) 
would require, at 20 lbs. per day, 490 tons of straw 
yearly,and this would absorb, say 1,800 tons of solid 
and liquid manure = 12 tons of solid and liquid 



IRRIGATION. 151 



per head (a low calculation). Cost of applying and 
preparing 2,290 tons, at la.per ton . £114 
Cost of straw for manure, at 20a. per 

ton 490 



Cost of solid manure on the land .... £G04 
Cost of procuring water and distributing manure 

(44,203 tons of water mixed with 1,800 tons of 

solid and liquid manure), at the rate of 450 tons 

an acre; 90 tons an acre at each dressing, taking 

150 days, at 18a. for distribution . . 135 

Balance in favour of water as compared with straw, 
besides the saving of loss by fermentation and 
other causes £469 

No gain is mentioned as likely to be derived from the advantages of 
using manure in the above diluted state, &c. 

ESTIMATE. 

Comparison between Irrigation and Grazing. 

To maintain 150 cows as in the Dairy districts would 
require 450 acres, being at the rate of 3 acres per 
cow for her yearly keep. 450 acres, at 30«. . 675 

100 acres under irrigation may be fairly assumed to 
produce equal to the above/subject to the follow- 
ing expenses : — 

Rent, 100 acres at 30a. . . . £180 O 

Yearly charge on irrigation . . 65 

Coals 42 

Engine men . • • • • 45 



332 



Balance in favour of irrigating on a farm of 100 
acres over a grazing farm of 450 acres . . £343 

" I may observe that from experience I have learnt 
that an ox will eat in the house 144 square yards of 
grass per week, the crop being a fair average one. On 
this data an acre will keep 33 head for one week, or 
5 acres will keep 150 head for one week, or 25 acres for 
five weeks, at the end of which time a second crop will 
be ready, which will also last five weeks; a third crop 
will then be fit, which will last another five weeks ; 
then a fourth crop, which will lust five weeks, but 



152 OUTLINES OF MODEKN FARMING. 

requiring perhaps, say 5 acres additional ; a fifth crop 
over as many of the 50 acres as can be obtained, with 
the pasturage, will last another four weeks — in all 
24 weeks at the very least, assuming that 50 acres yield 
two crops of hay, and the other 50 acres four or five 
crops of grass, a large portion of this last 50 acres will 
be converted into hay, there being more grass during 
the consumption of the first three crops than can be 
consumed by the above stock; this will form a con- 
siderable addition to the store for winter keep. An 
artificial drying-house would be needed." 

And in reply to the question, "In what length of 
time on the ordinary system, and applying the manure 
in a solid form, will it produce its return ?" the fol- 
lowing was given : — " Throughout Scotland it would be 
four or five years. Some farmers manure once in four 
years, others once in five years. They presume that 
the manure lasts for that time before its full effect is 
produced." 

And to the further question, "In what length of 
time do you find that the result is obtained by an 
application of liquid and liquefied manure ? " the fol- 
lowing reply — "Under such circumstances, the results 
will be realised in five or six weeks. Thus, as in the 
account I have given, I commenced cutting on the 
22nd of May. I irrigated immediately, and obtained 
another cutting of 3 feet on the 28 th of June ; I irri- 
gated immediately, and then got another cutting of 
3. feet 6 inches on the 10th of August. If the manure 
for turnips or green crops be applied to the land in a 
liquefied form as soon as it is produced, I conceive, 
from its existing in a minute state of subdivision in 
combination with the soil, that it will be usually appro- 
priated within the period of the growth of the plant, 



IRRIGATION. 153 

that is if the quantity be not in excess under the 
conditions which I have already explained/' 

A very complete, if not a very elaborate, example of 
the mode of using liquid manure by pipe distribution 
is to be met with at the Albert National Agricultural 
Training College, Glasnevin, Dublin, and of which the 
following is an account by Dr. Kirkpatrick, Principal 
of the college : — 

"I may, in the first place, remark that the Albert 
National Agricultural Institution, which is a branch 
of national education in this country, accommodates 
seventy-five agricultural pupils, the superintendent and 
his family, the matron and servants, land steward, and 
literary teacher — in all, upwards of sixty persons. The 
area of land attached to the Albert Institution consists 
of 180 statute acres, of which the Albert Model Farm 
contains 168 acres, and the remainder is under gardens, 
buildings, &c. The following is a list of the live stock 
at present on the farms : — 

. , ,i.i.( 2 Shorthorns and 

6 horses 3 bulls | i Kwiy. 

1 colt 2 young ditto. 

1 foal 30 milch cows. 

Shorthorns, Ayrshire, Kerry, 
l pony, Alderney, and crosses. 

40 pigs (young and old) 20 heifers. 
40 sheep (young and old) 15 calves. 

"The contents of the water-closets, urinals, pupils' 
privies, and night vessels, as well as the urine of the 
cows, horses, and pigs, flow into two large well-con- 
structed tanks, which hold upwards of 40,000 gallons. 
The liquid in the tank is largely diluted by the water 
which has been used in the lavatories of the establish- 
ment, and also by a frequent and copious flow of water in 
the washing and cleaning of the cattle, cattle stands, &c. 

h 3 



154 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

No solid manure is put into the tanks, except what 
may be carried in by the flow of water when washing 
the cattle houses. The solid manure is most carefully 
made up and preserved, and frequently saturated with 
the liquid from the tanks. From these sources, together 
with the rainfall in a limited space in the farm-yards, 
it is estimated that there is a weekly average supply of 
40,000 gallons. A steam engine of eight horse-power 
is employed for threshing grain, cutting chaff, grinding 
and bruising oats, washing and cutting roots, churning, 
grinding bones, pumping water, and distributing liquid 
manure ; but it is to be borne in mind that but a small 
portion of the steam power is required for the last- 
mentioned purpose, as that work is carried on simul- 
taneously with the threshing or some other operation. 
In the year 1854, iron pipes were laid in about 50 
statute acres of the farm, and liquid manure pumps, 
gutta-percha hose, &c, provided ^s follows ; — 

930 yards 3 inch pipes at 3*. 6d. per yard . 
112 „ 2 „ „ 2a. 5d. „ 
83 „ 3 „ „ 3*. 6d. „ 
11 „ 3 „ ,, (branch) at 3a. 4d. per yd. 
3 „ 3 „ „ (bend) at 4a. „ 
2 „ 3 ,, „ (branch) at 5a. 3d ,, 
2 clash seats with brass valves, at £2 5a. each . 
6 hydrants,* at 11a. 3d. each . . 
1 swivel joint and key for same 
1 set liquid manure pumps (plungers 4 inches 
diameter, 2 feet stroke, discharges per hour 
. 4,500 gallons) and belts . ' . . . 
Gutta-percha hose • 55 13 

£324 8 3 

" The gutta-percha hose, which was at first used, 
was very liable to be much injured, and difficult of 
being properly repaired. Through the kindness of 

♦ The number of hydrants might be increased, with advantage. 



£ a. 


d. 


163 6 


8 


13 10 


8 


13 16 


8 


2 17 


9 


12 


O 


10 


6 


4 10 


O 


6 18 





1 12 





61 1 


O 


55 13 






IK1UGATI0N. 155 

J. Mechi, Esq., of Tiptree Hall, we have been enabled 
to procure hose of a different composition and construc- 
tion, and which is known by the name of ' India-rubber 
and canvas.' This hose, for so far, answers admirably 
well, and although its cost (2s. per foot) is from 10 to 15 
per cent, above that of gutta-percha hose of the same 
diameter, yet it will be found to be cheaper in the end. 

" Mr. Boyle, the Board's Agriculturist at the Albert 
Model Farm, says, 'About 2,000,000 gallons of largely 
diluted liquid manure are distributed yearly over an 
area of 16 statute acres of Italian rye-grass at a calcu- 
lated cost of Id. per ton.* The increased weight of 
grass on the 16 acres to which the liquid manure is 
applied annually, is about 100 tons, which I calculate to 
be worth 16s. per ton. If the 100 tons of grass were 
made into hay, there would be about 27 tons of the 
latter, which, on the average of seasons, would sell in 
the Dublin market for about £80, or £3 per ton." 

We have a strong conviction that the best capa- 
bilities of town sewage are not to be obtained for farm 
purposes generally by such expensive means as water 
or steam power, underground pipes, and hose and jet. 
The cost of this plan of applying town sewage per ton, 
even under the most favourable circumstances, comes 
very nearly to the most generally received estimate of 
the value of its fertilising matter, so that, at the best, 
a comparatively narrow margin of profit is left. The 
application by such a mode may, for the attainment 
of sanitary purposes, be carried out by corporations ; 
but the evidence appears to us satisfactory enough that 

* " The distribution of the liquid manure by horse labour could not 
be effected under 4d. per ton. Nor could the liquid be distributed over 
the grass land with all the farm horses on the place, as there are so many 
days in the year in which the liquid could not be carted on the land with- 
out doing serious damage. 



156 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

it will not be economically available under the ordinary 
circumstances of agriculture by individual farmers. 

Mr. Love, who has directed his attention to the 
application of sewage, or liquid manure, has come to 
the conclusion that some modification of the hose and 
jet system is imperative, inasmuch as the mere labour 
of manipulating the hose, and connecting it and dis- 
connecting it with the hydrants, makes a large item 
in the expense. Mr. Love takes the view also that the 
liquid manure is applicable only to the green crops, 
more especially to Italian rye-grass ; in the cultivation 
of this, indeed, he believes that the application of sewage 
depends, as it is the only grass which gives a large 
supply of food without cultivation and re-sowing. This 
adaptability, therefore, to all crops only in the rotation 
of an ordinary farm, makes it all the more imperative 
that some plan should be adopted of reducing the cost 
of application of liquid manure to the minimum. Mr. 
Love believes that by his plan he attains this, simplifies 
the system, and brings "it within the grasp of the 
tenant farmer." The following is a brief description of 
his plan, as very fully explained by him in the " Journal 
of the Royal Agricultural Society." One straight 
main-pipe underground is alone used, bisecting the 
piece of ground to be irrigated. To this the branch 
pipes are attached, these being laid on the surface 
on either side, and parallel to one another ; they are' 
capable of removal, so that they can be shifted from 
the land ploughed up out of rye-grass, to the land 
laid down with it. The distance between these branch 
pipes is named at 22 yards, and the space between them 
is irrigated by hose and jet ; and in the mode of working 
these lies the peculiarity of Mr. Love's method. A 
large drum or barrel is hung between two driving or 



IRRIGATION. 157 

carrying wheels of a machine ? on this barrel a length 
of hose is coiled up. One end of this is connected with 
the hollow axle in which the barrel is hung, and to 
which is attached a tube leading to a nozzle, which 
admits of easy movement from side to side. The other 
end of the hose is attached to the branch pipe lying 
on the ground, and which is supplied with the liquid 
from the main underground feeder. The machine — by 
means of gearing worked by a handle under the control 
of an attendant, carried by the machine — is propelled 
along the space between two branches, and as it travels 
along, the hose is uncoiled from the barrel, and rests 
upon the ground, while the liquid is forced through 
the hollow axle and up to the nozzle, by which it is 
distributed over the land 22 yards wide. If the length 
of coil wound on the barrel is equal to 220 yards, when 
fully uncoiled, an acre of land will have been — with 
the width of 22 yards — supplied with liquid manure 
or sewage. By giving charge wheels to the gearing 
which drives the machine, any quantity of manure 
may be applied, from 2,000 to above 23,000 gallons 
per acre. Travelling at the rate of 6 yards per minute, 
or a little more than 1 mile in 4£ hours, 13 tons of 
sewage can be applied over an acre. The flow through 
the pipes and spreader being constant, for certain 
diameters of pipes the quantity spread over the land 
is dependent upon the rapidity with which the machine 
travels. With 3-inch hose the rate of flow is 80 gallons 
per minute ; 56 of 2£-inch, and 36 gallons of 2-inch 
hose. With 224 feet of 3-inch hose coiled round the 
barrel and filled ,with sewage, the whole weighs 25 cwt. 
Mr. Love gives, in an article elsewhere alluded to 
in this paper, the following table, which will be of 
some service while discussing this point. It gives 



158 



OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 



the gallons, cubio feet, and tons weight of liquid 
manure corresponding to dressings of tenths of an inch 
in depth over an acre of land, assuming the specific 
gravity of the liquid to be 1*13 : — 



Dei>th on the 
Surface. 


Gallons. 


Cubic Feet. 


Ton. 


Inch. 








•1 


2*269 


364 


• 


•2 


4538 


729 


• 


•3 


6807 


1093 


34* 


•4 


9076 


1458 


45*36 


•5 


11-345 


1822 


56 72 


•6 


13-614 


2187 


681 


•7 


15883 


2551 


794 


•8 


18152 


2916 


9075 


•9 


20-421 


3281 


102-1 


1-0 


22-690 


3645 


1134 



A brief notice of Continental Irrigation may "here 
be useful and interesting. In the Campines, in the 
Ardennes, those celebrated districts of Belgium, and in 
many parts of Germany, irrigation is carried on most 
extensively, and with the most beneficial results. A 
very common mode adopted in the Campines is what 
we call the " ridge and furrow/' or, as it is named on 
the Continent, irrigation en ados. This we have fully 
illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2. Another system is adopted 
in land which is gently yet uniformly inclined on its 
surface. In this case the divisions do not slope on 
both sides, but incline in one direction, as shown in 
Fig. 24, at a b, a b, a b ; but are horizontal, in the direc- 
tion of the arrows in plan, Fig. 25. The channel of 
supply is at A A, and sluices are provided at C C C, by 
which the water can be let into or kept out of the 
channels of distribution, a a, placed at the upper side 
of the inclined divisions d d. The channels of distri- 
bution a a are divided from euch other by small 



IRRIGATION. 



159 



embankments or ridges, as shown in section in Fig. 24. 
The water, after passing over the surfaces d d, is taken 
# * b 





Fig. 24. 




Fig. 25. 

up by the channels b b. Fig. 26 illustrates another 
mode of irrigating a field, in which the channel of supply 
at a a, delivers the water to the gutters c c, which 
again deliver it to the branch gutters c. The water 



160 



OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING, 



flowing from these over the surface of the land, reaches 
the lowest level, where the catch-drains b b are placed ; 
these deliver the water to the channel b J,jvhich carries 
it finally off; or a lower and another field may be irri- 




Fig. 26. 



gated from this, as a channel of supply. The following, 
on the management of Continental water-meadows, we . 
have given in the pages of the Mark Lane Express, in 
a paper on the subject : — 

" The maintenance of irrigated meadows in good work- 
ing order is a matter of the greatest importance. Every 
care should be taken to keep the form given to the 
€ ados ' and the level to the channels at the time of their 
formation. This is not often given thoroughly ; but 
unless it is so, complete satisfaction cannot be obtained. 

" The work of repair is generally carried on after the 
aftermath is cut, and before the autumnal irrigation is 
commenced. In cases where the vegetation is very 



IRRIGATION. 161 

vigorous, the grass grows so rapidly at the edges of the 
channels as to impede very seriously the flow of the 
water; it is necessary to cut it therefore repeatedly 
with a scythe ; generally, however, this requires to be 
done twice a year only — at the time of cutting for hay, 
and again at that for cutting the aftermath; The grass 
obtained is spread over the ados to serve as manure. As 
soon as the latter operation is completed, the various 
works of repair are immediately commenced. In clean- 
ing out and re-forming the edges of the channels, the 
earth obtained is used for making up any depressions 
which have been formed on the surface, the surplus, if 
any, being spread over as a top-dressing. Care should 
be taken to preserve the level of the bottoms of the 
channel, this being a matter of some difficulty in light 
sandy soils. But, while clearing out the channels and 
preserving their level, it is of importance to retain the 
layer of fine earth left at the sides and bottoms of the 
channels ; as the retention of this tends to reduce the 
infiltration of the water through the soil, especially 
where this is light and sandy. The sides of the channels 
placed between and at the base of the ados, being apt to 
become overgrown with vegetation or tutf, this is cut 
away with a knife used for this purpose, or with a 
spade, till the channels are restored to their original 
size. The turf thus obtained is used to fill up hollows 
and keep the level of the edges of the channels. The 
bottom of the channels is cleaned by using a spade the 
exact width of the channels. These operations going 
on, a careful inspection should be made of the channels 
of supply, to see that no indentations or breakages are 
made in the sides ; if any, they must be immediately 
repaired. As soon as these works are all effected, the 
water is admitted in the channels, this revealing the 



162 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

position of all holes made by moles and mice and rats. 
As soon as these are discovered they are to be carefully 
filled up. The admission of the water is also useful to 
show at what points the edges of the channels are too 
depressed or too elevated below or above the proper 
water level. When flowing also over the sides of the 
'ados/ it serves to show the hollows where the water 
is apt to stagnate, and the prominences which it cannot 
reach, the one being filled up and the other levelled. 

"The whole repairs should be finished at the latest by 
the commencement of October. The expense of repairs 
— if regularly done — will be at the rate of 15 to 20 
francs per hectare. 

u Before the irrigation is commenced in the spring, it 
will be well to level all the mole-hills, and to give, as 
soon as the vegetation begins to revive, manure to the 
meadow, if such be deemed necessary. As soon as the 
bad grasses and weeds show themselves they are care- 
fully eradicated ; 'For/ says M. KeelhofF, ' without this 
precaution, the best prairie will be infested insensibly 
with a mass of parasitical plants, and one will gather 
but a harvest of forage of bad quality. In no opera- 
tion/ he further remarks, 'is negligence so fruitful 
of fatal consequences as in the repairs of irrigated 
meadows/ Unfortunately, this importance is little 
recognised by the majority of irrigators; and we have 
seen many meadows, worked with the greatest care, 
meet finally, through want of repair and attention, with 
complete failure some years after their creation." 

The following notes, on the kind of grasses suitable 
for, and on the management of, irrigated meadows, are 
from an able paper " On the Practice of Irrigation/' 
by Professor Tanner, in the " Journal of the Bath and 
West of England Society/ 1 



IRRIGATION. 163 

" Poa aquatica (or Glyceria aqitatica). This water- 
meadow grass, also known as the reedy sweetwater 
grass, is a valuable plant for irrigated laud, as it 
has a rapid growth of good quality. 

a Poafluitans(or Glyceriafluitans), floating sweetwater 
grass, is exceedingly early in its growth, and for this 
reason is generally sought after in seeding new meadows. 

"Poa trivialis, rough-stalked meadow grass, although 
not particularly early, is yet productive, and very de- 
sirable for water meadows. 

"Agrostis stolinifera, fiarin grass, or marsh bent, takes 
a high position as a water meadow grass. It is very 
productive, and yields both early and late herbage of 
good quality. It always spreads rupidly, and maintains 
a firm plant. 

"Alopecurus pratensis, meadow foxtail grass. Its 
early, abundant, and rapid growth, together with the 
excellent qualities of the herbage, place this amongst 
our best grasses for meadows ; and it answers very well 
for water meadows, provided the management is good. 

"Festuca el-atior, tall meadow fescue. This grass, 
although rather coarse in its nature, is relished by stock ; 
it is, however, best suited to land which lies low. 

" Festuca pratensis, meadow fescue. The produce is 
abundant, without being coarse ; the quality is excellent, 
and its growth regular. 

"Lotus major, great bird's-foot trefoil. Moist situ- 
ations are its natural localities. It yields an abundance 
of nutritious food, and is much sought after by stock. 

u Trifolium hybridum, hybrid clover, is not grown as 
much as its merits justify ; it is highly esteemed ou 
the Continent ; and where it is grown in this country 
it answers very well. It is the most suitable of all the 
clovers for a water meadow. 



164 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

" Phleum pratense, meadow cat's tail, or Timothy grass. 
The growth of the grass is both early iu the spring 
and late in the winter; it produces an abundance of 
herbage, and the quality is exceedingly good. 

" These are the principal grasses which are suitable 
for irrigated land ; and the following mixture of these 
seeds, which has been recommended,* appears to be a 
judicious receipt : — 

lbs. 

Agrostis stolinifcra 2 

Alopecurus pratensis 2 

Festuca elatior 2 

Festuca pratensis 2 

Festuca pratensis loliacea .... 2 

Glyceria aquatica 1 

Glyceria fluitans 2 

Lolium Italicurn 8 

Lolium perenne . . . . . . .12 

Ph alar is arundinacea 2 

Phleum pratense 2 

Poa trivialis 3 

Lotus major 2 

Trifolium hybridum ..... 1 

43 

" These seeds should be sown on the land after it has 
been well cleaned, and brought into good order by 
previous cultivation. The surface must be gently 
harrowed, and then rolled, the birds kept off, and 
with ordinary care a good plant of grass will soon 
establish itself, producing herbage of the very best 
quality. No water should pass over the surface until 
the soil has settled firmly and the grass is strongly 
rooted. The water gutters may then be cut according 
to the plan decided on, and the irrigation may proceed 
as usual/' 

" The management of water meadows is a most impor- 

* Morton's " Encyclopadia of Agriculture," vol. i. p. 1001. 



IRRIGATION. 165 

tnnt. matter, and upon it much of their succors depends. 
It is seldom carried out with proper zeal and attention, 
for we find ignorance and neglect causing considerable 
loss to the occupiers of the land. The entire system 
is eminently simple, though frequent attention is neces- 
sary to success. The season may be said to commence 
at the end of September or the beginning of October. 
During October, November, and December, the water 
is applied as freely as possible over the meadows. The 
supply of water may be kept on the land at this time 
of the year for two weeks, and then turned off to other 
ground for three or four days. The rapidity with which 
the land is flooded must depend on the quantity of 
water to be disposed of, and the extent to be watered. 
The object should be to keep a thin coat of water passing 
gently and continuously over the surface. 

" When the water is going to be taken off, the state 
of the weather should be carefully observed. If, for 
instance, the water were taken off at evening, and this 
were followed by a hard frost, we should have the tender 
giass completely cut up, and all the benefit from the 
previous wateriug would be lost. When the water is 
turned off in the moining and the day proves fine, 
the grass becomes dry before night, and the frost 
cannot injure it much. Still, with the prospect of a 
frost, it were even safer not to turn off the water. If 
the water should happen to freeze on the land, the 
water should at once be stopped, for with a coat of 
ice upon the ground the continued flow would be un- 
desirable ; the coating of ice would in such a case act 
like a fall of snow, and keep the ground warm. It 
is, however, by no means desirable for this to happen, 
and it is generally attributable to a scanty supply ef 
water. When a piece of grass happens to have had 



166 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the water turned off three or four days, and a frost 
comes, it is better not to put the water on until the 
frost is gone; but if the water can be got over the 
ground before the frost comes, it will be a great pro- 
tection to the land. It is the same with a frost coming 
on wet gmss as with the ordinary white frosts ; more 
injury arises because the herbage is moist than because 
of the absolute cold. After the interval of three or 
four days the grass will again be ready for eight or ten 
day 8* more watering. 

" If very early food is wanted for ewes and lambs, some 
of the ground may be laid dry for use in the early part 
of February, or even in January ; by the 1st of March 
a large proportion would be ready for feeding. The 
watering will, of course, be kept up as described, until 
a week or ten days before the sheep are turned on the 
ground, thus giving the grass every opportunity of 
making its growth, and the land of getting firm and 
dry for stock. Heavy stock should not be turned on 
until the ground is thoroughly firm, otherwise they 
injure the land by treading. All the grounS which is 
fed off before April may be watered and fed again 
before laying up again for grass.* As a rule the mea- 
dows are fed down and laid up for grass about the 1st 
of May ; but this system is open to objections. I pre- 
fer laying them up in succession, some in the middle of 
April, and feeding other portions up to the end of May. 
In this manner the extent of grass cut for hay is more 
under control — a very important point in a West of 
England climate. 

" As soon a 8 the meadows are clear of hay, the water- 
ing may again commence ; but the water must not be 

* The April watering is most beneficial on Exmoor.; this arises from 
the improved temperature of the air. — 11. fc>. 



IRRIGATION. 167 

kept on as long a8 previously. * A week is the usuul 
time ; but when the white scum appears, we may know 
that the water has been kept on too long. In this way 
there will probably be a good cut of grass ready in five 
or six weeks. This crop being cut and secured, no time 
is lost in commencing the irrigation, but as the weather 
gets hotter, so we are obliged to be content with shorter 
waterings. The growth, however, is more rapid now 
than at any other time, and by alternately turning the 
water on and off for two days in succession, we have an 
incredible rapidity of growth. This produces a valu- 
able aftermath, which is fed during the months of 
August and September; after this the meadow gutters 
are thoroughly examined and cleaned, and the land is 
ready to recommence the duties of another year. Where 
there is a sufficient extent of meadows, it is an excellent 
plan to keep the management entirely in the hands of 
a skilful and attentive waterman, and under any circum- 
stance it ought to be a part of the duty of one particular 
man, who should be responsible for its performance. 
The superintending care of a farmer cannot always be 
available for directing. He may be on business, but 
the ' drowner/ as he is sometimes termed, when he 
understands the main points to be noticed and attended 
to, should be held responsible for the right performance. 
The annual expense of managing water-meadows may 
be said to vary from 4s. to 6s. per acre. 

"Incidentally connected with the management of 
water-meadows, I may observe that in consuming the 
grass with sheep, a very great economy of food will be 
evident if they are regularly folded over the ground. 
Every morning a fair day's consumption should be 

* The better practice is to damp the land only ; summer watering, 
especially by day, being found injurious. — R. fc>„ 



168 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

added to the fold, and the back hurdles should be 
brought forward iu proportion. The sheep should not 
be cramped up ; at the same time they should be kept 
within proper limits, and as soon as a certain portion 
of the field is fed off, the water should be turned on 
gently, and thus the manure will be immediately car- 
ried into the ground. It has been generally found that 
by folding the land one third more sheep can be kept ; 
but I believe we may go further, and say 50 per cent, 
more sheep may be kept on the same extent of grass. 
The fertility of the land will determine the quantity of 
sheep which these water-meadows will carry. Mr.Pusey 
gives an instance of an average quality meadow carrying 
86 sheep per acre for five months. The system of fold- 
ing was here carried out, and this materially increased 
the number of stock kept. As a rule, store sheep are 
only put in water meadows in the spring, and the after 
grass is consumed by bullocks and fatting sheep. Some 
meadows will give the sheep the rot in the autumn, 
whilst others are perfectly safe ; of course, local expe- 
rience alone can decide this point. 

" The making of water meadow hay requires especial 
care, because of the peculiar character of the grasses. 
It is not necessary or desirable to expose it longer to 
the sun than ordinary meadow hay ; but, with one 
exception, I would mention, I should adopt the same 
system for making hay as is recommended* for ordi- 
naiy grass land. Having carried the drying of the hay 
as far as you deem it necessary for putting it into large 
cocks, I find it best to make these cocks larger than 
usual, and allow them to stand for two or even three 
days. If they have bean nicely made and raked down, 

* « Bath and West of England Journal," vol. v. p. 83. 



IRRIGATION. 169 

no fear of injury from rain need be entertained. At 
the end of this time let them be exposed to the sun and 
air for a few hours ; thus all the concealed moisture 
will have been brought out by the sweating the hay has 
had, and it will soon give it up to the sun and air. I 
find this far better than a prolonged exposure to the 
sun, which destroys the colour, and even then often 
fails to dry up the sap. When the outside of the stalk 
has been rapidly dried, the juice often remains inside 
beyond the reach of the sun, and this produces future 
trouble. If, however, we get hay in a regular sweat, 
then it comes to the surface and can soon be evaporated. 
With this exception, the process of haymaking may be 
carried out in the usual way." 



DIVISION THIRD. 

THE RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 



Waste land may, for the purposes of our treatise, 
be divided iuto live classes, that known as "boggy, 
marshy," the second, as "sandy, common/' the third, 
" moorland," fourth, "woody land/' and the fifth, " sea 
or tidal river border land," and of these, enormous tracts 
are yet lying here and there in various districts of the 
country, waiting for that exercise of skill and patience 
which is capable of raising them from their present; 
condition of sterility to prolific fertility. Unpromising 
as all attempts may appear to raise farm produce from 
such ungrateful soils, enough has been done, even 
amongst us, to show that the attempts are, nevertheless, 
worth making, and that the results are as gratifying 
as they are pecuniarily successful. If we wish, how* 
ever, to see the most extensive as well as the most suc- 
cessful instances of reclamation of waste land, we must 
cross the channel and inspect the celebrated districts of 
" Flanders," the " Campines," and the Ardennes of 
Belgium, and certain districts in the South of France, 
and of Holland. 

Some idea of what has yet to be done in Great 
Britain in reclaiming waste land, may be gathered from 
the statement that there appears to be 20,000,000 of 



THE RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 171 

acres, of which no fewer than 4,000,000 are capable of 
being brought under tillage for corn growing, the 
remainder for pasturage or meadows. The extra feed- 
ing resources thus within the reach of our countrymen 
are surely of too vast an importance to be much longer 
neglected. 

Taking the five classes above named as comprehending 
nearly all the kinds of waste lands met with in this 
country, we shall briefly glance at the modes which 
have been successfully employed in bringing portions of 
them into cultivation. And, first, as to boggy or 
marshy land. Of this class of waste lands the most 
extensive tracts are to be met with in Scotland and 
Ireland, and of these two countries the latter has per- 
haps the unenviable lot to possess the greatest extent. 

In reclaiming " boggy " land, or " moss " land as it is 
sometimes termed, the first object to be aimed at is its 
drainage, which must be thoroughly and effectually 
done. In the section treating on irrigation in this 
work, we have explained generally the mode in which 
drains are, and the principles upon which they should 
be, executed upon land of this description. The general 
mode, where the land does not present unusual diffi- 
culties from the excessive depth and moisture, is to cut 
a series of main drains varying in depth from 4 to 5 
feet, and so deepened at right angles to each other, that 
they form a series of squares, a convenient size for 
these being 100 yards in the side. These large or main 
squares are again to be cut up into smaller squares by a 
series of secondary druins, which, being of less depth, 
fall into the main drains, the disposition of the whole 
being somewhat as follows : — 



i2 



172 



OUTLINES OS MODERN FARMING. 





MdlU DiULU- 




S 1 > 






S ' i 

1 - 1 1 1 S ' 

* i ! : 




* 




j ■ ■ 


Miiu Luiiii. 




mr .J firjf -l vnTr 4- ri — 

II 1 c 

li e 






i 


{ 












il niu Drain. 




, — IJ.„ 


-..».-* 








si 


— ' 






i 


1 

' 1 

E 











Main Drain. 



In clay, or comparatively dry moss land, where it is 
well consolidated, these drains may be cut to their full 
depth at once and the drain tiles laid down ; but where 
the moss is wet, which is generally the case, the process 
of draining and consequent consolidation of the land is 
a very slow one, usually occupying a period from two 
and a half to three and four years. The drains are, 
therefore, at first, cut only to such a depth as will 
enable them to retain as much as possible their form. 
The sod, or upper crust, should be laid at the bottom of 
the drain, which tends to consolidate it and form a bed 
for the drainage water. The drains will rapidly fill up 
by the deposited matter carried into them, and require 
to be cleaned out ; this operation gradually deepens the 
drains, and consolidates the surrounding soil. Before 



THE RECLAMATION OF WASIE LAND. 173 

the ultimate depth is obtained, such a degree of dryness 
may be given to the soil as to admit of surface opera- 
tions being carried out, as digging, marling, liming, or 
manuring, and even croppiug. Drainage is carried out 
in some excessively wet or deep moss or bog under 
very great difficulties. Sometimes the necessary conso- 
lidation required to bear the drain tiles is scarcely 
obtained, or, if so obtained, at great expense, and the 
exercise of much patience ; in some cases the " fall " 
obtainable by ordinary plans is so trifling, that extra- 
ordinary means, as carrying the main drains under the 
water- courses, have to be resorted to. Some bogs are 
so deep and wet, that their reclamation will exercise the 
skill and patience of the improver for eight or ten 
years; this having been the period, in some instances, 
which was required to consolidate the land. From 
three excellent reports of extensive reclaiming works of 
boggy land, we take the following extracts as conveying 
much practically sound information on the subject. 
From the first, which is a discussion from the Irish 
Farmers' Gazette of the reclaiming operations carried on 
by Mr. Wallis, at Drisbane Castle, Ireland, we take the 
following : — 

"The bog contains 20 acres, statute measure, and 
previous to its improvement was valued at 5s. per acre. 
In the months of July and August of 1856 it was 
drained with pipes from 18 to 30 feet apart, and 3$ 
feet deep. Parts of the subsoil were of a bluish clay. 
In other parts the bog was so deep we could not find 
bottom, and were obliged to make one with small 
stones; then the pipes were laid on the top of the 
stones, and 4 inches of stones above the pipes, which 
made a permanent job. After draining, 6 acres of it 
were grafted and burned for winter vetches, which crog 



17-1* OUTLINES OF MODE UN FARMING. 

weighed in the month of June 12 tons per acre. They 
gave abundance of food for 40 cattle and 12 horses. 
The cattle were housed to eat off the vetches in time for 
a crop of Swedish turnips, which crop weighed 26 tons 
per acre. The vetches were top dressed in the month 
of March with 2 cwt. of guano and 3 cwt. of salt per 
acre, mixed together, and sown in a wet day. The 
turnips were manured with 15 tons of farm-yard manure 
and 2 cwt. of guano per acre. The remaiuder of the 
bog was ploughed with three horses abreast, and in the 
spring all prepared for turnips. Burned as much of 
the heath surface as possible, until the weather became 
unfavourable, and carted the remainder of the 6ods into 
large heaps, which made good top-dressing after the 
turnips were removed. Half of the turnips were carted 
home for fat cattle, and the other half were eaten off 
with sheep. In 1&57 the bog was sown with oats with 
a drilling machine, 6 stones of seed per acre, and pro- 
duced 12 barrels per acre. It was sown with grass 
seeds at the same time, which gives fine pasture for 
sheep after harvest. In 1858 it was top-dressed with 40 
barrels of lime per acre, and again sown with oats, 6 
stones of seed per acre, which produced 12 barrels per 
acre. I do not approve of taking two white crops in 
succession; but it was to get the bog subsoiled and 
levelled. There is no way so good as the four or five 
course shift ; then the land is always in clean condition, 
and easily managed for a crop. 

"I have succeeded well in taking vetches as a stolen 
crop. This year (1859) we have an average crop of 
Swedes after vetches by top-dressing in the manner 
above mentioned. I think winter vetches is a crop 
well worth the attention of the farmer ; they come in 
in a seuson when other food is scarce. I have found 



THE RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 175 

farm horses, working 9 hours per day, improving in 
condition, fed on vetches, with 15 lbs. of oats per day." 

We take our second extract from a reprint, in the 
above-named journal, of one of the early papers of the 
Dublin Society, containing an account of the reclaiming 
operations carried on by Mr. French at Moniven, of 60 
acres of boggy land, so wet and spongy, that no turf fit 
for burning could be cut from it, and of such depth, 20 
to 30 feet, as to require the cutting of drains which, 
from their width and depth, might be more properly 
called rivers. We regret that we cannot give a rfeume 
of this valuable paper, space only permitting us to give 
a portion of it, referring chiefly to the cultural or after 
operations. The paper, however, may be read in 
extenso in the number of the Irish Farmers? Gazette 
for September 28th, 1861. 

"Whilst," says Mr. French, "I was executing the 
works I have here described (not here given), I pro- 
ceeded to reclaim the bogs adjacent to them. The lines 
I have mentioned divided the north bog into four parts, 
which I enclosed by smaller drains into so many little 
parks ; it is entirely reclaimed, and has been for several 
years past under tillage and meadow, and yet now, 
though it has subsided considerably, an iron borer of 
18 feet does not in several parts thereof reach the 
bottom of the bog : it was full of holes, out of which 
turf for fuel had been formerly cut, the levelling of 
which added much to the expense of reclaiming. The 
east bog, from the island to the old river, is all re- 
claimed, except two or three acres to the south ; and 
has likewise been under tillage and meadow for some 
years past. I reclaimed these two bogs by covering 
the surface with limestone gravel, then laid a coat of 
dung over it, and planted potatoes on the dung ; the 



176 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

next year sowed oats, or rye and grass seeds, and the 
following year mowed the produce. The bog was so 
wet that I cut several small drains, which I since filled 
up, when they had performed their office. To lay the 
gravel on, I was obliged to make roads with hurdles to 
bear up small horses, which carried the gravel in 
baskets upon their backs, and to remove the hurdles 
from place to place, as occasion required. The boats 
laid the gravel and manures on the sides of the rivers 
and the drains, from whence the horses conveyed them. 
"The subsiding of the bog is remarkable; if I should 
say from 15 to 20 feet, I think I should not exceed. 
When I first cut the new river, the bog rose in a hill 
between it and the old river ; there is now a fall the 
whole way, except where the hill stood, which is the 
lowest part. The bog is now firm to bear a loaded 
cart. I sloped the side of the hollows where for some 
years I had cut turf, being advised to cut the bog away, 
but that would be the work of ages ; and where the 
surface was cut it proved most barren, and required 
most manure. These hollows are now little green 
vales, and posterity will puzzle, as some do at present, 
to find the cause of them. After the first crops were 
taken off, £nd mowed for two or three years, I observed 
little tufts of heath began to appear in the meadows. 
When these appeared, some parts I tilled again, put 
dung on others, but lime effectually banished them ; 
and so did a mixture of kelp and ashes, the refuse 
of the bleach green, which proved the richest manure. 
I spread river mud upon one or two acres, which had 
little effect, only produced a sedgy, spiry grass, until 
dung was laid over it. Marl had somewhat a better 
effect than the river mud ; but marl mixed with dung 
proved very good. Lime, dung, or kelp, broken fine 



THE RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 177 

into powder, proved the best. I reclaimed one acre 
by gravelling, and laying a coat of fresh lime over 
the gravel, and planted potatoes upon the lime without 
any dung ; the potatoes were small, and lay thin when 
dug out ; but the corn which succeeded them proved 
very good, and the bog was thereby well reclaimed." 

The following is from a Prize Essay or Report in 
the " Transactions of the Highland Society/' by Mr. 
John Clark, of Kirkland Park, Struthaven. The land 
reclaimed consisted of " spritty " marshes, interspersed 
with " bent" and moss, with here and there portions of 
dry land resting on whin rock. The subsoil of the 
swampy land was clay, this being met with at a depth 
of from two to four feet ; through this were veins of 
sand at various depths. The clay — especially at places 
in the immediate vicinity of the dry 6pots — is replaced 
by sand, gravel, or marl. In some cases a band of 
t€ chatter " underlies the clay, or the upper and saturated 
soil. The drainage in muny places was rendered pecu- 
liarly different in consequence of hard whin rocks being 
met with at all depths, and at most unexpected places. 
The reporter explains the operation in 18 fields, from 
which we extract the process of reclaiming two of 
them : — 

"No. 11. — This field extends to 14 acres and 27 
poles. The annual value of this field in 1849 could 
not be over 8s. per acre. It was partly thrashy swamp, 
partly bent, interspersed at wide intervals with dry 
spots, resting, as usual, on whin rock. In the autumn 
and winter of 1849 and spring of 1850, the field was 
thorough drained — drains 5 feet and upwards in depth 
and 27 feet apart. After drainage the land was ploughed 
where the surface permitted ; where it was too rough 
and broken for the plough, it was dug or half-trenched 

i3 



178 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

according to the degree of roughness, &c. In the 
spring of 1850 the whole was sown with sandy oats 
and grass seeds. As the ploughing or digging pro- 
ceeded the land was wholly limed, to the extent of 
say 4 tons of shells to the acre. It was done more 
heavily or lightly according to the degree of toughness, 
some of the wilder portions having a coating of earth, 
clay, marl, or gravel carted upon them prior to liming. 
As in the case of the other fields, the subsoil from the 
drains was used for this purpose as far as it would go. 
The crop of oats was very irregular. It might vary 
from 4 bolls up to 6 or 7 bolls per acre, but was not 
measured. In 1851 the hay crop would average about 
If tons per acre. The foggage was eaten off with 
sheep, and after a top-dressing of soot next spring 
a second hay crop was taken about equal to the first. 
Alter the removal of the hay a second dressing of lime, 
equal in quantity to the first dressing, was applied to 
the wilder and tougher portions of the field. In De- 
cember, 1852, the field was let by public roup as a 
grass park, and produced £25 5 s. It was grazed 
wholly with sheep. In December, 1853, it was again 
let by public roup as a grass park, and produced £24. 
In 1854 ft was again rouped as a grass park, and was 
let at £27 10s. The drainage, digging, fencing, and 
levelling of this field cost about £140. " 

"No. 9. — This field contained 13 acres. Except 
about 3 acres it was 'waste land/ As far as any 
purpose of tillage was concerned it was merely a spritty 
swamp. Including the 3 acres of dry land, the annual 
value might average 10s. per acre. It is proper to 
state that, prior to the commencement of the improve- 
ments which are the subject of the present report . 

viz., in 1813 and 1844— the tenant in the lands (the 



THE RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 179 

tiles being furnished free by the landlord) made a sort 
of drainage of this field. The drains were shallow and 
ineffectual, but they enabled Liin to plough green crop 
and lay down the land. Though much improved, it 
had for the most part from the first the blue, cold 
appearance inseparable from wet, and, so far as the 
writer's experience goes, inseparable from shallow 
draining, especially in boggy land. Therefore, in the 
summer of 1849, the proprietor set about draining the 
field afresh, paying no attention to the old drains as 
he proceeded, beyond removing the tiles. The old 
drains were principally across the hill, and about 30 
inches deep. When it could be effected, they avoided 
the rock by going round it. When that could not 
be managed, they stopped upon reaching it. The new 
drains, 4, 5, or 6 feet deep, according to subsoil, were 
cut right up the acclivity, and never avoided the rock. 
When blasting or any very arduous picking was neces- 
sary, they were cut into the rock, say to the depth of 
30 inches to 3 feet, were shallowest, and allowed to 
drop backwards and forwards from the shallowest point 
— forward into the continuation of the drain — back- 
wards into a cross-drain communicating with one of 
the up-and-down drains in which rock did not occur. 
The writer had learned, from experience, that without 
breaking up the rock freely, and to a sufficient depth, 
in such springy lands, his draining would be a failure ; 
hence he never attempted (except at the very outset 
of his improvements) to double round it. At first 
he did attempt to save in that way, but instead of 
saving he just, by being obliged to go back on his 
work, put himself to more expense than was necessary, 
and this over and above the injury resulting to his 
crop. The new drains were placed 18 feet apart. All 



180 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the extra subsoil from the drains was spread on the 
ground, and the turf neatly replaced over the drain on 
the surface. After drainage the land was limed, say to 
the extent of 4 tons of shells to the acre. The effect 
produced by the new drainage was in 1850 most per- 
ceptible, and in 1851 and 1852 the field had exchanged 
its cold, blue, spongy surface with its coarse-pointed 
grass for one rich carpet of velvet green. The draining, 
and fencing of this field cost, from first to last, about 
£90. On account of the lease no opportunity of test- 
ing its value offered itself till December, 1852. It was 
then let by public roup as a grass park, at £27 5*. In 
December, 1853, it was again rouped as a grass park 
(snow was on the ground), at £25 15s. In 1854 it was 
let at £34." 

A very striking example of moss land reclamation is 
that of Chat Moss, the celebrated lhoss over which the 
Manchester and Liverpool Railway runs. The upper 
surface is a " long coarse sedgy grass and heath stuff," 
enough to enable a man to walk over it in most parts ; 
yet this lies upon such a treacherous subsoil — if subsoil 
it can be called — that it has been given in evidence 
before the House of Commons, that when an iron rod 
was forced through tho upper surface, it would sink with 
its own weight to a depth of 34 feet At that depth 
a vein of clay 4 to 6 inches thick was met with, below 
which was 2 or 3 feet of quicksand, and underlying all, 
hard clay, which retained the water above. Mr. Reed 
was the first to bring this most unpromising land into 
cultivation. The first step in the process was cutting 
parallel drains 66 yards apart, 4 feet wide at the top, 
14 inches at the bottom, and some 3 feet 6 inches deep. 
The full depth could not be taken at first, but after two 
spits were tuken out the drain was allowed to consoli- 



THE EECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 181 

date. Covered cross drains were then laid down 3 feet 
deep, and 30 feet apart ; these drained into the main 
drains. These covered or hollow drains, like the main 
drains, could only be cut at intervals till the full depth 
was attained ; they were made hollow — for it was before 
the introduction of drain tubes — by putting the upper 
sod which was dried into the open cut, so as to form a 
hollow beneath, and on the top of which the peat was 
thrown. . The surface being partially dried the vege- 
tation on it was set on fire and burnt up as closely as 
was possible. Next, the tough surface sod, by means 
of ploughs, and a roller armed with knives, was cut up 
and destroyed. Marling was next effected ; the marl, 
by means of a portable railway, being laid on at the rate 
of 100 cubic yards to the acre. All these operations 
were carried on on such a surface, that men and horses 
alike had to be shod with flat pieces of wood. Liberal 
doses of manure were applied, consisting of nightsoil 
and ashes, which was found to be the best. The first 
crop taken was potatoes, which seemed to blend the 
moss soil and the manure so thoroughly together, that 
"the soil formed would produce anything, and wheat, 
clover, and oats followed each other in successful rota- 
tion." Subsequently, however, it was found that 
turnips, oats, and potatoes were the best crops, clover 
and wheat not suiting such soils. Further, in place of 
-inarl, salt and lime were used, and were found to destroy 
the mossy nature, of the soil very rapidly, and bring it 
into condition for the first crop of potatoes. Lanca- 
shire, in which Chat Moss is situated, is, par excellence, 
the land of mosses, and here some of the largest and 
the most successful examples of its reclamation are 
to be met with. A large district to the north of the 
Wyre, near Rawcliffe, not many years a^o % ^*& *> 



182 OUTLINES OP MODERN FAKMlNGk 

dreary desert, the mos9 in many places being as deep 
as 30 feet; it is being rapidly converted into most 
fertile fields, bearing fine crops of potatoes, tur- 
nips, oats, and even wheat. The following, after the 
moss has been drained, pared, and burned, is a rotation 
adopted at Nateby Moss : — " First year, oats ; if dirty, 
the burning repeated. Second, green crops, turnips, 
potatoes, &c, with farm yard manure and guano. Third, 
marled and ploughed for spring wheat and barley ; and 
fourth, seeds for mowing and pasture to lie one year; 
then pared and burnt again for oats as before." 

Peat or moss land, which we have just discussed, 
may be called one of the most paradoxical of all the 
material with which the farmer is called to contend ; 
for while it is the most infertile soil, in its normal con- 
dition, which is usually met with, it nevertheless con- 
tains an extraordinary abundance of those organic 
matters which it is the office of manures to give to land 
to which they are applied. Moreover, this infertile 
mass of peaty or mossy lund lies upon and covers, at a 
greater or less depth, a soil or subsoil, so to call it, pos- 
sessing all the characteristics of valuable land. A con- 
sideration of the mode by which peaty or mossy tracts 
have been formed — to describe which here our space 
does not permit — will show that stagnant water is the 
primary cause of their formation ; so that the reason 
for carrying out at once those plans of drainage, by which 
(he superfluous water can be carried off, will be obvious 
enough. The next process, after drainage was effected, 
would be — in view of the fact which we have named 
above, as to the moss overlying the soil — to remove the 
moss and lay bare this lower soil to the action of culti- 
vating processes. But this is, in the majority of cases, 
where the layer of peat or mows is of great thickness, 



THE RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 183 

a practical impossibility ; so that, as we cannot remove 
the moss, we must change its character. How this is 
done we have already shown. By draining a moss 
thoroughly, we at once draw off the stagnant water, and 
allow the atmosphere to permeate its particles, while by 
the process of liming, marling, and cropping, we reduce 
the amount of organic matters, or bring them into the 
fit condition to bear crops. 

The next class of waste lands, the second of our 
division, "sandy common," is in almost every respect 
the opposite of peat or moss, inasmuch as while moss is 
provided with a superabundance of organic matters, 
sandy common soil is singularly deficient in them ; so 
that the operations have mainly in view to supply these 
to the soil. 

Of the reclamation of this second class of waste lands, 
"sandy common," the most notable instance, perhaps, 
is that of Bagshot Heath. The upper soil met with on 
this celebrated common is a dark sand, with an under- 
lying stratum of a ferruginous pan or crust of a most 
unpromising character ; so much so, that unless this is 
well stirred so as to reach the subsoil of clay and sand 
underlying the pan, there can be no culture carried 
out. In mixing this subsoil with the upper sand, the 
quickest mode of rendering the sand productive is met 
with. The best known, if not the most extensive 
system of reclamation carried out of this most unpro- 
mising land, is thut udopted by Mr. Hewitt Davis, who 
has written an account of his proceedings. The pre- 
liminary operation was to free the upper surface from 
the pools of stagnant water which were here and there 
to be met with. This was done by widening and deep- 
ening the old ditches, and making new ones, so as to 
enclose the land to be reclaimed. The land was thaw 



184 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

• 
trench-ploughed from 14 to 16 inches, bringing up a 
portion of the clayey subsoil above named. Every 
available means were adopted to procure manure ; the 
turf was burned to make ashes, sheds were built to pro- 
vide accommodation for cattle and pigs, so as to supply 
solid and liquid manure. The land was then drained 
with tiles placed 4 feet deep, and at distances from 40 
to 50 feet apart. The result of such operations, four 
years only after they were commenced, is thus described 
in the report of a deputation of the London Central 
Farmers' Club, sent to examine into the state of matters, 
so deep was the interest excited by them : — 

" A part of the farm now under cultivation has been 
redeemed from waste within the last four years ; it is a 
soil of the poorest description, consisting of light peat, 
sand, and gravel ; the subsoil is a loam, some of which, 
by means of trench ploughing, has been mixed with the 
upper soil. The leading features of the system adopted 
appeared to be deep draining, deep ploughing, and fine 
cultivation of the soil, icide drilling, horse-hoeing, and 
thin seeding. The party was much gratified at seeing on 
the farm the best field of Swedes to be seen for many 
miles round, a field of wheat estimated at five quarters 
per acre, and of barley at six. The mangold wurzel 
and potatoes were very fine; a field of beans, with 
turnips between the rows, attracted much attention. 
The crops generally were much superior to those grow- 
ing in the immediate neighbourhood on similar soil. 
These results go far to prove the superiority and 
soundness of the system." 

Of the third class of waste land, hilly " moorland," we 
have numerous instances of its successful reclamation ; 
perhaps, of these, the best published account is that of 
Mr. Robert Smith, of Emmetts Grange, Devon (pub- 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 185 

lished in the "Journal of the Royal Agricultural 
Society of England," vol. xvii.), a gentleman who has 
had most extensive experience in bringing land of this 
kind into cultivation. The moorlands treated of by 
Mr. Smith are those wild and open " as nature formed 
them," but at too high an elevution for the growth of 
grain to be successfully attempted. Moorlands of this 
class have not yet, as Mr. Smith remarks, received the 
attention which they deserve, and chiefly on account of 
their not being adapted for the growth of grain, for- 
getful of the importance of bringing, by means of them, 
a large addition to the produce of our stock markets. 
In bringing moorlands of this class into cultivation, 
Mr. Smith states that it is found best, after suitable 
plans and arrangements have been decided upon for the 
formation of roads and the setting out of plantations, 
to divide the farm into three distinct classes of land. 
The first is the hill top and rough land, which should 
be set out if possible in one block, to be appropriated 
to the " summering ground " of young cattle, store 
sheep, colts, and ponies ; in process of time this land 
to be " surface drained/' after the manner of Scotch 
sheep farms, a system which rapidly improves the land. 
The "second or middle class " of land is made up of the 
portions immediately below " the rough wet ground, or 
situated upon a southern aspect ; this is usually dry 
healthy ground," and in general set aside for arable 
cultivation. The third class " consists of the flats or 
marshes in the valleys, together with some portion of 
the adjacent hill sides, which should be laid out for 
pasture and water meadows/' 

The lands being thus classed, the first and most im- 
portant operation is that of draining, and with this we 
have not now to concern ourselves, the whole subject 



186 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

being thoroughly discussed in the volume on drainage 
ia this series, and being already touched upon in 
another part of this present volume ; a large amount 
of information will also be found in Mr. Smith's paper 
to which we have already made reference ; we there- 
fore turn to what Mr. Smith has given as regards the 
cultivation of the natural soil of the moorland farm. 

" The first ground selected for culture will naturally 
be near the house and yards, that some few small fields 
may be quickly broken up for roots and subsequent 
crops for the yet small but varied stock of the farm. 
Paring and burning the surface soil is the first step 
in the right direction towards improvement; then 
follow the usual ploughings, harrowings, dressings, &c, 
for the root crop, which is invariably a good one, and 
produced at a cheaper cost per ton than those grown 
upon the inland turnip soils. This may be lightly 
received, especially when we consider (at first sight) 
that the one is a rough, uncultivated, barren waste, 
and has to be reclaimed ; while the inland field savours 
of all the advuntages of improved culture ; these are 
wide odd 8 at starting, but when reduced to paper are 
not so formidable at the end of the race. 

Comparative Cost of cultivating an Acre of Hill Land, at an elevation 
of 1000 feet, against an Acre of Lincoln Heath, both being prepared 
for Turnips. 

Lincoln Heath, Turnip Fallow.* 

£ *. d. 

By rent and parochial rates 15 

By 3 ploughings, at 8s. each 14 

By cross-draggings, rollings, harrowings, drillings, 

manure, and seed, &c. 10 

By 20 bushels of bones, at 2*. 6d. (or other artificials 
to the same value) 2 10 

£5 9 

♦ The figures here given were given to the writer about eight years 
a^o by one of the best Lincoln Heath Farmers. 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 187 

Unreclaimed Waste (dry Land). 

£ s. d. 

By paring and burning 10 

By one ploughing, 8s., dragging, &c. 3*. 6d. . . 11 6 

By 2.} tons of lime, at 20* 2 10 

By rent and rates 7 6 

By sowing turnip seed 10 

£4 10 

"The weight of the root crop would in all probability 
be in favour of the new land. The ashes resulting 
from the burning of this thick coating of indigenous 
plants are found to be powerful agents for the produc- 
tion of roots, but little good is really effected without 
the aid of lime to mix with the fibrous earth, beyond 
the growth of a turnip of inferior size. . . . 

" The turnips have usually been drilled 14 inches 
apart on the flat, with a few loads of ashes per acre 
(collected in the home field), and the crops have fully 
realised my expectations. These have been partly 
consumed upon the land, and partly carted away on 
to neighbouring dry lands, taking especial care to 
have a good quantity in 'pits' for rough hill country 
weather. In the earliest stages of cultivation and 
progress, some portion of the turnip-land lias to be 
sown with oats, for the use of the yard ; this should 
be done (at as early a period as possible) in the month 
of March, and upon the land that was first cleared of 
its roots, the later eatage of roots being upon those 
lands that are intended to be sown down with artificial 
grasses, without a corn crop. 

" When the farm is sufficiently advanced, I much 
prefer the following course of cropping, for elevated 
lands : — 

" First year. — To pare and burn the natural herbage 
for a root crop, and apply 2£ tons of lime per acre, 



188 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

mixed in with a moderately thin furrow of soil, say 
2\ inches; this will produce 20 tons of turnips per 
acre, at a cost (as previously stated) of £4t 10s. — say £5 
per acre, or at the rate of £5 per ton. 

" Second year. — Formerly I adopted the plan of 
sowing two turnip crops in succession, for the reason that 
the second one was an inexpensive and convenient one, 
and enabled me to clean the land more effectually before 
sowing it down with grass seeds. 

€t My present plan is to seed out all lands after a turnip 
crop with artificial grasses, omitting the corn crop at 
this 6tage of culture, and until the new fibrous soil 
shall have had its frolic, and become more fixed and 
consolidated for the growth of corn. 

"When these grass seeds are sown, it is. both desirable 
and profitable to add half a dressing more lime (1^ 
tons) for their enjoyment and that of the farm stock 
when depasturing them; still it is an extra outlay 
of capital, that must be considered with reference 
to other expenses when so many other works are 
waiting to be performed, and these alike with tenant's 
capital. 

"Thus, after the turnips are consumed (chiefly upon 
the land), the land is carefully ploughed, cleaned, 
and sown with artificial grasses and rape seed, com- 
mencing the first week in April. 

"These young grasses will be ready to stock by the 
end of June, and, if allowed to get well established, 
they will usually fatten full ten sheep per acre ; and 
if care be taken to clear them occasionally, so that 
they sweeten and recover themselves, they will prove of 
infinite value up to Christmas. If they remain clear 
from the end of September for the ewes and lambs, 
which is a still better plan, they give a help over 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 189 

the inclemency of the months of March and April, 
after which they become first-rate pastures for the 
fattening of any class of stock, and maintain their 
comparative goodness for several years. 

" This plan of farming in an elevated country goes 
very far to conquer the climate, and enable the 
farmer to maintain a large and healthy flock of 
sheep; in fact it may be said to form the keystone 
to the whole structure — without it the building is in 
danger." 

A good example of the reclamation of the waste 
benty land of a hill district is described in a paper 
by Mr. Anderson, of Chapel Moffat, in the " Highland 
Society's Transactions." The district is in Annandale, 
in which the writer estimates there are no fewer than 
20,000 acres capable of being reclaimed, all under an 
altitude of 900 feet. Mr. Anderson, at the date of 
his report, had brought 70 acres, in patches of 5 acres, 
under cultivation ; changing u withered bent, not worth 
1*. per acre, to fine pasture, the value of which may 
be safely estimated at 12s" The soil operated upon 
is principally a moss some 4 inches deep, having a 
slight admixture of soil, the whole rests on a subsoil 
of hard till, and the geological formation is the great 
Silurian or greywacke, so dark in colour as closely 
to resemble trap rock, for which, indeed, it is often 
mistaken. The produce of this moss land is a 
coarse, rough grass, called " bent," so unpalatable in its 
usual condition, as to be fit for the food of sheep only 
after the moor is burnt, and the consequent first 
growth is tender and young. The first operation is 
the " ploughing;" this, from the roughness of the rocky 
soil is necssarily a slow process, and should be done if 
possible during a black frost. A feathered share or 



190 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

sock should be given to the plough, and ploughing 
down hill is recommended as the best. In early summer 
the portion of moss land thus ploughed should be limed 
at the rate of 60 cwt. per acre, and grass seeds sown 
and harrowed in. Rye- grass is alone used, but under 
the influence of the lime and the action of the atmo- 
sphere white clover and other natural grasses soon 
appear. Heather covered land has been brought under 
cultivation by the same method, 20 per cent, more of 
lime being given. 

A very notable instance of the reclamation of u woody 
land," the fourth class of waste land to be noticed, is 
that curried out at Wichwood Forest, in Oxfordshire. 
This was a royal forest, comprising nearly 4,000 acres, 
was stocked with deer, and was subject to the rights 
of the crown, the hereditary ranger, and several private 
individuals. *In 1853, however, an Act of Parliament 
was obtained for its disforestment. The first opera- 
tion carried out by the commissioners under the Act, 
was laying out roads and building the boundary walls. 
The deer were next got rid of, partly by removal to 
other places, but chiefly by slaughter. The removal 
of the brushwood and timber was next proceeded with. 
The larger trees were removed by the aid of Fowler's 
apparatus, and the whole was performed in such a way 
that a clear balance of £10,531 remained in favour 
of the commissioners from the sale of the timber. The 
grubbing of the cleared land was next done ; and this 
in many places was a work of no small lubour, from 
the " complete network of roots which spread through 
the soil," and the hard, tough stumps of trees that had 
been formerly felled, and which remained in the ground. 
The work, however, was accomplished at a cost of 
70s. per acre. The fences dividing the grubbed lands 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 191 

were then put up, being made of whitethorn quicks, 
protected on each side by rough rails. The strip of 
land occupied by the quicks was three feet wide, and 
trenched. The land thus far reclaimed was then 
divided into seven farms, and let by tender, the " net 
annual improved income " resulting therefrom being 
J3,291 Os. &d. 

The modes adapted by the occupiers of the various 
farms to bring their land under proper cultivation 
differed, as may be supposed, according to circum- 
stances, or the peculiar views held by them ; but on 
one farm, Potter's 'Hill, the system adapted was "so 
novel, skilful, and economical," as to call forth special 
commendation. In Mr. Belcher's account of the dis- 
foresting and reclaiming operation in the " Journal 
of the Royal Agricultural Society/' there is a descrip- 
tion given of this system, which we here reproduce 
for the benefit of our readers : — 

"This farm comprises 475 acres, the whole of which, 
with the exception of 8 acres, was rough forest land. 
According to the terms of the agreement, 10 acres 
were to remain as copsewood, and about 14 acres to 
be kept in pasture : therefore there remained in round 
numbers 450 acres to be used as arable land by the 
tenant. The whole of this land would have been 
cropped the first season, had not some of the hewn 
timber been placed on certain portions of the farm, 
and an agreement entered into with persons who 
purchased wood for the manufacture of charcoal, that 
they should be allowed space and turf for their fires, 
and roadways to draw off the produce during the 
summer months of 1858. 

"In the spring of 1858, 320 acres were planted 
with oats; and in the summer of the same year 99 



192 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

acres were sown with Swedes and turnips. The cul- 
tivation for these crops was done by hand labour; 
the men worked in gangs of eight, ten, or sixteen 
together. 

" For the oat crop the ground was breast ploughed 
about \\ inch deep ; and as soon as it was sufficiently 
dry it was dragged and harrowed by horses. More 
li arrowing was required in the roughest places than 
in other parts where less brushwood had grown. Every 
opportunity was taken when the weather was dry to 
rake together and burn the pieces of turf and rubbish 
that the ploughs had pared off, and the harrows 
scratched out. By this plan immense quantities of 
ashes were made : some of them were carted to large 
heaps for future use, and the remainder spread evenly 
on the surface. The oats were then sown broadcast 
(about 4 bushels per acre), then the breast ploughs 
with another furrow buried the seed-corn and ashes 
together on the firm ground; an ordinary roller followed ; 
and after that a bush-harrow was drawn over the surface 
to fill the seams left by the breast-ploughs. I should 
mention that men had previously been engaged in 
grubbing up small roots and rough places that were 
likely to impede the work. 

" The ground allotted for the turnip crop was treated 
in the same manner as the oat land, except that it had 
more harrowing, dragging, and rolling to get it into 
fine tilth, and was breast-ploughed a third time. After 
receiving a dressing of artificial manure, composed of 
two- thirds superphosphate and one -third Peruvian 
guano, the turnip seeds were sown broadcast after the 
third ploughing, and merely bush-harrowed once ; the 
surface was then made firm with an iron roller. 

"On this farm there were nearly six miles of the 



EBCLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 193 

high banks and deep ditches, the boundaries of the 
old coppices. These were all lowered ; but it was not 
thought advisable to level them entirely in the first 
year. Since then they have been still further reduced 
by ploughing deep furrows inwards; or where the 
banks were too steep for this work, they have been 
thrown down by picks and shovels. 

"As to the produce of the first corn crops, it may 
be sufficient to state that they were at least equal to an 
average of the returns from the old cultivated lands of 
the district. The first crop of Swedes and turnips was 
undoubtedly far superior to the general crops of the 
locality. Up to the present season (1863) this farm 
has been cultivated by the breast ploughs instead of 
horse ploughs, and the crops have been satisfactory to 
the occupier. Whether this plan will be continued, or 
a steam cultivator or horse ploughs used, is a matter for 
future consideration. " 

The following tables show the prices paid for 
the different works performed both by owner and 
occupier: — 

Owner's Work. 

R TtL"t7ckS ad!, : g di f i ^} ; e3 0,to£ 4 8,. P erchn i u.. 

Building boundary walls, 4 feet 3 i 

inches high, including digging I £1 45. to £1 6*. „ 
etones and cartage ... J 

Draining 4 feet deep, including the j £ £6 Q 

pipes and superintendence . . J ^ ' 

Clearing the land of timber and ] 

grubbing the same, including v£2 105. to ^3 10«. „ 
superintendence . . .J 

Fencing with thorn quicks , includ- "1 

ing trenching the ground, sup- I «- . . 

plying posts and rails, and keep- [ X1 *** P er cnain - 
ing all in order for 5 years . J 



194 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

Price List op Tenant's Work, Potter's Hill Farm. 

Breast ploughing and burning, and | £l 2 £l ^ 
spreading the ashes first time . J x 

Breast ploughing the oats in, or"! 
breast ploughing the second time 1 18s. n 

for turnips . . . .J 

Breast ploughing the third time for \ Q . n f , 

turnips . . . . " . ) **" W8m > W lu * * 

Grubbing stray roots, &a, before \ - . R 
breast ploughing the first time ) os ' w M * M 

Throwing down old banks, and ") 1 8. to 3*. per chain, accord- 
filling old ditches • . . j ing to the work required. 

The following is the course of cropping proposed, 
and the remarks thereon by Mr. Belcher : — 

' Swedes, turnips, mangolds, and other 
green crops, manured with yard dung, 
v artificial manure, or both. 
! Barley ; with this crop clover-seeds to 
be sown, or on a portion clover may be 
omitted. 
Clover or beans, with dung. 
Wheat, dunged before or after planting. 
22 acres late sown white Swedes or man- 
golds, dunged or dressed with 
artificial manure. 
33 „ beans and peas. 
33 „ oats, to be dressed with guano. 

88 „ 

" By the above plan it will be seen that every year 
one-fourth of the land will be planted with Swedes and 
turnips ; and the twenty- two acres of late, sown white 
Swedes or mangolds, in No. 5, will be in turnip crop 
the following year. All the barley land may be sown 
in good season, although the sheep may be eating 
Swedes and mangolds long after it is desirable to finish 
barley sowing. By the foregoing plan the clover will 
be grown on the same land not more often than once in 
five years ; and it is hoped that the failure of the clover 



1st year, 


88 


acres 


2nd „ 


88 


» 


3rd „ 
4th „ 


88 
88 




5th „ 


88 


» 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 195 

crop will thus be avoided. Circumstances may pro- 
bably arise to cause an alteration in the proposed 
cropping ; for, as the late lamented Philip Pusey, Esq., 
justly remarked, that ' in rural affairs what was some- 
times a good practice on the hills was a bad one in the 
valleys/ so may we say that a course of cropping that 
is considered good in the year 1863, may be found in 
the year 1873 lagging far behind the best of that 
distant day," 

We have now, in conclusion, to describe the mode of 
" reclaiming land from the sea or from the flat banks of 
tidal rivers." There are two modes of reclaiming lands 
of this sort — (1) by keeping out the waters from a 
certain tract of land bordering the sea by means of 
embankments allowing the water to drain gradually 
off, or having it pumped out either by steam or wind 
power from the enclosed space; and (2) by the pro- 
cess called "warping/' In describing the first of these 
modes we shall follow chiefly a paper on the subject 
which we contributed to the " Journal of Agriculture, 
and Transactions of the Highland Society of Scotland " 
(No. 78), premising that the system will only be generally 
described, the details being found either in the paper 
alluded to, or, what will answer the purpose of the 
reader desirous to gain the fullest information on the 
subject, in Mr. Wiggins' treatise on " Embanking Lands 
from the Sea," which forms a part of this series ^of 
Rudimentary Treatises. 

'^Embanking, although in its simplest elements by . 
no means involving complicated engineering projects 
or difficult processes of construction, is nevertheless 
often a difficult thing to carry out, and in many 
instances still more difficult to be maintained, from the 
variety of local circumstances, which are ever changing 

k2 



196 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

and ever introducing disturbing elements, which are 
as difficult to foresee as they are to be dealt with when 
encountered. Water is at once the subtlest and most 
powerful element with which the engineer has to deal ; 
and, acting in a thousand different ways, it requires 
often his unceasing vigilance to watch the first inroads 
and prevent its succeeding ravages. The formation 
of embankments is, in one sense then, a much easier 
thing than the .keeping of them in perfect repair when 
made, although this is by no means the popular view 
of the subject, as witness the remarkable indifference 
of the Middle Level Commissioners to the first inroads 
of the water in the embankment, which ultimately 
gave way under its powerfully penetrative influence, 
and flooded with years of comparative sterility districts 
which were remarkable for their fertility. Very marked 
the contrast, certainly, and painful the evidence of 
ignorance as to the power of water, as compared with 
the unceasing vigilance of those entrusted with the 
maintenance of the embankments which keep the low 
lands of Holland from the ravages of the deep. We 
all have read how closely this vigilance is exercised, 
and the Commissioners might have learned a lesson 
as to the value of immediate prevention from the story 
with which, surely, all are familiar, of a little lad who, 
watching on one of the embankments of Holland, saw 
wijth dismay the water making its way through a tiny 
aperture in the bank ; but knowing well the rapidity 
with which it would operate, and that no time was to 
be lost, thrust his little hand and arm in the gap to 
stop the flow, and lay there all the live-long winter 
night, exposed to the biting blast, till help came in 
the morning. That little boy's hand possibly saved a 
province from destruction." 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 197 

" The following is a description of the method of 
forming embankments in Holland, as given in Murray's 
1 Handbook : '— 

" The first thing necessary in the construction of 
these bulwarks is to secure a firm, solid foundation, suf- 
ficiently strong to support the immense weight to bo 
laid upon it, by ramming down the soil, and by 
laying a substratum of clay, or by driving in piles 
where it is incoherent. Were the foundation weak 
and porous, the water would dissolve and undermine it, 
and the dykes sink down into a hollow. The rampart 
is composed, as far as possible, of clay ; whenever that 
material is difficult to procure, the face of the dyke is 
made of clay, and the interior of earth, sand, and clay ; 
but clay alone is preferred, as being waterproof. The 
face of the dyke at the water side is made very sloping ; 
in river-dykes generally rising one foot in four or six, 
and in the great sea-dyke of Cappel still more gradually, 
as one foot in thirteen. It is protected, or, in a manner, 
thatched, by willow twigs, interwoven so as to form a 
sort of wicker-work, and the interstices are filled up 
with clay, puddled to render it compact. This wicker- 
work is renewed every three or four years, occasioning 
a considerable consumption of willow boughs, and the 
willow-tree is cultivated to a great extent for this pur- 
pose. The dykes are frequently planted with trees, 
as their spreading and interlacing roots assist greatly 
in binding the earth together. The base is often 
faced with masonry, and protected by vast heaps of 
stones, brought from a distance, and by rows of piles, 
driven into the ground, to form breakwaters to the 
fury of the waves. The upper part is covered with 
turf, and rises sometimes to the height of forty feet. 
The most stupendous of these embankments are the 



198 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

dykes of the Helder and of West Cappel, at the western 
extremity of the island of Walcheren. The annual 
expense of keeping in order each of these alone amounts 
to 75,900 guelders (about £6,400), while the sum total 
annually expended throughout Holland in the repair of 
the dykes, and regulation of water levels, varies from 
5,000,000 to 7,000,000 guelders (or nearly £600,000) ." 

" The very existence of the underlying lands of Hol- 
land depending upon the completeness of the embank- 
ments, it can easily be conceived with what care every 
measure is adopted by which this completeness is 
secured. A body of engineers, specially acquainted 
with the work, is appointed, whose duty is to keep 
themselves thoroughly conversant with the actual con- 
dition of the embankments, and on the first warning of 
danger to take instant measures for its averting." 

"The embankment of the sides of rivers flowing 
through alluvial districts, not rapid in themselves 
generally, nor liable to sudden rises or increase of 
volume through floods, is a matter of comparatively 
easy attainment. The danger in such cases is yielding 
to the temptation to gain an extra spot of reclaimed 
land by contracting the flow of the river; it should 
not be forgotten, when temptation of this kind arises, 
that all undue contraction of the body of the river 
only increases its depth and consequent erosive and 
sweeping force ; so that we endanger the very safety 
of the embankment we purposely raise to keep it out. 
The great aim of the engineer in such cases is so to 
arrange the embankments that they force the body of 
the water into the centre of the stream, where its force 
will be expended, if expended at all, in deepening 
the central channel or bed, and thus relieving from 
pressure the embankments at the side. The material 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 199 

of which the embankment is to be made will, of course, 
depend much upon the locality ; of the various mate- 
rials in use for such purposes, clay may be said to 
be the best, sand the worst. The surface of the 
embankment should be smooth, and such as to resist 
the erosive action of the water. The more the water 
is enabled to roll over the surface the better ; this 
will be best attained if the slope of the embankment 
towards the river side has a rise of 1 foot perpendicular 
to every 3 feet horizontal. The slope on the inner 
side — that is, towards the reclaimed land— having to 
resist the front pressure, is made more abrupt, having 
usually 1 foot of vertical rise to \\ of horizontal. 
The formation of the base of the embankment is a 
matter of great importance ; some writers recommend 
the materials to be placed at once upon the upper 
surface of the grassy bank. This may be good under" 
certain circumstances ; but in view of the penetrative 
power of water, it will be the safer plan to cut a trench 
along the line of embankment wider than its intended 
base; carefully puddling it up to the level. If, how- 
ever, the natural bed on which the embankment is 
to rest be rock of an uneven character, it will be 
necessary not to cut a trench or expose this, and for 
this reason, that the natural rocky bed will in all 
probability be so disposed, that it will not allow of 
any filtration of water through it; but if it is disturbed 
by cutting a trench or by levelling it for the placing 
of the embankment, the probability is that there will be 
fissures opened up which will admit the water to the 
base of the embankment, or pass it from the outside 
to the inside, and thus endanger it. Where the centre of 
the embankment has to be puddled with clay, in cases 
where the material employed is of a loose, porous 



200 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

character, the greatest care should be taken to make 
the successive layers or " tips," as they are technically 
called, as thin as possible, well ramming each down 
before placing the other on it, and thus securing — 
what is essential in such structures — a thorough incor- 
poration of the whole materials. 

The surface of the embankment is generally finished 
off with turf, and which is made to bear a crop of grass, 
as the Poa reptans, or creeping meadow-grass. The 
mode of laying the turf will be found described in the 
treatise already alluded to. Stones are often used to 
face the embankment where it is much exposed. By 
far the best mode of securing the stone facing of an 
embankment, is to drive in a series of piles, a a a a, in 

a a a a 

Q... .......... Q . -_._--.Q--_.__- Q 



b 



b 



e o- e - o 

a a a a 

parallel lines with each other, sawing off the heads of 
these flush, and spiking down to them longitudinal caps 
of timber, b b, and transverse, c o, thus forming a series 
of squares, in the interior of which the stones are 
firmly set. Stones are also useful to protect the original 
banks of a river, which, from their soft nature, are 
apt easily to be washed away by the water. It will 
be well in such cases to slope the bank, regularly 
depositing the stones at the base, driving in here and 
there piles, or a row of piles ; the stones should be thrown 
in, or rather carefully placed, so that their upper sur- 
face, when the deposit is finished, shall be as smooth as 
possible. "The expense," as we have remarked in 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 201 

the paper already alluded to, "of repairing the banks 
of rivers flowing through alluvial districts is in many 
instances so heavy that the rent is sometimes nearly 
if not quite absorbed in the repairs. We know of a 
Case where for several years the whole of the rent had 
•)een taken up in repairs, and yet in default of these 
ontinuous repairs, one year had seen so much damage 
lone that three times the rent had to be expended in 
making it good. 

" Mr. G. Poole several years ago sent to the ' Roynl 
Agricultural Society's Journal * a description of a 
method of repairing the slip of a bank, which he had 
adopted with economy and success. He first tried 
the ordinary mode, by placing layers of thorns on 
the surface of the mud at low water. These layers 
were parallel to the stream, and were secured by pegs 
to piles. These piles were driven into the mud on 
each side of the stream, the depth to which they were 
driven being 6 or 7 feet. A second layer of thorns 
was placed farther up, in order to support the towing 
path, and were secured to piles as before. These 
arrangements not being successful, heavy stones to 
the weight of many tons were placed upon the thorns. 
After a time the work settled, but it moved more 
than once afterwards, and in no case was the deposit 
of mud satisfactory. On examining other works on 
the river, Mr. Poole found that the low-water works 
generally, whether loaded with stones, were unsuccess- 
ful, and frequently stood out in the bed of the river, the 
tide having iormed a channel between them and the 
bank. Mr. Poole further observed that wherever there 
was a division between two fields, with bars running 
down the river bank, the bank was almost invariably 
gaining on the river. The cause of this was evident. 
K3 



202 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



The tides rising in the river to a height in some cases 
of more than 20 feet, flowed with great rupidity, and 
brought up with them large quantities of mud in 
solution, weeds, &c. These being caught by the bars, 
were gradually deposited. Mr. Poole therefore deter- 
h mined to contrive something to have 
^a a similar effect ; and after trying 
many plans, finally adopted the 
following : — Stout hedges of dead 
thorns were trenched into the bank 
from high to low water mark, the 
depth to which the thorns were trenched being 2 feet, 
5 feet being left, as in diagram above. The thorns 
were at right angles to the stream, thus — a a the 
bank, b b the lines of thorns. 

" In cases where the bank was very steep, it was neces- 
sary to trench in another line parallel to the stream, as 




a 

c 






b 


a 
c 



the line c. This was placed at low water-mark, and 
connected the rows b b together, and prevented the mud 
which was collected between the rows from dropping 
into the river. ' It is essential,' says Mr. Poole, * to 
the success of this plan, thut the thorns should be 
at least 7 feet in length, and that any hedge that 
is made parallel with the stream should be as low 
down the bank as possible, for if placed on the steep 
side of the bank, it will frequently be unable to support 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 203 

the weight of mud which will accumulate upon it. I 
have now tried this system long enough to satisfy 
myself that it collects the mud more rapidly, and is 
infinitely cheaper, than any other system which has 
been tried on this river. The apparent slightness of 
the material, and its perishable nature, may at first sight 
be considered objections, but they are not so. I have 
never known these hedges washed away; the rapid 
collection of mud effectually secures them, and the 
only injury they are likely to receive is from a ship 
occasionally making a gap in them in passing up or 
down the river. This, however, is easily repaired. 
The material also will not decay before it has effected 
its purpose. If the hedges are put in at the right 
places, in the right way, and of sufficient height, a 
few months, and frequently a few weeks, will cover 
them with mud, and a hole in the bank, large enough 
for a schooner to lie in, will be entirely filled up. 

" ' Thorns are delivered on the bank of the river 
at 10s. per waggon load, which contains 60 bundles. 
The labour of trenching them in costs 2s. 6d. a waggon 
load more. It takes about a waggon load of thorns 
on an average to make one hedge from high-water 
mark to low- water mark ; but this of course varies 
greatly. The old system of piles and stones, in addi- 
tion to thorns, was infinitely more expensive and 
less effective; and, at the same time, the piles were 
seldom of sufficient length to be of any service as a 
support to the bank ; whilst they exposed the land- 
owner to the risk of an action being brought against 
him for the injury which they frequently did to the 
shipping.' " 

Where the banks of a sea margin exposed to the 
action of the waves are at some height above the 



204 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

sea level, and the character of their soil is soft and 
yielding, it is necessary to reduce as much as possible 
their vertical height, and make their surface sloping. 



This will best be done by cutting off the shoulder a, 
and using the material thus obtained in filling up 
the part 6. The sloping surface shown by the dotted 
line should then be finished by stone or by turf. 
The action of the waves on the face of the embank- 
ment will be much lessened if a row of piles, as shown 
by the line c, be driven in at the foot. Where sea- 
walls have to be built for the protection of enclosed 
or valuable land, the point amongst engineers is dis- 
puted os to whether they should have a long slope 
seawards, or be made vertical. The advanced opinion 
of the profession is, however, more in favour of the 
vertical wall, or rather a combination of the vertical 
with the slope, as in the annexed diagram ; the slope 
<^l in this case being formed 

in the usual way by 
loose rubble stones, the 
vertical wall being of 
^°P$ so ^ masonry. 

The author of the 
present treatise has paid 
' considerable attention 
to the subject of embankments, and has devoted some 



-dS 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 205 

time to the investigation of the fine examples met 
with on the Continent; the result being what he 
conceives to be an improved and economical mode of 
forming embankments. The following letter addressed 
to the Times by him, on the occasion of the too celebrated 
failure of the Middle Level embankment in the Fen 
districts, will convey to the reader some idea of the 
principle he proposes : — 

" To the Editor of the ' Times. 9 

"THE MIDDLE LEVEL INUNDATION. 

"Sir, — The failure, as recorded in your paper of 
yesterday, of the means adopted by the engineers to 
make good the embankment induces me to address you 
on the subject. 

"Water is remarkable for two properties — its pene- 
trating and depositing powers. The penetrating power 
is that which mainly works against the engineer in 
cases such as that now under consideration ; the depo- 
siting power, that which works in his favour. Both 
are gradual in their operation, but the penetrating 
power acts infinitely more rapid than the depositing. 
It is because this gradual depositing power has not 
been fully taken advantage of, that I believe the means 
hitherto adopted to stop the gap have not succeeded. 
Throw out into a stream or river passing through an 
alluvial distance a line of strong interlaced wicker- 
work: the water will at first flow through this with 
comparatively little loss of its force ; but the flow will 
graduallj r diminish, as the deposition of matter takes 
place, till at last a wall, so to speak, of a comparatively 
impenetrable character is formed, and the stream is 
deflected from it, as from a pier or a jetty. Slight as its 



206 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

hold is upon the bottom of the river, it is never under- 
washed ; and behind it a resisting power of gradually 
increasing strength is formed. 

"Taking a lesson from this, as well as from other 
points of engineering experience not necessary here to 
be alluded to, I would have acted thus in my attempt 
to stop the gap. I would have constructed strong 
timber cradles, with braced sides and bottoms, but 
open on all sides. These I would have floated up to 
the gap, and moored to the land by chains attached 
to Fowler's steam plough or other form of anchor. I 
would then have gradually sunk them, by throwing 
into their interior, stones well broken, bricks, &c, care- 
fully avoiding all attempts to give a solid character to 
their contents. Weight of material, but with an openness 
of texture, so to speak, would have been what I would 
have aimed at. At this stage of my operations I 
would have secured, first, a body open enough to allow 
the water to flow freely through, yet heavy enough 
and well enough secured to prevent its being borne 
away by the flow; second, a series of nuclei, behind 
and between which deposited matter would have been 
gradually left; and, third, a resisting point, behind 
which I would have gradually accumulated my clay 
bags. Even these I would have thrown in with ex- 
treme caution at first, with a view not to obtain at 
once a solid, but rather a straining or filtering material, 
which the water itself would ultimately have made 
6olid. Succeeding details of operation I need not here 
trouble you with. 

"To attempt to stem a flow of water at once, by 
means of a solid obstruction opposed to it, when the bed 
of the river is soft and yielding, is, to my mind, as 
unwise as would be the attempt of a man, by a single 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 207 

and ins tan taneously-put- forth exertion of his physical 
power, to put in motion a loaded truck standing upon 
the rails, or to close a heavy gate. In the attempt he 
might burst a blood-vessel or strain a sinew, but he 
would likely see the truck or the gate unmoved. By 
gradually exerting his powers he would attain his 
object. 

"This gradual stemming of the force of flowing 
streams in alluvial districts, by taking advantage of its 
gradually depositing powers, seems to me the likeliest 
way to succeed in cases similar to the present. 

" In the face of the men of highest standing who are 
entrusted with the conduct of this important under- 
taking, I put forward my opinion with the utmost 
diffidence. But, to borrow a simile from the cata- 
strophe which lias called forth their ingenuity, it is 
the duty of every one on such an emergency to throw 
in his bag in the attempt to stop the gap ; not less a 
duty although he may be conscious that his bag will at 
once be swept away and be worthless. * In writing thus 
to you I throw in my bag, even although it should be 
worthless too. 

" I do not say that my plan would certainly succeed. 
Where difficulties are so great, distrust in the plan 
proposed to overcome them may well be allowed ; but 
I nevertheless venture to think that it carries with it 
some of the elements of success. 

" I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
- "An Agricultural Engineer." 

The following, which has appeared elsewhere, will 
further explain the general details of our system : — 

"The invention has for its object an improved 
method of forming river or sea embankments, either 



208 OUTLINES OP MODERN FARMING. 

in deep or shallow water, which method consists in 
the employment of peculiarly shaped and constructed 
framework, to form the body or nucleus of the em- 
bankment, and which framework is used in manner as 
follows. The framework of timber, iron, or other 
material, being made in convenient lengths, is placed 
in the position along the margin of the river or that 
part of the sea where the embankment is intended to be 
situated. "Where the depth of water allows of it, as at 
the banks of a river or the margin of the sea, the 
framework mny be constructed at once in the place 
where the embankment is intended to be, or it mny 
be made at any place conveniently situated near the 
intended site of embankment, and conveyed in tracks, 
boats, or otherwise, to the site of embankment. On 
the framework being placed in position, the internal 
space is filled up, partially or wholly, according to cir- 
cumstances, with stones, broken bricks, or other heavy 
material, and, when necessary, further secured by 
ordinary piles, or screw piles, or by any other form of 
anchorage considered best under the circumstances. 
Under certain circumstances, we do not consider that 
the securing of the framework by such means will be 
necessary, but that its weight and gradual settlement in 
the bed of the river or margin of the sea will be sufficient 
to keep the framework in position. Where the frame- 
work is made up of various lengths, they are brought 
close up together, and secured, if considered necessary, 
by bolts or by other means. The framework being placed 
on the site of the embankment and treated as above 
lescribed, is allowed to remain for such time as tho 
circumstances of the particular case in which it may 
be employed may decide, during which time the influx 
and efflux of the water of the river or of the sea is 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 209 

allowed to bring with them and deposit — as the water 
flows and reflows through the interstices of the framing, 
and the stones, bricks, or other material by which its 
interior is filled — such detritus, silt, sea- weed, or other 
material which it brings with it. As soon as circum- 
stances decide, the finishing of the covering or external 
part of the embankment is commenced by throwing in 
on either side masses of clay, sand, earth, stone, or 
'concrete/ this being done at once, or proceeded with 
at intervals according as circumstances may dictate, 
and till the framework is wholly or partially covered. 
When the internal framework is covered with such 
material, and to such height and thickness as may 
be deemed desirable under the circumstances of the 
locality, &c. &c, the upper surface of the embankment 
is to be finished in the usual style, by a covering of 
earth, stones, or turf. We also propose to adopt to the 
framework, when required, sluices, drains, culverts, or 
sewers — at such parts and in such a way as may be 
deemed advisable — to pass water from one side of the 
embankment to the other, either for the purpose of 
drainage or irrigation. We also propose to adopt to 
the framework certain parts by which a light iron rail 
or tramway can be constructed at the upper part of 
the embankment, by means of which trucks can bo 
conveyed from one part of the embankment to the 
other; which rail or tramway may be made available 
for carrying material to finish the embankment at 
parts required, or for any other purpose, or for the 
conveyance of a portable steam engine, the power of 
which may be employed to pump water from one part 
to another, or for any other purpose required. 

" In cases where the embankment is to be made in 
deep water, either for the purpose of protecting a space 



210 



OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 



from the action of the waves, or for filling up a gap in 
a line of embankment, we propose to make the frame- 
work at some convenient place, float it upon the 
intended site, and deposit it thereon by gradually sink- 
ing it by filling the interior with stones, bricks, or 
other material. When deposited in its place, we propose 
to retain it there either by its own weight or by such 
means as circumstances may determine. The external 
part of the embankment is to be formed by throwing in 
stones or other material on both sides of the framework 
till it is wholly or partially covered with such a thick- 
ness of material as circumstances may dictate. If the 
embankment is designed to be permanently or usually 
under water, the covering may be made as above ; but 
if part of it is to be above the water line, the part so 
exposed may be furnished as desired by a covering of 
stone or turf." 

The drainage of enclosed lands is a most important 



Depth from 
btoa. 


Width from 
etod. 


With from 
eto/. 


Cubic feet drain off per 

minute, the drain 

having a fali of 18" to 

the mile. 


3 feet. 

2 feet 6 in. 

2 feet. 


18 feet. 
15 „ 
10 „ 


6 feet. 
5 „ 
2 „ 


4,642 
2,880 
1,193 



RECLAMATION OP WASTE LAND. 211 

part of their economy ; the drains are frequently made 
of too small dimensions ; it is better to err in excess 
than in deficiency. The accompanying diagram and 
table will give some information as to the dimensions 
suited to draw off certain quantities, the fall or inclina- 
tion being eighteen inches to the mile. 

The drains in an enclosed space — where the relative 
level of the river or sea margin is such as to allow of a 
certain fall — may be arranged as in the diagram below. 



d 

r M 



Enclosed S Space. 



9\ J\ 



a Kiver. 6 

The " catch water " drain, enclosing the land, and which 
takes up the water draining from the surrounding and 
outside land, is shown by the dotted line abed, the 
ends a b falling into the river, and provided at these 
points with sluice gates or hatches, by which the water 
may be retained for irrigating the enclosed space. 
This is done by allowing the water in the catch drain 
a b c d to accumulate by closing the hatches at a and 
b, and to be passed into the drain or channel efby a 
sluice or hatch, at e, the water shedding over on both 
sides of the channel e f in the direction of a d b c. 
Parallel to the catch drain another drain of less 
dimensions is placed, as g h i j. The whole of the 
enclosed space is drained by small drain- tubes, all of 
which fall into the drain g h ij. In this supposed case 



212 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the level of the river is presumed to be lower than 
those of the drains a dc b, g h ij, so that the con- 
tained water is easily drawn off when required. But 
in some cases these conditions are so reversed that the 
river is higher than the enclosed laud ; it is necessary, 
therefore, to use power to pump up the water in the 
drains, and. discharge it into the river. This may be 
done by a windmill placed on the embankment, work- 
ing, as in Holland, a scoop wheel; or a steam engine 
working a centrifugal pump, as in the Fen district of 
England. For a full description of mechanism adapted 
to this kind of work, see the " Rudimentary Treatise on 
the Power of Water/' by Mr. Glynn, in this Series. 

A good example of the drainage by steam engine 
and scoop wheel of land reclaimed from the sea is to be 
met with at the Martin Mere, near Southport, Lan- 
cashire. The embankments- were constructed from the 
material obtained by the exaavation of the large catch 
drains, 25 cubic feet of excavated material being re- 
quired to form 20 cubic feet of embankment. The 
slope of the embankment is If to 1, the width at 
base 16 feet, the vertical height 4 feet, the width at 
top 2 feet. The centre of the embankment was formed 
by a core of puddled clay, 2 feet in thickness, and 
reaching from base to top, or rather, from a distance 
of 2 feet below the base line. At a distance of 19 feet 
from the base of the embankment the catch drain or 
ditch was formed, the depth of this being 9 feet, the 
width at top 11 feet, and at base 4 feet 6 inches. The 
water is emptied from the drain by a steam engine of 
20 horse power, working a scoop wheel 30 feet diameter, 
and working in a race or channel 164 inches in breadth. 
The wheel revolves with a speed of 4J revolutions per 
minute, giving a velocity at the periphery of 400 feet 



KECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 213 

per minute, which is found to bo the best speed for 
working. 

We have now to describe the process of reclaiming 
land on the borders of tidal rivers, or at the point 
where these empty themselves into the sea, and which 
rivers, flowing through alluvial districts, bear with 
them vast quantities of deposited matte*. The forma- 
tion of land at the deltas of rivers or on their banks is 
often seen going on under natural or ordinary circum- 
stances, where, by the overflowing of the river over a 
certain portion of land, the earthy matter held in sus- 
pension is deposited, and when the water subsides, is 
left on the land. To aid this natural formation of 
land, the practice is often adopted in such districts as 
are named above, of throwing out in a direction at 
right angles, or at lesser angles, to the flow of the 
river, lines of stakes, stretching from the bank for 
some distance towards the centre of the river. Between 
these stakes, faggots or wicker-work are interlined. 
The river, bearing soil in suspension, comes in contact 
with these materials, and portions are retained by 
them, and in process of time banks of soil are thrown 
up against the stakes, and, ultimately, level, or com- 
paratively level, tracks of soil are formed between the 
lines. 

Where "warping" is carried out on a large scale, 
'the land desired to be formed by its agency is enclosed 
by banks or dykes formed in one of the ways described 
in the treatise we have already alluded to. In these, 
sluices are formed, by which the river or the water 
can be admitted to or withdrawn from the enclosed 
space at pleasure. In a tidal river the sluices are 
opened when tho tide is flowing upwards against the 
ordinary course of the river, aud the water entering 



214 OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. 

the enclosed space gradually covers its surface. When 
the level of the water in the space is the same as that 
of the river outside, the sluices are closed, and the 
water allowed to remain quiescent ; all the suspended 
matter is gradually deposited. The water is then gra- 
dually drawn off by opening the sluices when the tide 
is ebbing, that.is, when the flow of the tide and of the 
river are both in the same direction. The process now 
described is repeated as often as necessary, till a cer- 
tain thickness of soil is obtained, which being allowed 
to dry, can be ploughed and brought under cultivation. 
At first the soil thus obtained appears to possess little 
fertility; but by being allowed to get dry, and by 
working it, it ultimately bears splendid crops, without 
manure, alike of green or white crops, flax being 
especially an admirable crop on such soils. What are 
called the " Polder lands " of Belgium and Holland are 
obtained by reclaiming lands from the sea, or from the 
margin of rivers, or the canals of drainage, at their 
point of debouchement into it. In land thus obtained 
the "fullow" forms an important part of the course of 
culture. The following is a rotation adopted in one of 
the Polders : — First year, fallow ; second year, barley ; 
third year, beans; fourth year, wheat; fifth year, beans; 
sixth year, wheat ; seventh year, fallow, with clover ; 
eighth year, wheat ; ninth year, potatoes and carrots ; 
tenth year, oats. 

In concluding our remarks upon the reclamation of 
waste lands, we must draw special attention to the im- 
portance of shelter obtained through fences or belts of trees 
judiciously placed. Good shelter is indeed so important, 
that in place of being merely an auxiliary, it is entitled 
to be called — as by one of its advocates it has been 
called — " a necessary and indispensable preliminary to 



RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. 215 

all improvement ; at least if we would have it duly 
profitable. " For full details as to the best mode of 
securing this important help in the improvement of our 
land, the reader must be referred to other works, which 
treat the subject of Modern Farming exhaustively, the 
scope of this outline treatise preventing us from doing 
more than merely allude, as we have alluded, to the 
importance of the subject. 



INDEX. 



Agricultural constituents of town sew- 
age, 12 

Banks of rivers, repairing slips of, 201 
Bickford's system of irrigation, 126 
Bulk in a manure, consideration of, 21 

Catch-work system of irrigating, 124 
Constituents of town sewage, 10 
Continental modes of irrigation, 158 
Crops to which sewage is applicable, 35 

Deodorisation of sewage, 65 

Details of appliances used in applying 
sewage to the irrigation of land, 131 

Details of ridge and furrow system of 
irrigating, 120 

Drainage of enclosed lands, 210 

Drainage of the soil essential in irriga- 
tion, 98 

Embanking of land from the sea, 196 
Embanking of land along riven*, 199 
Embankments, another mode of form- 
ing, 205 
Enclosed lands, drainage of, 210 
Excreta, constituents of, 11 
Excreta, Moule's system of treating, 59 
Eureka system of treating sewage, 57 

Feeders for irrigated meadows, 137 
Fermentation of sewage, 40 

Grasses suited for irrigated fields, 162 

Human excreta, solid constituents of, 
11 

Irrigated fields, grasses suited for, 165 
Irrigated fields, management of, 165 



Irrigated fields, repair of, 160 
Irrigated meadows, feeders and drains 

for, 137 
Irrigated meadows, sluices for, 140 
Irrigating, catch-work system of, 124 
Irrigating, ridge and furrow system of, 

117 
Irrigating system of using sewage, 63 
Irrigation, Bickford's system of, 126 
Irrigation, continental modes of, 158 
Irrigation, drainage of the soil essen- 
tial in, 98 
Irrigation, Ellis's system of, 129 
Irrigation, how to judge of the quality 

or water used in, 84 
Irrigation, manuring water used for, 86 
Irrigation, measuring water required 

for, 106 
Irrigation of land, details of practical 

appliances used, 131 
Irrigation, quantity of water required 

for, 104 
Irrigation, quality of water used in, 81 
Irrigation, soils adapted for, 95 
Irrigation, theories of, 77 

Land along rivers, embanking of, 199. 
Land, embanking, from the sea, 196 
Land, modes of applying sewage to 

the, 50 
Land, reclaiming, on the borders of 

rivers, 212 
Land, waste, reclamation from the sea, 

195 
Land, waste, reclamation of, 170 
Lands, drainage of enclosed, 210 
Liquid system of using sewage, 60 

Management of irrigated fields, 165 
Manure, consideration of bulk, 21 



218 



INDEX. 



Measuring water required for irrigation, 

100 * 

Moorland, reclamation of, 184 
Moss laud, or boggy, reclamation of, 171 

Nature of town sewage, 7 

Pipe and jet system of applying sewage 
to land, details of, 146 

Pipe and jet system of sewage distribu- 
tion, Love's modification of, 156 

Pipe and jet system of using sewage, CO 

Reclaiming land on the borders of 

rivers, 212 
Reclamation of wasteland, 170 
Reclamation of moss or boggy 'and, 171 
Reclamation of land from the sea, 195 
Reclamation of " sandy common," 183 
Reclamation of moorland, 184 
Reclamation of woody land, 190 
Ridgo and furrow system of irrigating, 

117 
River banks, repairing slips of, 201 
Rivers, reclaiming land on the borders 

of, 212 

" Sandv common" land, reclamation of, 
183" 
. Sanitary features connected with sew- 
age, 17 

Sea, embanking of land from the, 196 

Sewage, application of, to lands, prac- 
tical details of appliances used, 131 

Sewage, Austin's system of applying, to 
land, 144 

Sewage, agricultural constituents of, 12 

Sewage, constituents of, 10 

Sewage, crops to which it is applicable, 
35 

Sewage, conclusions on the use of, by 
her Majesty's Commissioners, 71 

Sewage, deodorisation of, 65 
r Sewage, details of pipe and jet system 
of applying to land, 146 

Sewage, Eureka system of treating, 57 

Sewage, fermentation of, 40 

Sewage, irrigating system of using, 63 

Sewage, lime process of treating, 51 

Sewage, liquid system of using, 60 

Sewage, modes of applying, to land, 50 

Sewage, nature of, 7 

Sewage, objections to the " open distri- 



bution " system of applying, to land 
143 
Sewage, pipe and jet system of 

using, (K) 
Sewage question, prospects of, 73 
Sewage, statement of the points con- 
nected with, 2 
Sewage, sanitary features connected 

with, 17 » 

Sewage, soil to which it is applicable, 

29 
Sewage, solid system of treating, 51 
Sewage, town, popular fallacies con- 
nected with, 3 
Sewage, value of, 14 
Sewage) use of, at Croydon, 65 
Sewage, use of, at Edinburgh, 63 
Sewage, use of, at Rugby, 61 
Sluices for irrigated meadows, 140 
Soil, drainage of the, essential in irri- 
gation, 98 
Soil to which town sewage is appli- 
cable, 29 
Soils, nature of, used in irrigation, 95 
Solid system of treating sewage, 51 

Town sewage, popular fallacies con- 
nected with, 3 

Town sewage, statement of the points 
connected with, 2 

Urine, constituents of, 11 

Value of town sewage, 14 

Warping, 212 

Waste land, reclamation of, 170 

Waste land, reclamation of moss or 

i>oggy, 171 

Waste land, "sandy common/' recla- 
mation of, 183 

Waste land, woody waste, reclamation 
v>f, 190 

Water, manuring, used for irrigation, 86 

Water, measuring, required for irriga- 
tion, 106 

Water, quantity of, required for irriga- 
tion, 104 

Water used in irrigation, quantity of, 
81 

Water used in irrigation, how to judge 
of quality of, 84 

Woody land, reclamation of, 190 



LOUDON i PBINTED BY JAMES S. VIBTUB, CITY BOAD. 



UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME, 

And forming part of the Series of 

oirrufiES- of mmmn fammi& 

BY 

ROBERT SCOTT BURN. 

Vol. I. 

Cattle, Sheep, and Horses. 

Illustrated, 2s. Gd. 
Vol. II. 

Soils, Manures, and Crops. 

Illustrated, 2s. 
Vol. III. 

Notes, Historical and Practical, on 
Farming and Farming Economy. 

Illustrated, 3s. 
Vol. IV. 

The Management of the Dairy, Pigs, 
and Poultry. 

Illustrated, 2s. 
Or (complete with Vol. V.) bound in 2 Vols., cloth boards, price 14s. 



LONDON: 
VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 





PXtIZE MEDAL, INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1862, was 

awarded to Messrs. VIRTUE for the " publication of 

Weale's Series." 

See JURORS' REPORTS, 

CLASS XXIX. IH 



CATALOGUE 



RUDIMENTARY, SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 
CLASSICAL WORKS, 

FOR COLLEGES, HIGH AND ORDINARY SCHOOLS, 
AND SELF-INSTRUCTION; 

ALSO FOR 

MECHANICS' INSTITUTIONS, FREE LIBRARIES, &c. &c., 

PUBLISHED BY 

VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER, 
PATERNOSTER ROW. 



%* THE ENTIRE SERIES IS FREELY ILLUSTRATED ON WOOD 
AND STONE WHERE REQUISITE. 

The Public are respectfully informed that the whole of the 
late Mr. Weale's Publications, contained in the following Cata- 
logue, have been purchased by Virtue Brothers & Co., and 
that all future Orders will be supplied by them at 1, Amen 
Corner. 

*** Additional Volumes, by Popular Authors, are in Preparation. 

RUDIMENTARY SERIES. 

2. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, by Charles Tomlinson. 1?, 

12. PNEUMATICS, by Charles Tomlinson. Is. 

20. PERSPECTIVE, by George Pyne. 2s. 

27. PAINTING; or, A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING, by G. 
Field. 2s. 

40. GLASS STAINING, by Dr. M. A. Gessert, With an Appendix 

on the Art of Enamelling. Is, 
February, 1865. 



10 



NEW SERIES OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS. 



HISTORIES, GRAMMARS, AND DICTIONARIES. 






24. 
25. 

26. 



27. 
28. 



30. 
32. 



FRENCH GRAMMAR, by G. L. Strauss . 

DICTIONARY, by A. Elwes. 

Vol. 1. French— English . 

Vol. 2. English— French 



• Complete in 1 vol. 



, with Grammar 

ITALIAN GRAMMAR, by A. Elwes . 

' TRIGLOT DICTIONARY, by 

A. Elwes. Vol. 1. Italian — English — 
French 



■ Vol. 2. English—Italian— French 

■ Vol. 3. French — Italian— English 

■ Complete in 1 vol. 
, with Grammar 



34. SPANISH GRAMMAR, by A. Elwes . 
35. ENGLISH AND ENGLISH- 
SPANISH DICTIONARY, by A. Elwes . 
•, with Grammar 



39. 
40. 
41. 

42. 

43. 



GERMAN GRAMMAR, by G. L. Strauss . 

READER, from best Authors . 

TRIGLOT DICTIONARY, by 

N. E. Hamilton. Vol. 1. English— Ger- 
man — French 



- Vol. 2. German — English — French 
■ Vol. 3. French — English — German 

- Complete in 1 vol. 
-, with Grammar 



44. 



46. 



HEBREW DICTIONARY, by Dr. Breslau. 
Vol. 1. Hebrew — English 

, with Grammar 

Vol. 2. English— Hebrew 



Complete, with Grammar, in 2 vols. 

46*. GRAMMAR, by Dr. Breslau . 

47. FRENCH AND ENGLISH PHRASE BOOK 



/ 



8. d. 
1 

1 

1 6 

2 6 

1 



20 
20 
20 



1 
40 

1 
1 

1 
1 
1 
30 



60 
70 
30 

1 
1 



8. d. 



36 

46 



76 

86 



50 
60 



40 
50 



12 



8.d. 



40 
50 



8 6 
96 



56 
66 



46 
5 6 



14 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNEB. 



GREEK AND LATIN CLASSICS. 11 



GREEK AND LATIN CLASSICS, 

With Explanatory Notes in English, principally selected from the 
best German Commentators. 



LATIN SERIES. 

1. LATIN DELECTUS, with Vocabularies and Notes, by 

H. Young 1*. 

2. CAESAR'S GALLIC WAR ; Notes by H. Young . . 2s. 

3. CORNELIUS NEPOS; Notes by H.Young . . . Is. 

4. VIRGIL. The Georgics, Bucolics ; Notes by W. Rushton 

and H. Young 1*. 

5. VIRGIL'S J2NEID ; Notes by H. Young . . . 2s. 

6. HORACE. Odes and Epodes; Notes, Analysis and Ex- 

planation of Metres 1*. 

7. HORACE. Satires and Epistles ; Notes by W. B. Smith 1*. 6d. 

8. SALLUST. Catiline, Jugurtha ; Notes by W. M. Donne 1*. 6d. 

9. TERENCE. Andria and Heautontimorumenos ; Notes by 

J. Davies . . ~ . . . . . . ls.Gd. 

10. TERENCE. Adelphi, Hecyra/and Phormio; Notes by J. 

Davies . 2s. 

14. CICERO. De Amicitia, de Senectute, and Brutus ; Notes 

by W. B. Smith 2s. 

16. LIVY. Part I. Books i., ii., by H. Young . . 1*. Gd. 
16*. Part II. Books iii., iv., v., by H. Young . 1*. 6rf. 

17. Part III. Books xxi., xxii., by W. B. Smith . Is. 

19. CATULLUS, TIBULLUS, OVID, and PROPERTIUS, 

Selections from, by W. M. Donne . . . . 2s. 

20. SUETONIUS and the later Latin Writers, Selections from, 

byW. M.Donne .2s. 

Preparing for Press. 

11. CICERO. Orations against Catiline, for Sulla, for Archias, 

and for the Manilian Law. 

12. CICERO. First and Second Philippics ; Orations for Milo, for 

Marcellus, &c. 

13. CICERO. De Officiis. 

15. JUVENAL and PERSIUS. (The indelicate passages expunged.) 

18. TACITUS. Agricola ; Germania ; and Annals, Book i. 

VIRTUE BROTHERS 6 CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



12 



GREEK AND LATIN CLASSICS. 



2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

18. 
20. 
23. 
26. 
30. 
32. 
40. 
41. 



GREEK SERIES, 

ON A SIMILAR PLAN TO TUB LATIN SERIES. 

GREEK INTRODUCTORY READER, by H. Young. 

On the same plan as the Latin Reader . 
XENOPHON. Anabasis, i. ii. iii., by H. Young 
XENOPHON. Anabasis, iv. v. vi. vii., by H. Young 
LUCIAN. Select Dialogues, by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Iliad, i. to vi., by T. H. L. Leary . 
HOMER. Iliad, vii. to xii., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Iliad, xiii. to xviii., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Iliad, xix. to xxiv., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Odyssey, i. to vi., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Odyssey, vii. to xii., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Odyssey, xiii. to xviii., by T. H. L. Leary 
HOMER. Odyssey, xix. to xxiv. ; and Hymns., by T, 



R 
. Is. 

. Is. 
. 1*. 
1*.6<*. 
ls.M. 
ls.Gd. 
ls.Qd. 
l*.6d. 
ls.Gd. 
ls.Gd. 
H. 
. 2s. 

. 25. 

Is.Qd. 
Is. U. 



L. Leary 
PLATO. Apology, Crito, and Phaedo, by J. Davies 
HERODOTUS, i. ii., by T. H. L. Leary . 
HERODOTUS, iii. iv., by T. H. L. Leary 
HERODOTUS, v. vi. and part of vii., by T. H. L. Leary Is. 6d. 
HERODOTUS. Remainder of vii. viii. and ix., by T. H. 

L. Leary Is. 6d. 

SOPHOCLES; (Edipus Tyrranus, bv H. Young 
SOPHOCLES ; Antigone, by J. Milner . 
EURIPIDES ; Hecuba and Medea, by W. B. Smith 
EU RIPID ES; Alcestis, by J. Milner 
uESCHYLUS; Prometheus Yinctus, by J. Davies 
uESCHYLUS ; Septem contra Thebas, by J. Davies 
ARISTOPHANES ; Acharnians, by C. S. D. Townsend 



. 1*. 

. 25. 

ls.Qd. 
. Is. 
. Is. 
. Is. 
Is. 6d. 



THUCYDIDES, L, by H. Young Is. 

Preparing for Press. 



19. SOPHOCLES; (Edipus Co- 
lonceus. 

21. SOPHOCLES; Aiax. 

22. SOPHOCLES; Philoctetcs. 
25. EURIPIDES ; Hippolytus. 

27. EURIPIDES; Orestes. 

28. EURIPIDES. Extracts 
from the remaining plays. 

29. SOPHOCLES. Extracts 
from t ho rem aining plays. 

31. jESCHYLUS; Persa?. 
33. JESCHYLUS; Choephorae. 



34. uESC ITYL US ; Eumenides. 

35. uESCIIYLUS; Agamemnon. 

36. jESCHYLUS; Supplices. 

37. PLUTARCH ; Select Lives. 

38. ARISTOPHANES; Clouds. 

39. ARISTOPHANES ; Frogs. 

42. THUCYDIDES, ii. 

43. THEOCRITUS; Select 
Idyls. 

44. PINDAR. 

45. ISOCRATES. 

46. HESIOD. 



VIRTUE BROTHERS & CO., 1, AMEN CORNER. 



% 



W^W&i'Ms^M^'misS^&'&iim^' 



*>'$£ 



35.-JP VLttiuE BBOTHEBS & CO., 1, Am§n Comer, Paternoster Bow, 



,,s 



AkSJ Photography, a Popular Treatise on. Also a Description 
3& ^ ^ of, and Bernard* on, the Stereoscopic and Photographic Optica, &c. 

By Mokckiiovex. Translated bj W, H. Tjiobhthwiite, Pb.D., 

F.C.S, Illustrated, Is, Gd, 



i^f ^ Astronomy, Rudimentary, By the P^er, Eobebt Maut, 

tt^f-f M.A., F.R, AS., ^'"' st Assistant at the Koyal Observatory, Green- 

ffij^ wicL Illustrated, la, 

^ l | The Metropolitan Building Act, 1 8th and 19th Victoria, 

^^ cap* 122. Followed by Appendices of the Unrepeated Sections of W*Mc£ 

^jSf tlio former Building Acts, 14tb Geo. HI,, c. 78, and 7th and 8th f$ t ^ J 

&£$ Vic., c. 84, and the Sections of the City of London Sewers Acts, Sps^-i 



A5?J$ 1^^ ^nd 1851, relating to Buildings. With Notes and Index by T^Lr 

S& David Gibbon?*, Esq. T of the Middle Temple, Special Pleader, and T^jJ j 

IgLt^j E. IIesketh, Esq., Architect and District Surveyor. Illustrated, 5^ Jt> 

*y v y£ The Metropolis Local Management Act, 18ih and 19th 

?Cg* Yic " °* **fl 19th and 20th Y[o ^ °- 112 * 21st and 23od Vio -* 

^J^ c, 104 [ 24th and 25th Vic, c. 61 ; also the last Pauper Keraoyal ' 

^T*y?L Act, and the Parochial Assessment Act T comprehending all that is 

S^ c 2. essential for the uso of Members of Parish Vestries, and the Local 



'V^Jrv Managers of the Metropolis, Is. Gd, ?y*3^ 

^c^ The Metropolis Local Management Amendment Act, 5^^. 
&J|3£ 1862, 25th and 2Gth Vic., c. 120. With Notes and an Indus. Is, ^$& 

SsA? The Nuisances Bemoval and Diseases Prevention 

•^t^iX Amendment Act, 16th and iGth Vic, c. 121. To which are 
f&JS; added The Smoke Kvisascu: Act and the Cohmok Lonama House 
Act. With Notes and an Index. Is. 



m 



Jc?J*£ Field Artillery on Service, on the Use of; with especial Kl? 



'3C?*r reference to that of an Army Corps. For Officers of all Arms. ^Q/jfij 
,^fift ^J TAtruERT, translated by Lieut.-CoL Henry Hamilton Haxwe&L, J?^^ 
- iga Artillery, la. 04 1$J^ 




'EE BROTHERS & CO,, 1> Amsn CanifcT, IfoutwHtet "Bjcwi . 



l£p VIETUE BBOTHBBS & CO., 1, Amen Corner, Paternoster Bow. *& 






Six Legislative Enactments for the Guidance of Con- 
tractors, Merchants, and Tradesmen. I. An Act to 

facilitate the remedies on Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes. 

II. An Act to amend the Laws relating to Stamp Duties, and on ij 

Bonds and Securities. III. The Newspaper Stamp Act, and the jrf 

Transmission by Post of Periodicals, &c. IV. An Act to con- 5^ 

eolidate the Excise and Stamps and Taxes into one Board. V. An -V& 

Act for facilitating arrangements between Debtors and Creditors. ?^ 

VI. An Act to amend the Law of Insolvency, Bankruptcy, and HCC 

Execution. With an Index. Is. ji 

Swords, &c, Memoir on. By Col. Marey, translated by jjp* 
Lieut.-Col. H. H. Maxwell. With Notes. Illustrated, Is. 0$ 

Modern Farming, Outlines of. By Robebt Scott Buex. 

Vol. I. — Soils, Manures, and Crops. Illustrated, 2s. 

Vol. II. — Notes, Historical and Practical, on Farming and Farm- 
ing Economy. Illustrated, 3s. 

Vol. III. — Stock— Cattle, Sheep, and Horses. Illustrated, 2s. 6d. 

Vol. IV.— The Management of the Dairy— Pigs — Poultry. With yg 

Notes on the Diseases of Stock, by a Veterinary Surgeon. £Q 

Illustrated, 2s. C^ 

Vol. V. — Utilisation of Town Sewage—Irrigation — Reclamation «?>; 

of Waste Land. Illustrated, 2s. 6d. '^ 

Complete in 2 vols., cloth boards, 14s. J ^ 

The Law of Friendly, Industrial and Provident, Building, - 

and Loan Societies, a Handy Book on. With Copious Notes. 
By Nathaniel White, Esq. 12mo., Is. 

Logic, Pure and Applied, a Treatise on. By S. H. Emmens, 
Esq. 12mo., Is. 6d. 



S 

t£j. Investing' Money, Practical Hints for: with an Expla- y^ 

nation of the Mode of Transacting Business on the Stock Exchange. ]j£ 

By Ftti Tff a " "- — T ill iii T^ 1 ^ Edition, ren^d and <J* 

porreded.J j] 



%i 



LONDON \ I , \, AMKS COKNEB. 

Wtltis W«fflU8eri.<* 



»ts ~,JL. 



