Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



I 



/■.-rt 



Library 
Arnold Arboretum 



Harvard University 
JP 



i 



: ■•» 



h 






A PI. 

FOR LAYING OUT » 

or «oi 




I COUMTRY PUCE 
MM*. 



•JSp — r-_- : _ 






-> -> -'Ai " ■ sal !-.■ -i — 

■^-^-■im • >~" 



> * 



WS5* ■ 



^ 








I 


•y lL„phrrr,r 


_; 


■* ;'■■■'"»'■• 


ifcP 




'-* _ _ ; 


#**"*" 


--_. 


* '■"•"""" 




***^-'* 


■ - 3,1ft J. ■ .' 


.^ fTytiruuto 


"J 1 


* ''"</"<•<<" 


, 




".,.,! 



COUNTRY LIFE: 



A HANDBOOK OF 



Sgrittlte, gortiralfan, # f anlnrapt iariramtg. 



BY EOBESI HOREIS COPILAHD. 



FIFTB BDITloy, BE r IB ED. 



BOSTON: 

DIN8MOOR ANX> COMPANY. 

186 8. 



I <U> Co, * Ji 

irfP* lull 



& 4^0U.flK.W 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by 

D1NSMOOE AND COMPANY, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 



OKO. C. BAUD * ATKKT, 
STXKKOTYPXSS AVD PRIHTXR8. 



ALL LOVERS OF NATURE 

AND TO ALL ENGAGED IK CULTIVATING AND ADORNING THE EARTH, 

Ijjis $00k is $ebuat*b, 

WITH THS EARNEST HOPE THAT IT MAT ATTRACT TO THE PRACTIOE OF 
THE ARTS OF CULTURE SOME WHO WILL SEE THAT THE PURSUIT 

IS FULL OF PLEASURE, 
WITH NO MORE THAN A HEALTHY AMOUNT OF LABOR. 

AND ALSO, 

WITH THE HOPE THAT BOMB WHO NOW EARN THEIR BREAD WITH 

THE SWEAT OF THEIR BROW, AND LOOK UPON THEIR 

CALLING AS A TREADMILL OF DRUDOERT 

AND ENDURANCE, 

MAT HERB LEARN THAT WITHIN THE ROUND OF THEIR DAILT DUTIES 

THBT HATE EVERT THING WHICH CAN EXPAND THE MIND 

AND ENNOBLE THE SOUL. 



PREFACE. 



The practice of the useful arts necessarily precedes their theory 
by a great interval, for it alone can furnish reliable material 
whence principles may be deduced, and rules determined; and 
there can never be a time when it shall cease to be the test to 
which all rules and theories must be subjected. This is pre-em- 
inently true of agriculture, the oldest of the useful arts, through 
all its branches, and it is, therefore, in vain to look for a book on 
the culture of the earth which shall be altogether or mainly 
original; all such books, resting on the experience of the past, 
must, of necessity, refer to the .past, must recapitulate its discov- 
eries and practice, in greater or less degree. Unless they be 
monographs of peculiar speciality, they must partake somewhat 
of the nature of a compilation borrowing from many sources. 
I wish to acknowledge the ideas, the. words, the illustrations 
which I have borrowed ; and if I have failed to do this in any 
instance, the omission is not intentional. In some cases the 
views of others are so incorporated with and modified by my 
own, that it is out of the question to preserve the distinction 
between them. 

Stevens (Book of the Farm), Mcintosh (Book of the Gar- 
den), Loudon, Price, Liebig, Way, Gisbourne (Essays), Paul, 
Johnston, Boussingault, the journals of various English agricul- 
tural societies, are the European sources to which I am mainly 

indebted ; whilst among American authorities I have principally 

v 



VI ' PREFACE. 

referred to Dana, Browne's Mack Book, Text Book of Agricul- 
ture, McMahon, Hovey, Shedd, The Working Farmer, Field's 
Pear Culture, with some newspaper items. Of course tjiere are 
many things within this wide range of which I have had small 
personal experience ; in such cases I have relied entirely on the 
best authorities, applying them as my general experience dic- 
tates. 

In the body of the work I have met some of the popular 
arguments against the course of adopting largely the English 
improved culture, but not so fully as to preclude a few general 
remarks in this preface. Without doubt our common practice 
is just where English agriculture was forty years ago. The de- 
scriptions of English fanning, tools, buildings, crops, roads, eta, 
given by Young and other writers of that time, might be quoted 
word for word to-day, as descriptive of the mass of New Eng- 
land farms. And if English farmers followed this kind of farm- 
ing forty years ago with profit, and have since improved their 
practice so much as to double and treble their profits, with 
no other change in the circumstances than an increased outlay 
of capital and intelligence, it seems to me that it logically fol- 
lows that we can do the same. 

The frequent discussions about high farming seldom lead to 
definite and satisfactory conclusions, for want of a precise and 
accepted definition of the term. High farming in this book is 
the name of that culture which provides for the thorough re- 
clamation, drainage, and manuring of the land under treatment ; 
so thorough a manuring that a single application will ensure 
ample food to all the crops of the sagaciously planned rotation ; 
which so arranges the rotation for each field that each crop 
comes at a time when the soil is in the best state to feed it, 
finds an excess of its favorite food, and yet leaves an excess of 
the food. most appropriate for the next crop; which looks on 



PREFACE. VII 

every weed as a thief, and on the labor expended in securing 
neatness, cleanliness, and order as certain to increase the final 
profit; and which leads, by intelligent steps, from improvement 
ia the culture of earth to the yet more profitable and the far 
more noble culture of the man. These steps I have endeavored 
to point out in part. Sometimes I have invited the reader to 
trace them with me, hoping that he may find the result to which 
they lead eminently practical. 

The calendar form, and the general divisions which recur in 
every month, have been adopted as facilitating reference. 

The course announced in the opening pages, viz., to give but 
one method in cases where many are practised, and each has 
warm advocates, may expose me to the charge of ignorant con- 
ceit and dogmatism, but it has been deliberately chosen for the 
convenience and advantage of the general reader, who is not 
supposed to be an adept in any of the departments treated of. 
To him this book is offered as a manual for guidance ; it would 
but confuse him if it presented many methods, and left him to 
choose between them. I have myself often suffered from the 
difficulty of ascertaining what was the best way of doing some- 
thing I had in hand, when I had books enough which told in 
how many ways the thing was done, a matter to which one is 
perfectly indifferent when work presses upon him; and in my 
profession of Landscape Gardener, I have often remarked that 
much of the expense of obtaining answers to the innumerable 
questions put to me on all the subjects treated in these pages, 
might be saved to my employers by a simple printed statement 
of leading principles and rules. The adept likes to decide be- 
tween different methods presented; the tyro is glad to learn 
what his teachers prefer. 

I have tried to make all obscure operations and descriptions 
more clear by illustrations, where the eye often reads more at 



VIII PREFACE. 

a glance than in many pages of print, and I here acknowledge 
my obligations to Mr. A. C. Warren, of Boston, the artist who 
drew the illustrations which form so important a part of the 
book. Also, I would again mention my indebtedness to J. -H 
Shedd, both for the quotations I have made, and for the system 
of drainage shown upon the plan with which our book opens, 
which was arranged by him. 

To my friend Frederick Winsor, M: D., of Salem, I owe much 
gratitude for assistance, which none but an intimate friend 
could have given, in revising and correcting my hastily written 
manuscript But for his aid the short time which my engage- 
ment with the publishers allowed for the preparation of the 
book would scarcely have admitted of critical revision. 

Bulky as the book is, it does no more than open many ap- 
proaches to an exhaustless subject, and I lay down my pen 
with a feeling of deep regret that I have done so little justice 
to what is so near my heart 

One word on a point to which many words are given in this 
volume; the spirit in which one should deal with his farm, his 
flowers, his grounds. Surely it should be that of reverential 
friendship, not of cold and superficial business relation. This 
complex, and beautiful mystery, which we call Nature, surely 
offers us sometliing more than food and clothing ; and, believing 
as I do, that man's " life is more than meat," I cannot speak of 
the life of that class who seem to live nearest Nature as nothing 
more than a struggle for that miserable pittance known as a 
a living." 

With these explanations I leave my book to the reader, ask- 
ing him only to bear in mind the words of a Boston orator, 
who said, "that a book should be judged not merely by its 
contents, but by the intention of the author." 



PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION. 



Ik the preface to the first edition of "Country life," I main- 
tained, that, in agriculture, experience most govern theories, 
and that any treatise on the subject mnst owe much of its 
value to the degree in which its rules and principles are based 
upon the results of experience. 

Whilst this is true, we must not allow ourselves to become 
the slaves of experience, which, it may be said, is the con- 
stant tendency of farming life. To this day, many men sneer 
at book-farming as theoretical and unreliable, and resist, as an 
encroachment on their rights, those theories of cultivation 
which seem to disagree with the wisdom of the ancients. 

Nothing would have broken down this feeling and resist- 
ance but necessity. When men have a certain result to 
obtain, and to obtain it must use the labor of men and ani- 
mals, and supply tools and machines, they are compelled, if 
the labor is scanty, to try to devise, either methods for getting 
the result without the labor, or to perform the labor in some 
different way. If a man's tools and machinery are worse and 
less profitable than his neighbor's, the fact that the result in 
dollars and cents is against him will incline him to copy his 
neighbor. 

The long war we have passed through has absorbed so 
much of the available labor of the country, and at the same 



IV PREFACE. 

time increased the value of the products of agricultural labor, 
that farmers have been compelled to invent either new ma- 
chines or new crops, and methods of culture. 

As a consequence, we have made vast improvements in 
agricultural machinery, particularly in harvesting tools. The 
mowers and reapers of 1866 are so much better than they 
were in 1859, that the work of haying and harvesting is re- 
duced from severe to easy work, and a man and boy will now 
do the work on a farm which formerly required half a dozen 
men. 

In Horticulture, new plants and fruits are introduced every 
year : some, upon trial, are proved to be of little value, and 
soon disappear, whilst a few become permanent friends and 
comforts to man. In the cultivation of grapes, there has been 
a great advance ; and not only do we now have very greatly 
improved varieties, but a thousand cultivate grapes to-day 
in place of a hundred six years ago. With these new 
varieties and the widely spreading cultivation, new diseases 
have come, and some men have suffered so severely, that they 
have lost heart, and are inclined to abandon the vine ; but, 
fortunately, man is a persevering animal, particularly when 
eating and drinking are the stimulants to his efforts, and we 
may rest assured that the grape or grapes will yet be found 
which will overcome all obstacles, and be equally good for the 
table and the vineyard. In the Supplement, the subject is 
extensively treated, and the reader will find there not only the 
best varieties for different parts of the country, but also the 
opinions of eminent cultivators as to the causes and cures of 
the most annoying diseases to which grapes are liable. 

In the Flower-garden, I have introduced many new plants, 
as well as new lists of old friends, and have urged strongly the 
claims of some which I had hitherto*heglected. 



I 

PREFACE. 



In the Agricultural division, I have brought together a large 
number of facts about Merino sheep, and have endeavored to 
urge farmers generally to do more to derive, by the aid of 
sheep, the full value from their farms. When we comprehend 
the real benefits which sheep confer on their owners, it is diffi- 
cult to understand why so few persons, comparatively, have 
flocks. The Merino sheep is a proof of what may be done in 
New England to raise the value of agriculture and stock- 
raising. 

I have presented in the Ornamental department, somewhat 
at length, the horticultural capabilities of cities. I do not 
seek to persuade the reader that the citizen can have the 
beauty, the wealth, or comfort of the country; but there 
is undoubtedly a great deal of space wasted in cities, which 
might be turned to good use, and give both amusement and 
real enjoyment to those who have only a brick house for a 
garden. 

Doubtless the careful reader of u Country Life" has found 
methods of doing work with which he could not agree, or 
which seemed to him to be better done in some different man- 
ner. To all such let me say, that I never professed to give all 
the ways of conducting the operations incident to a life in the 
country, — only one way, which I was well assured would give 
a good result; and i£ by disagreeing with me, I have stirred 
the active minds of men to investigate the subject, and pro- 
duce newer and better methods than my own, I have certainly 
conferred a favor on them and all mankind, and may well feel 
satisfied with the labor and time I have expended. 

Hoping that the Supplement to this edition may bring the 
book up to the present time, I leave it once more to make its 
way through the world, trusting that whoever reads it will 
find more to approve than condemn. 



• INDEX OF PLATES AND WOODCUTS. 



Aquarium, 264 

Asparagus Knife (Book of Garden),. . 661 

Banks on hill-side, 87 

Barn, ground plan, three stories, 464 

Barrel for liquid manure, 12 

Beaver Brook, Author's residence,. .Finis. 
Boiler, Weeks fr Co.'s (Book of Gar- 
den), 728 

Budding Roses, incision in stock, and 

bad ready (Field's Pear Culture),. . 781 
Budding; bud in place and wound, 781 

Buds, well and ill prepared,. . 780 

u good and poor, specimens of,. . 729 

" method of cutting, 729 

Bulb-planter, '.' 26 

Canvas coyer for greenhouse, 108 

Catcn drains, 78, 79 

Conservatory, plan and section, — op. 20 

Conservatory bed, 112 

Conservative pit, 168 

" " cheap, 167 

•• " section, 286 

" ** end 287 

Curved paths, - v 826 

Cutting, A, 286 

Dams, two specimens, 786 

Dibbles, 34 

Dibble guaged (Book of Garden),. ... 412 

Ditch before hedge, 767 

Drainage, effect on roots, 67 

" spade, Irish 64 

" pipes, laying, ' 68 

" trench diagram (Sbedd),.. 68 

" trench, section, 60 

Drain-tiles, joints in, 68 

" and pipes, 61 

" in place, 61,42 

Drains, 66 

" for valley-meadow, 68 

« on hill-side, 69, 60 

11 instruments for outting, 62 

Drains on slopes, 66 



Drill for sowing seed, 486 

Dwa/f fruit tree, 209 

Espalier, 198 

" for fruit house ( Book of Gar- 
den), , 124 

fispaliered trees (Loudon), 197 

fall at Beaver Brook, Belmont, Mass., 729 

Flower beds, staking out, 29, 80, 81 

, Flower-garden, plan, 726 

Forcing box, 402 

Forcing cover, 414 

Fountain, 800 

Fruit-houses, sections of, ( Book of Gar- 
den, altered ), 268, 269 

Fruit-house at Everingham Hall (Book 

of Garden), 260 

Fumigating tunnel, 808 

Furrows, ends of, made by different 

ploughs, 674 

Grafting, Cleft, 660 

Grafting, Crown, 662 

Grafting Crown, Scion, 661 

Grafting, Saddle, 660 

Grafting tubers of Tree Peony (Book 

of Garden), 664 

Grafting, Whip or Tongue, 669, 560 

Grapery, plan and section, op. 121 

Greenhouse, plan and section, op. 9 

" roofs, span and curvilin- 
ear, 15 

Grounds of J. W. Edmands, 843 

Groups; " planting out " disagreeable 

objects, 828,829 

Gutter tanks, 866 

Hay-cover, in use, 696 

Hot pipe, dipped under path, 20 

Hedge, conical, spreading, 768 

Horse hoe, 641 

Hotbed for cucumbers, 852 

Hotbed heated by water; section and 

ground plan (Book of Garden),... 857 
, Hot water pipes, * 7 

ix 



INDEX OF PLATB8 AND WOODCUTS. 



House for fruit in pots (Book of Gar- 
den), 26 

Initial letters, 1, 6, 96, 104, 224, 280, 
847, 895, 466, 528, 587, 658, 722. 

Instrument for peeling Osiers, 767 

Instrument for stretching wire, 195 

Irrigation, 75 

Kitchen-garden, plan, 191 

Land set off with feering poles, dia- 
gram, 670 

Lateral thrust, eflect of, 864 

Layering, 290 

Level, 80 

Machine, mowing, 701 

Hanger and drinking trough com- 
bined, 218 

Melon-house (Book of Garden), 862 

Pears, diagram of planting, 426 

Peat drains, 07, 08 

Pit, heated by manure, 864 

' Plant basket (Book of Garden), 248 

Plant-case »« *« 248 

Planting trees, 90, 168 

Plough, deep tiller, 741 

u Michigan, 488 

44 subsoil, 676 

Pot, for Endive (Book of Garden),. . . 409 
44 for8ea-Kale, « " ... 412 

44 hinged, for large plants (Book of 

Garden, altered), 898 

Pot, for striking cuttings (Book of 

Garden, altered), 284 

Potatodigger, 46 

Potato, Sweet, tuber and sprout 
(Cours Elementaire d'agrioulture),. 656 

Pruning, peaches, 299, 800 

44 pears, 206 

44 vines, 116,117,118 

Rafter to coal pit, with air chamber,. 170 

Ridge and furrow roof, 869 

44 " " " in section,.. 868 
Ridge and furrow applied to span 

roof, 867 

Ridge and furrow roof diagrams, 865 

Road making, 81, 82 

Roots, in deep soil, 648 

Rosaries, of W. Paul, ground plans, 667-068 
44 designs for, by Anthor,. .671, 672 
44 of J. Horner; ground plan 
and elevation, 



Rosary, in Luxemburg gardens, 
ground plan (Paul's Rose Gard.),. ... 666 

Rose, budded, diagram, 604 

Roses, various forms of, 078 

Rose-tree, Dwarf, in flower (Paul),. . . .677 
44 " old, method of remodelling, 

44 " No. 18,(Paul), 682 

Rose-tree, Pillar (Paul), '.680, 681 

14 " Pillar, in flower (Paul), 609 
44 44 Standard " 078, 079 

44 u Standard, in flower " 010, 077 
44 " thick-eet with buds, No. 14, 

(Paul), 088 

Rose-tree, weeping, in flower (Paul),. . 678 

Rose-tree, Weeping (Paul), 681, 082 

Section of improved pit (Book of 

Garden), 370 

Section of conservatory rafter, 872 

Shutters for greenhouse, 108 

Sleepy Hollow, 588 

Stacks, of grain, 700 

44 long, 098 

44 roofs for (Steven's Book of 

Farm), 669 

Stacks, round, 697 

Stathels for grain (8teven's Book of 

Farm), 009 

Stratification, of different rooks, 791 

Strawberry house (Book of Garden),. 862 
Supply water to oattle, contrivance to, 217 
Subsoil, unbroken, an obstacle to roots 

(Gisborne), 575 

Subsoiling; eflect on roots (Gisborne), 576 

Tanks, for heating greenhouse, 800, 861 

Throw crooks, for twisting hay rope 

(8teven's Book of Farm), 698 

Transplanter, 84 

Trees, instances of grouping, 762, 764 

44 Twice gathered " land, diagram, ... 74 

Ventilation of glass houses; poor,.... 100 

Ventilation of glass houses; good,. ... 101 

Ventilation of glass houses; by night, 102 

Ventilation of hot-bed, 851 

Village-garden, 816 

Wardian case (Book of Garden), 247 

Waste-way for pond, 794 

Water supplied to cattle,. ; 217, 218 

Window-garden, 241, 242 

Wire fence, 194. 

Wood road, 85 



COUNTRY LIFE. 




CHAPTER L 

N Agriculture, Nature repeats herself. Each 
year is a repetition of its predecessor, and each 
month but a further development of the plans 
and processes of the last. 

The cultivator of the smallest piece of land 
perform*, on his scale, the same operations with 
the farnier whose acres are numbered by 
scores, or with the gardener whose gardens and greenhouses 
have cost thousands of dollar^. 

In preparing a handbook for the instruction of one class of cul- 
tivators of the soil, we must touch upon the subjects which interest 
all ; and therefore, to avoid redundancy, we will select as an exam- 
ple the estate of a person who must in the course of a year have 
occasion to practise every operation of agriculture and horticulture 
which comes within the means of men of moderate fortune. 

I shall proceed to describe month by month a system of proceed- 
ing, based upon the most approved theories and practice of modern 
horticulture, agriculture, and landscape gardening, which will insure 
the largest return in pleasure and money to any one who will 
observe faithfully the directions given. I shall confine myself to 
the wants of men with small fortunes, as our country must always 
be principally inhabited by this class. Men of large fortunes need 
no such handbook, as they will seek their pleasure through agents 
whose especial business it is to understand all that I propose to 
discuss. Men with a bare competence need no special book, for 
although they may have a bit of land to cultivate, their operations 
will be identical with those I describe, only on a smaller scale, and 

t l 



25 COUNTRY LIFE. 

they have but to reduce my advice and remarks to their own 
scale. 

I do not propose to offer to the public advice and directions 
adapted to all parts of the continent. This would manifestly be 
impossible, owing to the great difference in climate. It might seem 
at first sight that differences in climate would only affect the time 
for commencing and concluding operations, and this idea has influ- 
enced all who have hitherto prepared such a work as this ; but the 
view is incorrect. We must not assume that because the season in 
Philadelphia or Bangor is a week earlier or later than in Boston, 
directions prepared for either latitude will apply to the other. It 
is indeed so in a measure ; but 'special directions are based upon 
special differences which are affected by slight variations in climate: 
as, what kind of plants will bear out-of-door culture ; what precau- 
tions must be taken to secure satisfactory crops of various kinds*; 
the length of season that will enable those plants and crops to 
mature. Again, in the tasteful . department of culture there is a 
considerable difference in the plants that will bear exposure to the 
weather, and consequently in the combinations and effects that are 
possible ; therefore, if we should take the plants or crops advised 
for places four or five hundred miles asunder, and cultivate them 
ourselves, allowing the proper difference in time, so that the season 
shall have advanced to that point that will warrant a commence- 
ment, we should ultimately find that there was the same allowance 
to be made at the end of the season ; and thus a crop which would 
require three or four months for its perfection would be cut short 
a fortnight at each end, a month in the whole. 

Of course the difficulty in preparing a book of this general char- 
acter is only one of size, as by taking room enough the writer might 
consider the whole continent; but the resulting volume would be too 
unwieldy and cumbrous for general use. Nor shall I treat the 
various subjects introduced in a complete and finished manner, en-\ 
tering into a discussion of the whys and wherefores which have in- 
duced roe to assume and maintain the views enunciated, as that 
course also would demand too much space and time ; but shall con- 
tent myself with stating the theories and practice which experience 
and common sense have proved to be the best for people who live 



THE ESTATE. 3 

in a climate like that which exists between the parallels of latitude 
two degrees north and two south of Boston. 

The advice offered is certain, if followed, to give a satisfactory 
result. It is prepared for those who wish to learn ; who, knowing 
but little, are ready to follow advice, not to discuss it All such 
may feel assured that they may unhesitatingly follow these direc- 
tions, and may confidently rely upon receiving their reward. 

THE ESTATE. 

As a necessary preliminary to the* rest of the book, let me de- 
scribe the character of the estate upon which we are to suppose 
ourselves living, and which we are to cultivate. It shall have an 
area of €0 acres, of which about 20 are farm; l£, flower-garden; 3, 
'kitchen-garden ; 11, orcharding for Fears, Peaches, Cherries, Plums, 
Quinces, Apricots, Nectarines, Apples and Nuts ; 6 acres are occu- 
pied by barns, stables, greenhouse, grapehouse, hotbeds, nurseries, 
and dwelling-house ; the balance is lawn, woods, ponds, and roads. 
The pond, woodland, lawn, and shrubbery are contiguous; the green- 
houses, hothouses, hotbeds, etc., are near the dwelling-house and 
near to both kitchen and flower-gardens. The surface is uneven. 
By purchase or otherwise the estate has come into our hands 
unstocked, and with its roads, paths, pond, flower-beds, and planta- 
tions in an unfinished condition. We find the roads, paths, orchards, 
and most of the plantations to our mind, but in all other respects 
the place must be renewed, remodelled, and replanted. The plan at 
the end of the book shows a ground plan of this place, and is so let- 
tered and provided with an index that the various operations recom- 
mended may be followed easily and understandingly. 

It is plain that the place just described may properly be termed 
a Ferme orneb. Some American writers have seen fit to ridicule 
the use of this term as being inapplicable to our country, and of 
no real/ significance anywhere. Why they should make such an 
attack it is hard to tell, for certainly no other term sufficiently de- 
scribes a country place that may gratify all the tastes of a lover of 
country life. A mere pleasure place , where there is nothing 
for use, and all for beauty, would satisfy but few, as most persons 



4 COUNTRY LIFE. 

soon weary of merely enjoying. The man of earnest mind 
who gladly unbends from serious work and wanders with the great- 
est satisfaction through lawns and flower-gardens, ultimately craves 
something more solid ; a view of the practical part of life ; a sight of 
the machinery by which all moves smoothly and profitably. Be- 
side the mental gratification derived from a combination of pur- 
suits, there is almost a duty laid upon every one who makes a 
country home, to provide occupation as well as recreation. Own- 
ers of country seats in America, are generally men who have re- 
tired from active business, and by having a farm connected with 
their homesteads, they secure something to do and to think about, 
and thus avoid the evil of mental inactivity. 

Many who would agree with these ideas, may object to the term 
" ornee," as expressing a regard for beauty too great to be consist- 
ent with the profitable management of a farm. This is an error,' 
and one to which Americans are especially prone, — the sacrifice 
of the beautiful to the practical, as though the two things were in- 
compatible. Under this impression they would lay out their farm- 
roads straight, would strip hedge-rows and walls of nature's profu- 
sion of wild flowers and shrubs, as offending against neatness and 
order ; they would plant their trees in straight rows ; in a word, 
would make every thing as prosaic as the hoeing of corn or the 
milking of cows. 

It is a mistake to wish thus to deprive agriculture of the pleas- 
ure which nature throws about it. Even if it is easier to plough 
up to a straight road or wall or row of tree3, than to a curved line ; 
what of that, if by planting trees in groups, and curving the 
roads, we can produce beautiful effects in form and color, and offer 
agreeable combinations of wood, grass, cultivated field, and distant 
landscape ? The few dollars a year saved in the one case to the 
pocket, are no compensation for the loss of the pleasant lessons 
which the beauties of nature must teach every willing mind. It is 
natural that the present generation should imitate their fathers, 
whose success has been before their eyes from birth. They who 
have been taught that the value of the earth lies in the crops she 
brings, and that those methods are to be followed which will most 
surely give a large market value to those crops, will adopt unwill- 



COMMENCEMENT OF THE YEAR. 5 

ingly any course that seems to diminish the expected profits ; but 
they who know how much more precious a worthy mental devel- 
opment is than any increase in the hoard of money, should advise 
all their pupils to cultivate the beautiful whenever it is possible, 
as the most powerful and delightful means of such development. 

COMMENCEMENT OF THE YEAR. 

Before entering on a description of the work before us in this 
new home during the next year, let us settle the time when the 
agricultural year begins : certainly not in January, when the har- 
vest has long * been garnered, and the preparations for the next 
year's planting are already in a forward state ; not in March, when 
the frost fetters of the earth are unlocked, and the farmer goes out 
to consider what to do first, — but at the end of the harvest Then 
the farmer begins his preparations for the succeeding year. What 
is true of agriculture, applies with yet more force to horticulture. 
January, the first month of the solar year, is not the first of the 
agricultural ; that year extends from harvest to harvest, and we 
must begin to prepare for the next, in its succession, while we are 
yet reaping the fruits of the present year. In the latitude of 
Boston, the year really begins in November, when the harvests 
have been garnered, and nothing of the year's produce remains 
out of doors but a few root crops, which are to be gathered when 
we are preparing for the spring work. The same principle applies 
to the garden ; only there the preparations must begin earlier than 
on the farm, as bulb-beds should be made, greenhouses stocked, 
and kitchen-gardens got in readiness before the frosts become se- 
vere. Some greenhouse plants should be lifted as early as the 
middle of August, and almost all by the last of September. 

So, even at the risk of making our system badly proportioned, 
we must begin our description of the work to be done at the time 
when the gardener's year commences, and must take up the farm- 
er's as we arrive at it Therefore we shall date our year, not from 
the end of harvest, or November, but from September, as the 
month., in which much of the next year's work is commenced. 

1* 



CHAPTER n. 



GREENHOUSE. 



EPTEMBER. In September oar flower-gar- 
dens are generally in their greatest beauty — 
those beds at least wblch do not depend on per- 
ennial roots. The Verbenas, Salvias, Pelar- 
goniums, Heliotropes and other bedding plants, 
have now attained their perfection, and although 
the annuals and perennials which have glad- 
dened the earlier months are gone, they are not missed, their 
places being filled with the luxuriant growth of the plants we 
have just named. No month in the year gives such tender 
pleasure to the lover of the flower-garden. In it all the beauty 
of the spring and summer seem to concentrate, and to be inten- 
sified by apprehensions of early frosts, which shall turn color to 
blackness, and fragrance to the noisomeness of decay. 

As the evenings grow cooler, the careful gardener is reminded 
that the next day he must get up the sashes on his hot, and clean 
out his cold houses ; that piles of mould, broken crocks, and pots 
must be collected in the plant-sheds, and every thing put into the 
best condition to facilitate transplanting and repotting. Commenc- 
ing our work with the greenhouse, we will give a description of 
the house, its size and arrangements. 

Our greenhouse A, as shown by the plan, is a two-thirds span- 
roofed house, with a lean-to shed behind, in which potting may be 
done, and where cisterns and fires are situated. It is 60 x 20 feet 
and 15 feet high in the middle. The front wall is 10 inches thick 
and 4 feet high ; every 5 feet in the front wall there is a venti- 
lator, 1 foot square ; this ventilator opens between the two hot-water 
pipes, bo that the fresh air reaches the plants only when properly 
warmed ; all these ventilators can be closed and opened at once, 




B, Section of 




A, Section of 


Boot 




Greenhouse 


6, Supporting 




A, Ji<Htn. 


Vow- 




C, OlUr. 


e, Ventilators. 




F. Fumnce. 


d. Ropes for 




G, Rafters 


Ventilator!. 




V, Ventilators 


e. Axle! of 




of. Coal Hole. 


Ventilators. 


Nil 8. 




A, Green hoube. 


I, M:m's Boom. 


</, Supporting Potu. 
«, Table. 


B, Cistern 


j. 1'olting Shelf. 


C, Kiilge Board. 


K, Walk 


J, Staging. 

A, Shelf- 


G, Hothouse. 


L, Boiler. 




No. 8. 





GBEENH0U8E. 7 

the shutters resting on a wheel which in its torn rolls on a rod 
of iron ; the shutters are connected with another rod, which is 
pushed forward or drawn backward by a ratchet-wheel at one end. 
There is another glass window ventilator near the top of this wall, 
which slides by the inside of the wall in opening and shutting. 
The front side of the roof is pitched at 36°, the back side at 32° ; 
the roof sashes are whole to within 3 feet of the ridge, where in 
each commences a sash 3x2 feet, which is hung in the middle, 
and connected with a rod, e, which has at each window a ratchet- 
wheel playing into a ratchet on the window ; this rod may be turned 
at one end, and all the windows opened or shut at once, or each 
window may be disconnected by slipping its own ratchet-wheel 
along, and then be opened or shut independent of its fellows ; d is 
the supporting post, of which there are five, of cast. iron; these 
posts support and tie the ridge and the two sides of the roof. At 
20 feet from one end there is a glass partition, which enables that 
portion to be shut off from the rest, and heated and cooled at will. 
The back wall is 7£ feet high, and is two bricks thick ; it is solid, 
with the exception of the openings shown in the plan for ventilators, 
doors, windows, etc Each wall and the centre posts rest on solid 
stone masonry, 2 feet deep. The house is heated by two pipes, 
which make the circuit of the inside under the 
side plant tables; each pipe comes from the 
boiler straight, a, and then sends off two branches 
at right angles, 6, bending at the corners, and 
crossing each other at the front of the house op- 
posite the boiler, where each is depressed so as 
to return to the boiler below the point of depart- 
ure. Thus the house is uniformly warmed, each 
side receiving the water hot at starting, whilst in each the return 
water is cooled equally before returning to the boiler. A brand) 
pipe crosses the house each side the partition, to make circulation 
in case we wish to heat one part more than the other. The boiler 
is in the lean-to shed back of the greenhouse, and is supplied with 
fresh water from the rain-water cistern, B, and when there is not 
rain enough to keep the cistern full it is filled by the force pump 
in the well The furnace is partly above and partly below the 




8 SEPTEMBER 

floor of the shed, and the firehole and the coal are approached by 
steps. The coal cellar extends outside the building, where there 
is a coal trap. I is a chamber for a man to sleep in ; j, the 
shelves on which plants are to be potted, and under which pots, 
crocks, etc., are to be kept. The plants in the greenhouse are 
variously provided for according to their kinds and necessities. The 
table, e, in the centre, is for large plants, and those, like Camelias, 
which do not need the direct light Under this table is room to lay 
away bulbs, and Fuchsias which, having blossomed in the summer, 
will be allowed to remain nearly dormant until growth recom- 
mences in spring, and all other dormant plants. On the other 
shelves other plants will be kept, just as they need more or less 
direct light and heat Along the rafters and crossing the glass in 
various places may be trained Running Roses, Passion-Flowers, etc 

And now for the work I The first of this month thoroughly ex- 
amine the house, — the glass, the paint, the shelves, — scrub all the 
wood-work clean, and thoroughly whitewash all portions exposed to 
mildew ; fumigate with sulphur, to kill red spiders, etc, before the 
plants are taken in ; paint the wood-work wherever water or wear 
has removed the paint, and make sure that no loose joints will ad- 
mit rain and cold. Collect at once leaf mould, good loam, and 
white sand enough for the compost for all your plants ; lay in your 
broken crocks and whole pots. Continue to pick off dead leaves ; 
prune and repot all the stock plants not bedded in the ground; repot 
all that have outgrown their quarters, and remove the top mould from 
the others and add a fresh supply ; begin to take up and pot all 
the cuttings and layers made during the summer. Pot carefully a 
large quantity of Dwarf and Giant Chrysanthemums, Salvias, Car- 
nations, Gillyflowers, Ten-week Stocks, Tuberoses, Amaranths, and 
such other plants as may be just coming into bud, to be got ready 
to exhibit in the conservatory during October and November. Pot 
Neapolitan Violets, Cyclamen, Pansies, Chinese Primroses, Oxalis. 
Repot Heliotropes, Cinerarias, and Callas; separate and repot Mign- 
onette and Sweet Alyssum ; repot Verbenas for last time. When 
they are potted, keep them in the shade for a few days, till they 
are established in the pots, and then put them on the shelves in the 



GREENHOUSE. 9 

greenhouse, from which they will he removed into the conservatory 
before the shelves will be wanted for the greenhouse plants proper. 

It is very necessary to attend to the large plants not hitherto 
renewed and refreshed this month, in order that they may make 
new roots before winter. The cuttings, etc., should be kept in the 
shade for about a fortnight, being watered moderately. As soon as 
these plants are disposed of, plant your Ixias, La Perousias, and 
all tender bulbs in small pots, one or more together, as their size 
shall dictate ; after potting, Bet them on the upper shelves near the 
glass ; water them but little till they begin to show leaves, as much 
water will rot them ; but after they begin to grow, give water as to 
other plants. 

Get all your tender stock plants into the house before the 15th 
of the month, and most of the more hardy ones which you propose 
to show during the season by the 20th, as a single night of severe 
cold, even without frost, might seriously injure the vigorous color 
of their foliage. , 

The growth and success of pot plants depend very much on the 
compost used and the method of potting, which should be as fol- 
lows : The earth with which the pots are filled must not be too 
rich, as this tends to over-stimulate the young plant and change 
flower-buds into leaves.; besides, plants in a greenhouse may be fed 
like fires in a furnace ; if we want an increased development we 
can easily get it by watering with dilutions of manure ; or we can 
check the growth, if that be our wish, by withholding the usual 
supply of water. Plants, whether in the outside earth or in pots, 
derive but a small proportion of their nutriment from the earth in 
which they stand. Various experiments carefully tried, where all 
the modifying circumstances were controllable, have shown that 
however meagre the soil, even if it be pure-washed river sand, any 
plant selected could be made to thrive or dwindle just in propor- 
tion to the amount of simple or enriched water, or of pure or im- 
pregnated air, which should be supplied. Were there room in the 
present treatise to cite the experiments of Bousingault and others, 
we could prove that the judicious gardener, by studying the con- 
stituent parts of the plants he is growing and the constituent parts 
of the materials which seem most largely to contribute to their 



10 SEPTEMBER. 

perfect development, can have them as much under his control as 
the engineer his engine. The experiments made in this matter 
have pertained to out-of-door culture, and were made with the hope 
of rendering the farmer more independent of varieties of soils and 
seasons in getting large crops, and they have shown most conclu- 
sively that agriculture need not be a matter of chance, but that 
farming operations can be conducted with almost the same certainty 
as manufacturing. If this be true on the large scale of farming, 
where the temperature, atmosphere, and rain are beyond control, 
how much more securely can the gardener guide the growth of his 
plants under a glass roof, where all the uncertain elements of 
growth can be supplied with graduated exactness. 

The earth in which we put plants may be considered in the 
light of a sponge which shall absorb, retain, and give out the food 
the plant needs to facilitate its perfect development The essen- 
tials, therefore, are a carbonaceous character, as carbonaceous ma- 
terials are sponges for the absorption of the nutritious gases; a 
loose and porous mechanical texture which will allow the water 
applied to percolate readily to the fibrous roots of the plants, and 
then to drain away quickly if it be in excess ; and a due supply of 
those minerals usually called salts, such as lime, potash, soda, etc., 
which in small but distinct amounts are all important to the forma- 
tion of healthy vegetable tissue. 

Compost for potting. — Make your compost one-third leaf mould, 
one-third rich loam, one-third river sand ; mix these materials well 
together, and to every bushel or thereabouts (for there is no need 
of special care), about a shovelful of lime, ashes, or gypsum. 
Having your material ready, set your pot before you upon the 
potting shelf; fill it about one-fifth with broken crocks * for drain- 
age, as nothing injures plants more than to allow their roots to be 
supersaturated. Mildew, blight, a sickly growth, are all consequents 
of imperfect drainage, and with the single exception of too much 

* Oyster shells ore as good as, and in the opinion of some cultivators 
better than, crocks for drainage, as the roots of the plant find in them ma- 
terial for food. 



GREENHOUSE. 11 

and injudiciously applied heat, nothing oftener destroys plants than 
standing water. Were we oftener to think of the lesson which 
nature teaches us in the woods and fields, we should make fewer 
mistakes in this matter. No tree, shrub, or plant, that is a native of 
dry uplands, will thrive or even live when transplanted to a swamp ; 
and the native of a swamp will thrive no better if subjected to a 
corresponding change ; yet we must attribute the respective failures 
of the plants to too much or too little water. Having then the 
pot before us with the broken crocks in the bottom (which are the 
fragments of old and imperfect pots, hammered together till they 
are reduced to pieces varying from the size of a finger nail to an 
inch or more square), cover them about an inch deep (varying 
the depth a little to suit the plant in hand) with your compost ; 
take the plant in the left hand and set it into the pot, being careful 
not to set it deeper than it stood before, and keeping the crown of 
the roots (the point where the roots and stem join), just below 
the top of the pot; with the right hand, pour in the prepared 
compost on either side, occasionally settling the earth into the roots 
with the finger or with a stick, and gently shaking the plant 
that the earth shall be well packed among the small roots. Go 
on in this way till the pot is full ; then take it in both hands and 
slightly shake the pot, giving it a knock or jostle against the shelf, 
which will firmly settle all together and leave the plant standing 
steady and even in the middle of the pot After this, shower 
it from the rose of the watering pot sufficiently to moisten the 
earth throughout The plant must now be set in the shade and 
watered in the same way daily for ten days or a fortnight, after 
which it may take its proper place on the greenhouse shelves. 
If the plant has been newly taken from the ground, the top should 
be judiciously pruned so as to balance the mutilation of the roots, 
and give it a well-proportioned shape. Gut away all the broken 
roots, and be careful in selecting your pot to get one large enough to 
contain the main roots without much bending. Remember, how- 
ever, that we do not depend upon the old roots for the main support 
of the plant ; for that, we look to the multitude of new and fibrous 
roots, which the treatment just described will cause to spring out 
from all parts of the old roots, and which will rapidly increase till 



12 SEPTEMBER. 

they quite fill the pot. So long as the roots are thus making and 
filling the pot, the leaves and woody parts of the plant will increase, 
and there will be no indication of flowering till the roots have oc- 
cupied all the space allotted to them. 

With the compost just described, there will be no need of ma- 
nure-water for awhile, but when the flower-buds begin to form 
there will be too little nutriment in the earth to supply the new 
and increased demands of the plant, and to secure a satisfactory 
bloom, we must add occasionally a little guano or liquid manure to 
the watet. The best way to prepare a liquid manure, is to set upon 
a shelf in some convenient place an old vinegar or other barrel 
that is tight, provided with a faucet. The shelf must be high 
enough to allow a watering pot or pail to stand under the faucet. 
In the bottom of this barrel, and just above the faucet, make a 
staging of two sets of parallel strips of wood, crossed at right an- 
gles, upon which the manure may rest, and through which the 
water may run as it percolates the manure. 

In the cut, the dotted lines 
on the barrel show the situa- 
tion of the staging, which is 
also shown by itself. This 
staging will prevent the ma- 
nure from passing into the fau- 
cet and choking it Fill the 
barrel thus prepared nearly full 
of stable-dung, and tread it 
down well. Pour in water slowly till the barrel is full ; let it stand 
for two or three days before you begin to draw off. At first this 
water must be diluted to be safely used, — one part manure-water 
to at least three of pure water, — but as the plant becomes accus- 
tomed to it, stronger doses may be given. Such a barrel of ma- 
nure will bear several saturations with water before all its strength 
is drawn out 

If guano is used, put one-quarter of a pound to two gallons of 
water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then use like the water from 
the barrel. If the guano-water is prepared in a barrel, the staging 
must be covered with a fine wire or a cloth-strainer, to retain the 




OREENHOU8E. 18 

finer particles. This proportion of guano to water is advised on 
the supposition that the guano is of the best quality. Such guano 
is, however, scarcely to be obtained, and consequently the best way 
is to make what seems a solution of moderate strength, and then be 
guided by experience as to weakening or strengthening it 

This application of liquid manure is to be continued only while 
the buds are forming, as it will, if used after they begin to expand, 
often stimulate the plant enough to turn them into leaves. This 
is particularly the case with hard wooded plants like Daphnes, 
Camelias, etc, to which liquid manure should be applied only dur- 
ing the dormant or growing, not the blossoming, season. It seldom 
happens to Roses or Pelargoniums, as they are gross feeders. 

Surprising as are the effects of liquid manure, they are no more 
than should be expected, for the food of plants must be diluted 
before it can be absorbed by the spongioles of the roots, and such 
dilution is the only chemical or mechanical means to which nature 
resorts for the development of the crops, flowers, etc*, in the fields. 
The power which guano in solution exerts, is greater than that of 
any other manure, and indeed in its dry state it is likely to injure 
rather than benefit vegetation. Li the greenhouse, whether ap- 
plied as we have directed, or put on the surface in powder, no in- 
jury need be apprehended, as the daily watering will in the latter 
case soon carry it below the surface ; but when used on a large 
scale in agriculture, whether as a top-dressing or ploughed in, its 
good effect depends entirely on the amount of rain that falls during 
the season. 

Stock Plants. — As yet we have made no mention of other 
classes of plants which are to be attended to in August 

First, — Stock pot plants. These' will generally be Camelias, 
Daphnes, Cape Jessamines, Laurestinus, Lemon Verbenas, and 
other hard wooded plants which grow too rankly when planted in 
the ground, or which if planted out would be liable to injury from 
sun, wind, and transplantation. The way to treat such plants in 
the late spring or early summer will of course be described when 
we arrive at the proper time. What we have now to do is to take 
them as we find them. Such of them as have outgrown their pots 

2 



14 SEPTEMBER. 

and can be repotted, should, before they start afresh to grow, be re- 
moved into pots or tubs a size or two larger than the old. Make 
the drainage as before described; then examine the ball which 
you have taken out of the old pot, and if there are any signs of 
worms, hunt them out and kill them ; remove all dead roots, score 
the sides of the ball a little, if it is much matted together, so that 
in healing the old wounds the plant will naturally throw out new 
fibrous roots from the calluses ; remove the old earth from the top 
of the ball till you come to the roots. Now set*it on the earth 
which covers the drainage in the new pot, and fill in between the 
ball and the sides of the pot with the fresh compost, and work this 
in well with a stick ; then shake together ; finally add fresh earth 
to the top of the bared roots till the pot is full. Water and treat 
as in other cases, although it will not be necessary to defer putting 
these plants at once into their final places in the greenhouse. Water 
Camelias abundantly as they start to grow. Give Azaleas less 
water and more sun. House Euphorbias. An excellent pot for 
such plants will be shown by and by. 

Another class of plants includes those, which, owing to size or 
other peculiarities, cannot be repotted. In dealing with these, re- 
move the upper earth in the pot down to the roots, and replace it 
with compost They will need manure-water oftener than the 
others. 

Pinch back roses in pots, — make cuttings of Verbenas etc., 
to blossom late in the spring ; as the Fuchsias, etc., lose leaves 
give little water and keep in the shade till spring. 

CONSTRUCTION. 

The greenhouse on our estate, as shown by the plan, is a span- 
roofed house with straight sashes. The use to which any glass- 
roofed structure is to be put should decide its character. A build- 
ing for the growth of grapes or fruit, wnere only one side is to be 
exposed to the light, may with some propriety be a lean-to house 
(i.e. y one of its sides may be a perpendicular, dark wall) ; but 
where plants which should be equally well grown on all sides are to 
be cultivated, the light should be admitted from as many points as 
possible. A distinguished English writer says : u Of all forms for 



GREENHOUSE. 



15 



a geeenhouse, that of a lean-to is decidedly the worst, and that of a 
span or curvilinear the best" When trained upon walls or trellises 
peaches and vines may be grown to the greatest advantage in lean-to 
houses^ but greenhouse plants seldom can, as'the merits* of the latter 
greatly depend upon symmetry of form, and this cannot be attained 
unless every part of the plant be equally exposed to light, air, and 
sunshine. 

" It seems now almost universally admitted that the span or cur- 
vilinear form of roof is best adapted for this purpose ; and the ends 
of the house should front north and south, although under peculiar 
circumstances they may be usefully constructed to face the east and 
west ; the more so if they are glass on all sides to within a foot or 
so of the ground." 

It will be seen that this author uses the terms span and curvi- 
linear as alike distinct from " lean-to," although they are far from 
being so. A span-roof, as we have shown, is ordinarily shaped 
with the sashes and the lines 
of the roof straight. But the 
lines of roof and sash in a span- 
roof may be curvilinear, and 
there may be the same differ- 
ences in the lines of a lean-to 
roof, there being no more re- 
striction to straight lines in this than in a span-roof. 

To appreciate the respective advantages of these different forms, 
we must consider why glass is used for a roof. However much 
artificial heat fire will give, we must, to grow perfect plants, 
depend on the sun for light and heat ; yet the position of the sun 
in the heavens differs greatly in different months. Out-of-door 
plants, in the growing season, have the sun's rays nearly vertical 
for a part of the day, and the vertical rays are the hottest. In 
greenhouses the order of the seasons is reversed, and the growing 
season is at the time when the sun's altitude is low, and his rays 
relative to the earth's surface never approximate to the vertical 
direction. Our aim must therefore be to arrange our glass roof so 
that the rays shall strike it nearly at a right angle. With a recti- 
linear roof, — whether " span " or u lean-to," — some constant angle 
is selected ; such, perhaps, as will secure the perpendicularity dur- 





16 SEPTEMBER. 

ing the coldest months, and as the sun increases his altitude, this 
angle will become more or less desirable, and we must then de- 
pend upon the increase in the hours of sunshine, so that a decrease 
in quality may be made up by increase in quantity ; or we can in- 
crease artificial heat But with a curvilinear roof, this difficulty 
is lessened, as some part of its changing form will always be nearly 
perpendicular to the line of incidence of the rays. 

There is, however, an objection to curved roofs. They are more 
expensive to build, because of the difficulty with which wobd is 
bent to curves without injuring its strength. Curved roofs are 
therefore generally made of metal, which can be cast of any 
strength and shape required. This change increases the expense 
as well as the liability to damage from expansion and contraction 
in- a climate of such extremes as ours. 

Still, when a greenhouse is to be built by a person with money 
enough to allow of his considering the best of its kind to be an 
essential feature in economy, a curvilinear span-roof is beyond 
question the best for all plants which Nature intends to be sym- 
metrical. Both these styles of houses may be rendered more 
effective still by the application of the ridge and furrow sash, which 
is described in another place. 

This distinction between plants which branch in many directions 
and fruit trees and vines, whether grape or flowering, must be kept 
constantly in mind while discussing glass structures, as neglect of 
the peculiar wants of the different plants the gardener may wish to 
cultivate, has been the cause of the almost complete uselessness of 
many very elaborate and expensive glass houses. 

A greenhouse is a building in which plants may be stored for 
the winter, and in which a moderate growth may be promoted ; we 
may, if we please, divide the house so that some portions can be 
heated hotter than others, and the plants in it forced more rapidly 
for exhibition in the conservatory, when in bloom ; but as a whole 
building it should be a cold rather than a hot house. 

Some portions of the floors of greenhouses — around the sup- 
porting posts, and at the back walls and ends, may be filled in with 
loam, in which to plant vines of different species, Roses, Passion- 



GREENHOUSE. 17 

Flowers, etc, to be trained up against the glass ; but this space 
should never be used for grapes or fruit unless necessity compels. 

I shall treat this subject more freely, when we come to it in its 
proper order. 

In all greenhouses where flowering vines are planted in the man- 
ner we describe, the ground must be forked over in the month of 
September, the old loam removed from the surface roots and new 
added. If this is done early, they will make new fibres and be 
ready for a rapid and healthy growth during the winter. 

I shall give no space to the consideration of hothouses proper, as 
we have none on our place. They are chiefly used for growing 
Pineapples, exotic fruits, and orchidaceous plants. Pleasant as it 
is to grow these varieties, it is very expensive and troublesome, and 
not in accordance with a moderate income. Whoever wishes to 
indulge in this kind of culture must consult more elaborate treatises 
than this. The principles of management are very like those for 
the greenhouse, grapery, and conservatory, only carried to a 
higher point* 

2* 



I 



CHAPTER III. 

CONSERVATORY. 

During September there is little to be done in the conservatory. 
This building differs from any of the glass structures already 
described, inasmuch as it is intended for the exhibition of specimen 
flowers, and for growing but few plants, such as flowering vines, 
which may be planted , in the earth under the floor, Roses, etc, 
which grow in beds prepared like those of the out-of-door garden, 
or some very large plants, which need room and light rather than 
heat. 

It should, if possible, be connected with the dwelling, and open 
out of those rooms most frequented by the family. In it may be a 
fountain basin for fish, aquariums, or birds, busts, statues. If there 
is room, a portion should be raised a little higher than the rest, and 
be furnished with seats and a table for the convenience of the 
ladies of the family, should they wish to sit there with work or 
books, and enjoy the pleasure which the fragrance and sight of 
beautiful plants must always give. 

Of all things connected with gardening none is so misunderstood 
as the conservatory. We hear the greatest variety of buildings 
called by that name. Sometimes it is that hybrid which necessity 
alone can excuse, a greenhouse where plants grow on the shelves, 
and grapes on the rafters ; and sometimes it is a pit, where a large 
bed of earth is boxed up, in which are planted flowering vines, to 
run over the back or walls of the building, while in the middle and 
front, Roses, Heliotropes, etc., grow ; on a shelf directly in front — 
under the eaves as it were — is a collection of other plants, such as 
are most often subjected to winter culture. 

Both these arrangements, for the culture of plants in winter, have 
their merits, and are very desirable, but neither of them is a con- 
servatory. That building stands in relation to the other hothouses, 

18 



INDEX TO CONSERVATORY. 



No. I. 

d, groups of plants in pou ; F; beds of plants, as Rows, elc. ; /, j, 
stajring fnll of plants ; h, h, am nil beds of Verbenas, elc; n, n, posts 
of Conservatory, covered with vines ; n, n, busts and statuary ; 0, o, largt 
statues, p, p, standing baskets of flowers; R, R, doors; «, «, ground 
glass windows to house ; x, x, hot-water pipes ; g, g, basins for fish, etc. 

No. 2. 



CONSERVATORY. 19 

as the drawing-room of a fine house to the common parlor or sitting- 
room. In other plant-houses plants may be cultivated, to be carried, 
when in perfection, into the more light and airy conservatory, to be 
admired, and after their beauty is passed, to be removed, their places 
being filled by a new set. The pit we have described comes near- 
est, in point of flowers and character, to the conservatory, but is a 
hybrid between it and the greenhouse. 

The confusion arises from our American passion for large, impor- 
tant names ; from that false taste and 'mistaken judgment which 
thinks to palm off an inferior article for a better, by giving it a high- 
sounding title. I would not be understood to deprecia/e any build- 
ing which holds the most humble collection of plants, and shall, as 
I continue, give directions for the construction of those which can 
be most easily and cheaply made and taken care of; but I do dis- 
like that love of praise which is not contented with the approval of 
the discriminating, but resorts to the flimsy disguise of a misused 
name, to entrap the admiration of those, who, knowing nothing of the 
subject, gapingly wonder at the "learning" that familiarly calls 
common things by uncommon names. 

The work in the conservatory for this month is (as in the other 
glass-houses) to paint, to clean, to renew the earth about the roots of 
all plants that stand in beds ; wherever this last is difficult or impos- 
sible, owing to the presence of floor or pavement, give, when you 
water, strong manure-water. Prune the vines, remove all dead or 
superfluous wood, pick off decaying leaves, thoroughly syringe all 
the plants, and see that the heating apparatus is in order. 

Plans for the conservatory should be conceived and settled on in 
May, in order that the foundation may be built, and the soil may 
be prepared, and such flowering vines planted as we propose to 
have, that they may have the summer to grow in, and may be 
ready to blossom in the winter. 

We should finish our conservatory the last of August or middle 
of September, so as to have it covered in before frost comes. The 
plan shows a conservatory attached to the dwelling-house on the 
east, and designated by the letter C in the index. It is a semicir- 
cular building, covering the windows of the dining-room and kitchen, 
and entered through a French window from the dining-room and 



20 SEPTEMBER. 

parlor. The kitchen windows are of rough glass, so as to transmit 
light without looking into the conservatory. Its length on the 
front of the main house is 31 feet; on the kitchen, 15 feet ; on the 
end of the main house, 19 feet ; the depth in front is 19 feet ; on 
the side, 15 feet ; the porch is 10 x 10. 

Plate No. 1 shows the ground plan. The whole front floor, not 
occupied by plants, is covered with alternate flags of purple and 
green slate ; Malone sandstone, or strips of hard pine may be used. 
The outside foundation is* a stone wall, 3 x 4. feet; above the base 
rises an ornamental brick wall, 3 feet, with ventilators, as in the 
greenhouse^ opposite the hot-water pipes, and opening and shutting 
in sections — the curved form of the house making it impossible to 
move all at once ; they are 4 feet apart, and 1 foot square. The 
hot-water pipes and boiler are similar to those in the greenhouse ; 
the boiler is in a shed at the kitchen corner of the house, and not 
shown in the plan ; the pipes surround the porch, or may cross it 

under the floor. Where they cross the 

pathway, and would be stumbled over if on 

its level, they sink on one side and rise 

again on the other, as in the greenhouse. 

No such rise and fall is necessary where 

they cross the entrance from the parlor, as 

the conservatory floor is there sufficiently 

above the level of the parlor floor t6 let the pipes pass under. 

The smoke flues traverse the walk along the front and return along 

the back of the conservatory into the kitchen chimney. 

Above the brick wall rises a perpendicular glass front, 8 feet 
high, and from the top of this the glass roof springs back to the 
main wall of the house in a curvilinear manner. This gives an 
immense amount of light, and demands a great deal of heat to 
warm it properly. It is ventilated by a revolving sash in the mid- 
dle of the top, and by ventilation through the wall of the house, 
similar to the greenhouse. 

The ground floor is not covered to its utmost capacity, but is ar- 
ranged so as to give as pleasant an effect as possible. 

Internal Treatment. — d represents groups of plants standing 



1— T 



CONSERVATORY. 21 

in pots, such as Camelias, Daphnes, Gape Jessamines, Laurestinus, 
Pettosporums, Oranges, etc They may be kept here constantly, or 
be brought in when about to flower, e marks beds of plants, Roses, 
Geraniums, Heliotropes, etc. These beds are 4 feet deep, well 
drained at bottom, then filled in 18 inches with stones, which are 
covered with strips of turf 3 inches thick, to prevent the fine loam 
being washed away ; then comes a foot of oyster shells, charcoal, 
bones ; then a foot of rich loam. The plants growing here are 
never moved, but are not watered during the summer more than 
enough to keep them alive, so that they are virtually dormant at 
that season, but grow and blossom most luxuriantly in winter, ff 
are stagings filled with plants from the greenhouse, ready to blos- 
som ; a succession may easily be kept up if a little care be taken ; 
hh are beds similar to e, but smaller, and filled with bulbs, Verbe- 
nas, etc. ; mm represent the posts of the conservatory, which, in No. 
2, are shown covered with vines ; nn are busts or any small 
statuary; oo, large statues of a character adapted to gardens, 
Flora, Pomona, etc. ; pp, standing baskets of flowers ; RR, doors ; 
$9, ground-glass windows leading into the house ; xx, hot-water 
pipes ; gg, basins for fish, aquariums, or fountains. 

In No. 2, c shows the wall of house ; j 9 gutter ; y, ventilator ; 
by pipes for heating beds ; 00, hanging baskets ; v, moulding to con- 
nect house and roof. 

Expense. — A conservatory of this kind would be a real win- 
ter garden, and would give more pleasure than any greenhouse. 
Water would be supplied from the house cistern, and could be 
made to serve many ornamental purposes. Such a building would, 
of course, be expensive, but nothing for which money is ordinarily 
expended would give a larger return in satisfaction. As the con- 
servatory need not be stocked till next month, we reserve a list of 
plants for it till then. * 



CHAPTER IV. 

GRAPERY. 

By referring to the index of our plan, you will find the grapery 
marked by the letter B. It is quite a large building, eighty feet 
long ; two-thirds is lean-to, one-third span ; and it is filled with 
vines. It is divided by two glass partitions into three parts, so 
arranged that the heat may be increased or diminished in either at 
pleasure, thus enabling us to have a succession of fruits at those 
seasons of the year when it is most desirable. The space on the 
floor of the cold grapery, where in greenhouses would be a staging 
for the culture and exhibition of plants, is an espalier on which are 
Peaches, Nectarines, and Cherries. 

The sections of this house have vines in them, respectively two, 
three, and four years old, and are, during this month, in very dif- 
ferent conditions. The central portion is the cold grapery, where 
it is but rarely necessary to have any artificial heat, and which 
ripens its crop in August and September. The left section is to 
be a retarding-house, whose fruit is to be fit for use in December, 
January, or February. The right side is a forcing house, where 
the fruit will be ripe in June, July, or earlier, according to the 
age of the plant forced. For details of this building, a description 
of the border, etc., see the October work for the grapery. 

Forcing-House. — In September, examine your forcing-house, 
clean the sashes, repair glass, paint or whitewash the wood-work, 
and get all things ready for work. As the evenings begin to 
cool, be careful to close the doors and sashes, and if any sudden 
frosts make it necessary, draw the shutters up over the sashes. 

Our vines having been planted three years, we may this year 
begin forcing with vigor. 

Much care should be taken in a forcing-house, lest being tempted 

22 



GRAPERY. 23 

by a desire for a large and early crop, which may remunerate us 
for previous outlay, we force the vines when young at too early a 
month in the year. A forcing-house reverses nature's order and 
converts winter into summer ; and in managing it, we must be 
careful to be governed by the corresponding natural analogies. 
Out-of-door plants move slowly from frozen ground and cold air to 
thawed earth and genial temperatures. Therefore, our aim in the 
forcing-house must be to keep it as cool as possible in September, 
without subjecting the roots or vines to a chill. We may begin 
forcing this year at least fifteen days earlier than last. In this 
connection, I can do no better than to quote from J. F. Allen's 
treatise on the grape, as there is no more skilful or successful culti- 
vator of the grape in this latitude. 

u If it is intended to winter-force, you must not commence the 
process the first year before the first of March ; the second year 
you may begin the middle of February ; the third year, the first 
of February ; and so on every year until you reach the first of 
December ; beyond this you can hardly go, as this allows only 
time to prune and clean the vine after it has gone to rest." We 
shall in this, the third year of our forcing-house, begin to force 
about the first of February. 

Retarding-House. — The vines in the retarding-house are 
ripening their second crop of fruit. Having thinned the grapes in 
August, there is but little to do in September, excepting to moderate 
the growth as much as possible by keeping the house cool when 
the sun shines. It is important to keep the house dry to avoid dan- 
ger of mildew ; shut the doors and sashes as the nights grow cool ; 
if there is any appearance of mildew, dust the vines with flowers 
of sulphur, and shut up tight at night. 

Cold Grapery. — In the cold grapery at the first of the month 
there will be a little fruit ripening and a little ripe. There should 
be but little, taking it altogether, as a vine two years old is too 
young to be allowed to bear any thing but specimen bunches. It 
is true, that vines of that age will often bear heavily if allowed, but 
the final effect of this is injurious, and only tends to weaken the 



24 SEPTEMBER. 

plant and reduce its capability to bear large and steady crops 
hereafter. 

Pinch back fruit and fig-trees in pots, to ripen and improve the 
wood. Having followed the directions for the earlier months (cal- 
endar) of this year, in August, or September — 

" You may begin at the lower part of the cane, and with a sharp 
knife cut clean out all the laterals for eight or nine feet, leaving 
those on the upper part of the cane for the autumn pruning. Be 
careful in doing this not to injure the bud or leaf of the cane where 
you cut, for from this eye your fruit is to come the next summer." 

If there are any bunches of fruit on the vines, keep your house 
as cool and dry as possible, as this is the only means of preserving 
the fruit ; either extra heat or moisture will occasion mildew or 
decay. 



CHAPTER V. 

FLOWEB-GABDEN. 

Ws have already said that in September the flower-garden is in 
its most satisfactory condition ; we should have limited our assertion 
to the first half of the month, after which time the work of disrob- 
ing begins. Many plants must be taken up, to be removed to the 
greenhouse, and some of the beds must be dug over for planting 
bulbs. 

Bulbs may be planted in any of the autumn months, until the 
ground is frozen, the earlier the better, for many of them will make 
fibrous roots in the fall, and thus be ready to grow more rapidly 
and vigorously in the spring ; and it will generally be found that 
the earliest bulbs to blossom, of a given variety, are those which 
were earliest planted. 

In this month, as before, go over the beds repeatedly with knife 
and string, cutting out the old blossom stalks, and tying up the too 
drooping branches of the erect species of plants. Particularly 
watch the Dahlias, which by this time have grown large and top- 
heavy ; a single high wind will prostrate every Dahlia that is not 
well secured, and thus destroy the hopes of a season. The Dahlia 
will blossom every month from July to October, if forced early 
enough, but will give its best blossoms only as the nights grow cool 
and long. 

Bedding Plants. — Get up the tender greenhouse plants which 
are to be wintered before the 15th of this month ; for although 
there is often fine weather till October, there will be an occasional 
frost, which will cut off every tender plant. As you begin to 
transplant, the beds will have a very seedy and dismantled appear- 
ance, and your judgment as a gardener will become apparent in 

the manner in which you conceal the losses made by transplanting. 

3 25 



26 SEPTEMBER. 

The more hardy plants, like Carnations, Verbenas, Lantanas, and 
Pelargoniums may remain in the ground till October. In Septem- 
ber we expect the last blossoms of the Perpetual Roses. 

Bulbs. — Overhaul the bulbs collected for the spring blossoms, 
ascertain the number you have of each variety, and how much 
surface they will cover ; then decide what beds shall be devoted 
to bulbs ; take out every thing in them, unless it be Roses or peren- 
nial roots, dig them over thoroughly, adding a good dressing of 
well-rotted manure. This work cannot be too thoroughly done, as 
upon it depends the satisfactory blossom we hope for in the. spring. 
Having prepared your beds, towards the last of the month (25th, 
perhaps), begin to plant, although this may be deferred till the 
first of October. The amount of earth required over a bulb differs 
with the variety, but none need more than three or four inches. 
Where it is desirable to produce any given effect, say of color, with 
Hyacinths, Tulips, or Crocusses, lay them out around the bed on the 
surface in their proper places before beginning to plant, with a 
view to producing whatever effects you fancy, according to the 
variety ; Tulips and Hyacinths from six to nine inches apart ; Cro- 
cusses, two or three inches ; the larger bulbs from three to four. 
By using bulbs of well-known colors and character, the most varied 
effects you wish may be produced with certainty. 

Where we wish a succession of bloom, nothing is more easily 
procured ; we have only to plant bulbs of the earlier and later 
varieties. A very pleasant effect is got by adding to the beds some 
Pansies, as they blossom as soon as the snow is fairly gone, and last 
till hot weather. Snowdrops come first, then Crocusses, then Pan- 
sies, then Hyacinths, Narcissuses, Tulips, Daffodils, Single and 
Double Jonquils, etc. 

Planting. — Having laid out the bulbs as described, 
take a tin tube in the shape of a truncated cone, 6 inches 
long, about 3 inches in diameter at the large end, at 
the smaller, l£ or 2 inches ; take the bulb in your left 
hand, in your right, the tube ; press the small end down 
into the earth as far as you wish to set the bulb — 4 




FLOWER-GARDEN. 27 

inches for Tulips, etc, l£ for Crocusses, — drawing up the tube, 
you will find it filled with earth as high as it was pressed 
deep into the ground, its tapering shape preventing the earth 
in the upper and larger end from falling out at the smaller. 
Now set the bulb down at the bottom of the hole, its pointed end 
up. If it is a Hyacinth, shake a little sand over it ; then invert 
the tin tube over it, and the earth removed to make the hole will 
be replaced. This will be found to be the most neat and rapid 
way of planting bulbs. Any tinman will make such a tube for 
ten cents. 

Tulips. — When choice Tulips are to be planted, a deal of care 
must be taken to arrange colors and sizes so that the tallest may 
be in the middle and the smaller towards the edge of the bed. 
Connoisseurs in tulips, who pride themselves on the splendor and 
variety of their bulbs, resort to very elaborate preparation in the 
way of soil, exposure, size of bed, number of rows, etc. ; but this 
is troublesome, and undesirable to the general cultivator, who does 
not wish his whole satisfaction in his flowers to be destroyed by the 
trouble of taking care of them. The utmost that the Tulip demands 
is to have the bed in a rather high and airy situation, sheltered from 
the prevalent winds, and on a light rich soil. All other details 
may be arranged to suit the cultivator. 

Hyacinths, — too, .have often been made the subject of elabo- 
rate memoirs. Were it necessary to resort to the care insisted on 
by the writers of these directions, Hyacinths would cause more 
trouble than they are worth. It is enough to observe the directions 
just given for Tulips. 

With the other common bulbs we may be still less particular. 
When the amateur desires variety rather than whole beds of one 
kind, bulbs may be planted singly, or in groups, about the borders, 
among perennial roots, etc When they are to be planted in this 
manner, it would be well to take with you a wheelbarrow of rich 
mould, and put a spadeful in the place where you are about to set 
die bulb, as all blossom well in proportion to the richness of the 
earth immediately surrounding them. Plant during this month 



28 SEPTEMBER. 

Pansies among your bulbs as just described, or in a bed by them- 
selves, or in the borders. The Pansies to be set out are those of 
which the seeds were planted in June ; by transplanting now, they 
will be enabled to get well rooted and make some growth before win- 
ter. They like a rich soil, and pay well fbr it Old plants can be 
divided, and cuttings be made. The Polyanthus may appropriately 
be mixed with bulbs to vary effects ; transplant this month. The 
ordinary Polyanthus needs no specially prepared soil. Plant White 
Lilies early this month. 

Late in the month divide and transplant, or reset the perennial 
roots. Make beds for them by themselves, or in common with 
other plants, but endeavor to get, as you easily may, such a suc- 
cession of perennials as will give some flowers during all the grow- 
ing months, from May to October. Having a greenhouse to sup- 
ply an unlimited amount of bedding plants, it will be well to leave 
gaps among the perennials, in which to set Verbenas, Heliotropes, 
Geraniums, Salvias, so that their successive and late blossoms may 
come in to fill the spaces left by dying perennials. 

Florists' Flowers. — Some writers have indulged in lengthy 
directions for the growth of Auriculas, Ranunculuses, and other 
plants, which I can consider in this latitude only as denizens of 
the greenhouse and hotbed, and as such I shall treat them. Be 
careful now to watch the Chrysanthemums, both Giant and Dwarf, 
for the gaiety of the garden in October and November must 
depend upon them. Tie them well up to sticks, and keep out the 
weeds, and do not allow any perennials or bedding plants to crowd 
them, and thus impair their vigor. Make beds of Picotees and 
Carnations agreeably to directions in July. 

As there are in our flower-garden no beds for the bulbs or the per- 
ennials of whieh we have been speaking, we will now proceed to 
make them. 

Refer to the enlarged plan of ,the flower-garden, where we, can 
have better opportunity to describe the work intelligibly than in 
the narrow limits of the general plan. We will give the method 
of staking out two of the beds and let that suffice for all. 

First, carefully measure the garden and its walks, and lay it 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 29 

down on paper. Then draw on the plan such beds as you know 
will produce a good effect when judiciously planted. Remember 
particularly, that the prettiness of the shape of flower-beds is not 
of the least consequence, but that all beds should be of such shapes 
as will give a good effect individually or collectively, when planted. 
Make the indentations as large as possible, as they will then be 
more easily kept free from weeds and grass ; avoid sharp points 
for the same reason ; give as much variety to the outline as you 
can, making your curves easy and graceful. 

To stake out a Round Bed. — Select a point for the centre, 
where drive a round stake ; take a rope with a loop at the end, 
put the loop over the stake ; hold the rope in the left hand as far 
from the stake as one-half the diameter of the proposed bed ; take 
a handful of stakes in the other hand ; walk forward at the full 
length thus taken, and put in a stake every three paces. When 
you return to the point of departure, the stakes set will make a circle 
on the ground. 

To stake out an Oval is more difficult. Decide upon the 
length of «the largest diameter, — say 20 feet; draw this line at 
some scale on paper ; draw another line cutting the first in the mid- 
dle and at right angles. This second line is the short diameter of 
the proposed oval, 8 feet, — 4 feet on each side the long diameter. 
Draw around these lines such an oval as 
^ill suit you; at every two feet draw a 
line from one side to the other, at right an- 
gles with the long diameter : the first line 
parallel with the short diameter. 

Measure these lines and note on each its 
* length (by the scale of the first line). Go to 
the garden, and select the spot for the oval ; stake out a long diam- 
eter, A B, 20 feet long, parallel to the path or border on which you 
wish to make the bed ; or, if that be curved, connect two points in 
it by a straight line, and make A B parallel to this, and the proper 
number of feet distant from it. Find the middle of the line, 10 
feet from each end, and here set a stake C ; take a tape line and 
pin its ring or end to this centre stake ; measure back on the di- 

3* 





BO SEPTEMBER* 

ameter 3 feet to b, where set another stake ; draw the tape firmly 
round this last stake ; follow the tape till you come to the 12 feet 
mark, and fasten the tape at this mark to the centre stake again C. 
The tape will now be fast to the middle stake by both its ends. 
Find on the tape the 8 feet mark, and holding there, draw the tape 
out tight either side the 20 feet diameter ; at this point set another 
stake a ; your three stakes will now mark on the ground the angles 
of a triangle a b c, and the last-placed stake will mark the centre 

of one of the sides of the oval. Find the 
other side in the same manner. Measure 
the line A B, as in the figure, into two feet 
lengths ; at each end of these points meas- 
B ure out a line parallel to the short diameter 
c a (just obtained on the ground), propor- 
tionate to the corresponding line on your 
plan. When all are staked out, draw up the middle line of stakes, 
and the oval is complete. 

Another method of doing the same thing is described in common 
mathematical treatises, but it applies only to the regular ellipse 
drawn on a smooth surface; among bushes or tall herbaceous 
plants it would be impracticable. It is as follows : stake out the 
line A B for the long diameter of the ellipse ; find two points a, b f 
which shall be as far from A and B respectively, as one-quarter 
the short diameter of the ellipse ; fasten to the points a, b 9 a cord as 
long as the line A B ; press a sharp-pointed stake against the cord, 
so that it may loop about it, and draw it back on the line A B to 
either extremity ; then carry it toward the other extremity in such 
curve as will keep the cord constantly taut, marking out your 
course meanwhile with the point dragged on the ground, and you 

will describe the curve A C B as in the 
diagram. Having changed the stake to 
^ the other side of the cord, repeat the oper- 
ation and complete the ellipse. 
To stake out an irregular figure for a bed, a different method is 
followed. 

Suppose it to be the bed A on the plan. Draw as before, on 
paper, a line A B to a scale ; make it as long as the proposed bed, 




FLOWER-GARDEN. 



31 




and let it touch the beds at the points c t. Now on the plan meas- 
ure the distance, the outline of the bed and the path at various points 
on the line A B ; these points are abed, etc, and may be any 

distance apart, but ! 

whatever that dis- 
tance is, note it care- 
fully on the plan. At 
these points erect 
perpendiculars, till 
they touch either the 
outline of the bed, the 

path, or the border ; measure the length of these perpendiculars, 
and put these lengths down, each on its proper line. With this 
preparation go out and stake out the line A B as far from the path 
or border as the length of the lines cd and dcF. Now divide A B 
into a b e d *, etc., measure out on the ground the lines act cd dd 
etc (full size), perpendicular to A B, and stake as you measure. 
When this is done, remove the stakes that merely mark the line 
A B, and you have your figure ; and however irregular this figure, 
this is the best way to stake it out There need never be any 
trouble in getting one line perpendicular to another on the ground, 
if you remember the process followed in staking out the oval. 
That method of getting a right angle is embodied in the mathe- 
matical proposition that the square of the hypothenuse of a right- 
angled triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 
two sides. 

To proceed with the work. After staking out all the beds, se- 
lect those which are to be devoted entirely to bulbs, as a b cf y 
marked on the index by a star.* Prepare them as we have di- 
rected, and plant to suit your taste. ( The index shows how they 
are planted on our plan. The other beds may be planted at will; 
the bulbs in bunches and groups (see index), the other space 
filled with perennials and bedding-out plants. 



* See p. 726. 



CHAPTER VL 

KITCHEN-GABDEN. 

The kitchen-garden must be closely watched from February to 
December, although September needs as little attention as any 
month. Seed-beds are now to be prepared for the growth of va- 
rious salads for winter and spring use, and to start some early 
spring vegetables. It is not generally known that much spring 
labor with hotbeds could be saved, if attention were given during 
this and the next month to growing young plants of those vegeta- 
bles most in demand in the spring. Being once well started, 
they may be pricked out in cold frames during October and No- 
vember, and being covered with boards, or leaves, will be found 
ready to transplant and grow as soon as the frost leaves the ground 
fit for culture. 

To plant seeds, select a warm, moist place ; fork the land over, 
mixing in well-rotted manure ; rake the surface thoroughly to re- 
duce it to the finest possible condition ; then sow the seeds in drills 
six inches apart, if they are to be covered with hotbed frames for 
the winter ; a foot apart if they are to remain in the open ground. 
Spinach should be sowed in long beds, rows a foot apart ; cover 
the seeds about half an inch deep, and roll in welL All plants 
intended for early spring culture must be sown before the middle 
of this month, care being taken that they do not get too for- 
ward. If they grow large they are very apt to run to flowers 
in the spring, before they are in condition for the table. They 
may be retarded at pleasure by several transplantings in the course 
of the autumn. 

Lettuce and Cabbage, the latter for greens and early heads, may 
be started, and kept in frames as we have just mentioned. Salads 
for winter and spring are not as much cultivated in Massachusetts 
as in the neighborhood of New York and Philadelphia. 

32 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 83 

9 

Earth up advancing crops of Celery once a fortnight, being very 
careful never to do it when wet with rain or dew, as it causes rust, 
and also never to cover the heart ; treat Cardoon and Artichoke 
Chard in the same way ; transplant and trench Endive and Sea Kale ; 
hoe beds and clear the plants of Sea Kale, Chiccory, and similar veg- 
etables. Watch early Cauliflowers, and gather their heads, as also 
Broccoli, before too much advanced. The earliest kinds of Celery 
may be dug towards the end of the month. Peru and Lima Beans 
will be getting fit for use. Sow seeds of small salads, as hitherto ; 
likewise beds of Prickly-seeded Spinach. Radishes sowed now will 
be ready for the table by winter. Okra must be used frequently, 
as it will be cut off by early frosts. Any herbs not yet gathered, 
save immediately. As Onions ripen, gather and dry them. When 
the neck of the Onion shrinks, gather them ; lay them in heaps to 
dry for ten days or a fortnight, according to the weather, and then 
house. If the fruit on the trees is troubled with wasps and bees, 
hang some wide-mouth bottles half rail of molasses, or sugar and 
water, about them. Many will be caught and destroyed ; they go 
in but are unable to return. 

Fruits in Kitchen-Garden. — It will be seen by reference 
to the plan that we include many kinds of fruit in this garden, 
such as Strawberries, Currants, Raspberries, Gooseberries, Black- 
berries, and Thimbleberries, Quinces, Filberts, and espaliered 
fruit. These fruits belong to the kitchen-garden only, as they 
are not grown in quantities for the market, but as a table sup- 
ply, and require an amount of attention not demanded by other 
orcharding. 

Strawberries. — Early in this month it is a common practice 
to reset Strawberry beds ; and when the land is moist, or there is a 
prospect of a wet season, no month is better for this purpose; work 
is now less pressing than in the spring, and plants well started get 
several months to grow, and will bear some fruit in the spring. 
Avoid, if possible, resetting the bed in the place of the old, as all 
plants are benefited by the rotation of crops ; and where Straw- 
berries have been cultivated several years in succession, they are 



34 

never so good as on fresh land. In preparing the bed, dig it deep, 
and give a liberal dressing of manure, as it is difficult to manure 
the strawberry crop after it has begun to grow, though no crop 
pays better for large supplies of liquid manure during the time of 
setting and ripening fruit. Select good, healthy, year-old plants ; 
eat off all but two, or at the most three, leaves, and shorten runners. 
Hold the plant in your left hand, taking your dibble in the right 
(the dibble may be the handle of an old spade or shovel cut off 
eight or ten inches below the cross-bar, and roughly pointed, or 
a stout bit of hard wood eight or tea inches long, bent on itself 

I at a right angle, and pointed) ; press the 
dibble into the ground about three inches, 
which will make a smooth bole; as you 
withdraw the dibble, set the plant into the 
' bole. Now re-insert the dibble, first on one, 
then on the other side of the plant, at a 
-■■"-■ re-enlering angle of about 45° to the per- 

pendicular hole first made, and press the earth closely up to the 
roots of the plant This is the most rapid and effective way of 
transplanting all plants of which large numbers are required. The 
rows of Strawberries should be six inches apart and three rows to 
the bed. Some cultivators are now. more in favor of a single row 
and no beds ; each row being two to three feet from its neighbor. 
This method allows the fruit to be picked more easily than any 
other, but occupies more room and requires more labor in cultiva- 
tion. 

When it is desirable to transplant Strawberries or any other 
fruit with extra care, so as not to interfere with their growth, it is 
well to use some one of the English or French 
transplanters, of which a specimen is shown in 
the cut The arm a, is ratchetted and swings 
on a point b, and fastens on a tooth c. Lower the 
arm a, and it drops off the tooth c, and openH the 
cylinder at the bottom of the instrument, as 
t shown ih the cut ; now drive the open bottom 
firmly down on each side the plant to be re- 
moved- until i Is upper edge is level with the ground; take one 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 35 

of the stilts in each hand and press them apart This brings 
the two parts of the cylinder together and compresses the earth 
firmly about the roots of the plant within ; now fasten it in this 
position by letting the arm a, bite on the tooth c. Here the whole is 
in a compact box, and a little lifting strength being applied to the arm 
a, will take the plant, roots, earth, and all out of the ground. We may 
now carry it as far as we please, and having dug a hole the size of the 
cylinder, set it into it, fill in the earth closely about it, unlatch a, and 
drawing the stilts together slightly raise the instrument by an easy 
and slow movement, leaving the plant in the ground. Transplant- 
ing accomplished in this way never checks growth for a moment, 
but is obviously too slow a process to be used on a large scale. 

In selecting Strawberry plants, bear in mind that some varieties 
are staminate, or male, and have but few pistillate or female flowers, 
and consequently are small bearers, whilst other varieties are the 
opposite. If we get a large proportion of the staminate, our 
trouble is useless ; if too large a proportion of the pistillate, a fail- 
ure of fruit often follows from deficient impregnation. The Old Vir- 
ginia or Scarlet Strawberry is largely staminate, and is an early 
though small bearer, rather inferior in flavor, whilst most of the 
seedlings more choice in flavor and size are pistillate. It will be 
well to set about one of the Virginia to five or six of the others in 
order to insure a good crop. 

Where it is easy to get a quantity of young plants for resetting 
beds, we may largely increase the number and size of the berries, 
by never allowing the plant to make runners ; if these are carefully 
cut off, the parent plant will spread over a large surface, the Old 
Virginia even covering a space as large as a peck measure and 
bearing in proportion. This kind of culture gives many more 
Strawberries to the acre than any other. 

As to varieties, those that seem to stand competition best are 
Hovey's and Walker's Seedling, the Brighton Pine, and the Jenny 
Lind. New varieties are offered every year and have their advo- 
cates. Without specially advocating any variety, I am sure that 
these have proved themselves good on a large scale. 

R ASPBKRRJB8. — Raspberries should now be well hoed and tied 



86 SEPTEMBER 

up to their sticks. If you have any leisure you may cut out the 
old wood which has borne this year, as it is now useless. 

Espaliers. — The espaliered fruit will now mature rapidly. 
Gather the ripening Peaches and Nectarines, and do not leave them 
on the trees till they are perfectly ripe, or they will not keep so 
well. They should be picked when their color shows the practised 
eye that a few days will make them mellow. Take them into the 
house and lay them in the coolest and driest place you have, and 
be particularly careful not to handle or press them, as the one 
removes the bloom, the other hastens decay. 

The same holds good of Pears. No Pear should be allowed to 
fall to the ground, — whether worm-ripe or not, — as it can hardly 
do so without bruising other fruit in its passage, at the same time 
spoiling itself. Pears, even more than Peaches, should be gathered 
three or four days before they become mellow. Take them into 
the fruit room and lay them out on the shelves. The varieties of 
Pears on the espaliers should give a regular succession of fruit from 
the middle of August to November, by which time the fruit of the 
orchard trees will be ready for use. Of the espaliers there are 
four Nectarine trees, five Apricots, ten Peaches, and twenty-four 
Pears. The Nectarines are Early Violet, Hunt's Tawney, Boston, 
New-white. The Apricots are Large Early, Brede, Peach, Roman, 
Moorpark ; the Peaches, Early York, White Imperial, two George 
IV., Grosse Mignonne, two Crawford's Early, two Late Red Rare- 
ripes, Oldmixon ; the Pears, two Bloodgood's, Madeline, two Dear- 
borne's Seedlings, four Bartlett, three Andrews, two White Doy- 
enne, four Seckel, two Fondante d' Automne, two Louise Bonne, two 
Beurre Capiaumont, two Duchess, two Glout Morceau. The Fil- 
berts are Gifford's and Frizzled. 

Melons. — Melons are now in their perfection, and should be 
used every day, as an early frost will very probably cut them off. 
When not done last month, put under each fine melon a shingle, to 
keep it from the ground, or its flavor will be injured by the 
earth. The Cantalopes, Musk, Nutmeg, and Green-fleshed, should 
all be ripe now if ever. The ripeness of all yellow melons lb 



KITGHB1T-OABDBV. 37 

shown by color ; but those which have a green rind show ripeness 
by a gradual detaching of the footstalk, so that when raised by the 
hand the vine drops from the melon without resistance. Water- 
melons must be made much of now as they are in their prime. 
Various ways of ascertaining their ripeness are given : when rapped 
with the knuckles they give a hollow sound if ripe, because of 
a hollow interval left by the separation of the inner lobes, which 
have hitherto been all joined, but separate as they ripen. Another 
test is, pressing the melon between the hands ; if ripe there will 
be a slight crackling (as the lobes crack), the same cavity in the 
centre offering no opposition to the pressure. Another test is, the 
decay of the tendril, which will be found on the side of the stem 
of the vine, opposite the footstalk of the fruit, until the latter is. 
ripe, when it withers away. 

Pickles. — Hoe carefully the pickle crops of Cucumbers, Man- 
goes, Peppers, and Martynias ; gather all ripe Tomatoes, and lay 
the best and earliest ripe in the sun to get seed ; the others, not 
needed for cooking, should be allowed to accumulate a day or two, 
being kept dark and cool, to stew for winter use, or for the market 
Be very attentive to the ripening seeds ; gather and dry all you 
wish for the next season, never selecting for seed those similar va- 
rieties which have grown near together, as they will have mixed. 

Pinch off the ends of the Lima Bean runners early in the 
month, as this is the only way to force the vine to mature its seeds. 

Root Crops. — Look over the root crops, Beets, Parsnips, Tur- 
nips, Ruta Bagas, etc.; if any stray weeds are to be seen, get them 
out. Hoe the Cabbages wherever the earth seems to have fallen 
away from the stem. Dig your early Potatoes, and lay them in 
heaps, out of the sun and dew, in a dry place for a day or two, to 
dry thoroughly before putting them into the cellar. Gather seed 
ears of the early Corn as it ripens ; dry well, strip back and tie 
together the husks, hang them up where they will be secure from 
rate and mice. Early Peas and Beans are now to be pulled up. 
the vines dried, and the seed threshed and cleaned ; the vines or 
haulm will be greedily eaten by cattle if well dried, or they may 

4 



38 SEPTEMBER. 

be used for bedding. Gather seed of Summer Squashes and throw 
the vines and remaining Squash to the pigs. Dig over the portions 
of the kitchen-garden which have grown these early crops, to be 
ready for new planting. 

Pull up and store away any early Turnips not used, as they will 
now be apt to run up to blossom stalks, or become hollow-hearted 
and corky. Cut, dry, and tie in bundles, and hang up pot-herbs, 
Sage, Rue, Sweet Marjoram, Summer Savory, etc., the last of the 
month. 

Gather the Squashes, and pile them in some warm and dry 
place, or shelter the heaps with boards till they are well dried ; 
then sell or store them. A light frost will injure them very much, 
and every bruise is followed by decay. 

As soon as the tops of the Asparagus are fairly yellow, and the 
berries red, cut them, lay in piles in the alleys between the beds, 
and cover with manure ; then dig all in, cover the beds with a 
dressing of well-rotted manure and salt, but do not dig in for fear 
of injuring the crowns of the roots, unless very lightly; if the 
manure is fine it will not impede the Asparagus shoots in the spring. 



J 



CHAPTER VII. 

OBCHABD. 

The orchard now needs constant attention. The earliest Apples 
are mostly gone, and the autumn Apples are ripening. Send out 
every day a man with a barrow or a cart to collect all the decayed 
and " windfall " fruit for the pigs. Such as is good enough should 
be pared, sliced, and hung up for drying. Our Apples which will 
ripen this month, are Porter's, Gravenstein, Jersey Sweeting, 
Pumpkin Sweet, Maiden's Blush, Nonesuch, Seek-no-further, Scar- 
let Pearmain. They should all be carefully hand-picked before 
ripening, and laid out on shelves ; — not barreled unless they 
are to go to market at once. The sale of autumn Apples requires 
much judgment, as they do not generally keep well, and are there- 
fore hurried into the market until it is often overstocked. When 
carefully gathered and well barreled, they are in demand for export 
to the most Northern States and to Canada. For carelessly gathered 
fall Apples there is no such demand. A careful picker, barreller, 
and marketer, will sell his Apples for nearly double the price com- 
manded by ordinary Apples. 

Pears must also be well attended to. Go over the dwarfs, and 
pinch back the new growth that was not thus checked in August, to 
secure thorough ripening of the wood and save labor in the spring. 
In gathering and storing use the same care directed for the espalier 
fruit. The Pears that ripen this month are Andrews, Buffum, 
Beurr& de Capiaumont, Beurr^ Bosc, Beurre" Diel, Bergamot, Bon 
Chretien Fondante d'Automne, White Doyenne\ Manning's Eliza- 
beth, Flemish Beauty, Napoleon, Rostiezer, Seckle. These Pears 
should all be gathered at least a week before they are fully ripe, and 
be placed on the shelves of the fruit room, or in baskets and buckets, 
as will be hereafter described (for drawings of which see the October 

work), and kept cool and dark till quite ripe. If ripened thus, 

39 



40 SEPTEMBER. 

they will be highly colored, firm and juicy, and when well assorted 
will sell for very high prices. When they are carried to market, 
the wisdom of thinning out the Pears on the trees in June and 
July will be evident 

All the Peaches ripen this month as they are planted for market. 
Our only orchard varieties are Coolidge's Favorite, George IV., 
Crawford's Early (gone early in the month), Royal George, Late 
Red Rare-ripe, Large White Cling-stone, Oldmixon, and Heath. 
Treat them as directed for the espalier fruit in kitchen-garden. 

Our Nectarines are the same as in the kitchen-garden. 

The out-door Grapes will begin to ripen this month ; first Diana, 
then Concord, then Isabella ; late in the month Sweet-water and 
Catawba. Leave the fruit on the vines as long as possible, cutting 
only for use or sale. We have no vineyard for wine-making, and 
those who wish to try what is hardly a profitable business in this 
latitude, east of Albany, must consult special treatises on this 
subject. As the month closes, if there is any threat of freezing 
weather, gather the grapes, and winter-pack them in kegs with 
pretty dry sawdust, or lay them in drawers between layers of cotton 
batting, taking care to keep them cool and dark. 

We have only a dozen Plum-trees, as the curculio, black-rot, and 
mildew make their cultivation a discouraging task. They will all 
ripen this month ; Greengage, Coe's Golden-drop, Jefferson, Bol- 
mar's Washington, Magnum Bonum, Damson. Gather this crop 
. as it ripens, and place on shelves in the fruit room. It does not 
keep well ; so eat, preserve, and sell as fast as possible. 

Be sure to bud any stocks or branches of Plums, Cherries, 
Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots, and Pears, not budded in August 



CHAPTER VIII. 

NURSERY. 

Here there is little to do if budding was finished last month ; if 
it was not, do it now. Pull out all stocks that seem diseased ; run 
the horse-hoe through the rows that are weedy ; look over the tal- 
lies at the ends of the rows and refresh any that are dim. 

The best tally is zinc, on which write with some preparation 
that will not fade, or with a stylus, or wooden tallies, first rubbed 
over with white lead, and written on with black lead pencil before 
the paint is dry. 

lii the nursery of ornamental plants, be sure to bud all the 
Roses as soon as possible ; for varieties consult the flower-garden 
lists. Toward the last of the month, divide the tufts of perennial 
roots, so that whatever you wish to transplant may be ready, and 
the rest be making new roots. 

Ornamental trees which you propose to plant this fall may be 
pruned now, if there is time, as it will save delay when trans- 
planting. Go through the rows of trees and shrubs which are 
not to be transplanted this fall, and prune off all side branches, 
suckers, etc., which would interfere with a satisfactory development 
of the plant Every unoccupied part of the nursery should be 
trenched and thoroughly manured, to be ready for planting next 
month. 

Evergreens. — If there are any evergreens that must be trans- 
planted before spring, or become worthless, move them now. Ar- 
bor Vibes and Norway Spruces seem often not to suffer by fall 
transplanting ; but as a rule, no evergreen should be disturbed in 
the fall, except as a forlorn hope, for it is of the greatest importance 
that a tree freshly transplanted should have time to repair the 
damage which its roots have suffered in the removal before it is 

4* 41 



42 8BPTBMBER. 

taxed for any other purpose. Transplanting tears away more than 
we can estimate of minute fibres and spongioles, the vital parts 
of the plant, and its first physiological act in its new position is to 
heal these wounds and make good the place of the lost organs. 
The healing process is to form a callus similar to the callus on a 
" cutting " and analagous to the granulations thrown out in wounded 
flesh, where no tissue like skin or flesh is found at first, but a new 
substance that serves to protect the wound against the external air 
and shocks, to shield the new tissues that form beneath ; so the 
broken root makes a shield of cellular tissue, which is in time ab- 
sorbed or cast off, to give place to woody fibre and cellular tissue, 
from which roots are emitted in due season. 

To insure the growth of cuttings, gardeners know that they 
must remove most of their leaves and set them in a shady place 
where there will be but little evaporation. So deciduous trees 
being without leaves in the autumn and winter evaporate but little 
moisture even in the sun ; not enough to overtask their roots and 
prevent the formation of calluses after transplanting. They may 
therefore be removed even in the late fall with great advantage ; 
and if this be well done, and the trees properly secured against the 
wind, the formation of calluses and new roots is certain in nearly 
all hardy varieties ; and when spring comes there is an immediate 
resumption of growth ; whilst a tree transplanted in the spring has 
all this reparative process to ' perform before it can grow. But 
in evergreens, the process of growth begins later in the spring, and 
the demand on the roots for sap continues till spring again ; and 
when they are moved in the fall their vital processes are in full 
activity. The new growth of leaves, young and tender, is just 
formed, and demands the largest possible amount of moisture; 
whilst, if newly transplanted, the supply from the roots is dimin- 
ished, and a demand made (for the formation of calluses) by the 
roots for a part of this diminished supply. Even if the evergreen 
could be moved into the most favorable position, where evaporation 
should be at a minimum and moisture at a maximum, the process 
of healing its wounds and putting forth new rootlets must go on 
very slowly, so great must be the demand of its foliage, under any 
circumstances, in the fall. 



NURSERY. 48 

Suppose, however, the healing process goes on in the roots suf- 
ficiently to keep the tree alive. If it is to withstand the winter 
winds, the roots must have every opportunity to spread and seize 
firm hold of the earth. Even deciduous trees, with their skeleton 
top, are often winter-killed after being transplanted in the fall, 
by being so shaken in the wind that the slight hold of the new 
roots on the earth is broken. How much greater is the danger 
to the evergreen with its thick and leafy top, that opposes a large 
surface to the wind ! . But in the spring it needs less moisture, for 
its leaves are then old, and having supplied the tree for half a 
year or more, they have performed half their function, are thick- 
ened and hardened by the deposit of mineral matter in their tissue, 
and therefore work more slowly, elaborate less sap, and of course 
are less exposed to evaporation. 

Pruning. — If, however, you are compelled to move evergreens 
in the fall, prune them before setting them in their new place. It 
is little that can be done to restore the balance between roots and 
leaves ; but you must aim at this ; so cut away as far as possible 
the same proportion of top that you have torn away of roots. Ev- 
ergreens may not be cut back like deciduous trees ; their branches 
are to be thinned out 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE FARM. 

In September the fanner looks for some little leisure from the 
driving work of the year ; not idleness, but an opportunity to begin 
upon those repairs and improvements which are not indispensable, 
but which will pay Well in future. 

Field No. 4 is in grass for the first time. It will depend upon the 
set the grass got last year, and on the kind of spring and summer, 
whether there will be a crop of Aftermath or Rowen succeeding the 
hay. The field was laid down to Grass and Clover with Rye last 
year, and should have cut a heavy crop of Clover. Early in the 
month, if there seems to be grass enough to warrant it, cut the 
Rowen. If, as is possible, the Clover has come up clean and free 
from any stray Rye, summer weeds, or grass, you may cut it for 
its seed, in which case it should be left to stand longer than if to 
be cut for hay. 

Clover. — If cut for Rowen, treat as in summer ; put in the 
mowing machine as soon as the dew is off in the morning. The 
whole of it may be cut before the mid-forenoon, there being about 
two acres in the field. After dinner turn it thoroughly ; at four rake 
it ; put the hay into cocks that will contain about fifty pounds dry 
hay. Cover with hay covers every night and during damp weather. 
Leave unopened until an examination shall show whether it is 
cured and fit for the mow ; if it is, the covers should be removed 
during the heat of the morning, and the cock be turned over, to 
allow the bottom to get thoroughly dry. Then haul to the barn ; 
salt slightly. This Rowen will prove the most agreeable food to 
your milch cows during late winter and early spring, and will cause 
a larger flow of milk than any other kind of hay. 

Clover-Seed. — But if you wish to have clover-seed, the crop 

44 



THE FARM. 45 

must be treated differently. Let the grass stand till nearly ripe seeds 
show at the bottom of the head ; it will not do to wait longer than 
this, as the head continues to grow long after, and the lower seeds, 
which are the best, would ripen and fall before any others would 
mature. You may now mow this like Barley, or cradle it and tie 
in bundles. In either case, cure it like a grain crop ; carry to the 
barn, and either thresh immediately or put it on the mow to be 
threshed hereafter. Another method of saving seed is to use a 
machine which can be carried through the field and will take off 
the heads, which must then be collected, dried, and threshed. The 
stubble may be pastured, or be cut for inferior hay or for bed- 
ding. 

The ornamental grounds now need their last cutting for the 
season. That part of the lawn which was cut but once for hay 
will now yield its crop of Rowen, which must be treated in all 
respects like the Clover, excepting that it need not be left in cocks 
to make. The Clover leaves being very fragile when dry, break 
readily and are lost if the hay is turned frequently in making ; and 
it is to avoid this that we cure it in cocks. Some farmers are of 
the opinion that all hay is better made in this way. 

Bo wen. — The Rowen from the lawn is to be made like any 
other hay, and stored in the barn for the cows in spring. The 
grass on the rest of the lawn, and about the borders, flower-gardens, 
and house, is, as it has been at each previous cutting, similar to 
Rowen, although somewhat less nutritious, owing to the repeated 
cuttings, and is cured in the same way. 

Field No. 2 is in Roots. Its area of 3 acres is divided into l£ 
acres Carrots, 1 Ruta Bagas, \ Parsnips, £ Flat Turnips. Noth- 
ing need be done here but to go over the field occasionally and pull 
out any weeds that have come up since the last hoeing. If the 
weather is very dry and the roots seem to suffer, let the brook into 
the catch-water drains, and allow it to stand long enough to satu- 
rate the ground thoroughly. Before the water is turned in, run 
the horse or wheel hoe through the rows to loosen the soil. If 
there is no water for irrigation, hoeing will be of service. 

The lawn south of the hall door was planted with early Potatoes, 




46 SEPTEMBER. 

which mast be dag early in the month. The evidence of ripeness 
is the gradual drying up of the vines. It is easy to distinguish 
between the ripening of the vines and the disease known as " the 
rot." In the rot the vines decay and blacken all at once. Pota- 
toes may be dug with the common hand hoe or with a potato hand 

digger, which is much like 
a manure rake, with four 
or five long teeth, which 
searches into the hill bet- 
ter than the hoe and with 
less danger of cutting the tubers. After digging, leave them lying 
on the ground to dry in the sun till there will be only time enough 
before dew-fall to gather them into heaps. Cover these heaps with 
the dry haulm of the tops, or with a hay cover. Remove the cover 
next morning, and leave them another day, or even two days, to dry 
thoroughly, covering every night When well dried, carry them 
into the root cellar. 

It will save time in the end to assort them as we take them from 
the cart into the cellar, putting the smaller tubers together, either 
for pig-feed or for seed, and the large ones by themselves for sale 
or the table. Keep the varieties well separated, so that you may 
be able to plant next year with judgment, and grow those varieties 
which have rotted least, yielded best, and which have the best flavor. 
In this neighborhood, Worcester Reds, Davis' Seedlings, Carters, 
and Jackson Whites have proved the greatest favorites for field 
Potatoes, and it is with these that we should plant our field. 

Where there is more than one quarter of an acre of Potatoes to 
dig, it will be true economy to buy a potato-digger, which may be 
worked either with horse or oxen ; the animals walk in the fur- 
rows either side of the rows, while the digger, like a ditch plough, 
splits the furrow and turns the tubers out to daylight, where they 
may be easily gathered. 

In Field No. 1 the pasture needs no attention this month. 

At every opportunity cart muck, weeds, and loam to the barn 
cellar; leave them in such positions as not to interfere with clean- 
ing the cellar of the summer's accumulation before winter. 

The cows want fodder night and morning, as in the last month. 



/ 



THE FARM. 47 

and in rather larger quantities. Keep good watch to insure thai 
the cattle are well and regularly fed and cleaned, and that the barn 
is kept clean and sweet The horses will need no extra care as 
yet, although aa the nights grow colder their legs should be rubbed 
dry after the day's work and the beds be made a little thicker. 

Select the pigs you propose to kill before January and put them 
by themselves in order to begin extra feeding. Do not increase 
the feed much till the weather becomes decidedly cooler. They 
will be found to gain much more rapidly during the first cool 
weather than afterwards, or than during the hot weather. 

The fowls are taking care of themselves ; the young geese, tur- 
keys, and ducks being well grown. Such fowls as are to be got 
ready for early use or sale in the fall should be regularly fed, be* 
ginning with small quantities and gradually increasing. 

Rye. — During the month thresh the Rye or Wheat cut from 
No. 3, winnow and put it into bags for sale. If you propose to 
sell the Rye straw do it as soon as the price is fair, for as soon as 
cold weather approaches it will be the haunt of rats and mice, 
which in search of stray grains will cut it to pieces and make it 
almost unsalable. Sell all the Rye that you do not wish to use, 
whenever the market it good, as it is a crop in which there is not 
much fluctuation, and as it sells by weight the loss in drying dur- 
ing the winter will often counter-balance the gain in price in the 
spring which is seldom much for home-grown grains. 

DRAINING. « 

During the dry weather clear all the open drains that are at all 
dogged, and begin new tile or stone drains in all the wet parts of 
the fields. 

The system of irrigation which we are following will lose much 
of its value, if the surplus soakage water is not rapidly removed. 
There is scarcely a field but is benefited by draining. 

This is the best month to repair the roads for fall and winter 
carting, as gravel laid on now will be well trodden and bound be- 
fore hard freezing begins. 

Examine the catch-water drains, and wherever the action of the 



48 SEPTEMBER. 

water has injured them, repair thoroughly. Make the drains now 
in Field No. 1 for next year's crop. 

It is very strange that our farmers should be so remiss in the 
matter of irrigation, when no natural aid is as powerful if applied 
with judgment In a climate where frequent rains remove all fear 
* of drought, a supply of water by irrigation would seem superflu- 
ous ; and yet it is in England, where such a climate exists, that 
irrigation has been carried to the greatest perfection. How much 
more then should we gain in this often scorched region ! 

The necessity of drainage has forced itself upon our agricultural* 
ists, and although it is exceedingly rare to find a farm thoroughly 
drained, it is no less rare to see a farm where something of the 
sort has not been done. 

The theory is very simple and obvious. It is important to has- 
ten the approach and prolong the stay of warm weather as much 
as possible. We know that a wet board becomes wholly heated 
much more slowly than a dry one, as the water must first evapo- 
rate. So earth saturated with moisture will not become warm 
enough to germinate seeds readily, till the surplus water is re- 
moved ; sufficiently at least to leave the surface freely exposed to 
the heat of the sun's rays. Evaporation is a rapid process, if we 
consider the vast amount of water daily converted into rain-clouds ; 
a slow process when we wait for the drying of a submerged or 
saturated field to an extent that will allow the plough and seed to 
be applied in spring. This delay is most seriously felt in late sea- 
sons, when under the most favorable circumstances farmers find 
barely time enough to prepare for the crop. The surplus water 
may in this way shorten the season a fortnight or even a month. 
Again, in the fall, the early rains — colder than the soil — will 
collect in the very places whence the sun could hardly remove the 
water in the spring, and will inevitably chill or decay the roots of 
the yet immature crops ; thus cutting the season short at this end 
another fortnight or month. This time lost from the season will be 
enough to destroy those crops which can mature in this latitude 
only by having the full amount of heat which our late springs 
and early winters afford. Besides this shortening of the growing 
season, there is the utter impossibility of ploughing such lands in 



THB FABM. 49 

the autumn to expose them to the beneficial action of the winter 
frosts. 

All this difficulty may be removed by judicious drainage ; and 
no month is more favorable to the making drains than September, 
when we usually have some weeks of steady, dry weather, which 
evaporates the surface water, and enables us to judge where drains 
are most needed. 

u To determine the actual degree of cold produced by the evapo- 
ration of one pound of water from the soil, is rather a complicated, 
and not a very certain, operation ; but scientific reasons are given for 
an approximation to this result — that the evaporation of 1 pound 
of water lowers the temperature of 100 pounds of soil 10°. That 
is to say, that if to 100 pounds of soil holding all the water which 
it can by attraction, but containing no water of drainage, is added 1 
pound of water which it has no means of discharging except by evap- 
oration, it will, by the time that it has so discharged it, be 10° colder 
than it would have been if it had the power of discharging this 1 
pound by filtration ; or more practically, if rain, entering in the pro- 
portion of 1 pound to 100 pounds, into a retentive soil which is satu- 
rated with water of attraction, is discharged by evaporation, it low- 
era the temperature of that soil 10°. If the soil has the means of 
discharging that 1 pound of water by filtration, no effect is pro- 
duced beyond what is due to the relative temperatures of the rain 
and of the soil. Mr. Dickenson, the eminent paper-maker, who 
has several mills and a landed estate in Hertfordshire, has deduced 
from a series of observations which are, we believe, entitled to 
great confidence, that of an annual fall of 26 inches of rain, about 
11 are filtered through a porous soil. The whole of this 11 
inches (and probably more), must be got rid of by a retentive soil, 
either by evaporation or by superficial discharge. The proportions 
in which each of these will operate will vary in every case, but 
this will be a universal feature — that these 11 inches will retain 
in undrained, retentive soils, except during some accidental periods 
of excessive drought, a permanent supply of water of drainage! 
which will' be in constant course of evaporation, and will con- 
stantly produce 'the cold consequent thereon. Retentive soils 

never can be so warm as porous, for a simple reason. Every 

5 



50 SEPTEMBER. 

one knows, or may know, that if into' two flower pots, with holes in 
the bottom, are put respectively equal portions of gravel and clay, 
equally heated to any point short of torrefaction, and if equal 
quantities of water are administered to the surface of each, water 
(water of drainage) will run from the gravel long before it begins 
to run from the clay. Gravel can hold by attraction much less 
water than clay can. At the time when each is saturated by water 
of attraction, and neither holds any water of drainage, evaporation 
will begin to act upon the water in each, and will act most strongly 
in the vegetative period of the year. The cold produced will be 
in proportion to the quantities of water evaporated respectively, 
and will, of course, he greatest in the retentive soil. We will re- 
serve a farther cause of coolness in retentive soils, which is also 
connected with evaporation, till we have spoken of the depths of 
drains." 

u The temperature of retentive soils is very much raised during 
that period of the year in which vegetation is active, by the 
removal of water *by drainage." 

" Many experiments have shown that in retentive soils the tem- 
perature at 2 or 3 feet below the surface of the water-table is at 
no period of the year higher than from 46° to 48°, that is, in agri- 
cultural Britain. This temperature is little affected by summer 
heats, for the following short reasons. Water, in a quiescent state, 
is one of the worst conductors of heat with which we are 
acquainted. Water warmed at the surface transmits little or no 
heat downwards. The small portion warmed expands, becomes 
lighter than that below, consequently retains its position on the sur- 
face, and carries no heat downwards. To ascertain the mean heat 
of the air at the surface of the earth, over any extended space, 
and for a period of eight or nine months, is no simple operation. 
More elements enter into such a calculation than we have space or 
ability to enumerate ; but we know certainly that for seven months 
in the year, air, at the surface of the ground, is seldom lower than 
48°, never much lower, and only for short periods ; whereas at 4 
feet from the surface, in the shade, from 70° to 80° is not an unu- 
sual temperature, and in a southern exposure, in hot sunshine, 
double that temperature is not unfrequently obtained on the surface." 



THE FARM. 51 

" Now let us consider the effect of drains placed from 2 to 3 feet 
below the water-table, and acting during the seven months of which 
we have spoken. They draw out water of the temperature of 48°. 
Every particle of water which they withdraw at this temperature 
is replaced by an equal bulk of air, at a higher, and frequently at 
a much higher temperature. The warmth of the air is carried 
down into the earth. The temperature of the soil, to the depth to 
which the water is removed, is in a course of constant assimilation 
to the temperature of the air at the surface." 

u From this it follows, necessarily, that during that period of the 
year when the temperature of air at the surface of the earth is 
generally below 48°, retentive soils, which have been drained, are 
colder than those which have not." 

u There are no satisfactory British experiments with reference to 
the surface-heat of the earth. Professor Leslie's only commence 
at 1 foot below the surface. Schubler's experiments, made near 
Genoa, in the year 1796, are strictly superficial. His thermome* 
ters were sunk in the soil only to the depth of 1-1 2th of an inch. 
In that sunny clime he found the mean heat of soil, at that depth, 
to be at noon for six successive months, 131°. If that were his 
mean heat for six months, we cannot doubt that it is frequently 
obtained as an extreme heat in the hottest portion of our year, in 
England." 

" Mr. Parkes gives temperatures on a Lancashire Peat Moss, but 
they only commence at 7 inches below the surface, and do not 
extend to midsummer. At that period of the year the temperature 
at 7 inches never exceeded 66°, and was generally from 10° to 
15° below the temperature of air in the shade, at 4 feet above the 
earth. At the depth of 13 inches, the soil was generally from 5° 
to 8° cooler than at 7 inches." 

"Mr. Parkes' experiments were made simultaneously on a 
drained and on an undrained portion of the Moss ; and the result 
was, that on a mean of 35 observations the drained soil at 7 inches 
in depth was 10° warmer than the undrained at the same depth. 
The undrained soil never exceeded 47°, whereas after a thunder- 
storm the drained reached 66°, at 7 inches, and 48° at 31 inches. 



52 8EPTEMBEB. 

Such were the effects at an early period of the year on a black 
bog. They suggest some idea of what they are, when in July or 
August thunder-rain at 60° or 70° falls on a surface heated to 130°, 
and carries down with it into the greedy fissures of the earth its 
augmented temperature. These advantages porous soils possess by 
nature, and retentive soils only acquire them by drainage.'' 

How then shall we best get these advantages by the aid of 
drains? how deep shall the drain be in the soil? and how wide apart 
on the surface ? That some absolute depth is right for average 
soils is self-evident, whilst different qualities of soil will vary this 
depth and distance. 

We should not forget, in considering that the reasoning in the 
foregoing and following quotations is applied to England and Scot- 
land, that the facts and deductions from them are equally ap- 
plicable to America. The depth of the drains below the surface 
in all ordinary cases depends upon these two considerations : from 
what depth does water prefer to arise to the surface by evapora- 
tion, or to descend into subsoil drainage, and how much does the 
escape of water by natural evaporation affect the temperature of 
the soiL 

Careful experiments have shown that the heat necessary to 
convert 1 pound of water into vapor by sun evaporation is just as 
great as to convert it into steam over a fire, and that the fire heat 
contained in 2 or 3 ounces of coal is that amount. 

By consequence, then, were all the water which falls upon an acre 
of land in a year, 40 inches or 4,040 tons, to be so removed, there 
would be for each day 11 tons, which would consume the heat of 
32 cwt of coal per hour. We know that all this water is not so 
removed, but all that is removed by evaporation consumes heat pro 
rata ; and the amount we know, under all circumstances, is large, 
whilst in saturated land it is enormous. 

Bring before your imagination an acre of close clay land, nearly 

impermeable by water ; in its natural condition, this land, in early 

spring, is unapproachable for its saturation; by degrees it dries, 

and is meagrely tilled, the crops feebly budding into life are not 

.only grievously choked and poisoned by the standing water, but 



THE FARM. 58 

also the heat, so vitally necessary to their rapid growth, is taken 
away at the rate of 24 cwt of burning coal per hour, whilst the 
plants are half frozen. 19 

u It has been proved that the heat of a pound of water in a state 
of steam would raise the temperature of 1,000 pounds of water 
one degree, and consequently the heat abstracted to convert one 
pound of water in the soil into steam, reduces 1,000 pounds of 
earth one degree, or 500 lbs. two degrees, and so on." 

Besides this abstraction of heat by evaporating water, another 
solid objection should be considered : that water is the best of non- 
conductors of heat If a kettle of water is heated below, it soon 
boils by the rising of the lighter hot water to the top, and the falling 
of the heavy drops at the top. But if a fire were made on top of the 
kettle, it would never warm, as the hot and light particles are at 
the top, and cannot ascend and allow new cold particles to have 
access to the fire. 

" Apply this to poor land lying exposed to the heat of the sun, 
the warmth of whose rays may penetrate into the ground only so 
fast as the water evaporates and reduces its level. But although, 
so poor a conductor, it is a very rapid radiator, as we have seen. 
Were the soil warmed, we will say to 60°, and the water at any 
depth, not over two feet, to 40°, the water would rapidly abstract 
the heat and rise into the air, carrying away with it as is above 
seen the warmth of thousands of pounds of soil. 9 * 

But let the land be readily permeable by water and it becomes a 
carrier of heat, not a remover. Supposing the water to be that of 
a warm thunder-storm, say warmed to 70°, it will run down into the 
soil to the drains, carrying that warmth and imparting it on its way ; 
or, supposing the upper stratum to be warmed to 70° or 120°, the 
water which falls upon it instead of standing there, awaiting to 
absorb heat enough to evaporate, and so cooling the soil to its 
dead loss, now runs through it, abstracting much of its heat, and 
carrying it down to the subsoil, and, of course, as it gradually cools, 
imparting its heat to the soil. 

We are thus brought to the edge of the question of how deep 
drains are to be. Set a pot containing a plant into a saucer full of 
water ; at first the water will rise as high in the pot, or owing to 

6* 



54 SEPTEMBER, 

capillary attraction a little higher than, the water in the saucer. 
The top of this water is the water table ; from this point it rises 
by evaporation through the soil till it appears at the top, and is 
thence discharged into the air. 

Observe how largely heat must be abstracted to make the water 
thus escape ; and it is for this reason, though perhaps not knowing 
how to explain it, that gardeners object to plants standing in water. 

So, too, whenever water stands in soils it assumes a level which 
we call the water table and from its top it will rise to the surface 
by evaporation. How low ought this water table to be, to reduce its 
injurious action to a minimum ? Experiments have shown that the 
water in the soil, from its surface to a depth of not less than 30 
inches, is colder by several degrees than below that depth ; or in 
other words, the evaporation acts upon the water to that depth, and 
consequently cools the water and the earth holding it ; below that 
depth it does not affect it materially ; only water enough rises to 
supply the roots of plants, which will descend if the strata is open to 
the water level, if it be even 4 feet below the surface. Not less than 
30 inches should be the depth to the top of the water table, and as 
much lower as circumstances will admit, until we arrive at 4 feet, 
where the temperature seems to be about the same with water at 
much greater depths. At first, we might suppose that deep drains 
would not remove the water with rapidity after a rain, but, on the 
contrary, in lands drained at different depths, the drains 4 feet 
deep begin to run the soonest and stop the earliest, showing that 
the flood about the roots, immediately after a shower, is the water 
of evaporation, condensed and checked, together with the water of 
saturation, not the rain. For instance, Mr. Parkes relates, p. 
153, Royal Ag. Soc for 1844, "that on the 7th and 8th Novem- 
ber, rain fell by guage to the depth of -ffo of an inch. On the 
9th, he inspected some drains on Mr. Hammond's farm, and found 
that after a rain of 12 hours' duration on the 7th, in a nine-acre 
piece, the drains 3 feet deep were just dribbling, whilst in a four-acre 
hop ground adjoining, the four-feet drains were already exhausted/ 

Mr. Hammond states that after the late rains Feb. 17, 1844, a 
drain 4 feet deep ran 8 pints of water, whilst another, 3 feet deep, 
ran 5 pints, although placed at equal distances. 



THE FARM. 



55 



T 

There are cases, undoubtedly, where shallow drains should be 
joined with, if not substituted for, deep drains. On very plastic 
clays, dig a hole into the soil, and permeate its bottom with small 
holes, and arrange so that water shall gradually weep through its 
sides. At first it will rapidly disappear through the bottom, but 
slowly small particles of clay will wash down, and form a film or 
puddle over the bottom, after which no water will escape. In all 
clays which will so puddle, you will observe that much of the 
water must be removed by surface drains and shallow drains, as the 
deeper the drain the more chance there would seem to be for pud- 
dling. This is not, however, true, in its full application, because 
another feature in clays may be improved in connection with deep 
drains, namely, cracking, We know that a clay field will contract 
under the sun's heat, so as, in many cases, to make during summer 
really fearful fissures. 

As the rains return in the autumn, the clay absorbs the water, 
swells, and refills the cracks. But if the field was thoroughly 
and deeply drained, this rain water will be conveyed into the 
drains all the more rapidly for the fissures, and that which was its 
curse, becomes its blessing ; the clay will close more slowly and 
perhaps not at all, giving the desired opportunity for ploughing, 
subsoiling, and sanding, by which the clay may be made exceedingly 
fertile. When shallow drains shall be used for deep is a very nice 
question, and can only be settled by a professional and experienced 
man. The depth of drains seems to be settled, at any rate approxi- 
mately. Let us now consider their distance apart. 

Water can only get into drains by gravity ; and just as certainly 
as it seeks its own level it also seeks the lowest point to which it 
has access and for which it may run. Let A be a section of a 
field to be drained. Imagine the 
drains, b b. to be made at no matter 
what distance apart, but 4J feet 
deep. The water will at once es- 



cape into the drain, being pressed _£ 

into it by the weight of the mass 

overhead. This will be followed by the drops overhead up to the 

top of its water table, which directly over it or adjacent may be 




56 SEPTEMBER. 

reduced to 4 feet ; but at the same time the water will tend to these 
two drains from hoth sides, as is shown by dotted lines. Experi- 
ment has shown that in ordinary soils the water needs a slope 
of about one inch to the linear yard to overcome friction ; in very 
porous soils less will do ; in very retentive, more will be necessary. 
To lower the water table in the centre of our land at a to the de- 
sired depth of 4 feet, we must have our drains distant from the 
centre 18 feet, or the drains 36 feet apart. I have said very 
fight soils will allow the drains to be farther apart The distance 
will be affected also by the slope of the land, which may so slope 
that the water will move rather in the line of steepest descent through 
the earth, gradually approaching the surface, than laterally into the 
drain. B is a hillside ; the arrow shows the line of steepest de- 



scent, and the inclination is 1 foot in 20 feet, or 1 inch in 20 
inches. Now to overcome friction, we must allow 1 inch to the 
yard, or 3 inches in 20 feet, for the drains. But the natural slope 
here is 12 inches in 20 feet, or four times as much, and the inclina- 
tion is therefore four times stronger to run to the surface at a 
lower part of the hill than to the drain. If the drains are made 
diagonally to the hill this is somewhat counteracted. I only men- 
tion these cases to show the need there is for judgment and cau- 
tion. But some one may object that land thus -drained at every 
40 feet with drains 4 to 5 feet deep will be too dry, and plants 
will perish. The following cut shows some Wheat plants whose 
roots were carefully traced when growing freely in open mould ; 
they penetrated 5 feet Indian Corn has been traced 7 feet ; 
Parsnips 5 and 6 feet. Thus will be seen the enormous advantage 



THE FARM. St 

of that treatment of soil which gives the plant 5 feet to feed in, 

rather than 6 inches, and also that 

where the plant has room it will 

push down through the warm soil 

to the water table, and there get 

water much warmer than were it 

standing one foot above. 

No one ever saw crops dry up in 
deep -drained and well-tilled land, 
whilst all of us have seen it in land 
where hard pan is within six inches 
or a foot of the surface, — as is Known 
by the wood cuts, pp. 575, 576. Theee 
roots must find all their food and 
moisture within this shallow soil, 
which is soon warmed by the sun and dried out 

Experiments have shown that all laud not decidedly sandy is 
benefited by underground drains; some have found that even 
sandy and <h-y land was improved by them, as they seemed to serve 
as conduits to admit moist air to the roots of the plants, and allow 
the moisture of the subsoil to rise mbre freely to the surface. It 
is therefore claimed that the principle is of universal application. 
I will not press it to that extent now, but simply assert that all 
springy, rocky, deep, wet, and low lands should be drained. The 
rule bud down by English fartners is, a drain every 40 or GO feet ; 
but this distance is to be varied according to the judgment of the 
cultivator. 

The surfaces to be drained will be either side-hills, undu- 
lating, high and level surfaces, or low and level surfaces. In 
the first and last cases, the adjoining land being higher, experi- 
ence teaches that the surplus water, to some extent, runs into 
toe place we wish to drain from this higher land near by. We 
must therefore find an outlet for our drains. The best outlet 
is a natural brook whose high-water level is lower than the bottom 
of the drains we are to make. If the high-water level is higher 
than this, we must still be content, for brooks fall rapidly from their 
high-water mark ; and if at the highest flood our drains do not 



58 



SEPTEMBER. 



work well, we may rest assured that as the flood lowers they will 
draw the water from the land more rapidly than it could flow off 
if we had no drains and were compelled to rely on the natural 
drainage. If no such brook can be found, look for the nearest 
pond which is ordinarily lower than the bottom of our drains ; and 
if no pond can be found, ascertain the lowest point which is under 
our control on the farm, and there make a pond, first digging out 
all the loam, etc., and then, if the bottom is hard pan, cutting 
through it to some open gravel or sand stratum below. The water 
discharged into this will soak away ; or if we do not open upon a 
sand stratum we may make an artificial pond. 

Having found a point of discharge, dig a main drain as wide as 
is requisite for the rapid removal of the water, and as deep as the 
surface will allow at the end most remote from the outlet ; if the 
distance is considerable, the drain will be very much deeper at the 
outlet, as there should be about 3 inches fall in 100 feet of drain 
to insure the water's overcoming any slight obstacles to its flow. 
If the distance to be traversed by the main drain is very long, 
so that by starting at 3 feet depth and dropping 3 inches to the 
100 feet it would sink lower than the outlet, the upper end 
must be made more shallow, or there must be less drop in 100 
feet. 

To render this description more intelligible, consult the accom- 
panying diagrams. 

No. 1 represents a 
piece of land bound- 
ing on a brook and 
surrounded by high 
land. The farm does 
not include the whole 
of the high land, as 
shown by the boun- 
dary fences x x ; a is 
the brook. Now dig 
the main drain ft, 500 
feet long ; start it at 
No. l. the upper end y, 39 




THE FARM. 



59 



inches deep; sink 3 inches to the 100 feet, which gives at the 
lower end 54 inches in depth. Dig the other main, b' from the 
brook back, 150 feet ; at the commencement, 49 inches deep ; 
at the outlet, 54 inches. Now dig at the foot of the hill, and fol- 
lowing its curve as shown by the diagram, a drain e c c c, no- 
where as deep as the main drain by at least 2 inches for every 
100 feet that the main drain is distant from it This drain should 
be as a general role not more than 30 feet from the base of the 
hilL At various intervals cut cross-drains d, from c c c to the 
main, B, which, starting from the bottom level of c c c % shall sink 
gradually so as to enter the main above its bottom level The dis- 
tance between these cross-drains will vary according to the char- 
acter of the surface, its unevenness, wetness, and level. As has 
been said, 20 to 60 feet is common practice, and they may be 
farther or nearer as necessity directs. 

When you can conveniently, enter the side into the main drains 
at an acute angle, for the flow of the water should be facilitated 
as much as possible, and every rectangular turn obstructs it more 
than an acute angle. Also, enter them above the bottom if possible, 
that the water may reach the bottom of the main after a slight falL 

But if our surface were a side-hill it should be treated as in dia- 
gram No.' 2. Here it is necessary to retard the flow of water, rather 




No. 2. 



60 SEPTEMBER. 

than increase it, as the rapid running may destroy the sidea of the 
drains. 

Under these circumstances the beat plan is to cany the drains 
diagonally to the slope of the hill, taking care, however, that they 
follow the elope sufficiently to prevent the waters settling into the 
earth on the lower side of the drain, making the land below each 
drain more " soggy " than if not under-drained. 

As before, A is the brook ; B, the main ; c, the side-hill drain ; d, 
the cross-drains ; x z fences ; y the heads of the mains. Where 
one main empties into another, as at S, much care must be used to 
protect the receiving main, that it may not be destroyed by the 
friction of the running water, which may undermine its side and 
cause it to fall in. 

The third case of drainage is a nearly level field with no hill- 



sides near. Treat this like No. 1, only carry the drain e across 
the upper end, — and perhaps down the sides of the field, — to re- 
ceive any water that may be in the adjacent land. In most cases? 
however, this can be dispensed with, as the main and cross-drains 
draw the water thoroughly enough. 

Having fixed upon the lines uf drain, de- 
cide upon the materials with which to make 
your drains. These are as various as the 
means and inclination of proprietors. The 
best way is always the most economical ; we 
will describe it, and then mention other 




Dig the drain the requisite depth, narrow- 




THE FARM. 61 

ing from top to bottom, like a truncated wedge. The earth is to 
be thrown all to one aide. Now take the pipe and collar, or 
horseshoe sole tile, or plain horseshoe 1 tile, which comes in pieces 
1 foot to 14 inches long, and may be bought at Albany, N. Y., 
Worcester, Manchester, and Boston, Mass., or Exeter, N. H. 
These tile vary in diameter from 1 to 6 inches, and proportionately 
in price. 

If you use the sole tile, which has, as 
shown in the cut, a solid bottom, having 
made the bottom of the drain smooth, lay 
down the pieces of tile end to end, bringing 
the ends together. It is obvious that the 
bottom of the drain must be made level, 
smooth, and hard, and below frost, so that 
neither heaving of fn>3t nor unequal hardness of bottom, may ever 
disturb the tile after it is laid ; for if it is disarranged, the ends of 
the pieces will not come opposite each other, and will interrupt 
the flow of water, so that the drain will ultimately be choked 
and rendered useless. 

If the tile without the sole is used, it must be laid on a board or 
plank to prevent the running water from wearing the bottom of the 
drain, which would cause the tile to sink and the mud to rise into 
the cavity of the drain and choke it. 

The tile being laid as directed, a* section of the drain will be thus. 
Pile over the top of the tile stones about the size 
of a man's fist, — if they can be procured, — to the 
depth of 4 inches ; they must be laid by hand ; 
shoveling them in would break the tiles. To expedite the work 
the stones should be piled at the side of the drain opposite the 
earth removed in digging ; and if they are placed close to the edge, 
the man who lays the tile can fill in the 4 inches of stone as he 
goes along, a boy standing at the side of the drain to hand the 
joints of tile and any stones that may have rolled beyond reach of 
the man. When 4 inches of stone have been thus carefully laid 
in and wedged about the tile, 8 inches more of larger stones may be 
thrown in with a shovel. Then return the earth dug out until the 

6 





II** 



SEPTEMBER. 

drain is full and heaped a few inches higher than 
^s=_-HJg|jl^ : the adjacent surface, to allow for settling. 

L ~ The cat shows a section of the drain when 

completed. Brush, straw, tan or soda may be 

r the tile, or even coarse gravel, or loam ; 

F== or you may use broken stones to insure the most 
perfect drainage. 

Similar drains may be made without any tile, 
using different sizes of stone, beginning small and gradually in- 
creasing till within 18 inch- 
es of the surface. These 
are called blind drains and 
answer very well for many 
years, but are apt to choke. 
The u V drain " la an im- ■ 
provement on absolutely 
blind drains ; the wood cut 
shows its structure ; having 
cut as if for tile, select rather 
flat stones and lay them to- 
gether at the bottom, edge 
to edge, their lower ends 
resting on a board or plank ; 
on them fill in with stones. 
Drains may be made with 
brush, laying in bushes and 
branches of trees, their bats 
up stream ; these sooner 
or later decay or choke. 
Lastly we come to the 
instruments to be used in 
making the drain. The 
accompanying instruments 
are the English instruments 
for cutting drains ; the 
workman's feet never ap- 
proach within 8 or 10 



THE FARM. 63 

indies of the bottom of the drain, which does not need to be more 
than 10 inches wide for the largest size drain pipe, and not 
more than 2 inches for the usual inch pipe, which is compe- 
tent to drain off all the water in the noil, and conduct it into the 
mains. A 2 inch pipe with a fell of 3 inches in 100 feet, and a 
velocity of .895 foot per second will discharge 11,400 gallons a 

The following is quoted from J. H. Shedd, Civil Engineer, 
of Boston ■ — 

'■ The accompanying diagram shows the lines that may be followed 
in forming the cross section of a trench from 2 J to 6 feet deep, and 
to admit a pipe from 1 to 8 inches inside bore. The 
mil lines represent the sides of the trench ; the 
horizontal dotted lines are at certain distances from 
the bottom, as represented by the figures opposite 
each, at the side. The figures above each repre- 
sent the width of opening at the surface for a 
trench of that depth ; the widths are given in feet 
and hundredths ; to reduce the decimal to inches, 
divide by 8 ; the result will be inches, nearly. The 
vertical dotted lines show what earth must be re- ; :: » [ 

moved in order to increase the width at bottom to 
receive the larger sizes. Suppose a trench is to be dug 4£ feet 
deep ; the number 
opposite i\ is 1.42, 
or 1 foot 5 inches, 
which is the width 
of opening at sur- 

* If the trench is 
to be 3 feet deep 
it need be opened 
only 1 foot wide at 
the top, and with 
proper tools it can 
be carried down to 
a width rf about 2 inches at the bottom, though, of course, the 



64 



SEPTEMBER. 



foot of a man cannot come within 6 or 8 inches of the bottom ; 
in which case the pipes are laid by a man, walking on the surface, 
at the edge of the trench, who lifts the pipe, piece by piece, 
with a kind of hook made for the purpose, and lays them carefully 
in the trench, as shown by this engraving." 

An Irish spade, No. 2, shown in the following cut, is thought, by 
some, the best instrument : — 

u As it is not necessary to the convenience of the workmen that 
the sides of the trench be carried down any nearer vertical than 
is represented in the engraving, they may be opened and carried 
down in the same manner, for each size of the pipe, until the sides 

have approached so near, that a pipe of 
the size required can be just passed be- 
tween them ; the cut may then be carried 
down vertically to the depth required. 
This allows much earth to remain which 
would be thrown out if the sides were cut 
straight down from the width opened at the 
top to the width at the bottom. A skilful 
workman will dig the trenches with ease 
in this way, after some practice, though it 
may be a little troublesome at first I am 
now having trenches dug, in which the 
opening at the surface is even less in width, 
for the required depth, than is here given." 
"The labor of one man, in a day of 10 
hours, varies very much under different 
circumstances." 

"1. In hard, gravelly, and clay soils, 
where picking is constantly necessary, a 
man will throw out only from 3 to 5 cubic 
yards in a day." 

" 2. In ordinary clay and gravel, with an 

occasional use of the pick, he will throw 

out about 10 cubic yards in a day." 

" 3. In loose earth, without picking, or in shoveling after the 

picking of another, as in railroad excavations, a man throws out 

15 to 18 cubic yards a day." 




THE FABH. 



65 



"In the first case, a yard, or 27 cubic feet, will be removed for 
25 cents, by a man who works a day, of 10 hours, for $1." 

" In the second case the removal of a yard will cost 10 cents. 
This will be the basis of our estimate of the cost of cutting 
trenches, from the fact that most soils which need draining may be 
classed under this head." 

" In the third case, 1 yard will be removed for about 6£ cents. 
The solid contents of earth removed from a trench 100 feet long, 
of sufficient width at bottom to admit the smallest sized pipe, and 
of the depth as shown, is as follows : — 



Depth. 
2 1-2 feet 


Cubic Feet. 
127.5. . 


3 " 

8 1*2 " 


174. .. 

227.5. . 


4 " 

4 1-2 " 




5 " 

5 1-2 " 


430. .. 

511.5.. 







Cubic Tarda. . 

• ••••• Y*#J?Sf ■••■•■••• 

• • a ■ * • • W«^U • • 

• ••■•• 0*40 * • 

10.67.. 



• ••••■•• 



• • • • • 



• ••■•■ lO«I • • a • 
■ • ■•• • il Vi SH) • 

• • ■ ■ » • M 0<vT •«•■•••■ 

• • • • a • ■«fi«W*aa5a£ •••••••• 



Cost. 
.90.47 
. 0.65 
. 0.84 
. 1.07 
. 1.32 
. 1.59 
. 1.90 
. 2.22 



To this must be added the cost of tools, trimming, and superin- 
tendence." 

" The quantity removed by increasing the width at the bottom of 
the trench, so that it may admit pipes of the larger sizes, is very 
slight, being only 1£ cubic feet in 100 feet length, on increasing 
the width to 3 inches at the bottom. Quantity removed by in- 
creasing the width to 4 inches is 4£ cubic feet ; to 5 inches, 10$ 
feet ; to 6 inches, 20} feet ; to 8 inches, 45 feet ; and to 10 inches, 
79J feet 

The increased cost being, for the 3 inch width, £ cent ; for 4 
inch, 2 cents ; for 5 inch, 4 cents ; for 6 inch, 8 cents ; for 8 inch, 
17 cents ; and for 10 inch, 29 cents. 

The amount of earth removed by widening the trench for a 
larger pipe, is the same in every case, without regard to depth." 

Drains have been dug by Mr. Shedd the past season, in stiff, 
hard pan, 4 feet deep, for 27 cents a rod — which you see will 
reduce the cost materially below the estimate hitherto given. A 
large number of very valuable tables of cubical contents and costs, 

6* 



66 



SEPTEMBER. 




are given by Mr. Shedd, in the Report of the Maine Board of 
Agriculture, pp. 251-2. 

For such drains as I have just described to you the best conduit 
is drain tiles or pipes. There are three kinds : the horse shoe, a, 

the sole tile, b, the pipe and collar, c ; a 
needs a board or something under it to keep 
the soft under-soil from squelching into and 
filling it ; b is the next best* but c is by far 
the best of all. a and b are both liable to 
be disarranged ; they are laid end to end, 
and for ordinary drainage 2 inch pipes are 
amply large ; should one end of any pipe, from any cause — extra 
pressure or softness — get tilted or shoved one side, the flow is in- 
terrupted, and soon the whole drain would choke and become worth- 
less. This is obviated by the pipe and collar. These are round, 
and the joint covered with an earthern collar large enough to admit 
the two ends of the pipe and leave £ of an inch all round for the 
free entrance of water ; the pipes rest in them, and are supported 
at the two ends and unsupported in the middle ; the middle is, how- 
ever, immediately filled under and compacted with silt and mud. 
Perhaps some one will doubt that enough water can get into these 
joints to do the work. They are a foot apart, and offer openings 
which, making a reasonable allowance for rough ends, are not less 
than •£ inch square. But listen to experience : — 

Gisborne says, " This scepticism is natural, but on each point we 
are able to offer them abundant consolation and conviction. We 
have seen hundreds of drains wrought in the manner we have 
described, and in no instance where the land contained water of 
drainage have they failed to run freely. We never heard any one 
say they did not." 

The rationale of this escape of water through small pipes is ap- 
parent at once if you refer to the wood cut, which shows the dis- 
tance apart at which drains are to be laid. The pipe laid 4 feet 
deep — in a soil whose natural water table is 1 foot below the sur- 
face, has the pressure, of course, of all the water which may be 
over it If water over the pipe is near the outlet into the pipe, it 
receives a proportional pressure, and the water in the land to be 



THE FARM. 67 

drained is forced into the drains with a pressure proportioned to its * 
distance from the drains. The pressure of water, to the foot per- ' 
pendicular, is 6^ ounces to the square inch, and the water is 
forced into the pipe with three times that pressure, and having 
once entered into it, escapes with the greatest rapidity. Mr. 
Parkes mentions a pipe, l£ inch bore, laid down over 850 yards, an 
experiment, through an unctious, plastic clay, which discharged one 
gallon per minute during 76 days, when all the water seemed 
removed from the soiL Mr. Shedd calculates that, in a drain 200 
feet long, laid with tiles 13 inches long and 2 inches diameter, the 
amount of aperture at the ends of all the pipes will be 184 joints, 
or 110 square inches, for the entry of water, whilst the outlet of 
the pipe is 3 inches ; thus the opportunity for the entrance of water 
is 37 times greater than for its discharge. The discharge will be 
rapid enough, however, as has been seen. 

In laying the pipes at -convenient points, such as junctions of 
side with main pipes, it is well to sink a cesspool, rising to the 
surface of the ground, and covered with a movable cover. 
These cesspools can be occasionally opened and examined, and the 
condition of the drain tested. 

Tfle drains are sometimes choked by the roots of trees and 
branches, and by deposits of iron in very ferruginous soils ; the 
use of the pipe and collar reduces the danger. Pipes and collar are 
more expensive than horseshoe or sole tiles, but more than enough 
better to pay. The cost of tiles in England, allowing a fair price 
to the maker, is $4 a thousand feet or pieces, or J of a cent a foot ; 
and it is a discredit to our makers that we have to pay so much 
more. Tiles are made in various parts of the country, and in 
time will be supplied at reasonable rates. 

In peat lands where drains are to be made, another plan is some- 
times followed. Peat turfs cut and dried in the sun become as 
hard as coal, and may be used under water much like bricks with- 
out softening or losing shape for a long time. 
A drain may be cut in peat land as in A : take 
out all the turfs to a with a peat-cutter, and lay 
them by the side of the drain to dry as if for 
burning. 





68 SEPTEMBER. 

The work is begun by cutting the top sod, which should be re- 
moved by an ordinary spade ; then the peat-cutter is used, cutting 
across the end of the drain working backwards, and taking the turf 
out smooth, like pieces of cheese. The top-drain (down to a) may 
be wide enough to allow a man to stand in it, and must then be 
about 4 cuts of turf wide. The drain being dug as far as a through 
its whole length, leave it till the peats cut out are dry enough for 
fuel. Then send in the cutter ; let him, standing in the drain, dig 
out one turf, the width of the cutter, exactly in the middle of the 
drain, down its entire length. As the material is very soft and 
oozy, and will probably settle in if not prevented, let another man 

follow, and taking the dried peats from the side 
EP~ of the drain lay them across the top of this new 
cut as in B. Then cover with the top sods first 
cut, then with sand, gravel, or peat, to the full 
height. Across drains thus made, bridges should be made at inter- 
vals for teams to cross ; otherwise the drain may be crushed in. 

Open Drains. — No drain is so poor as the common open one, 
dug like the others, but not filled. It is constantly collapsing, 
sliding in, being undermined by muskrats, etc. Indeed, covered 
drains should have wire nettings at the discharge hole, to prevent 
vermin from getting in and choking them. 

For all ordinary tile drains, a diameter 
of 2 inches for side and cross drains, and 
3 to 4 inches for the mains, is enough. 

Where drains cross each other, the junc- 
tion should be in T or • elbow joints, which 
are supplied to order from the tile works. 

Irrigation. — Whilst standing water is veiy injurious to un- 
drained land, the benefits of water, when properly applied in the 
process of cultivation, are wonderful. In America, capital has so 
rarely been applied to farming, that the good it can do is but little 
known.. If our fanners have a few spare dollars, they are much 
more ready to devote them to building unprofitable railroads, to buy- 
ing wild lands, or to shaving notes, than to improving their farms ; 





THE FARM. 69 

though this last is the best speculation they could enter into, inas- 
much as their farms are entirely under their control, and will, if ju- 
diciously improved, pay a rate of interest that increases every year. 
As I have said, water when it stands in land, delays the matur- 
ing of a variety of crops, and yet the farmer can have no greater 
advantage than water — so under his control that he can apply or 
withdraw it at pleasure. 

The staple crops of that latitude in New England to which these 
pages apply, are Grass and Boots, and upon the amount of that crop 
depends the value of our farms, the net profits of our cultivation, 
and the general prosperity of the country. These crops are subject 
to serious fluctuations. When cut short it is generally by drought, 
sometimes by too much wet. For the latter, we have seen the 
remedy ; now for the former ! 

If any farmer with large fields of Grass and Roots could turn on 
water when he pleased, he could in times of drought secure his 
Grass from danger. In the late autumn he could so apply it as 
to stimulate and keep green the late Grass fields ; and by allow- 
ing it to flow freely over the surface during the spring, or by en- 
tirely submerging the surface, he could remove frost and start the 
Grass early. The same is true of all other crops ; Grain, Corn, 
Roots, all suffer from uncertain moisture and changing temperature, 
whilst they might by the aid of well-controlled water be culti- 
vated with the certainty of manufacturing. 

In treating of the culture of plants in greenhouses, I spoke of 
the value of special manures in a liquid form. In Agriculture 
their value is no less, yet from our liability to protracted droughts 
mat value is often, unattainable. Peruvian Guano, for instance, 
has a power to stimulate and support vegetation without injuring 
(as some falsely suppose) the soil, which is second to no manure ; 
and yet, being a dry and highly concentrated powder, its benefit — 
when added to the surface as a 'top-dressing, a compost, or to be 
ploughed in — is often imperceptible. It must be diluted to be 
absorbed by the roots of plants. Were water under our control, 
we could effect this dilution at will; we might top-dress with 
guano, and then let in water, which would immediately soak the 
manure into the roots. The benefit to any one crop — whether it 



70 SEPTEMBER. 

were Grass, Rye, or Wheat in the month of June, Corn in August, 
or Roots in September — would more than pay the cost of simple 
irrigative works. We might by such an application to grass-lands 
in July after haying, when the hot sun burns up the roots and pre- 
vents the growth of Rowen, or to the young Grass and Clover which 
follow a grain crop* secure a second crop equal to or larger than the 
first, and count our profit by tons of Hay and bushels of Grain or Corn. 

In England, this has been done ; and in the neighborhood of 
some large cities, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and others in Great Britain 
and on the continent, where sewage is attainable and can be used for 
irrigation, Grass crops have been cut 4, 6, and 8 times in the year, 
and to the amount of 20, 40, and 80 tons to the acre. A report 
made to Parliament states that by the application of sewage water 
the annual rental of land near Edinburgh has been increased from 
$8 and $50 per acre to $150 and $200 per acre ; and that poor, 
sandy, sea-shore land has been raised in value by this means alone 
from an annual rental of 50 cents to $75 and $100 per acre. It 
is stated, that by the application of sewage water, the rent of land 
near Milan has been raised from a merely nominal value to $40 
and taxes per acre. 

" In 1826 the Grass of the Craigintinny meadows near Edinburgh 
was let for $120 to $150 per acre, whilst portions belonging to the 
Earl of Moray brought $285 per acre rent. Remember that this 
is because the frequent application of sewage during the season, 
gives such crops of Grass that it may be cut three or four times in 
the season." 

" Some lands at Willesden in the county of Middlesex were cut 
four times in one year. The first cut gave four tons to the acre, 
the second 8 tons, and the fourth 12 tons of Italian Rye Grass." 

" At Ashburton where liquid manure has been used for the last 
fifty years, land thus treated produces Grass a month earlier, and is 
valued at $40 to $60 per acre a year, whilst the same land not thus 
treated is considered worth only $6 to $8." (Essay by G. Drys- 
dall Dempsey, published in Weales' Series.) 

In applying pure water the largest benefit is got where it is al- 
lowed to run over the surface in a slow current ; the next, where 
it stands but a few hours at a time, and where the under drainage 



THE FARM. 71 

is complete enough to remove all soakage at once ; the least, but 
still a marked benefit, is got from water meadows, where the water 
is allowed to stand for many days, or even weeks, before being 
drawn off. In low meadows, which are flowed all winter, this ap- 
plication of water is very beneficial, as it keeps out the frost, pre- 
vents the early growth of coarse grasses, and fertilizes the earth by 
dissolving valuable materials in the soil, and carrying them directly 
to the roots. But if such meadows are kept under water after 
vegetation fairly begins, the injury exceeds the benefit, as the 
coarse and sour grasses start which will choke out the better quali- 
ties after the stagnant water is removed. A distinguished English 
writer on Agriculture has the following on the effects of irrigation : — 

u It is a commonly received opinion that the elementary food of 
plants is contained in a state of solution in water, and that no plant 
can exist without a supply of it in a greater or less degree, in a 
dense or rarified state." 

" Without some degree of moisture the roots of Grass become 
withered and perish, and too great a depth over them' (i.e., the roots 
of grass, except aquatics) is equally fatal to their existence. Stag- 
nant water on Grass lands encourages the worst and kills or dis- 
courages the best kinds. Water in motion, whatever the depth may 
be, is less injurious than if quite at rest, and the shallower the 
current and the quicker the motion over the turf, the more the 
latter is excited into luxurious growth." 

" Many different opinions are held to account for this result : 
that is, the luxurious growth of Grass under a thin flow of water in 
motion. One supposes that a nutritious food is deposited by the 
water in its course, and the greater the quantity in transition, the 
.greater the deposit. This idea rests on the presumption that min- 
eral or decayed vegetable substances float in the water, and that 
they are intercepted by, or lodged among, the leaves of plants. This 
may be partly true ; but when it is observable that where there is 
the greatest quantity of sediment, the Grass grows least, and where 
there is no visible sediment whatever, the growth then is strongest, 
we must attribute the luxuriance to some other cause than the de- 
position of substances from the water." 

"As early and as heavy crops are obtained by using the purest 



72 SEPTEMBER. 

* 

water, as by that which is full of all manner of impurities ; not 
but land is enriched by deposits of decomposed animal and vegeta- 
ble matter, and which would be strongly evident in the future 
growth of crops of Grass or Corn. Yet for the temporary purpose 
of irrigation, perhaps the most transparent water is the most effi- 
cient. It must be borne in mind that heat, light, and air are indis- 
pensable agents in the development as well as maturation of plants. 
If they be kept in a low temperature, secluded from fresh air, or 
kept in darkness, they are inactive, or languish and die. Applying 
these facts, while considering the effects of irrigation, we may 
safely conclude that the energies of the plant are excited by being 
protected from the chilling night air, while they enjoy a higher de- 
gree of heat, generated by the motion of the current ; and at the 
same time, are not excluded from the direct action of solar light." 

" Nor can a thin covering of water be said to deprive the plants 
of the necessary portion of air. The agitated portion of the former 
mingle with the latter air, so that there is an intimate connection) 
which enhances by mutual influence the effects of both." 

" From these observations it would appear that irrigation pro* 
motes the development of grass by its instrumentality in affording 
protection from cold air ; by its generation of heat, and by its free 
admission of every ray of light It moreover thickens the sward 
by increasing the number and inducing the simultaneous production 
of leaves, rather than by exciting the premature production of 
stems. By such effects, irrigation is said to be a sweetener of the 
turf because there is a thick and equal growth of leaves at the 
bottom. The deposit of warp or mud contained in most river 
water, possesses fertilizing properties, proportioned to the soil and 
other substances from which it has been obtained, and it must be . 
valuable in the same proportion for the permanent improvement of 
the land ; but where the object is a quick succession of grass, much 
deposit injures the herbage, and sharper streams have been found 
better adapted to the surface." 

I shall not now proceed with the subject of liquid manures as fit 
for the growth of plants, but leave that for another month, to which 
it more properly belongs, while I proceed to describe the prepara- 
tion necessary for the diffusion of water over the surface. 



THE FABM. 73 

Irrigation may be effected in several ways : 1st, when the farm 
is bounded by a brook, river, or pond which is sufficiently above 
the fields to be irrigated to have a flow over and through them to 
their lowest part, whence the water may be conveyed away into 
another field, or into some outlet for drainage. 

2d, where water can be dammed up at the mouth of a brook 
which passes through any fields, and by flooding back, ma,y make 
a water-meadow which may be drawn down at will. 

3d, where damming will flood back a stream till it swells high 
enough to be conveyed by drains to the land to be irrigated. 

4th, where water is forced by hydraulic rams, or by windmills, 
to an elevated point, whence it may be distributed over the surface. 

The first of these methods of getting water is evidently the most 
economical and simple, the works needed being merely gates and 
sluices, which will enable us to check the current, so that by open- 
ing the sluice gate the water will run in the desired direction. Even 
under these circumstances it is desirable that the field should slope 
gently from the watery side to its farthest boundary. In such a 
field, as soon as the water is admitted into one end of the leading 
drains it will flow without delay to the other, unless its path is 
obstructed ; and by resorting to simple devices we may spread it 
as widely as we please. I shall quote again from the author last 
cited a description of one method of constructing works for irriga- 
tion. 

" Let us suppose there is a field of moderate size, say six or eight 
acres, which is intended to be irrigated ; from the upper to the 
lower end there is a fall of five or six feet ; across the upper end 
an open ditch is made, banked on both sides so that it will hold 
water to stand one foot higher than the surface of the meadow ad- 
joining. Into this ditch the water is admitted from the river, either 
by a weir or dam across, or by an open duct cut from a point higher 
up the stream, which saves the expense of making a dam, which 
might be otherwise inconvenient A supply of, or inlet for, the 
water being thus secured, the next operation is laying out the 
leaders, inclined tables, and catch-drains. We cannot convey a 
clearer idea of the manner in which the surface of the water mead- 
ows should be laid out, than by supposing that the whole was 

7 



74 SEPTEMBER. 

ploughed length way and laid into twice-gathered lands or ridges 
of eight yards each." 

The wood cut shows a field twenty-four yards wide. A land 
or ridge twice-gathered is shown by laying this out in three lands, 
each eight yards wide. Now run the first furrow down through 

the centre from x to a/, and return on the 
other side of the furrow thus made from 
a/ to x; and so continue till the whole 
land is ploughed ; this will leave the middle 
higher than the sides of the land* Repeat 
the process with b and c, and the field upon 
completion of ploughing will be thrown into 
three ridges and four hollows. 

"Along the crowns of the ridges (x to a/), water-leaders (c, on 
plan, p. 75) are made, diminishing in width from the main at 
the top to where they terminate near the receiving ditch at the bot- 
tom; the catch-drains are shallow and narrow at top, but are 
made gradually wider and deeper at the lower end. It will be 
easily conceived that when the water is admitted into the leaders 
from the main at top, either by withdrawing sluice-gates previously 
fixed, or by removing thick heavy turfs, used as stoppers, the water 
will flow along till the leaders are brim full and running over on 
both sides along their whole length. It comes down the slopes, 
falls into the catch-drains, and is carried off into the bottom ditch, 
and from thence again on to the river." 

" An attendant, shod in water-tight boots, keeps an eye on the 
action of the leaders, to see to the equal distribution of the water, 
and by raising or depressing the edges over which it flows, or by 
introducing a stopper of thick turf into the leader, regulates the 
flow of water in every part. If there be a full supply of water, 
the whole meadow may be irrigated at once ; if not, one part may 
be done before another. It should be well understood that the more 
copious the supply of water, the quicker it flows over the surface, 
and the sooner it is let off the more effectual is the process, and 
the more rapid will be the growth of the Grass." 

"When the surface of the meadow is undulating, the first object 
to be attended to is, whether the hollows can be dried by catch- 



THE FAHM. 75 

drains ; if so, the leaders must be made straight, or winding along 
the highest part of the knolls, whence the water will flow down the 
slopes to the catch-drains in the hollows." 

" Where there are different levels, or where the leaders, from 
being too long, act imperfectly, the irrigator throws his catch-drains 
into divisions, by which the whole becomes more effectually watered, 
in consequence of an accelerated motion being given to the water. 
Where, however, the plane of the surface of the field presents a 
considerable descent, the leaders and 
catch-drains, instead of being car- 
ried straight across it, are cut in an 
angular direction across the line 
of descent with such an inclina- 
tion as will best favor the gradual 
though certain discharge of the 
water; for in some situations the 
declivity of the ground is so great 
as to render it necessary to make 
leaders at certain distances below 
each other, to catch the water at 
different points of the fall and thus 
prevent its too rapid passage." 

A, river ; B, head ditch to receive 
the water; e, leaders to conduct 
water ; d, catch-drains ; £, ditch to 
conduct water back to river; x, 
fences. 

The drains may be made perma- 
nent, or may be shovelled out anew 
each time we plough the field. 
When once it is laid down to grass, 
the drains may be grassed like the 
rest of the field. 

When level land is irrigated ac- 
cording to the methods just de- 
scribed, it must be very much ridged 
in ploughing to insure a flow for the water from the leaders into 



76 SEPTEMBER. 

the catch-drains. But level land should never be irrigated unless 
the under drainage is very good. 

Flow meadows or water meadows are made by damming any 
brook that crosses a meadow, — perhaps even a ditch, — making 
the dam high enough to flow the water back not less than a foot, 
— better two feet, in cold regions, — over the whole field. The 
water should be deep enough not to freeze to the bottom; for 
should it freeze to the sward, a rain or flush of water might raise 
the ice suddenly and tear up the grass with it 

The method of irrigation by catch-drains just described would 
be very expensive on steep hillsides, or on very undulating sur- 
faces, and is said by some who have tried it not to convey the 
water to all parts of the field with sufficient rapidity. 

Another system better adapted to such surfaces, and recom* 
mended by its very simplicity, shall be presently described. 

My readers may object that expensive works for irrigation and 
draining are well enough adapted to the rich lands and men of 
England, but would be less profitable or possible in the more sterile 
and cheap lands and on the small farms of New England. The ob- 
jection would have weight to superficial thinkers only ; for irriga- 
tion has been most effective on the steep and seemingly sterile 
hill-sides of the West of England and Scotland. 

In such places, comparatively little reliance has been placed on 
the water in summer, when all brooks and springs are liable to be 
dried up ; but in late autumn and early spring it furnishes grass 
for pasture. It is turned on, as the season grows cold, and running 
slowly in a thin sheet over the surface from one catch-drain to the 
next, by its motion, as has been observed on a preceding page, it 
keeps the ground over which it runs warmer than the uncovered 
soil, and thus keeps the grass growing until the cold becomes suf- 
ficiently severe to freeze running water to the sod ; then the water 
is shut off, and the icy covering partially protects the grass till a 
thaw, when the water is at once turned on, be it a spring or a win- 
ter thaw, till again frozen, or till cut off by drought. 
. Thus in the early month of January (corresponding to our March) 
the running water warms and protects the Grass roots, and the 
young and tender herbage grows rapidly, furnishing early feed. 



THE FARM. 77 

Travellers have been astonished in visiting the farms where the 
practice prevails, to see verdant hill-sides at a season when all else 
is brown and bare. It will be seen that it is a reasonable practice, 
and after Nature's example. Call to mind any bleak, unsheltered 
hill, where a brook runs during fall, winter, and spring, and you 
will remember the green line of grass that marks the course of the 
water, long after winter has seized all other green places, and 
long before spring has proclaimed itself even in the most sheltered 
spots. And this early coming and later stay of vegetation is not 
the only gain ; for where pastures and hill-sides are naturally sterile, 
or covered with moss and sour vegetation from having been too 
long pastured, a stream of pure water turned so as to trickle over 
the surface, is found to sweeten the soil, banish moss and rubbish, 
and produce short, sweet herbage with the same certainty that a 
top-dressing of wood ashes brings out Clover on every soil. 

England is not the only country where this practice has been 
followed with great advantage. There are many farmers among 
the Swiss Alps who have irrigated for years without knowing of 
any similar practice in other countries. These farmers, finding 
their supply of water in the streams that come from the glaciers, 
on the very edge of which they live, have converted land that was 
not worth fencing, into land that cuts six and eight tons of hay to the 
acre. Their system of irrigation is as follows : — 

Having decided upon the size of your " catch-meadow," lay off 
the hill by the level into lines a, marking them as you go by stones, 
stakes, or sods raised with the spade ; the lines may be at such dis- 
tance apart as you please, and however near together they may 
start, the varying inequalities in the field as the lines of level are 
followed across its face will make any close parallelism between 
them impossible. Next dig the leaders x ; these will be tapped 
at y, to draw the water into the catch-drains. Beyond the last y 
the leaders x become catch or watering-drains themselves. Now 
from points equally distant, or at such distances apart as you please, 
on the line of the first catch-drain, draw straight lines crossing all 
the lines of level, a, previously laid out at R, to the farthest ex- 
tremity of the field. 

Then take a spade, four to six inches wide at the point, or a 

7* 



/ 



78 



SEPTEMBER. 



plough invented for the purpose, which cuts and throws out a strip 
of turf four inches wide, and dig or plough along the lines of 
level, a, until they are all thus dug out Your field is now divided 
by a series of small ditches. To ensure the water's running 




! 



a 



1 

I 



1 

H 

I 
i 



i 



through these with sufficient rapidity, their inclination may be 
varied as seems best Now with spade or plough, cut the 
transverse lines of drains b> thus dividing the field into irregular 
quadrilaterals. The b set of lines are the leaders through which 



THE FARM. 



79 




water may be supplied to the top, bottom, or any part of the field 
at will by inserting into the mouths of the catch-drains pieces of 
sod cut to fit them exactly, thus blocking out the water when and 
where we please. 

A section of such a field would appear as shown in cut C, 
where a a and c c are the catch-drains shown before. Cut E 
shows the intersection of catch and cross-drains. 

The peculiar ad- 
vantage of this sys- 
tem — apart from the 
ease and rapidity with 
which it can be car- 
ried out is the cer- 
tainty with which the 
water is conveyed off 
the surface or to dis- 

. a, catch-drain* ; 6, cross-drains ; e, stops of turf. tant points of the field 

irrigated. The levels once established, there need be no expense 
in clearing drains every year or two, for at such intervals the spade 
or the ditch-plough should run along at the side of the old drain to 
cut a new one, the sod or earth turned out of this being used .to 
stop up the old drain. 

I have urged these two matters of drainage and irrigation at this 
length, because they are the two surest methods of raising the 
rental of all our farms, and because there is no land too poor to be 
benefited by one or the other ; and neither is so expensive that any 
farmer should be terrified. Remember that the English farmers, 
few of whom are fortunate enough to own the farms on which they 
live, are obliged to get the profits of their investments in permanent 
improvements during the continuance of their leases ; and yet most 
of these improvements are made by tenants who hire their whole 
farms, either at their own expense or by paying interest on money 
advanced to them to make such improvements, by their landlords 
or government These farms are often hundreds of acres in ex- 
tent, and are leased at rentals, varying from one to fifty dollars per 
acre, and averaging $12 to $15 per acre, with rates and taxes 
in addition. 



/ — ■ 



80 SEPTEMBER. 

How much more reasonably, then, may such improvements be 
made by our farmers, who are not obliged to get the returns from 
their investments in a few years, but may enjoy them for life with 
a right to transmit them to posterity. 

September is the month in which to undertake these improve- 
ments; there is generally more leisure then than at any other 
period of the farming year ; and the work once begun should be 
prosecuted as long as the weather allows. Drains may be dug 
even in winter, although if they are to be covered, it is well to 
guard the bottom from being affected and softened by frost. 

It will be observed by referring to the plan that the whole 
estate is underdrained, and the farm irrigated wherever low enough 
to command water, different methods of irrigation being tried in 
different fields. 

The simplest way of locating the drains, is to 
use a level much in vogue among masons. 
Three strips of wood, two of which are about 
12 feet long, the other of any length, are jointed 
together to make a huge A, thus. Cut and 
joint them so that when the instrument rests on 
the points A and C on a level floor, the bar £ D 
will be perfectly horizontal which may be tested 
as follows : insert a pivot at B ; and find the middle of £ D ; sus- 
pend from the pivot a plumb line B a? ; y, marks the middle of E 
D, and if the instrument stands level on its legs A C, the line 
B x will cut y. If this is not the case, adjust A and C till it is. 
Now going out into the field set the leg C on the point from which 
you wish to start your level for the first catch-drain and move the 
leg A, till it rests in such a position as to make the line B x cut 
y, when the points A and C must be on the same level. Drive a 
stake or raise a sod to mark these points ; remove the leg C to the 
point where A rested, and repeat the process. With such an in- 
strument, an intelligent man can lay out the catch-drains for a field 
of many acres in a day. 




CHAPTER X. 

ORNAMENTAL. 

It is but little work to keep in order ornamental grounds on 
which the work has once been thoroughly done ; but we have a 
deal of such work to do for the coming year, and must be at it as 
soon as possible. 

The avenue has been but roughly made ; so with the roads to 
the barn. The farm-roads, the paths in the flower-garden and 
those to the grapery, farm-house, and kitchen-garden are finished. 
All other paths exist only on the plan. The pond extends no 
farther than is shown by the dotted lines ; the side-slopes of the 
main avenue are unfinished ; the bridges only temporary ; and be- 
yond the woods there is no ornamental plantation. 

Our attention should first be given to the avenue, as being both 
the means of access to the estate, aad as the object which gives 
the first impression to visitors or omipants. It passes through a 
gravelly soil with a top stratum of gravelly loam to the depth of 
18 inches. It enters, as shown by the topographical lines of the 
plan on the crown of a ridge, 

which has sufficient slope in . 

either direction to carry off ^ffV '," • - - - - - "dra&i' ^ 
water rapidly either by the "~~ 
surface of the road, or through drains below, and was made as 
follows : the road was excavated 2 feet deep and 1*5 feet wide ; 
the loam, the first 18 inches, was carted off to fill up inequalities in 
the surface of the lawn wherever it was needed, and to bank the 
avenue at those points along the hill where there were cuttings. 
The gravel was dug out 6 inches deep and laid up in piles at the 
road-side. When the men who were digging had advanced some 
few rods, another set began to make the avenue. They first laid 
in by hand stones about the size of a double fist to the depth 

81 






82 SEPTEMBER. 

of 6 inches. In the middle, a V drain, as to be described, was 
made as the stones were laid. On top of these stones and thor- 
oughly covering the drain was laid 15 inches of smaller stones, 
'as shown in the cut, always keeping the stones at least 3 inches 
higher in the crown or middle of the road than at the sides; 
over these stones enough of the gravel already piled beside the 
road was laid to make a covering to the road-bed 24 inches deep, 
and this should bring the centre of the road on a level with the 
surface of the surrounding soil. This gravel was thrown upon the 
road by the shovel, and one man in the road, with a long-toothed 

iron rake, distributed the 
gravel equally over the sur- 
face, always drawing toward 
him the loose stones out of the 
gravel, and repeating the op- 
eration with the next gravel 
_i thrown on, thus spreading 
it out, layer over layer, and 
leaving the surface of the road covered with fine gravel clear of 
stones. 

if this work is carefully dfpe, travel and the action of wheels 
passing over it will force the fine gravel down among the stones 
beneath, pressing the small stones of the upper layer in their turn 
more compactly into those below them, and so on to the bottom. 
A few months' wear will suffice to make this avenue firm and com- 
pact, and will insure dry, good driving at all seasons of the year. 
It can freeze only 4 inches deep, and will of course thaw and dry 
rapidly. 

Roads freeze just in proportion to the amount of water that 
stands suspended in their material. If this is all loam it holds 
water like a sponge, and freezes and thaws accordingly ; if all 
gravel, it holds less water and freezes less ; if but 4 inches of it 
is gravel, it holds scarcely any water unless frozen during a rain. 
This is so, because, — 1st, there can be no standing water on a 
crowned surface ; all that falls and is not at once absorbed runs off 
immediately into the gutters, and so is carried into the natural or 
artificial drainage of the surrounding surface. 2d, a surface thus 



ORNAMENTAL. 83 

made and crowned is hard and compact, like a house roof, and 
absorbs hardly more water than a roof; 3d, the little that may be 
absorbed will trickle rapidly into the more open stones below, and 
will thence find the drain in the middle of the road, which is quite 
out of the reach of frost, and will convey the water into the pond 
or other receptacle where it discharges. 

After this road has been used some six or nine months, put on 
about two inches in depth of screened gravel. That first put on 
will have been lowered by pressure about that distance and can be 
forced no farther, so that this dressing will be final. 

Where roads cross low places, as ours crosses the island, it is 
well — if the road-bed is higher than the ordinary level of the neigh- 
boring water — to crown the bed a little, but less than the surface of 
the drive-way, say two inches, and lay on each side a tile drain, or 
stone drain, of 1 to 3 inches discharge, instead of the single V drain, 
and then fill in as directed above. 

Roads made in this manner consume considerable time and 
money, but are, nevertheless, the cheapest roads in the end. 

The manner in which roadmaking is practised, even in the 
neighborhood of Boston, where roads are better than in any other 
part of the United States, is very unscientific. *The men whose 
office it is to first make the road (Countv^tfmmissioners, etc.), 
fearing to startle the tax-payers anjiF voters by presenting a high 
estimate for the cost of making roads, allow the work to be done 
in the most indifferent way. They content themselves with skim- 
ming the jsoil down to the gravel, and then shovelling from the 
side* of the road a few inches of gravel to crown it a little in the 
middle, and finally covering the whole with a very thin dressing of 
gravel This method does tolerably well where the road-bed is 
hard pan and the ^surface drainage is good, although even then, 
frosts and thaws, and the oozing of water from springs in adjoining 
high lands, make mud of disgusting depth in winter and spring ; 
but where the road-bed is not hard pan, but soft or loamy gravel, 
or where it traverses boggy land, this method produces roads vile 
beyond description, except in midsummer or early autumn, although 
better than most roads in the Western and Southern States. 

Even now, some, of the towns and cities in the vicinity of Bos- 



84 SEPTEMBER. 

ton, — Cambridge for instance, — pursue this or a worse system, 
and thus subject tax-payers both to the first cost of the road, 
and to a large yearly bill for repairs. 

The important and vital requisite to the possession of good roads, 
is close attention to good drainage. It is to the standing and soak- 
age of water that all our bad roads are due. 

Footpaths. — Our footpaths, like those in the flower-garden, 
to the greenhouse and grapery, should be made like the avenue, 
only narrower, for it is important that they should be dry at all 
seasons. But the paths that traverse lawn and woods, like those 
on the south of the house, may be made much more simply. It 
will be enough to dig off six inches or a foot of the top soil, and 
replace it with gravel, crowned about l£ inches in 6 feet Even 
less than this is sufficient for paths that go through woodland or 
other places little visited. For them, either dig out 3 inches and 
fill in with gravel, or merely dig out and invert the sod, and cover 
with loam to kill the grass and weeds. 

Indeed, the rural beauty of all decidedly retired places, is sadly 
marred by the appearance of trim gravel walks. Where wild 
flowers and blossoming shrubs, free songs of birds, the murmur of 
the brook, or the plash of water on the bank of pond or river, fill 
us with a feeling of solitude, we dislike any appearance of man's 
labor or artificial improvement. At the bottom of all our hearts 
is an appreciation of the exquisite character of simple, natural 
beauty, and an admission that nature far excels man in producing 
beautiful effects with earth, grass, trees, and water. If we are 
strolling through secluded meadows, and beside unfrequented 
waters, in natural woodlands or forests, however much we may 
enjoy the beauty or the delight of discovery, there, is an additional 
interest to most of us, in the fact that others have enjoyed the same 
pleasures, as we know by the herbage bent beneath the tread of 
man or beasts, by a rough seat, or by any similar evidence not out 
of keeping with the surrounding natural objects. But if our way 
lies through a thickly settled country, where artificial life is con- 
stantly forced upon us, where all walks are formal and gravelled, 
all gardens trim and hedged, fences straight, and trees in formal 



ORNAMENTAL. 83 

lines, it is an additional pleasure to come upon a spot where nature 
seems hardly to have been disturbed, where the path we follow 
swans to have been made by loose cattle, or is a wood road, too 
little ased to be regularly made, and so left to wind in and out to 
avoid a standing tree or projecting rock. Such roads, with their 
three tracks, two wheel ruts, and between them the path for the 
feet of men or animals, overgrown with grass and spangled with 
White Clover and Butter-cup, or gay with Asters or Golden-rod, 
■ arc an unfailing source of delight to all true lovers of nature. 
Let us practise on the lesson they teach when we make paths 
through ornamental grounds; paths are merely for convenience, 
and should never attract attention in any other way than as being 
well adapted to bring out the irregularities of the surface, and the 
views of the landscape. 



CHAPTER XL 

BANKS. 

It was directed that a portion of the loam dug from the road-bed 
should be carried to points where banks are to be formed. In the 
construction of banks more mistakes are made than in almost any 
other branch of ornamental improvement. The rule for our guid- 
ance is, to make all banks such as shall conform to nature's practice 
under similar circumstances. Nature never makes terraces except 
on an immense scale, as shown in the banks of rivers where the 
stream has worked from one level to another; and man should 
never make them except from necessity. The banks about a house 
should not be disguised by artifice, to conceal the fact that it has 
been raised above the surrounding surface, but should be made to 
assume natural slopes, because such slopes are more pleasing to the 
eye, more easily made, and can be preserved at less expense. 

Whenever circumstances compel us to set a building on a hill- 
side so steep that the observer fears lest a jostle should slide the 
building from its place, we ought to throw out such a bank as will 
broaden the base on which it seems to rest, and thus remove the 
feeling of insecurity. If it be. necessary to break the bank into 
two or more to economize material, or for some other imperative 
reason, the necessity justifies the act ; but under no circumstances is 
such an arrangement beautiful. It is always hard and formal, and 
should be avoided. 

When a bank is to be made, consider the natural surface of the 
adjacent land. If it is to be laid up about a house, observe the 
slope of the surface on which the house stands, and try to give 
your bank the same slope or one in harmony with it Thus, B is a 
house on a hill-side. If the bank slope to a, as shown by the 
dotted line B a, it is harsh ; if to b 9 it is more harmonious ; if 
to c, it is perfectly so, and is confluent with the natural slope of 

86 



BANKS. 



87 




Cr 




^ 



the hill, as shown 
by the unbroken line 
ending at C. The 
eye then rises along 
the slope to the top 
of the bank, and then 
easily takes in the 
whole house. More- 
over, such a bank and' 
slope give grace and 
dignity to the house. 

Or again, suppose 
a road to be cut across 

the face of a hill, thus. A, road ; B, top of hill ; C, bottom. 
The bankyfc, is harsh; f.d is better; but/e is harmonious, and 
confluent with the general slope of the hill. » 

If banks or slopes must be, they cannot be made too well, asfthey 
are to be grassed, and perhaps planted with shrubbery ; the follow- 
ing is the method in which they should be made, without exception. 

Decide upon the slope ; if you are to make a bank fill up within 
2 feet of the line of slope, and parallel to it ; add 2 inches of 
oyster shells, old bones, or similar manure ; then fill up 2 inches 
above the top line of slope with rich or well-manured loam, to 
allow for general shrinking; tread freely to prevent subsequent 
shrinking. When it is perfectly firm, rake the surface thoroughly 
with a long-toothed iron rake, and then sow seed and beat or roll 
in. If it is to be sodded, fill up with well-packed loam to the line 
of slope, then cut thin sods, not over 2 inches thick, and cover 
the bank ; beat them thoroughly, to press their roots well down 
into the earth. Water occasionally if the weather is not dry ; if it 
is, water every day, till the sod has begun to grow ; then give it a 
few doses of manure-water, and gradually cease to attend to it 

If a slope is to be made on a hill-side, cut down to the line of 
slope you propose to maintain. If in so doing you come to the 
hard gravel, dig it off at least 18 inches, and replace it with 
such material as was directed for the bank. If, however, you do 
not come upon gravel, trench and thoroughly manure, then sod and 
grass as above. • 



CHAPTER XII. 

LAWN. 

The lawn is divided into three parts : one west of the house and 
drive ; one south of the house and north of the path ; and one south 
of the path to the woods. The last is to be treated like ordinary 
grass-land, and has already been laid down to grass ; viz., Red-top, 
Timothy, and White and Red Clover. The portion west of the house 
is already in lawn, but that south of the avenue is to be laid down 
this fall. It has been cultivated this year in early Potatoes, which 
were dug late in August. For some years it was in grass, and. had 
been«pretty well exhausted. Last year it was ploughed and sub- 
soiled, with a Michigan plough, to the depth of 18 inches, and 
the rocks and large stones were removed. In April it was dressed 
with compost, — 8 cords to the acre, — which was well though 
lightly ploughed in, carje being taken not to disturb the sod inverted 
last fall. It was then planted with the Potatoes as mentioned. 

Remembering that we are undertaking to make a permanent 
lawn in a climate naturally dry, we must spare no pains in doing 
the work thoroughly. First, make the drains shown on the plan 
by red lines, laying them with tiles 3 to 4 feet deep. Now cart on 
not less than 4 cords to the acre, of the best manure we have. 
Spread the manure no faster than it can be dug in ; at the same 
time and rate spread common plaster, not less than 600 pounds to 

the acre. Having made these preparations, 
trench the whole field 18 inches deep, or 



^~~' " ' j | otherwise thoroughly subsoil. 

: * The process of trenching is as follows : 
. . . , The parallelogram, a, A, c, d, is a field; 



open a ditch at one end 18 inches deep, and 
2 feet wide (a e y fc), and carry the earth 
dug from it to the edge of the other end of the field, and there 

88 



LAWN. 89 

pile it up in the space within the dotted lines. Then open another 
trench or ditch (e, g y A, /), and throw the earth into the first trench 
(a, e,/ } c), mixing well the manure and plaster, and thus continue 
till the whole field has been dug over. The earth piled at 6, t, k, 
d, will fill the last trench, and complete the work. 

Spread over the surface, as a top-dressing, 200 pounds Peruvian 
Guano to the acre ; then rake with a short-toothed iron rake. 
Sow and roll in the seed, using double the quantity usually recom- 
mended to the acre for laying down grass-lands, of Red-top 
(2 bushels), Timothy (20 quarts), White Clover (8 pounds), and 
Yellow Clover (8 pounds). White Clover is very liable to be 
winter-killed the first winter ; so, to save seed, you may defer sow- 
ing it till late winter or early spring, when it may be sowed on the 
sward. Add to this Vernal grass (1 bushel to the acre), which 
will give a peculiar fragrance at every mowing. Roll thoroughly. 
Other combinations of grass seeds are given hereafter. 

This work should be done in August, and must not be left later 
than the first fortnight in September, otherwise the grass will not 
set well before winter. 

8* 



CHAPTER XHL 



TREES AND SHRUBS. 




Stake out the places for ornamental trees and shrubs which are 
to be planted this fall, and have the holes dug, well prepared, and 
filled in to the top, for this will save much time when you come to 
plant. 

For trees, dig holes 2 feet deep, 4 feet in diameter. At the 
bottom you may put well-rotted manure 6 inches deep ; but by 
no means let it come within 6 inches of the roots when planted. 
It is for food to the tree in the second year, when we want rapid 
growth. 

The holes for most shrubs need not be 
more than 3 feet in diameter, and when 
well dug, should be from 12 to 18 inches _ 
wider at bottom than at top : and the bottom 
should be well loosened with spade, pick- 
axe, or bar. 

As selecting the places where we are to 
plant trees must be preliminary to digging the holes, let us give a 
little thought to the principles which should guide that selection. 

Mr. Downing, referring to the difficulty of grouping trees, and 
in advising persons who were not well skilled in making plantations, 
and yet wished to produce the charm of variety and irregularity 
while they shunned stiffness and formality, mentions approvingly 
the practice of a man who went out with a basket of Potatoes, and 
threw them up into the air with various degrees of force, and then 
planted a tree where each Potato had fallen. This he asserted 
would produce better irregularity than is likely to occur to unprac- 
ticed planters. 

I think this scheme most injudicious, and that it would be pro- 
ductive of barbarous results when followed. 

90 



TREES AND SHRUBS. ' 91 

* 

Nature seems never to fail in' producing beautiful groups, 
whether they be looked at in winter, summer, or autumn. In 
spray, in' full foliage, or in autumnal coloring, her trees are always 
beautiful, always seem just fit for their place. It very rarely 
happens that any of her groups, with' which man has not meddled, 
seem badly arranged. 

Why it is that so very few of man's plantations escape criticism, 
and so very few of nature's are open to it, I know not, unless it 
be that the Divinity of nature is so powerful in its control over 
the mind that we tacitly admit it to be irreverent to criticise her. 

Selecting the most beautiful group of trees that we are ac- 
quainted with, let us study it, and seek the causes of its power 
over us. They are many — irregularity of outline but one among 
them ; variety of species gives variety of form, of spray, of leaf, 
of top, of color. Whether in spring or fall, all are there, and 
each contributes so largely to the beauty of the whole, that we 
could not remove one without the risk of destroying the beauty 
of all. 

The most attractive groups are not those in which but one or 
two varieties are found, but those where there are several kinds of 
trees with shrubs intermingled. For there is to every tree a char- 
acter, and an individuality which is most clearly brought out by 
contrast. 

The form of the Elm is very graceful ; it is very much and very 
finely divided; and its spray and smaller branches are almost 
always somewhat pendant The grace of the tree is proverbial. 
The Hickory is also graceful ; not a branch or a twig of it is 
straight, its whole spray is full of irregularity, and yet its expres- 
sion is contest and resistance rather than grace and pliancy. It is 
one of the hardest and toughest of woods, and this character is 
shown in every branch. 

The Oak is very different from these. When it is relieved 
against a clear evening sky, where every branch, however small, 
is sharply defined, we see but few absolutely straight lines, and yet 
the character of the tree is angular, rigid, unyielding, though never 
stiflj — from that quality it is redeemed by its dignity and reserved 
force, — still it is never in any sense pliant or graceful. 



92 SEPTEMBER, 

The Ash is made up of straight lines, is stiff, and is rarely pos- 
sessed of any pretensions to grace; at the same time a perfect 
Ash is a most beautiful tree. 

The Horse-chestnut has its own peculiar, stubby branches, its 
uniform shape, its dense shade ; is, in a word, a cabbage on a stick. 

We might, were this the proper place, easily set forth the varie- 
ties in form of all our common trees, and trace them to their 
causes ; but it is needless to enlarge upon facts that are patent to 
every lover of nature. And the varieties of form are not more 
marked than those of color and character of foliage. From Ever- 
greens to Oaks and Maples, there is every shape and shade of 
leaf, and the satisfactory character of an artificial plantation will 
depend, mainly, on the judgment with which varieties are combined. 
An. old writer (Gilpin) on Landscape Gardening, laid it down as 
a rule, that satisfactory planting could only be attained by masses 
of trees of the same kind, because many of a kind were necessary 
to give the character of the individual to a group. This is true 
where trees are to be planted over many acres ; but where a man's 
arboretum is confined to a few specimens or groups of trees, be 
would lose all the pleasure derived from variety and from agreeable 
contrasts of light and shade, the graceful with the stiff, the spiry- 
topped with the horizontally branched, by following such a course. 
Besides, nature,, as has been said, rarely makes a group of a single 
species. There may be a prevalence of t one kind, as in some 
of our meadows of the Red Maple, but the stem of the White 
Birch will gleam through the green leaves ; in some part of the 
group will be the dark color of the Pine, Hemlock, or Cedar, — a 
single tree it may be, but enough to tone the whole ; — at another 
point will project the rough, contorted, but horizontal branches of 
the Swamp White Oak ; the edge will be thick with shrubs of 
every form and color, — Viburnum, Cornel, Clethra, Black Alder ; 
while* running through and over all, will be the feathery festoon of 
the Virgin's Bower, the glistening leaves of the Horse Brier, the 
crimson stem of the changing Woodbine, and the gold of the Ivy: 

Study every natural group you see, and make yourself master 
of its beauty and the causes of it, and you will not only find that 
its variety and irregularity are wonderful, but that the system by 



r-~- 



TREB8 AND SHBUBS. 98 

which it was all developed can be followed as well as analyzed. 
It is the result of careful study and well-planned planting ; and 
although the greatest carelessness seems to prevail, we see that 
nothing could be removed without injuring the whole. Every 
tree-stem has its* own peculiar beauty of lichens and mosses. The 
rocks are green, golden, or brown, as the rain is frequent or rare ; 
the flowers are light or dark colored, as shade or sunlight needs 
contrast. Every part is perfectly balanced. This may be the 
work of chance, but it is a chance which is perfectly uniform in its 
action, which may be reasoned on and predicted, and reduced to 
tabular views ; a chance — if a chance — that has proceeded by 
rule and regulation from the earliest period of man's observation 
till now. 

It is not my intention to inquire why God makes beauty ; he 
does make it, and that most lavishly, and without regard to the pos- 
sibility of man's ever being benefited by it The depths of unex- 
plored forests, unopened mines, and unfathomed seas are all aglow 
with beauty, grace, and variety ; and no appreciative mind but 
must always be full of delight at the manifestations of love shown 
in this peculiar regard for the beauty which may be given to the 
most common objects, to recommend them to man's attention when 
discovered ; and one must be awed too by the certainty of the 
careful and deliberate design and plan which influenced the con- 
ception and development of every object in nature. 

Shall we then who wish to reproduce such beauty, to imitate the 
Master's workmanship, to make plantations that may communicate 
to us and to our neighbors the same pleasure and instruction we 
derive from God's planting, resort to the blindest of chances, worse 
than dice or lottery ? 

I do not mean to say that Mr. Downing advised the Potato ex- 
ercise as a general or the best practice, but he mentions it with such 
commendation that men of ordinary judgment, and a slight ac- 
quaintance with the art of planting, will be very much inclined to 
adopt the plan. That some A or 6 might by chance have been 
successful in this way is true ; but it would be mere chance ; and 
it is to be regretted that Mr. D. should have mentioned it with 
any hint at favoring it, for several persons have quoted such a plan 



94 SEPTEMBER. 

to me, and it may be often found in print, as an infallible guide in 
making an effective plantation, whilst in reality it is the merest non- 
sense. 

Our rules, therefore, for planting are : study well your material ; 
then study the outlines of all the best natural groups you know ; 
make careful notes of the way in which the varieties are combined, 
how near the trees are to each other, how often nature has planted 
them close together, how often within a few feet of each other, how 
often at the distance of 20 or 30 feet. See where she has intro- 
duced a mossy rock ; how she has drawn attention to some points 
by a mass of Woodbine hung on a projecting branch or twined 
round the nodding top of a Cedar, or swinging from the pendant 
branches of an Elm. See how she has given a rounded form or 
great angularity and prominence to a group by relieving against a 
Willow or Maple a picturesque Hemlock or Hackmatack. Make, 
yourself master of all this ; draw it out on paper ; and then, so 
far as you can, reproduce the effects you like best by transferring 
them by eye or measurement to the ground to be planted. Do 
not expect to satisfy yourself or to escape the sage criticism of 
those who, very like, cannot distinguish a Cat Brier from a Gilly- 
flower, cannot name one in a hundred of the trees, shrubs, and 
flowers which surround their homesteads ; or of those who do every 
thing by rule and line, and see beauty in graceful Hemlocks 
clipped into hideous resemblances to lions and cocks ; who admire 
the straight line only, and would regularly curve, or straighten and 
enclose with a stone wall, the wild and indented margins of our 
ponds and streams ; who worship Lilacs, Snow-balls, and Carna- 
tions, but are quite indifferent to Viburnums, Cornels, Fringed 
Gentians, Wild Roses, Clethras, and Cardinal flowers. If they 
condemn your efforts to reproduce Nature and to imitate her pro- 
fuse, graceful, and irregular variety, they are simply to be pitied, 
and their comments are to be despised. What you have done will 
become more beautiful, more and more like nature, every year ; 
and will, as soon as it has had time to grow, give delight to every 
one who can appreciate Nature herself, and can see in the work 
of a man the spirit and intention which guided him, though im- 
perfectly expressed. 




CHAPTER XIV. 

GREENHOUSE. 

ICTOBER. There will be but little new work 
in the greenhouse in October. The plants 
potted from the ground last month may now be 
taken from the shade and arranged on the 
shelves and platforms which they are to oc- 
cupy during the winter. When you arrange 
them on the tables, set the largest in the mid- 
dle, and graduate the others according to size, 
so that the mass of foliage may slope regularly down to the edges 
of the tables : place on the shady side those plants which thrive 
best out of the direct sunlight In front and on the hanging 
shelves those small plants are to be placed which need direct light, 
and which, not being rapid growers, will not interfere much with 
each other. 

If any Monthly Roses, Verbenas, Pelargoniums, Lantanas, 
Chrysanthemums, or Carnations, still remain in the ^garden, they 
must be removed at once, otherwise there will be no time for 
them to make new roots before the beginning, of winter. Cut 
down Achimenes and gradually dry them up. 

Prepare thumb-pots or pans, and sow in them seeds of Lobelia, 
Nemophila, Nierembergia, etc, which will be wanted in the spring 
to hang from the roofs of the greenhouse, conservatory, etc. ; set 
these pots and pans on the sills of the windows, or anywhere near 
the light Do not neglect the bulbs mentioned last month, but plant 
at once those that were not then planted ; and if any planted have 
fairly begun to grow, give them water, though very sparingly at 
first Pot Ixias and Sparaxis if not already done ; set Cinerarias, 
Neapolitan Violets, and Daisies into frames. 

Keep most of your plants cool and rather dry, as they will then 

95 



96 ' OCTOBER. 

make more hardy roots and growth than if over-stimulated ; all the 
Camelias need abundant water, and Chrysanthemums liquid ma- 
nure. During all warm and dry weather keep the sashes and ven- 
tilators open, and allow the air free access during the night as well 
as the day, but avoid any thing like chilling the plants. It is not 
necessary to resort ta artificial heat at present. 

Use water rather sparingly, though frequent syringings will be 
very beneficial, for water thus applied comes in the most natural 
form in which plants can receive it. Rain is important to out-of- 
door plants, not only as a supply of water, but because it sets leaves 
and twigs in motion as it runs over them, and washes away dust, 
and insects and their eggs. 

Aeration. — The system pf ventilation in our greennouse 
furnishes air both in sufficient quantities and in the most natural 
way. 

One would naturally suppose that plants are benefited by the 
motion of their leaves and branches, and numerous experiments 
have shown this to be true ; for where currents of air have been 
used to ventilate greenhouses, the plants have been more thrifty 
than where air has been admitted without regard to its course 
within the house. 

In a dwelling-house the whole object of ventilation is gained by 
securing a constant supply of fresh air without any annoying 
draughts. But " ventilation " does not properly describe the true 
system of admitting air to plants in greenhouses, where the current 
or draught is essential to the welfare of the vegetation. 

A distinguished vegetable physiologist explains this matter as 
follows : " Ventilation is the process of letting the external air at 
once into the forcing-house ; and aeration is the art of keeping the 
air of the forcing-house in constant motion by currents of warmed 
fresh air. The importance of aeration cannot be over-estimated ; 
it is the one thing which now requires to be secured in order to 
render our artificial climates natural. Man's reason must tell him 
that a plant condemned to pass its life in a still atmosphere, is like 
nothing so much as a criminal condemned to pass his life in an 
everlasting pillory. In order to secure motion in the vegetable 



GREENHOUSE. 97 

kingdom, currents of air are made to do the work of the muscle, 
limbs, and volition, of animals. 

u It is not at all improbable that in addition to the mechanical 
effects of motion in assisting the propulsion of the sap, it may be 
important that the stratum of air in contact with the leaves of 
plants should be incessantly shifted, in order to enable them to 
procure an adequate supply of food, for we find that water in mo- 
tion, when used for irrigation, feeds them better than when stag- 
nant. 

u Leaves are constantly abstracting from the air the very minute 
quantities of carbonic acid (and other gases) which it contains. 
When the air moves quickly over their surface, fresh supplies of 
that food are incessantly presented to it, and the operation of ab- 
straction may be much facilitated ; while on the contrary, if the air 
is stagnant, the absorption of carbonic acid (and other gases) may 
be much slower. 

" Perspiration is another vegetable function which must be main- 
tained in healthy action. The quantity of water that flies off from 
the surface of a plant will, other things being equal, be determined 
by the rapidity of the motion of air passing over its surface. 

" In an absolutely still air, perspiration will be reduced to its min- 
imum, and it will increase, within certain limits, in proportion to 
the quickness with which air sweeps over it. If the motion of the 
air is thus favorable to the two great operations of feeding and 
perspiration, we shall find that it is equally needed, day and night, 
for inspiration and feeding go on principally by daylight, whilst 
perspiration or exhalation continue during the hours of darkness. 

" A good system of aeration must be constantly in action" 

To make this more clear, it may be well to mention here one 
of the great vital principles of agriculture. 

It is generally supposed that, given a good soil, plenty of water, 
and sunshine, all plants derive the materials for their organic growth 
directly from the earth. This view is well enough for general pur- 
poses, but it is by no means strictly true. The vegetable portion 
of plants — in which is not included the water of their tissues or 
the mineral matter conveyed by water into the tissues and held 
there in suspension only to be detected by the ashes resulting from 

9 



98 OCTOBER. 

the complete combustion of any plant — is derived principally 
from the air.. The earth is needed as a place from which to grow, 
and in and upon which the plant, by means of its roots, may per- 
form .its vital functions ; but the larger part of the structure of the 
plant is supplied in a mysterious manner by the air. 

Without delaying for a scientific explanation of the causes and 
reasons of this wonderful fact, we will consider a few familiar in- 
stances, which will prove conclusively the truth of the statement 
In any of our country towns it is easy to find lands covered with 
woods, which within the memory of the present generation, have 
been cultivated till they were worn out ; t.*., so drained of those 
constituents which plants derive from the earth, that no crop could 
be got from them that would pay the cost of cultivation. These 
lands upon being abandoned by man, soon began to grow up in 
wood, — here and there little Pines or Birches or Cedars started, 
— and in ten or twenty years the fields were quite covered, and in 
forty a fair yield of wood could be cut from them. The wood 
being cut and the land ploughed and cultivated, good crops can be 
again got for some years. These lands were not manured by any 
thing but air and water, and yet not only have the trees grown, 
but their leaves, shed from year to year, have fertilized the soil far 
beyond the fertility any soil acquires by the slow disintregation of 
its mineral constituents during a term of years, — an operation 
analogous to the increase of moneyed capital, which yields an an- 
nual interest, till ultimately it is doubled and more by the accumu- 
lation. 

It may be said that this proves nothing more than that land, 
which without manure will not yield crops for food, does yet con- 
tain the elements of vegetable growth necessary to develope the 
forest But it will not be said truly. 

It was stated at the beginning of this treatise, that agricultural 
operations are not changed in kind but merely in degree, by being 
conducted on different scales ; so that we may fairly reason from a 
single plant to whole crops. Now experiments have been carefully 
tried by men distinguished in agricultural science, which have 
proved conclusively that, be the crop what it may, about three- 
fourths its vegetable bulk is derived from the air. Pure sand has 



GREENHOUSE. 99 

teen confined under glass receivers, and in it seeds have been 
planted, which have been watered with 'pure distilled water, no 
manure being applied, and jet these seeds have germinated and 
made a very considerable growth of vegetable matter ; showing 
that apart from the stock contained in the seed, the nourishment of 
the plant was derived from the air. 

It is not claimed that a healthy vegetation capable of maturing 
food for animals has been produced under such circumstances, as 
there are certain chemical elements, not to be found in common 
air, with which a plant must be supplied, in order to yield food for 
man ; but simply that such experiments prove both that plants de- 
rive a large portion of their substance from the air and water, and 
should therefore have enough of both, and that the growth of 
woodland under the circumstances mentioned above, is mainly at- 
tributable to the food supplied by the air. 

Another striking illustration of the truth of this position is found 
in a common agricultural operation : fertilizing land by green crops. 
Given a piece of land too poor to be worth cultivating ; weigh out 
the manure you apply, and sow Clover seed ; the Clover will grow 
for a year or two and cover the land more or less generously ; at 
the end of the second year plough in the tops and roots, and leave 
them a short time to decay. You will find that the land is perma- 
nently enriched, so as to yield a remunerative crop if cultivated. 
if the crop of Clover ploughed in added nothing more than the 
weight of manure first applied, plus the material it abstracted 
from the soil, the subsequent crops would be no greater than if the 
manure alone had been ploughed in and left, and the farmer would 
be poorer by the cost of cultivating his Clover ; but the reverse is 
the result whenever the experiment is triedi 

Thus it is clear,, first, that air is necessary to plants, and full of 
the elements of organic life ; second, that it must be constantly re- 
newed and shifted by winds and currents, or else stationary plants 
would soon exhaust the supply and cease to thrive ; third, that a 
leading principle of success in plant culture is aeration. 

Currents of air judiciously admitted, give additional efficiency 
to the use of the syringe. Syringing washes violently away in- 
sects and their eggs; but instinct teaches insects to avoid those 



100 



OCTOBER. 




parts of the plant m the line of usual currents of water, and thud 
escape. If, however, currents of air strike the plant on various 
sides, instinct again leads the insects to shun these new currents, 
and the two fluids, air and water, being applied sometimes together, 
sometimes apart, both cannot well be avoided. 

The old method of admitting air by sliding sashes in the top and 

front of the house, is unfavorable 
to this general diffusion of air, as 
the accompanying diagram shows. 
In this section of a greenhouse the 
sashes slide at x and a/ ; the cur- 
rent admitted at a/ naturally warms 
a little as it enters, rises and goes 
out at x, affecting the plants but 
very little ; as it is cold and rapid, 
and blows above the warm pipes a, it does not mingle with the 
warm air or sink much, but rather blows across and out at the top* 
The hot air is blown in the line of the two lower arrows, and goes 
through and under the staging for plants ; whilst those standing on 
the table in front, or trained up against the glass feel but little 
warmth. Whenever air is admitted, it comes in nearly as cold as 
the outside atmosphere, strikes the overheated foliage, which it 
chills rather than cools. Now if our system is followed this can 
never happen. Again, where air comes as in the preceding diagram, 
no current really affects the leaves so as to give them the motion 
described as so beneficial. The truth of this will be seen when we 
consider the condition of the house before the admission of the 
outer air. The whole house is warmed so that a thermometer at 

the level of the eye, shows enough 
heat to need air. If the tempera- 
ture is thus high at the level of the 
eye, what must it be at a, whither 
all the hot air is tending by natural 
laws ? to remedy this we admit air at 
x* ; this serves to cool down the front 
of the house too much, and only makes 
the upper part hotter. Open the sash 



\i* 



GREENHOUSE. 



101 




e?' 



x, and the hot air will rush out for a few minutes until the air at 
x} begins to fill the current, when it will no longer sink, the tempera- 
ture in its neighborhood haying been lowered too much to feel any 
difference between its own weight and that of the entering air. The 
current however is strong ; it is a draught, and the air comes in at 
if and goes out at x, making a curve (a/ x) through the house, 
giving no aeration, but cooling one part very much without relieving 
the rest 

Now observe our plan. In a lean-to or span-roof house, we 
carry up a brick wall for 3 feet at least : every 5 feet we open a 
ventilator between the hot 
pipes a a; now if the house is 
too hot, by opening the venti- 
lators x and xf y we let a stream 
of cold air, — not upon the 
tender foliage, but on the 
hot pipes, where it is at once 
warmed, and rises in four di- 
rections; perpendicularly by 
the natural laws of equilib- 
rium in fluids, and diagonally 
by the power of the draught 

When the upper sash is 
opened at c, these different 
currents converge toward that 
opening, making currents 
throughout the house, which from their various directions, must 
thoroughly search every part of every leaf, and, although gently 
and almost imperceptibly, yet surely, set all the leaves in motion. 

The diagram, however, only shows how air may escape by open- 
ings above, made by sliding or revolving sashes. Revolving sashes 
are for some reasons the best, for others the worst ; standing at an 
angle with the roof when open, they are very liable to be broken by 
the wind ; and yet must often be opened in windy weather. To obvi- 
ate the need of either sliding or revolving sashes when but a slight 
current is wanted, or during high winds, the back wall of a lean-to, 
or the ridge of a span-roofed house should be carried up from 2 to 4 

9* 




102 



OCTOBBB. 




feet above the sashes ; then there should be ventilators, a a, in this 
wall, above and below the sash, closed by sliding doors ; these may 
be more or less opened, and will admit air slowly and without 
danger from high winds. 

With ventilators thus arranged and of sufficient size, there is no 
need of sliding or revolving sashes ; the roof may be made whole, 
and breakage thus avoided. To secure nocturnal ventilation, 
where the current moves slowly, these ventilators may be slightly 

opened, or others made as 
shown in the cut; a a being 
closed, open b; the air will 
enter d x and creep slowly 
/ along in the direction of the 
arrows. It will take this course 
because it will constantly cool 
faster along the walls and the 
glass than elsewhere, and the 
warm air will rise to supply 
its place. It must be remembered that all the air we propose to 
supply to these houses is thoroughly wanned by the hot water or 
steam pipes before it reaches the body of the house, except when 
admitted through a a, and this entering into the hottest part of the 
house, warms before it reaches the plants. 

Greenhouses and other glass structures built in this manner, 
with attention to these various details, are more expensive than when 
built in the old-fashioned way ; and it is true that in the old and 
ill-arranged houses good plants are grown, and that gardeners are 
a dogmatic set of men, unwilling to adopt improvements. It is 
also true that dwelling-houses with un ventilated rooms heated by 
air-tight stoves, allow some children and adults to grow and live 
and are less costly than houses built with the most improved appa- 
ratus for heating and ventilating. 

Cold. — Sometimes very cold nights occur in October (in this 
latitude), particularly toward the last of the month. Such nights, 
however, are foretold by the character of the day preceding. It is 
enough when they are anticipated to put up the shutters and cover 



the roof with straw matting. Various arrangements are resorted to 
for covering the glass with straw, cloth, etc. Our plan is as follows : 

For the front make wooden 
•butters that will fit accurately 
between the divisions of the 
windows. The cut shows the 
inside of such a shutter made 
of White Pine and painted 
boards, and screwed ou to two 

cross strips 4 inches wide, and about 3 inches shorter at each end 
than the shutter. The appearance of a window without, and of 
one with this shutter is shown ; e e c, common iron buttons screwed 
to the window casing a. When you wish to put up the shutter, 
turn the buttons out of the way, set in the shutter, which must fit 
tight, and secure it with a turn of the buttons. During the day 
these shutters should be piled on the border in front of the house, 
the lowest resting on pieces of joist that it may not freeze to the 
ground. 

To cover the roof expeditiously, another plan is resorted to : 
lake straw matting or sail cloth, in as large pieces as you choose 
— enough to cover the whole roof, if you please; every 8 teat 
along one side, insert eyes 
that will just fit over the 
beads of spikes or hooks se- 
cured to the top of the sash 
jnst above the gutters ; fasten 
the opposite side its whole 
length to a moderately heavy, •■ 
straight roller. This roller 
mnst be heavy enongh to de- 
scend along the roof by its 
own weight, taking the cloth 
with it, unless prevented. 
Into each end of the roller 
screw a pulley wheel. Car- 
ry a cord through and over 
the wheel a, at the ends 



104 OCTOBER. 

of the roller, and back again through a pulley at c, lead it to E, 
where it passes through another pulley and drops through the 
roof to /, within the house, where it is fastened. 

Now suppose the sail rolled up at the eaves of the house a as in 
diagram ; if you wish to cover the glass, go to f (within), and pull 
on both the ropes ; you will draw up the roller toward c c, where 
the ends of the ropes are fastened, unrolling the sail as it rises, 
and have only to pull equally on both ropes to insure the rising of 
the roller at an equal rate at both ends. Of course the rope must be 
secured at/, when the sail is quite unrolled. To uncover the glass, 
loosen the ropes oJtf, and let them pass slowly through the hands 
as the roller descends by its own weight, rolling up the sail as it 
goes. These protections will be enough till the weather becomes 
decidedly cold. 

If bad luck overtakes you before the fires are lighted, and the 
thermometer in the house falls below 32°, be very careful in the 
morning not to allow the sun to shine on the plants ; keep the 
shutters and sail-cloth up, and syringe the plants with cold water ; 
this will take out the frost, and probably prevent any great 
injury, unless the cold has been sufficiently severe to burst die 
tissues and sap-vessels, in which case nothing can be done but to 
cut back the plants, and as it were start afresh. 

While speaking of the greenhouse in September, I said, in dis- 
cussing the causes of failure and success, that injudiciously applied 
heat or moisture are the chief causes of the frequent failures to 
grow a completely satisfactory collection of plants. 

Some portions of every greenhouse, however perfect its arrange- 
ments, will be hotter than others, owing to the way in which it is 
visited by the sun's rays, or to the natural rise of heated air, or 
to the location of the hot-water pipes. By ascertaining these 
places, and judiciously arranging varieties, gardeners might grow 
hothouse plants in greenhouses with some success, though not sat- 
isfactorily, for hothouse plants need not only great but steady 
heat. 

And in order to provide for the culture of some such plants, 
although we have no hothouse proper, our greenhouse is so divided 
as to allow the heat in one portion to be increased above the tern- 



CONSERVATORY. 105 

perature of the other, and this smaller part will answer all the 
purposes of a hothouse in fact Here we have some Orchids, 
although we make no attempt to grow such a collection of OrchicU 
as need peculiar treatment and a separate house ; in this part of 
the greenhouse we start cuttings and stimulate young plants .for 
the greenhouse and conservatory; whilst there are some plants 
which never leave it. 

I shall give some lists of plants adapted to the hothouse, con- 
servatory, and greenhouses, not pretending to give all that may be 
cultivated, as we have not room enough for a full collection, but 
such as are beautiful and will prove satisfactory if well cultivated. 
Some of the plants included in this list will live in all our glass 
houses, others in but one or two of them. In the case of plants 
not usually cultivated, directions are given. 

Orchids need a great deal of heat in the growing season, with 
abundance of moisture. Some are air-plants, and need only blocks 
of wood to grow on ; some should have baskets in which are va- 
rious rough substances, as bits of peat, stones, charcoal, etc., to 
nourish and support the roots, but no earth ; others need pit cul- 
ture ; some will exist in a greenhouse, but all are better situated 
in the hothouse, and should be grown as hanging-plants. The 
range of heat, and the respective seasons for maximum and min- 
imum heat, show how well we can accommodate the varieties 
included in the list 

Block, pot, or basket. Barkeria Spectabilis. Max. heat, 60° to 65° ; min. 
45° to 37°. Growing and blossoming season, January to July. 

Pot. Cattleya (varieties). Max. heat, 75° to 80° ; min. 55° to 65°. 
Growing and blossoming season, February to August Food, the loose fibres 
of peat, sphagnum, lumps of wood and stone. 

Pot Caelogyne. Moderate temperature. Ordinary food. Growing and 
blossoming season, April to October. 

Pot. Cymbidium. Max. beat, 75° to 80°; min. 55° to 60°. Growing 
and blossoming season, August to September. Food, twigs, loam, and leaves ; 
abundant moisture. 

Basket. Dendrobium Speciosum. Max. heat, 55° to 65°; min. 45° to 
55°. Growing and blossoming season, February to May. Many varieties, 
needing various treatments ; bears the coolest temperature of any. 

Basket. Lycaste. Max. heat, 65° to 70° ; min. 55° to 60©. Growing and 



106 OCTOBER. 

blossoming season, February to March. Abundant moisture ; well-drained, 
peaty soil. 

Block, pot, or basket Lselia. Moderate temperature. Growing and 
blossoming season, November to January. 

Pot. Mormodes. Max. heat, 70° to 80° ; min., 55° to 60°. Growing and 
blossoming season, October to November ; food, very rough, fibrous peat, 
sphagnum, charcoal, well-drained. 

Pot. Odontoglossum. Max. heat, 65° to 70° ; min. 45° to 50°. Grow- 
ing and blossoming season, September to October. Similar treatment to 
last 

Block. Oncidium. On blocks well syringed ; easily grown in pots ; treat 
like last ; rather cool ; well watered when growing ; dry at season of rest 
Growing and blossoming season, May to August. 

Pot Peristeria. Max. heat, 75° to 80° ; min. 55° to 60°. Growing and 
blossoming season, August to September. Stronger and richer soil ; ample 
pot room. 

Pot. Saccolabium ; abundance of heat and moisture when flowering; at 
other times dry* Plenty pot room. Growing and blossoming season May to 
August 

Pot. Stanhopea ; moderate temperature. Growing and blossoming sea- 
son, June to August. Treat like last 

Pot. Zygopetalum. Max. heat, 70° to 75° ; min. 65° to 70°. Growing 
and blossoming season, November to February; light, fibrous soil, well- 
drained. 

■ 

Such Orchids are easily managed if attention is given to their 
times of growth and rest, as only at the growing season do they 
need extra warmth and moisture ; at that time the temperature in 
the night should never fall more than 10° below that of the day. 
Their bulbs or roots should never be allowed to remain in a tem- 
perature much lower, than their minimum, even if in a dormant 
state. If in flower at a season when the sun is very hot and bright, 
they should be shaded, as the direct rays injure the blossom ; it is 
true they are natives of the tropics, but they grow for the most 
part in rather shaded spots. The highest degrees of heat show 
what the temperature must rise to during the flowering season ; the 
lowest, what it must never fall below. 

Bulbs. — Bulbs of various species are great ornaments of the 
green and hothouses, and should generally be started in the latter. 
To be perfectly successful, they require rather more care than is 



GBEENHOUSE. 107 

generally given. Gardeners generally lay the pots containing 
bulbs that have gone out of blossom under the table or on their 
sides, until that time next year when they are to be started again. 

Bulbs have certain seasons for growth and rest, and they indi- 
cate the approach of the former by a heightened color and glossi- 
ness, swelling of the crown and starting at the eyes. The season 
of rest follows flowering, when the leaves decay and the plant be- 
comes practically dead for ornamental purposes. At this period 
they may be kept more cool, but not cold, as all tropical bulbs need 
a good degree of heat even when dormant ; and they should by 
no means be laid aside as soon as out of blossom, but should have 
abundant heat and moisture until the leaves are well matured, and 
if checked sooner, the bulb suffers. 

Pots for bulbs should be of different shape from ordinary pots, 
narrower and deeper, for the bulb roots to descend. A bulb 3 
inches in diameter should have a pot 10 inches deep and 5 inches 
wide at top ; other sizes in the same proportion. 

The following are good pot bulbs, not including the garden 
bulbs, Hyacinths, etc., which are great additions to the beauty of 
the greenhouse, and may be used according to directions yet to be 
given. 



Amaryllis, 


Griffinia, 


Massonia, 


Coburghia, 


Hypoxis, 


Oxalis, 


Cyclamen, 


Iris, 


Sinnmgia, 


Eriospermnm, 


Ixia, 


Sparaxis, 


Gesneria, 


Japan Lil y, 


Stramaria, 


Gladiolus, 


Lachenalia, 


Trichonema, 


Gloxinia, 


La Peyrousia, 


Tropaeolum. 



For most bulbs, soil as follows : rich loam, well-rotted cow ma- 
nure, one-eighth river sand. The compost should be heated just 
short of combustion, to kill eggs and embryos of worms. 

Potting as follows : put in drainage material, and cover it with 
a handful of charcoal ; fill to within about an inch of top with 
loam, varying the depth according to size of bulb ; sprinkle on a 
little sand or charcoal dust ; then set in the bulb, and fill in round 
it with loam. As before said, water but little till the leaves show, 
then give more water and heat. 



108 OCTOBER. 

Some delicate bulbs may be grown in sand mixed with a very ' 
little cow dung, stimulated with guano-water. 

Other plants proper for hothouses will be found in the following 
list, though some of them may be exhibited in the greenhouse or 
the conservatory during the time of flowering. 

The greatest care must be observed in the hot part of our green- 
house lest we violate natural analogies. It will be proper to shut 
up this part of the house earlier than the rest, so as to retain more 
of the sun's heat, and the temperature may now fall lower than 
at any other season. 

The months of September, October, and November will be a 
time of rest, as it were, during which the vines that had grown too 
luxuriantly, and were cleaned and pruned in August, will ripen. 

All those plants which showed blossoms in the spring, and 
which we do not intend shall blossom during the winter, may be 
kept for the present in the greenhouse, to be brought into the hot- 
house for forcing as spring approaches. During the present month 
ventilate well and water sparingly, syringe rarely ; and remember 
that the ease of our future task in managing the plants depends 
upon keeping them as cool and hardening them as much as possible 
now. Many gardeners make sad mistakes by keeping the heat 
too great during all the cold months ; the lower the temperature 
outside, the higher it is raised inside. All you need is to keep it 
uniform, and slowly increase it toward spring. It is unnatural for 
most plants to blossom in the fall, whilst all feel a natural impulse 
after the turn in the year. 

Many plants that are native of hot countries need much less 
heat than some natives of more temperate regions ; the difference 
depending mainly on their wood, whether it is hard or soft and 
succulent Ericas, for instance, came from the Cape of Good 
Hope, but many or most of them may be allowed to experience 
several degrees below 32°, whilst other plants from the same coun- 
try, as Pelargoniums, are destroyed by much less cold. 

A word here on the treatment of Ericas. They must be brought 
into flower in the hot part of our greenhouse, but may be kept 
very cool after flowering. This family of plants has the reputa- 



GREENHOUSE. 10& 

txm of being difficult and shy ; but is very easily managed under 
uniform treatment The majority of heaths prefer a sterile soil 
upon dry bottom; the best material for their compost is dry 
and well decomposed peat mixed with sharp sand ; the most vig- 
orous varieties like an admixture of strong loam. Water in gen- 
erous quantities is most important to their healthy growth ; rain- 
water is best, soft well-water next ; but water containing mineral 
matter is injurious. In potting, do not make your compost very 
line ; it is a common mistake. Early spring, just before the com- 
mencement of a new growth, is the best time to repot. Shift into 
considerably larger pots ; for soil, mix largish pieces of turf, say 
an inch square, with very fine peat and sand, and use the mixture 
both for potting and shifting. This, if well drained, and with a 
free supply of light, air, and water, will insure good specimen 
plants. They are readily grown from cuttings, which should be 
taken in spring. As the Ericas rarely seed, cuttings are the only 
reliable means of propagation. The proper treatment of their cut- 
tings is described in an old number of the Gardeners Magazine, 
by a former gardener at Winship & Co/s, as the practice of 
the Messrs. Winship at their nurseries, Brighton, Mass. I have 
condensed the following from his verbose description : " In July 
if the plant has made a good growth, cut the young shoots off 
the parent plant, about an inch long, with a sharp pair of scis- 
sors ; remove the leaves from its lower half; after the leaves are 
removed, cut its end square close to the joint with a sharp knife, 
and a quick, clean cut. Prepare a pot, of that size which will best 
suit your bell-glass, by filling it half fiiU of broken crocks, the rest 
with fine sharp sand ; water the sand and smooth its surface ; into 
this set the cuttings, making a hole for them with a sharp-pointed 
stick. Water gently, to settle the sand, and cover with the bell- 
glass. Keep constantly moist. Some kinds will root in three, 
some in six months, and others in less time. When rooted, put 
in thumb pots in sandy peat, or in a compost of decayed leaf mould 
and one-third sand. Set the pots in coal ashes, in a frame under 
glass, or on the upper shelves of the greenhouse ; shade during the 
heat of the day, and keep moist for two or three weeks ; after this, 

10 



110 



OCTOBER. 



cool and harden. According to the habit of the plant is to be the 
future pruning and culture.,, 

Plants which need early culture in the hothouse if they are to 
flower well, are : — 



Achimenes, 


Euphorbia, 


Mesembranthemum , 


JEachynanthus, 


Franciscea, 


Moussonia elegans, 


Aphelandra, 


Gardenia, 


Passiflora, 


Begonia, 


Gesneria, 


Pharbitis, 


Billbergia, 


Hibiscus, 


Philibertia, 


Cactus, 


Hoya, 


Poinsettia, 


Caladium, 


Ipomea, 


Portlandia grandiflora, 


Charianthus coccinus, 


Ixora, 


Quisqualis indica, 


Clerodendram, 


Jasminum, 


Stephanotis, 


Gombretum, 


Lantana, 


Strelitzia, 


Eranthemum, 


Mandevilla, 


Tillandsia. 



In the greenhouse, as before said, the treatment is to be much 
more cool and dry than in the hothouse. During this month keep 
well ventilated in dry weather ; shut up early. The plants which 
will make a good stock for the greenhouse, and which may be 
shown in the conservatory when in blossom, beside those already 
given, are as follows : — 



Abelia, 

Abutilon, 

Adenandra, 

Amphicome arguta, 

Anagallis, 

Aotus, 

Aphelexis, 

Astelma, 

Bejaria, 

Bouvardia, 

Browallia, 

Burtouia, 

Calandrina, 

Calceolaria, ' 

Ceanothus, 

Chenostomia, 

Chorozema, 

Cineraria, 



Coronilla, 

Cosmelia, 

Cuphea, # 

Dielytra, 

Diplacus, 

Dolichos lignosns, 

Erodium incarnatum, 

Escallonia macrantha, 

Fabiana incarnata, 

Fuchsia, 

Gazania, 

Gnidia, 

Gorteria, 

Helichrysum, 

Iberi8 semperflorens, 

Lantana seloTii, 

Lapageria rosea, 

Lechenaultia, 



GREENHOUSE. 



1U 



Lobelia, 

Loddigesia, 

Mahernia, 

Malva, 

Manrandya, 

Mnraltia, 

Nierembergia* 

Pelargonium, 

Petunia, 

Philibertia, 

Primula, 

Rhyncospermum jasminoidee, 

Rnellia, varieties, 

Russeliajnncea, 

Salvia, vara., 



Selago, van., 

Sphenotoma gracille, 

Sprengelia incarnata, 

Stadmannia australis, 

Statice, Tars., 

Stenocarpas cunninghamii, 

Stylidium, 

Satherlaadia frnetescens, 

Tasmannia, 

Teopea speciosisimea, 

Thnnbergia, 

Torenia, 

Triptilion spinosam, 

Vaccinum cocineam, 

Veronica. 



Roses in varieties. — Verbenas, Chrysanthemums, Rhododen- 
drons, Viburnum, Azaleas, Lauristinus, Deutzia, Cytisus, Alyssum, 
Galystegia, Acacia, Genista, Mignonette, Gilliflower, Wallflower, 
Ten-weeks Stocks, Hydrangea, etc 



CHAPTER XV. 



THE CONSERVATORY. 



The conservatory is to be treated like the greenhouse. Keep 
it cool, yet above frost The plants in pots must be watered 
rather oftener than those in beds. In bright weather syringe fre- 
quently. 

The beds of the conservatory are made by raising a border, a a, 
one foot above the level of the floor ; under the floor drain thor- 
oughly with 18 inches of loose stones, B, laying under them a 
drain, d, which will quickly remove superfluous water. As a pre- 
caution, it would be well to lay a flue or hot-water pipe, c c, 
through this drainage, which could be connected with the boiler* 
as there are times in our very cold winters when the earth 
about the roots of the plants is cooler than the air, and the 
growth of plants may thus become feeble and spindling. Many 
plants very desirable for such beds, but rather belonging in the 

hothouse, are especially liable 

to such injury. Over the 

r drainage stones lay a course 

* FSffiaffiffljffiSa&g j; of turf, E E, to prevent the 

loam from washing away; 
over this fill to within 3 inches of top with rich, light, yellow 
loam ; after planting, cover the top with a light dressing of good 
dark loam. 

No plant should be set in this bed with its roots in the close ball 
made by pot culture ; they must be opened out. When all is com- 
plete and the plants set, plant some Lycopodiums, Sedums, etc., 
among the other plants, to cover the surface with their delicate 
foliage and make a perfect bed of green, out of which the other 
plants shall rise. After arranging the beds and grouping the 

plants, follow previous directions. 

112 



Jtmmn 






CONSERVATORY. 



113 



RUNNERS FOB POTS AND WALLS OF CONSERVATORY. 

Billardiera ovalis, Mimosa prostrata, Smilax, vara., 

Brachysema, vars., Passiflora, vara., Sollya, van., 

Clematis Convolvulus, Rhyncospermum jasminoides,Swainsonia galegifolia, 
Jasminum, vara., Bodochiton volubile, Tacsonia, vara., 

Kennedyia, vara., Roses, Tropeolum, vars., 

Mandevilla suaveolans, Rosteria, Zichya, vars. 



Good varieties of 
Calceolaria, 
Chrysanthemum, 
Cineraria, 
Calystegia, 
Coronilla, 
Cuphea, 



PLANTS FOB BEDS. 



Heliotrope, 

Hydrangea, 

Lantana, 

Lemon Verbena, 

Lobelia, 

Mignonette, 



Perpetual Roses, 

Petunia, 

Salvia, 

S tee via, 

Thunbergia, 

Verbenas. 



PLANTS TO PLACE ON TABLES 



may be selected from both the cold and hot parts of the green- 
house. 



TO GROUP ON THE FLOOR IN POTS. 



Acacia, 


Daphne, 


Magnolia, 


Agave, 


Erithronia crista galli 


Oranges, 


AzaHa, 


Genista, 


Pitt08porum, 


Brogmansia, 


Laurestinus, 


Poinsettia, 


Camelia, 


Lemon, 


Rhododendrom, etc 


Cape Jessamine, 







It is more difficult to keep such a conservatory in good condition 
than ordinary houses, because more is expected of it It is em- 
phatically a showhouse, no propagating or cultivating being done, 
with the exception of the plants in beds. As these last must re- 
main till worn out, careful attention must be given to secure a good 
succession of blossoms. 

The conservatory ought to be during the winter like a vast 
bouquet, only the more beautiful from the size, which admits of 
combinations impossible in any bunch of flowers. Where there 
is a well-arranged greenhouse connected with the estate, it is not 
very difficult to keep up a good display ; but without it it is im- 

10» 



114 OCTOBER. 

possible, and the so-called conservatory becomes one of the anom- 
alous glass houses before referred to. 

The heat must be more decided and constant than in the green- 
house ; otherwise plants brought from thence full of vigor and 
blossom will be checked, their flowers will dwindle, the whole plant 
will become stunted and sickly. 

To make our conservatory all we have described, we must start 
the fires earlier than in the other houses, and rely less on the shut- 
ters and sail-cloth. The number of plants which will make a fine 
show under glass in October will be less than afterwards. Gilli-, 
flowers, Salvias, Amaranths, the Dwarf and Giant Chrysanthe- 
mums, and other annuals and perennials, with Roses, Heliotropes, 
etc, will make a good show; the shelves and tables should be 
filled with these fall flowers, and some may be placed among the 
groups of evergreens (now out of blossom) on the floor, to brighten 
them. 



CHAPTER XVL 

GRAPERY. 

The retarding-houses must now be more carefully watched than 
before. Shut up early at night to retain sun warmth, and yet ad- 
mit air abundantly during bright, sunny days, to keep the temper- 
ature low. If there should come a period of decidedly cool weather, 
start a little fire under the boiler ; but delay as long as possible ; 
give the fruit trees but little water, to ripen the wood. 

The vines in the forcing-house should now be pruned, as they 
come into a nearly quiescent state. Before pruning, remove the 
ripe and ready-to-fall leaves. There are several systems of prun- 
ing and training vines. 

When a vine is carried up the whole length of the rafter, its 
upper end is of course in a better atmosphere than the lower, and 
consequently tends to ripen its fruit sooner. This would be no 
disadvantage where the fruit is grown for private use, and a suc- 
cession is desirable, were it not that the fruit above grows large 
at the expense of that below, owing to the tendency of the sap to 
ascend, thus strengthening the upper eyes, and giving them all 
they can use before it lingers and settles in the lower eyes. 

To counteract this tendency, various methods are resorted to ; the 
most common being to take down the vines and lay them in a hor- 
izontal position, in their dormant season ; there they are kept till 
all the eye3 have " broken n equally, when they are again fastened 
up to the wires. In this way equality of size is more nearly at- 
tained, while difference in temperature gives the desired succession 
in time of ripening. 

Where fruit is grown for the market another plan is sometimes 
followed, which is to carry the main cane up a certain distance, and 
then bend it as nearly as possible at a right angle, and carry it 
along the whole length of the house. This of course keeps all 

115 



116 OCTOBER. 

the bearing part of the vine in the same temperature, and insures 
a nearly uniform supply of sap to all the eyes. But the practice 
has its disadvantages, such as the unequal length of cane in the 
different vines before they are bent, and therefore rafter training 
is usually preferred. 

The methods of pruning are more* various than those of training, 
and each method has something to recommend it We practice 
spur pruning. 

This being the second year of forcing, and the fourth of the 
vine's age, it will perhaps be well to state the proper method of 
pruning from the time of planting the vine. 

The system for the forcing-house and the cold grapery differ a 
little from the retarding-house. 

Pruning. — The vine is generally first started in the hotbed, or 
in the pit in pots, so that it will have attained some length by the 
time the spring sun has thoroughly warmed the border. Early in 
June, having the vine in a pot with 3 or 4 feet of top, plant it 
in the border, and take in the top .through the wall opposite the 
rafter upon which it is to run. The warm, rich border will stimulate 
to a rapid growth ; allow it to grow without stopping, even after it 
has reached the top of the house, when it may be trained along 
the back wall, pinching off its end a few weeks before cutting 

back. Pinch off at the first bud any lateral shoots 

that appear, and all tendrils. When the vine is 

within a quarter of the whole length of the rafter, 

begin to prune ; cut out the lower laterals close to 

the wood, being careful not to injure the bud or 

eye at the base of the lateral ; and thus continue 

to cut as the wood ripens. In this diagram A is 

the main stem of a vine ; a a a a, laterals ; 6 b, first 

cut ; c c, second cut As winter approaches, and 

the leaves fall from the vine, cut it back to d, three 

eyes from the bottom. 

In December paint the vines with a mixture of sulphur and soft 

soap ; untie them from the wire on the rafter and lay them down on 

their sides, covering with mats, etc, as a thorough protection against 




GBAPERT. 117 

frost In the coldest weather some little fire must be kept in the 
forcing-house, lest frost prevent the early swelling of the buds in 
the spring. During the earliest months of the year, do not let the 
sun heat the house, but keep it rather cool till April ; then grad- 
ually uncover the vines. The buds will soon begin to swell, 
and just as they are breaking, tie up again to the rafter. The 
vine will now have this appearance. As it begins to V 
grow, all the eyes will push out shoots; allow the end Jt 
shoots to grow at will, but pinch off the laterals at the l jl 
second point or eye. The first eye of the lowest lateral^"^ — * 
may be allowed to bear a bunch to test the fruit After these 
laterals are pinched they will break the last eye and start again, 
and after each pinching they will repeat this process at the bud 
nearest the end till fall. They must be pinched back every 
few weeks during the season. When the main branch has 
reached the top of the house, stop it, and continue to stop each 
new growth it makes from the leading bud. Nip all the laterals 
at the first bud, as last year. The diagram shows the appear- 
ance of the vine after this ; a a a, first lat- 
erals left as buds last year ; b, new lateral ; 
c c c, points at which first laterals are again 
stopped ; d d, first pruning new laterals ; 
ff, second pruning of same ; e, vine stopped 
at top of house; g, final cutting back of 
vine. • 

In the fall cut back the leader to about one- 
third its length, and all but the two spurs to 
the first eye, as last year, leaving the two 
lower spurs and the eyes above for the next 
year. Treat through the winter as before. In the spring of the 
third year the vines will swell their buds in March ; begin heat- 
ing the house with fire the middle of February, and increase the 
heat in March ; follow the same system as last year, only you may 
allow each spur and eye to bear one bunch of grapes. This brings 
the vines to the fourth year, which is the age of our vines. 

In October, if the wood is well ripened and the leaves are fall- 
ing, give the final pruning. Cut back the leaders two-thirds of the 





118 OCTOBER. 

length of the rafter, and all the laterals of this year's wood to the 
eye, the spurs of last year to the first eye, those of the year 
before to the second, as shown in the cut. The spurs should 
range about 8 inches apart on the cane. When 
this system is pursued for a number of years, the 
spurs become unwieldy ; in which case every other 
one may be cut back to the stem, thus forcing 
out a new shoot ; or at the end of ten or twelve 
years every other vine may be cut back to the 
bottom, which will develope the latent eyes and 
give a new cane for the next year. You will lose 
one year's crop from every vine thus treated, and re- 
new the vine. It is the practice of some growers to 
jJ^giL. train up a new leader beside the old for a year 
^J ^ or two before that is cut down ; but it is poor econ- 
omy, for although there is then no entire loss of crop, 
the grapes are few and poor, while the growth of the new wood is 
liable to be feeble and spindling. Another system of pruning, by 
which a new cane is got each year, is called the long cane re- 
newal system. 

As has been said, this pruning also applies to the cold grapery, 
with the single exception that the vines should be started later 
in the spring. 

By thus cutting back close to the main stem, the eyes are started 
early, those nearest the leader being the first to start It is then 
a natural inference that in the retarding-house a different system 
of pruning must be followed, the object there being to delay growth 
as long as possible in the spring. Directions for pruning in the 
retarding-house will be given in the, winter. 

There is yet another method of forcing grapes, which may be 
practised in any ordinary greenhouse, or to still better advantage 
iu a forcing-house ; viz., in pots. Grapes grown in pots generally 
ripen earlier than those grown on rafters. The temperature of 
the earth about the roots of the vines in pots is the same as that 
of, the air about the leaves, and thus the whole plant is equally 
stimulated. The roots of the vines on the rafters are in the bor- 
der outside, and cannot be affected by the heat of the house unless 




INDEX TO GRAPERY. 



*i . » i . • 



1 « ; ii Ij . • i p r ■ '♦, » 1 1 i • * :■ 

»: .'. .1 :♦ : "; «. • . - i.v\ j ;.», , w : 

m 

" • * ;.. i' ■ .. ■■* ;n !:: • .•! . - 
• i ..■ : *i *\ • .J : ii.\ 1 .v"'h ■ • •' re* • 
' » 'o 'j •»..*. j« ., u . i'n • <t n i , '. 

* ■■ I »t k Ut M '.:! ; ;< ■•iii • . 
• • \ ■-. ci. ■■ ; » ' i. or.' -I iv o • ; ■ :'!■ 
i • f « -'.i-. ? o » i, a" ■>.:.. 'i' v 1- 



i 



ii, i* • 



. .' .U j " < ti t\i i 't • i\- I . •*•- 
! . IJ.' ' '...'It •» ■ !» 1 >*■'. .1 • 

it ;\ t .-t ' iL» t-. :i ];' • 
a ]• Li •■ ii"l, « ,"V\ -.']']' i"i,;ii i, b 
••» i._i .> ,v ';<'.' 1 ia ■ -' »«>r <»f - •*t* i ■ *. 



l- ■* 



««» 



«--t it 



'...'*-. 'i 



.<a'\ 



* A 

*■ !'•'.»' ■«! hi <»>'«' ^.,raj » j| \ i " o<*t t u '<' -iMMii-t .-it t i "ui» 
i •- - :'< .' *' ^"' '_':*<*. ui'l j'!.t.,-> juiJ <•!• \\»'*oii« u.' i.ex '"at, lis 

A I»v' .♦ f •"' jr.iprr*' ; .V, j.-faiiiin >l»nii>o ; L. <..\^ :yi-i 1M i', ; ('•, 
'in.* --'Jim i ; I >, »1 , <i j ,p ]..,il, {•>. ow ; F, '.{.'li-r: I ; , el ..cr!.. 

. .*< >■ ;itl -»f A i> It) ti t»t hi" i, .1 i» *>i)in ;• {'•< • laj.'! - <■*' 
.■» '.!;•»! 'J\ i --ii'l, 1'* f . 1 1<.% ;^ iii t.' 1 'i^Mii'iosi". : i j la-ilu' ' 
\1 u* • \. :.!«•. I- i- : ; i' i»- Hi'l* , <> i-t*r hi-%. in f'< m t , 11 «• ■ . . 
tli- i ." : . , '» : "H at riit- }.a< k. (.' i.- It^ tt'«-r wi'1. . l.'i ti-i ' 
'i.ij.-.Nl £ff m 't. !>»uLo! wl: ; "li "J iYi't \?> l»'*:«'k, "2 iWi uia^s. .i • 






4 



\ 



■».»' aft* *#.« j-* 



J- « 






-* - • » 



it » 



ihh.M . 1>. ?• »'i».Jff 



GRAPEBT. 119 

* 

the border is vaulted ; they may be thoroughly protected from frost, 
but cannot be warmed to any considerable extent, and are conse- 
quently less stimulated than the cane and leaves, and do not con- 
tribute as largely as the latter require. 

Vines which are to be grown from pots are started from cut- 
tings — or better, from eyes — which are induced to grow as much 
as possible the first year, to insure strong plants. When the leaves 
have all fallen, prune to nine inches in length ; keep them through 
the winter in some dry place well protected from frost In Jan- 
uary or February shift them for the last time into larger pots, — 
not less than a foot in diameter, — thoroughly drained, and filled 
with earth well mixed with rather coarse old turf. Allow as many 
shoots to grow as can conveniently be accommodated in the place 
where the pot is to stand; some cultivators retain four or five 
branches, others but one or two ; perhaps one cane is as much as is 
really judicious. Stop it about five feet long ; as often as it starts 
afresh, stop it, and pinch off the laterals. 

In September the plant will lose its leaves, and should be 
pruned to about 3 feet long for a 12 inch pot, 4 or 5 feet for 
a 15 inch pot, every additional inch in the diameter of the pot 
allowing an additional half-foot of cane, although the ultimate 
length must be regulated by the space allowed during forcing. 
If the plant is to be forced early, set the pot over the flues or 
pipes late in December. The culture of potted vines will be de- 
scribed at another time. 

Description of Grapery. — Having explained the practice 
to be followed in our grapery, I proceed to describe the building 
itself Refer to the ground plans and elevations on next leaf, in 
connection with the description. 

A B C is the grapery ; A, retarding-house ; B, cold grapery ; C, 
forcing-house ; D, shed for boilers, etc. ; E, boiler ; F, cistern. 

The back wall of A is 16 feet high, the front 5 feet high, of 
which 2£ is solid, 2£ glass, as in the greenhouse ; the building is 
12 feet wide. B is 20 feet wide, 6 feet high in front, 14 feet in 
the middle, 9 feet at the back. C is 12 feet wide, 13 feet high be- 
hind, 4 feet in front, of which 2 feet is brick, 2 feet glass. The ar- 



120 OCTOBER. 

rangement for ventilation through the wall at the side and top is the 
same as in the greenhouse and the conservatory. The hack wall 
of C is 2 feet thick, 6 inches of the distance being an air chamber. 
The back walls of A and 8 are 1 foot thick ; all front walls are 1 
foot thick ; side walls to glass, 1 foot ; above glass, posts, and win- 
dow sashes, 6 inches in the rough, worked down enough to look well 
without losing strength. £, the boiler, will be described hereafter. 
F, the cistern, collects the water from the roofs ; there is a well in 
the shed which can force water into the cistern at need. 

The heating is done by means of 4 inch iron pipes, which are 
carried round the inside of the different buildings, just as in the 
greenhouse, only that the hot water may be carried into either di- 
vision of the house without warming the rest any more than would 
be done by one-half the leading and returning pipes through the 
grapery, as the water is carried either to the forcing or retarding- 
house. The heat derived from this amount of pipe is not enough 
to much affect the cold grapery ; it does not do much more than 
take the chill off the air at those seasons when this part of the 
house is intended to be dormant. 

The smoke is carried in a brick flue shown by dots, into a flue 
which runs under the walk in the cold grapery, through to the far- 
ther end of the forcing-house, and thence up the chimney. In 
order to allow the pipes free range about the house, without the 
extra expense of bends, elbows, etc., the sill of the door is raised 
so as to be reached either from without or within, by two steps, 
under which the pipes pass quite out of the way. 

On all sides of the forcing-house, grapes are planted. The bor- 
der is at one end and in front, and takes the roots of the vines in 
those parts of the house ; at the back and the inner end vines are 
planted in the floor of the grapery, which is a regularly prepared 
border, and is enriched annually with liquid manure. There is a 
table on the right of the walk, on which vines in pots are placed 
for forcing ; and over the whole course of the pipes is a narrow 
table, on which strawberries and some early vegetables may be 
forced. The vines are brought into the house through cylindrical, 
oblique holes, 6 inches in diameter in the front and side walls, 
just between the foundation and the first course of bricks. The 



GBAPEBY 121 

hot-water pipes are 1 foot from the vines, along the front and back, 
6 inches at the ends. Under the middle table is a mushroom bed. 

The arrangement of the retarding-house is similar; but the 
front shelves may be used to start hothouse bulbs, and low grow- 
ing plants for exhibition in, the greenhouse and conservatory. 

The cold grapery has vines along the sides and ends, and one 
row in the middle near the walk ; but the immediate front is occu- 
pied by an espalier, on which are grown Cherries, Peaches, Ap- 
ricots, and Nectarines. 

It is a very nice matter to heat such a building as this, for it is 
difficult to calculate how large a boiler, or how many feet of pipes 
are necessary. A formula is given below by which the necessary 
calculations can be made. 

The amount of heating surface of pipes to be allowed, depends 
on the number of cubic feet of air which are to be heated per 
minute, and on the difference between temperatures within and 
without Upon the number of feet of. pipes depends the size of 
the boiler ; and the efficiency of the boiler is determined by its 
shape, setting, and the distance between the furnace bars. Messrs. 
Tredgold and Hood, in England, have made the most reliable 
calculations on this matter, and their directions are accordingly 
quoted, as follows : — 

" If," says Mr. Tredgold, " the cubic contents of air to be heated 
per minute be multiplied by the number of degrees it is to be 
warmed, and the result be divided by twice the difference between 
the temperature of the house and that of the surface of the pipes, 
the result will be the feet of surface of iron pipe required. 

" Thus, if 1000 cubic feet per minute are to be warmed, and the 

extreme case is supposed to be that when the external air is 20°, 

the house should be warmed (to) 50° ; and therefore the air is 

warmed 30° ; and with water (within) the surface (of iron pipes 

which contain water) will be 190° when the water boils, but only 

180° in its average state ; therefore, 

1000x30 30000 „<.-«,, , „ 
=———— 116 feet of surface. 



2 (180—50)" 260 

Mr. Hood gives another formula for ascertaining the number of 

feet He says that \\ cubic feet of air must be heated for each 

11 



. 122 OCTOBER. 

square foot of glass in the building. Multiply 125 by the differ- 
ence between the proposed maximum temperature within and the 
temperature without, and divide this product by the difference be- 
tween the temperature of the pipes (average of surface 180°) 
and the proposed temperature of the room or house ; then the quo- 
tient thus obtained, when multiplied by the number of cubic feet 
to be warmed per minute, and this product divided by 222, will 
give the number of feet in length of 4 inch pipe, which will pro- 
duce the desired effect If 3 inch pipe is used, the number of 
feet of 4 inch pipe must be multiplied by 1.33 ; if 2 inch pipe is 
used, by 2. 

The number of feet of pipe being thus obtained, the correspond- 
ing boiler surface may be ascertained from a table of proportions 
given by Hood as follows : — 

" When the difference in temperature between the pipes and the 
air to be heated is 140° (pipes 200° — air 60°), 



Surface of boiler exposed to fire. 


4 inch pipe. 


8 inch pipe. 


2 inch pipe. 


3 1-2 square feet will heat 


200 


266 


400 


5 1-2 square feet will heat 


300 


400 


600 


7 square feet will heat 


400 . 


533 


800" 



and so on ; the figures of the 4 inch column being increased one- 
third to give those of the 3 inch, and doubled for the 2 inch. 
" Again, when the difference in temperature is reduced, say to 120° 
or 100°, a boiler of the same size as above will heat one-sixth and 
one-third more than when at 140°." 

A Formula for Calculating Size op Boiler. — Take the 
cubical contents of house, and to every 100 feet allow 10 square 
inches of boiler surface, and 1 square inch of fire grate. 

Much depends upon the distance between the pipes at their 
junction with the boiler; they should not be less than 16 inches 
from centre to centre of 4 inch pipes. 

When the boiler is not more than 18 inches deep, it is best to 
lead the flow pipes from its top, and insert the return pipes as near 
the bottom as connection can safely be made. The main feeding 
pipe from the boiler, which has to supply several circulating pipes, 
should be no larger than they, unless more than 4 pipes are to be 



GRAPERY. 



123 





Vertical transverse section of same boiler. 



served, as the rapidity of the current in the feeding pipe will be in 
proportion to the demands on it 

The forms of boiler are various, and almost every cultivator has 
his favorite. One of the very best 
was exhibited by Weeks & Co. at 
the Crystal Palace, London. It is 
a saddle-shaped pipe boiler, — the 
diagram will explain itself.' The 
fire is made on the lower set of 
pipes, which serve as furnace 
grates. The return water passes 
through them, consequently they 
are always kept below the fus- 
ing point of coal and iron, so 
that they never clinker or burn 
out. 

A, view of boiler from above ; 
B, vertical transverse section. The connection between the top and 
bottom pipes is made at the back in A ; the supply pipes are led 
away from the top of the back side ; the cold water is returned at 
a (A). 

Those vines in the cold house which are carried from floor to 
ridge without any support from a sash, may be tied to a strong wire, 
fastened below to a post in the earth and above to the ridge. The 
trellises for vines along the rafters are made thus : At intervals of 
4 feet along the under side of the rafter carry out iron rods a few 
inches long, with an eye at the end ; provide curved strips of iron 
a foot in length, £ inch wide, £ inch thick, pierced with three holes, 
one for each rod. Through the eye of each rod and the middle 
hole of each strip carry a wire and fasten it above at the top of 
the glass and below near the entrance of the vine stem. A wire 
of the same length is to pass through the side holes on each side 
of the first, and fasten as that was. You have now a trellis in 
front of the rafter along its whole length, which may be taken 
down very easily if the eyed rods are so put up as to be quickly 
detached. 

The espaliers for fruit trees are curved back enough to spread 




124 OCTOBER. 

the branches well out to the light. Fruit grown in a cold grapery 
will not be forced very much out of season, /but may be expected 
from a month to six weeks before that grown in the open ground 
is ripe, and has besides the advantage of being thoroughly pn>- 
tected from insects, if properly cared for. 

The patterns of espaliers differ nearly as much as those of boil- 
ers. The cut shows a very good kind. The tree being grown 

with a single stem till it reaches the top, 
when branches are allowed to develop, 
and are trained down over the sides, thus 
_ getting, besides a thorough spreading out 
to the sun, the advantage of the delay of 
^ sap, and consequent formation of fruit buds 
in the place of the leaves which preponder- 
ate in more vertical branches. 

When fruit trees are cultivated in a grapery where vines are 
planted in the floor and fed from the bed there prepared, the roots 
of the trees should be confined by borders of slate or other mate- 
rial within certain limits ; their soil must be prepared for them, 
and when it is exhausted must be renewed, or liquid manure must 
be supplied. 

Grape Borders. — The only part of the grapery yet unde- 
scribed is the borders, which in the estimation of most cultivators 
are the very foundation of all success, — the alphabet of grape cul- 
ture. From the many minute directions given I quote the advice 
of J. F. Allen, of Salem, already referred to. 

* Some of the very best English cultivators of the present day 
are of the opinion that thorough draining at the bottom, and subse- 
quent filling with the best of loam, is all that any grape border 
needs, and that the future stimulation and growth of the vines is 
to be effected by copious supplies of liquid manure. This course 
is rational, cheap, and in accordance with the views I have al- 
ready expressed. 

Mr. Allen's directions are as follows : — " The border should be 
20 to 30 feet wide ; If but 12 feet can be had, the vines must be 
set farther apart If the soil is a good loam, begin at one end and 



GBAPKRT. 125 

trench it : mark off 10 feet the entire width ; throw oat the soil 
2 feet deep ; if bones or the carcasses of animals can be had, cover 
the bottom well with them ; if these are not readily procured, 
slaughter-house manure may be substituted. Mark off 10 feet 
more of the border, and cover this manure with part of the soil 
from it Upon this put an inch or two of oyster shells or old lime 
rubbish mixed with broken bricks; over this put some soil from 
the border, then a good covering of cow manure, upon this a 
slight covering of loam again, followed with a good portion of 
oyster shells or the substitute, and over this a thick covering of 
stable manure well rotted ; finish with a thick covering of loam. 
The whole length is to be made in this manner, in alternate 
spaces of 10 feet each trenching. After it is finished, the 
border should be 3 feet 6 inches deep; it will settle to less 
than 3 feet in a few months. The proportions recommended for 
this border are £ loam, £ bones or other strong manure, £ oyster 
shells or lime and brick rubbish, £ rotten stable manure. 

" Before planting the vines the border should be spaded over to 
mix well the top substances, being careful not to disturb the strong 
manures at the bottom, as these substances when decomposing 
would destroy any of the roots of the vine with which they came 
in contact. Should the soil be poor, decrease the proportion of 
loam and increase the manure, and use the top soil of a loamy 
pasture. If the soil is very poor and unsuitable, use the following 
compost : £ top soil of old pasture, £ bones, £ oyster shells, £ rot- 
ted manure ; throw these materials together and leave them till 
decomposed ; then throw loosely into the trench. Those of my 
borders which have the most slaughter-house manure and offal 
continue as they ever have to produce the best fruit" 

Very few situations in this country need other drainage than 

loose stones. 

11* 



CHAPTER XVIL 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

If the bulbs were planted last month, there will be compara- 
tively little to do in the flower-garden. 

All beds which are nearly emptied of their annuals and bedding 
plants, should be manured and dug over. Wherever enough flowers 
are left to make a pleasant show, pains should be taken to preserve 
them as long as the frost will allow. 

During this month the flower-garden must depend principally on 
Verbenas, some perennials, Gilia, Alyssum, Candy-tuft, Migno- 
nette, Giant and Dwarf Chrysanthemums, of which the variety is 
so great, that with a little care in selecting colors, the summer flow- 
ers will hardly be missed. Some late flowering bulbous roots, if 
sheltered at night, will still be in blossom, as Tuberoses and the 
other autumnal bulbs. 

The monthly Roses in the Rosary will continue in blossom till 
winter, and in the shrubbery, the St. Johnswort, Cinque-foil, Tam- 
arisk, Daphne, and Wigelia Amabilis, together with the White 
Snowberry, Scarlet Winter Green, parti-colored Eupnymus, red- 
leaved and redder berried Barberry, and the black berries of the 
Privet, will help to disguise the rapid approach of winter. Any 
bulbs not planted must be got in as soon as possible. The peren- 
nials now claim attention, and the borders and beds not devoted to 
bulbs and bedding plants, should be stocked with a good variety of 
them. The beds in front of the conservatory, and those in the 
middle of the garden, should depend entirely on annual planting 
of bedding plants, bulbs, and flowers from seeds, which are certain 
to give a satisfactory bloom ; besides, it is desirable that the flowers 
here should be of a low habit of growth, sure not to exceed a cer- 
tain size ; and we obtain this desideratum by using Verbenas, He- 
liotropes, Salvias, etc., with which we may secure just the effects 

126 



FLOWEB-GARDEX. 



127 



we &ncy, assured that one part of the bed will not overtop the 
others. In the border beds this is of no consequence. They back 
upon hedges and shrubbery, and do not depend entirely on their 
own beauty of color, form, etc, for the gratification they can give ; 
the eye will certainly wander over them to the hedge or shrubs 
beyond, and will blend all into one agreeable or disagreeable whole. 
Were all the plants in these borders of a uniform size, they would 
lose the charm of variety and grace ; but by mingling different 
perennials, annuals, and greenhouse plants, their effect in connec- 
tion with the shrubbery, is the most charming that can be imagined. 
Perennials as a class are more satisfactory than any other flow- 
ering plants, for when once planted they are no trouble for years, 
beyond digging over the beds and occasionally cutting down 
the stools to reduce them to a convenient size. If the varieties 
are well selected, they will give some flowers during every month 
from April to October, one variety coming forward as another 
goes to seed. . The following list gives the names of a few varie- 
ties for each month, with the height of the flower stems just before 
they blossom : — 



Num. 


Month. 


Early or late. 


SJae. 


Color. 


Anemone, doable 










and single, 


May, 


early, 


6 in. 


pink. 


Thalictrnm Ane- 










manoide8, 


K 


tt 


6 in. 


white. 


Uvnlaria (Bell- 










wort), 


<« 


late, 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Solomon's Seal, 


tt 


tt 


tt 


white. 


Trollhu Euro- 










pens, 


ft 


tt 

• 


tt 


yellow. 


Columbines, 


tt 


tt 


t< 


variety. 


Saxifrage, 


tt 


early, 


1 1-2 ft. 


white. 


Pedicularis, 


tt 


late, 


1 ft. 


variegated. 


'Violets, 


tl 


early, 


6 in. 


several. 


Moss Pink 










(Phlox), 


tt 


« 


3 in. 


variety. 


Polemonium Rep- 










tans, 


tt 


late, 


tt 


bine. 


• 
Primula, 


tt 


a 


1 ft. 


yellow, red 


CorydaHs, 


te 


early, 


6 in. 


red. 



128 




OCTOBER. 






Name. 


Month. 


Early or late. 


Bfae. 


Color. 


Dialytra, 


May, 


early, 


1 ft. 


pink. 


Pulmonaria, 


tt 


late, 


6 in. 


purple. 


Peony, 


a 


tt 


1 to 2 ft. 


red, white. 


Dog-tooth Violet, 


it 


early, 


3 in. 


yellow. 


Delphinium, 


tt 


late, 


18 in. 


blue. 


Hellebore, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


white, blue. 


Double Butter- 










cups, 


tt 


early, 


6 in. 


yellow. 


Lysimachia Num- 








• 


mularia, 


tt 


late, 


1 in. 


yellow. 


Lily of the Valley, 


tt 


late, 


3 in. 


white. 


Iris, 


tt 


whole month, 


various, 


all colors. 


Double Ragged 










Robin, 


tt 


late, 


1 ft. 


red. 


Houstonia, 


ft 


early, 


3 in. 


blue, white. 


Pentstemon Ova- 










ta and Atropu- 










rens, 


June, 


late, 


2 ft. 


yellow, purple 


Soapwort, 


tt 


early, 


1 ft. 


red. 


Hairy Phlox, 


tt 


late, 


6 in. 


red. 


Purple Lupine, 


u 


whole month, 


various, 


many. 


Peony, 


u 


tt 


. *t 


tt 


Double White 










Rocket, 


tt 


early, 


1 ft. 


white. 


Phlox, varieties, 


u 


whole month, 


various, 


several. 


Scarlet Poppy, 


tt 


early, 


6 in. 


red. 


Blackberry Lily, 


tt 


tt 


1 1-2 ft. 


yellow. 


Yellow Lily, 


tt 


tt 


2 ft. 


tt 


Canadian Lily, 


tt 


tt 


6 in. 


red. 


Yellow Day Lily, 


tt 


late, 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Double Larkspur, 


u 


tt 


tt 


blue, white. 


Crane's Bill, 


tt 


early, 


u 


purple. 


Cucumber Root, 


tt 


tt 

• 


6 in. 


white. 


Senecio Aurea, 


tt 


t< 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Spirea (sorts), 


tt 


whole month, 


various, 


all colors. 


Garden Pinks, 


u 


early, 


1 ft. 


pink. 


Polemonuim, 


tt 


early, 


3 in. 


white, blue. 


Campanula 










sorts, 


tt 


whole month, 


1 ft. 


(C a 


Antirrhinum, 










sorts, 


tt 


tt 


tt 


variety. 


Lychnis, 


*f 


late, 


1 ft. 


red. 


Vervain, 


« 


early, 


1 1-2 ft. 


blue, purple. 



FLO WER-GARDEN. 



129 



Num. 


Month. 


Early or late. 


Sis*. 


Color. 


Aconite. 

* ^ 


June, 


early, 


1 1 1-2 ft. 


blue, white, purple 


Perennial Flax, 


a 


M 


6 in. 


glorious blue. 


Evening Primrose, 


t* 


«( 


1 ft 


yellow. 


Indian Hemp, 


it 


tt 


a 


white, pink. 


Spiderwort, 


tt 


whole month, 


tt 


white, blue. 


Asphodel, 


tt 


late, 


2 ft. 


white. 


Fraxinella, 


July, 


whole month, 


<< 


white, blue. 


Penstemon, 


. << 


early, 


1 ft. 


white. 


Monarda, 


tt 


late, 


1 to 3 ft. 


red, purple. 


Evening Primrose, 


it 


whole month, 


tt 


yellow. 


Sedum, 


tt 


early, 


6 in. 


white. 


Vervain, 


It 


whole month, 


1 to 3 ft. 


blue. 


Veronica, 


it 


<( 


« 


tt 


Doable Lychnis, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


red. 


Chelone, 


tt 


early, 


tt 


white. 


Dracocephalam, 


tt 


whole month, 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Anterhinums, 


tt 


tt 


various, 


various. 


Perpetual Pea, 


tt 


whole month, 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Hibiscus, 


tt 


early, 


tt 


various. 


Mallows, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


white, pink. 


Lilies, sorts, 


tt 


whole month, 


all sizes, 


various. 


Blue Catananche, 


August^ 


early, 


2 ft. 


blue. 


Fumitory, 


tt 


late, 


1 ft. 


pink. 


Orange Galliardia, 


tt 


early, 


2 ft. 


orange. 


Hemerocallis, 


tt 


late, 


tt 


white, purple. 


Dianthus, 


tt 


early, 


1 ft. 


various. 


Lobelia, 


tt 


tt 


2 ft. 


scarlet. 


Chinese Lychnis, 


a 


late, 


1 ft. 


orange. 


Willow Herb, 


tt 


early, 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Yucca Filamen- 










tosa, 


« 


early, 


tt 


white. 


Phlox, 


tt 


whole month, 


tt 


many. 


Blazing Star, 


tt 


late, 


tt 


blue. 


Coreopsis, 


tt 


whole month, 


tt 


yellow. 


Cassia, 


tt 


early, 


3 ft. 


a 


Asters, 


tt 


whole month, 


all sizes, 


various 


Golden Rod, 


tt 


late, 


various, 


yellow. 


Ladies Tresses, 


tt 


tt 


6 in. 


white. 


Orchis, 


tt 


whole month, 


6 in. to 1 ft. 


various. 


Asclepias, 


tt 


whole month, 


2 ft. 


many. 


Achillea, 


tt 


early, 


1 ft. 


white, pink. 


Coreopsis, 


September, 


early, 


2 ft. 


yellow. 


Achillea, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


white, pink. 



ISO 



OCTOBER. 



Name. 


Month. 


Early or Late. 


sub. 


Color. 


Asters (sorts), 


September, 


whole month, 


all sizes, 


many. 


Golden Bod, 


u 


t* 


«i 


yellow. 


Gentian, 


u 


<« 


1 ft. 


bine. 


Eupatorium, 


« 


early, 


various, 


several. 


Blazing Star, 


tt 


whole month, 


3 ft. 


purple. 


Globe Thistles; 


if 


u 


(i 


« 


Chrysanthemum, 


it 


late, 


various, 


various. 



Some of these continue to blossom during October, till severe 
frosts destroy all vegetation. 

All perennials may be transplanted without fear of injury, for 
they have a multitude of fibrous roots ; but though they will bear 
rough usage, no class of plants is more grateful for kindness and 
care. By means of transplanters they may be moved even when 
in blossom without being affected at all. 

To insure a satisfactory flower-garden, that portion of it which 
is chiefly devoted to perennials must have open spaces, in which 
annuals and greenhouse plants may be set Our list shows that 
during the early summer perennials are abundant, while they di- 
minish in variety as the season advances ; thus being precisely 
adapted to supply the need of flowers before the time arrives when 
annuals and greenhouse plants are in perfection ; viz., July, Au- 
gust, and September. 

The arrangement of perennials as respects size, form, and color, 
must depend on fancy, only observing the general rule to place the 
larger plants toward the back of the beds which are near the 
shrubs, and in the middle of open beds which are not connected 
with taller objects, with such variations as will prevent monotony 
of effect 

Much of the satisfaction derived from such a garden as ours, de- 
pends on the judicious selection and grouping of shrubs. Through- 
out the season you may have some shrub in blossom ; and by their 
flower, and the color of their leaves or berries, they fill the gaps 
among the perennials. 

Neatness is essential to the well-being of the flower-garden; 
the more orderly the borders, the more complete the absence of 
all signs of decay, the greater the satisfaction we feel. Neglect of 



FLOWEB-GARDEN. 



181 



this spoils the richest collection of flowers, while its careful observ- 
ance renders the most meagre collection beautiful. 

As soon as the frost cuts any plant down, remove it, as its black- 
ness is disagreeable. Dahlias touched by frost should be cut half 
way down only, so as to ripen the tubers. 



CHAPTER XVDX 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The work for October in the kitchen-garden is a continuation of 
that described for September. 

Lettuce plants which are to be headed for winter, may now be 
pricked out into the hotbed frames, and covered at night with the 
sashes. Cabbages for early spring must be planted in frames, and 
for a short time be kept under glass and watered gently, to enable 
them to get well rooted ; when that is done, the sashes must be re- 
moved, and the plants kept cool to harden them. The plants 
should be set down to their leaves in the earth, as the stem is the 
most tender part ; if well watered and set. low, they will need no 
outside covering till the end of November. 

Such Cauliflowers as are showing their blossoms should be shel- 
tered from rain and frost by some leaves broken down over their 
heads. Ripe Onions, if not gathered in September, may be pulled 
and left on the ground to dry ; late in the month the Onion Pips for 
spring use are to be gathered, or left covered with Pine branches 
till spring. 

There is a variety of Onion resembling the Potato Onion, grown 
near Philadelphia, which once planted goes on year after year 
without replanting ; the bulb throws up its seed-stalk and ripens 
its seed, and at the same time produces a new bulb by the side of 
the old one which is all ready for the next year's growth, and, if un- 
disturbed, will surely produce another crop of seed and another 
bulb. 

Cabbage and Broccoli now need their last attention in the way 
of hoeing. 

Bank your Artichoke Chard, Celery, and Cardoons, but never 
when wet, even with dew. , Cut the Parsley well back to force out 
a new growth, and transplant enough for winter Use into the frames. 

132 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 133 

Finish gathering Pickles. Any melons not larger than the fist 
should be picked for mangoes. 

As the frosty nights approach, cover enough Tomatoes for daily 
use, with cloth or straw ; a very light covering will enable them to 
defy early frosts. If the frost comes sharp enough to cut off the 
vines, gather all fruit of sufficient size, and lay it in a warm and 
sunny place, covering at night ; if thus treated it will all ripen and 
prove good, though not so high-flavored as when ripened on the 
vines. Tomatoes may be kept in this way many weeks after the 
vines are gone, they being much more tender than the fruit. 

Treat melons like Tomatoes. Watermelons may be kept till 
Christmas. 

Cut the herbs down to the lower leaves or stems, to be ready for 
next year. 

Transplant Currants and Gooseberries, pruning, the old wood 
from both ; the rust or mildew so common on the fruit of the lat- 
ter, is often avoided by removing old wood and letting light and 
air into the middle of the bush. For full directions see Summer. 

If the Raspberries were not pruned last month, see to them now. 
Last year's wood is now worthless, either for growth or fruit 
Prune Thimbleberries and Blackberries, and make new planta- 
tions. 

For Espalier fruit follow the directions of last month. Filberts 
will soon be ripe and show it by the gradual opening of the husk, 
and the brown color of the nut 

Where there is a demand for Salads, Cress, Mustard, Rad- 
ishes, etc., during the winter, sow them now in very warm borders, 
or in frames. They will need close care and attention, and must 
be protected at night Just as soon as the weather grows decidedly 
cool, frames must be kept over those in the borders. They may 
be sowed in boxes and removed to the grapery on the approach 
of cold weather. 

Large Onions may be planted for seed, in order to get it earlier 
and in greater abundance than is possible when we plant for this 
purpose in spring. The beds should be well dug and trenched, 
about 4 feet wide, and 18 inches apart ; set the Onions in the bot- 
tom of the trench, and cover with 3 or 4 inches of earth. Cover 

12 



134 OCTOBER. 

the beds with a light dressing of leaves or old manure for the win- 
ter ; they will start in April and begin to grow in May, and as soon 
as they have attained their full height, should be tied up to stakes, 
as the head is very heavy when full of seed ; the seed when ripe 
should be dried a day or two and kept in paper bags for use. 

Endive, though rarely grown for the Boston market, is a very 
excellent vegetable ; it should, be blanched from time time as it is 
wanted for use ; this may be done under endive or flower pots, by 
earthing up, or by covering with boards or straw ; the first is the 
best method. The same is the treatment of Sea-kale : see here- 
after. 

Dill, Alexanders, Skerrits, Rhubarb, and Sea-kale should be 
sown, as their seeds are very slow to germinate, and will come 
forward more surely and quickly in the spring, if subjected to the 
action of the winter's frost 

Make the Mushroom bed in the forcing-house and others in the 
cellar of the barn or house. Mushrooms to be productive must 
be kept warm and moist, but not wet. When not kept in this con- 
dition, the bed is unproductive, though not spoiled, for the applica- 
tion of warmth and moisture will rouse its activity again. 

Many methods for making Mushroom beds have been proposed. 
The simplest is that of Mr. James Galbraith, described in the 
Working Farmer of November, 1854. "The Mushroom may be 
successfully cultivated in dry cellars, provided the temperature 
ranges from 50° to 55°, or thereabouts. 

" The mode of culture I have practised is simple, and sure to 
produce an abundant supply. 

"Let the groom or coachman collect the horse droppings in the 
stable, and let them be deposited every morning under a dry shed, 
open in front, facing the sun, to be thoroughly dried. Hang an 
old fishing net over the pile collected, to keep off chickens or 
other animals that might break the droppings to pieces, as they 
should be dried as entire as possible. The material collected in 
the shed should be turned over every day, to prevent fermentation 
taking place. 

" Construct a frame of boards, say 30 x 4, 2 feet high behind and 
18 inches in front, or smaller in the same proportions, if thought 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 135 

best When there is enough dry material collected to cover the 
bottom of the frame two or three inches thick, put it in and tram- 
ple it all over to make it solid. 

" Repeat the same process as you collect material, until the bed 
is complete. Lay 4 inches of light vegetable mould on top. In 
the course of four or five weeks there will appear in the mould 
something like white threads running all through the mass. When 
this takes place, water the bed moderately, and cover it with dry 
Grass cut from the lawn, as it contains but few seeds to shake out 
and grow in the bed : it is better in this respect than common 
Hay. 

" Water cautiously. In a short time the bed will become an en- 
tire mass of spawn, and continue to bear for twelve months, pro- 
vided the cellar is not too damp and cold. Should the materials 
heat in the process of drying, or afterwards during the process, all 
will prove abortive." -**"*" ■ ^ 

A bed of this sort is, as the writer truly says, a mass of spawn. 
Beds may be made in hotbed frames ; the bottom being filled in 
with dry, heating manure, which is to be well trampled and left 
till the violent heat is abating ; then cover with two or three inches 
of earth, in which spawn is to be placed. The bottom heat, with' 
moisture, will cause this spawn to increase rapidly, and the bed will 
yield Mushrooms for a long time. 

Spawn for planting may be prepared in many ways. Make a 
brick of cow and horse manure ; into this brick put a small piece 
of spawn ; lay the brick in a warm place, and in a short time it 
will be full of spawn, f* Spawn " is the white radicles of the mush- 
room plant, which may often be seen in the earth of old pastures^ 
where horse droppings have dried. 

There are many varieties of fungus that are edible, a few that 
are poisonous ; the rest are disagreeable rather than injurious. 

The " gills "of a fungus are the thin leaves seen when it is 
turned over, filling the concavity of the lid with their paper-like 
lobes, which radiate as the sticks of an open umbrella. Their 
color varies with the variety of fungus, being pink in the Mush- 
room. 

In gathering Mushrooms, be careful to twist them off in the 



136 OCTOBER. 

ground at the root, for if any of the stem is left it will decay and 
fill with maggots, which will destroy the other Mushrooms as they 
begin to grow. S 

Beds may be made by raising a wedge-shaped pile of well- 
trampled and rich manure ; leave it till it heats ; by inserting sticks 
into different parts of the pile, and testing their heat when with- 
drawn, you may learn the temperature of the bed. Cover it with 
loam, and in that plant spawn ; cover all with straw. Keep thor- 
oughly moist, and in a few days the spawn will fill the loam, and 
the Mushrooms begin to grow, and they will continue to appear for 
six months or a year. Examine the bed frequently, to gather 
the fungi, and prevent their over-growth and decay, and the conse- 
quent incoming of maggots. If the bed yields more than enough 
for daily use, make catchup. 

So few Mushrooms are grown for our market that we may be 
said to know nothing of them. Many market gardeners near 
London have several acres at a time in different stages of growth ; 
and before leaving the subject I will quote the method of cultiva- 
tion followed by such gardeners, it being very successful : — 

" The essential points to be regarded are : proper material, good 
spawn, moderate temperature, uniformity of humidity according to 
the state of the beds or crop, — as while the spawn is running, and 
until it is desirable that the crop shall appear, they can hardly be 
kept too dry. Afterwards they require a greater amount of moist- 
ure, and this, particularly during the winter, in a tepid state. 
Darkness has by some been deemed essential, but experience has 
shown that larger, better colored, and more- healthy Mushrooms are 
grown in the light London market gardeners cart home from 
London stables long manure ; the short material is shaken out of 
it, and the long, stringy part is kept for covering, as well as for 
forming the interior of the ridges. The manure is not allowed to 
heat before it is put into the beds, if it can be prevented, for pre- 
viously heated material does not produce so fine Mushrooms ; the 
fresher the horse dung is, the longer will the crop last. If this is 
properly attended to, it does not signify what kind of mould is 
used for surfacing the beds. The short manure is to be piled in 
wedge-shaped ridges, or flat, square beds, the shape being a matter 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 137 

of fancy so long as provision is made for the rapid removal of 
rain water ; the middle of the bed, varying in size according to 
the ultimate size of the bed, is made of the long and coarse strawy 
manure, which, as we have just said, is covered thickly with the 
short manure, and this again with loam. When the interior tem- 
perature of the beds gets down to 80°, they are spawned with 
pieces of spawn about two inches square, placed one foot apart ; 
the bed is then covered with earth two inches thick, which is to 
be well packed with the feet or a spade, then carefully watered. The 
more compact the bed, the better the Mushrooms ; compactness, 
and green, unheated manure constituting the secret of successful 
Mushroom growing. Beds made in this way ought to be watered 
but rarely, if the weather is reasonably moist, and when watered, 
if possible, use liquid manure. 

u Cover the ridges, after making, with straw or mats, and examine 
frequently ; when well made they will bear abundantly for two or 
three months." 
, Constant reference has been made to artificial spawn. It may 
' be made in the following manner : gather horse droppings, sheep 
or deer dung, and lay in a dry place ; then chop in a hay cutter 
straw or fern leaves ; — not a large quantity, but enough when 
mixed with the manure and clay or loam to give the mass consist- 
ency ; — mix together the manure, stubble, and clay or loam till the 
mass is about as pasty as grafting clay ; spread the mixture evenly 
over a warm floor, to the depth of three or four inches. When 
about half dry, cut it into bricks of a convenient size ; let the 
bricks dry a little more, and then make holes an inch deep into 
their upper ends, into which put pieces of spawn the size of a 
walnut; now cover the holes with more of the mixed material. 
The bricks being prepared, pile them in small stacks against each 
other, and cover with fresh, hot manure, putting on enough to keep 
the temperature of the mass at 50° to 60° degrees, too much heat 
or cold being fatal to Mushrooms. In a few days the spawn will 
have run through the bricks in all directions, making the stack a 
mass of spawn. Now open the stack, take down the bricks and 
lay them in a warm and dry place ; here they may be kept for 
years as a supply for forming Mushroom beds. 

12« 






J 



138 OCTOBER. 

If 70a have not spawn to begin with, collect from cattle on dry 
food 2 parts cow dung, 1 part horse droppings, 1 part sheep, deer, 
or pigeon . dung ; dry under cover, and break them till they will 
pass through a half-inch sieve ; mix all together, and lay the mass 
closely packed and trodden in a conical heap ; keep the tempera- 
ture at about 60°, by coverings of litter, mats, or manure. In 
about four weeks the spawn will begin to form, and in a short time 
the heap will be filled with it. This spawn may be kept a long 
time in a dry place, or may be made into bricks as just described. 

I have gone thus fully into the method of producing this escu- 
lent, because it is so easily grown, and is capable of so many uses 
in its simple form or in catchup. Few persons are aware of the 
profit attendant on its culture, or how completely the grower may 
convert it into a salable form by making catchup. 

Espaliered trees are to be treated as they were last month, the 
fruit being carefully gathered and disposed of. 

You can begin to prune as soon as the leaves fall. 

During the month be sure to select and store all the seeds not 
yet gathered for spring planting. 

Whenever a crop is removed, dig the ground over and leave it 
rough and unraked, that the frosts of winter may mellow it and 
kill the eggs of insects and the seeds of weeds. 

Cut down all decayed stems and branches of the herbs, culinary 
or medicinal, — all the half-shrubby kinds to the old wood.; the 
herbaceous perennials, like Rue, Sweet Marjoram, etc^ to the 
ground. If the beds are old, spread and dig. in carefully a light 
dressing of manure well rotted ; where they are too much covered 
to admit of this, dig up the alleys and scatter some of the loam 
over the beds, together with a top dressing of light manure. 

Well-rooted plants of all the herbaceous and half-shrubby herbs 
may be planted early in the month in beds, borders, or rows, care 
being taken to enrich these beds, etc., well, before planting. 

Beds of Horseradish may be made by planting small pieces 
of the root of old plants. 

Peas sowed in the last of October and November will come up in 
the spring ten days earlier than if sowed in the spring, but not so 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 139 

thickly ; as an extra early crop it is worth while to plant some. 
Pot, the first of October, strawberries for forcing, and if they start 
well give a shift by the last of the month. Remove figs in tubs 
to the cellar or shed, and cover at night those' which are standards 
or are on the espalier. They will not need covering with earth 
before November. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



ORCHARD. 



The fruits which demand attention this month are Apples, 
Pears, Quinces, and Walnuts. I will first give directions for har- 
vesting the Apples. 

The first of the month, overhaul the stock of barrels, and if the 
number is deficient, purchase more at once ; be sure that there are 
enough heads and hoops. When all is ready, begin to gather the 
fruit as soon as ripe, and by no means wait till hard frosts set in ; 
the slightest skin of ice upon standing water should stimulate to 
the greatest exertions. It is very true that the leaves of the trees 
protect the fruit against frost, but it is not all protected in this way, 
and if frozen, however slightly, it is likely to decay very rapidly. 
Apples when ripe readily come off in the hand if gently turned 
round, and should be left on the tree until they will do so, unless 
the near approach of winter renders immediate gathering necessary. 
When the fruit is ready for picking, carry ladders of different 
lengths into the orchard, so as to prevent any necessity for beating 
or shaking off the fruit. Clear some place on the ground large 
enough for a heap which would fill several barrels; cover this 
space with dry straw or old hay. Fasten a hook of iron or wood 
to the handle of each basket, that it may be hung on the tree or 
ladder, so as to leave both hands free. Let your pickers under- 
stand that it is a fixed law that every apple, small or large, is to be 
picked by hand. Every basket as it is filled, must be carefully 
emptied at the appointed place, by being laid on its side and slowly 
turned, that no apple may be bruised. It facilitates this labor and in- 
sures greater care in handling, to have one person with an extra bas- 
ket constantly employed in exchanging the full baskets of the pick- 
ers for empty ones. When one pile of fruit is large enough, make 
another. There will probably be a small portion of the fruit which 

140 



ORCHARD. 141 

cannot be reached by the hand ; this must be shaken down after 
the hand-gathering is done, piled separately, and used or sold as 
soon as possible. 

When the day's work is drawing to a close, cover the heaps with 
straw, hay, or hay covers, for the night, and do the same on wet days. 
Leave the^fruit for several days, according to the weather, to cool 
and dry. When dried enough, have the barrels carried into the field 
and the Apples put into them by hand, carefully sorted, according 
to quality. Let one man fill the barrels as full as possible without 
crowding, and lay on the heads, which another person should fasten 
in firmly. When this is done, the carts are to be sent out, and 
the barrels lifted into them. Boll them as little as possible ; carry 
them into the fruit room, where they may stand on end or be piled 
on each other. If they must be left out through the night, or in 
wet weather, lay them on their sides, and pile them up so as to 
shed rain, and cover the upper ones with boards. 

These directions may seem unnecessarily minute, but the common 
method of picking all that can be easily reached and shaking off the 
rest, heaping all together into barrels without any care, except to have 
a show of good ones at each end, though it may seem easier than 
that which I have described, will be found in the end not only less 
thorough, but far less profitable. For when the Apples are gath- 
ered and housed, nearly all the expense is over, and is the same 
whether the work has been well or ill done. The carefully'picked, 
assorted, and packed fruit will keep till late in the spring, at 
no extra cost, and will then be worth several dollars a barrel 
more than in the autumn ; whilst the Apples carelessly harvested 
not only will not keep till spring, but will command an inferior 
price when sold. 

In all marketed produce, 'appearance has a great influence on 
the sale. Even roots which are clean and neatly loaded and 
packed, will sell better than roots of the same quality put up in a 
slovenly manner. It is natural to suppose that extra care in pack- 
ing would not be given unless the articles were worth it ; and a pur- 
chaser decides accordingly. So that the small difference in trouble 
necessary to assort and barrel apples with care, often makes all the 
difference between a fancy price and the ordinary one, in selling them. 



142 OCTOBER. 

The varieties of Apples in our orchard are the following : Bald- 
win, Rhode-Island Greenings, Roxbury, Hunt, and Golden Rus- 
sets, Northern Spy, Belle Fleur, Danvers Winter Sweeting, 
Huhardston Nonsuch, Newton Pippin, Pearmain, Red Gilliflower, 
Ladies' Sweeting, Spitzenherg, Wine Apple ; of these, Baldwin, 
Greening, the Russets, Northern Spy, Belle Fleur, Newton Pip- 
pin, and Ladies' Sweeting keep till very late in the spring. 

Tar trees to catch canker worms, as hereafter described ; con- 
tinue to tar till winter. 

Pears. — Pears must be gathered about the same time as Ap- 
ples, and their fitness for harvesting is to be decided in the same 
way ; pick into baskets and carry at once into the fruit room, where 
they may be laid, either in heaps, to be afterwards distributed ac- 
cording to variety, or on the shelves in the same way once for all. 
If they are to lie on the shelves till consumed, lay them just so 
near each other as not to touch. Those laid in heaps may be left 
for a day to dry and cool, and then packed away for winter. 

Divers plans for preserving fruit have been invented, and some 
very expensive fruit rooms have been made, warranted to keep 
Pears perfect till spring ; but the cheapest and simplest method 
has proved the best One objection to all fruit rooms has been 
that fruit stored in them till spring has been very apt to shrivel, 
and neVer become high-colored ; but the following method avoids 
this evil: — 

Pack either in champagne baskets or in light, wooden buckets 
with tight covers ; Hingham buckets they are called in and about 
Boston. If the baskets are used, place the fruit in layers, with 
one thickness of flannel or cotton batting between the layers, till 
the basket is frill ; then place it on a shelf and leave it untouched 
till the fruit ought to be nearly ripe. If your experience has not 
taught you when this is to be expected, you must examine occa- 
sionally. Pears thus preserved will gain in plumpness, and as 
they ripen each variety will attain the richest color of which it is 
capable. If the buckets are used, proceed as with baskets till they 
are full ; then set them aside, uncovered, for a few days, to cool 
and sweat, after which cover tight and hang up in the fruit room. 



ORCHARD. 143 

These Pears will command the very highest price in the market, 
and many varieties which almost never attain a high color under 
other methods, will in this way become really rich. 

No fruit is more widely cultivated than the Fear, and the num- 
ber of varieties is great ; only a few, however, pay for cultivation ; 
and what the desirable varieties are, it is hard to learn, so greatly 
is their flavor influenced by soil and exposure, even within the 
limits of a town. It may be said with truth, that no two cultiva- 
tors agree as to the best dozen varieties for a given latitude. In a 
future month I shall discuss the differences in Pears, and explain 
the respective advantages of Quince* and Pear stocks, and the treat- 
ment requisite to produce the best fruit from either stock. 

Our Pear orchard is planted with Bartlett, Beurre' de Capiu- 
ment, Beurre* Bosc, Beurre* diel, Dix, Duchess, Flemish Beauty, 
Fondante d'Automne, Louise bonne* de Jersey, Napoleon, Rostiezer, 
Sieulle, Seckel, Urbaniste, Beurre* D'Aremberg, Easter Beurre^ 
Chaumontel, Glout Morceau, Passe Colmar, Winter Nelis, Beurre* 
de Rantz, St. Germain. 

Quinces. — Quinces are not so generally cultivated as they de- 
serve ; the bush occupies but little room, and that the least desira- 
ble, is hardy, a superior desert fruit, and generally certain to bear 
a good crop. The Apple or Orange Quince is the only variety 
worth cultivating. The mature tree ought to yield from*2 to 4 
bushels of fruit, which when well harvested is rarely worth less 
than $1.00 to $2.50 per bushel, thus giving a large profit for the 
small surface under cultivation. They may be set 8 to 10 feet 
apart, and will soon cover the ground so as to keep down weeds, 
and render the labor of cultivating slight They have a decided 
enemy in the borer, and must in their early years be closely 
watched ; if during the first few years the borers are hunted out 
and killed, and the earth around the bushes be covered with coal 
ashes, they become thrifty and able to defy the borer in future ; if 
the but of the tree is surrounded with common tea or sheet lead 
for a few inches above and below the surface of the ground, the 
borer will be effectually excluded. 

No fruit is more easily injured in its appearance by careless 



144 OCTOBER. 

harvesting than the Quince ; every bruise on its skin is followed 
by discoloration and decay, and consequently by slow sale in mar- 
ket. Pick by hand and lay in the basket ; remove thence by hand 
into barrels, and afterwards treat like Apples. 

Walnuts. — Walnuts and Shagbarks ripen this month and 
should be gathered as they fall. After a sharp frost at night, the 
ground will be covered with them, and we must wait for the frost 
to open the outside shell and let us at the nut ; the Black or Eng- 
lish Walnut is surrounded by a thick and spongy husk or shell, 
which is very hard to remove by hand, as it clings closely and 
stains the skin badly, but it yields readily to frost. 

The husk of the Butternut is thin and clings closely to the nut. 

All these nuts when gathered should be carried to a warm place, 
and there spread out to dry ; when well dried, the kernel is oily 
but rich in flavor. 

Nut trees of these last two varieties are easily and rapidly grown, 
and though not so beautiful as the Shagbark, are yet very orna- 
mental, and a few should be cultivated on every even small estate. 

The Shagbark is the staple nut of the Eastern United States, 
and the tree is one of the most ornamental of the deciduous trees, 
and easily transplanted when young, though it does not bear mov- 
ing well after it becomes large. 



CHAPTER XX. 

NURSERY. 

In October the nursery demands a large share of attention. 
Trench now wherever you did not in September, and then plant 
stocks for budding and grafting. Make layers of Roses, Honey- 
suckles, and those shrubs which propagate more easily by layers than 
by seed. As a general rule seeds are the most reliable means for 
getting larger quantities and varieties of trees, though the process 
is slow. Many seeds are hard and tough in themselves, or are en- 
closed in some kind of tough shell or stone. Such seeds should 
always be planted in the fall, and left through the winter and spring 
to the action of frost, which by its expansive power breaks or dis- 
joints their hard covering, and lets the tender germ and radicle 
start on their upward and downward journey. 

Time and again cultivators have been utterly discouraged in 
their attempts to grow varieties of plants, because the seed seemed 
invariably to fail. Much of this failure is owing to the seed hav- 
ing been planted at the wrong season ; .the seed of Roses, Haw- 
thorn, and Buckthorn, for hedge plants, if sown in the fall will 
start in the spring, and make strong growth during the summer ; 
but if planted in the spring they often do not appear till the next 
year, and the nursery man, finding no growth from his seed during 
the first summer, concludes that it was worthless, and probably 
digs the land over and plants other seeds of the same kind ; when, 
had he planted the fall before, or waited till the next year, he 
would have succeeded with his first lot of seeds. 

The stones of Plums and Peaches, and other hard seeds, must 

either be planted in the fall, or be cracked and planted in the spring; 

cracking the stone is rather dangerous, as it is very apt to injure 

the germ of the kernel. Walnuts, Shagbarks, Filberts, and most 

13 145 



146 OCTOBER. 

other nuts are subject to the same laws of planting and germina- 
tion. 

Acorns, Chestnuts, and Horsechestnuts grow whether planted 
in spring or fall, their shells being so soft as to offer but little op- 
position to the swelling kernel ; but they do better when planted 
in fall, for all seeds are more ready to germinate when first ripe 
than after being kept for some lime and getting somewhat dry. 
You may see in your autumnal walks in the woods Acorns sprout- 
ing under all the Oak trees, even when merely lying on the surface 
of the ground. This natural process teaches us what to do if we 
would be perfectly successful with such nuts. Keep them in a 
box till spring, covered with moist sand, and soak them twenty-four 
hours in tepid water before planting. 

Directions for forming nurseries, seed-beds, etc, will be given 
hereafter. 

Autumn has as great advantages over spring for layering hard- 
wooded plants and shrubs as for planting nuts ; the tongue and cut 
of the layer heal and granulate somewhat during die winter, and 
the whole skin and wood seem to prepare for a ready growth in 
spring. Canker worms will begin to run after the first hard frost, 
and the trees must be tarred to protect them. 



CHAPTER XXL 

THE FARM. 

October is a very busy month on the farm. Continue to make 
and clean out drains, and prepare for thorough irrigation. At 
every leisure moment draw muck and litter to the yard for ma- 
nure. 

During the latter half of the month dig the Roots, beginning 
with Potatoes, then Beets, then Carrots, last Ruta-Bagas and Tur- 
nips ; the latter may even be left till November. 

There is a machine for cutting off the leaves of Carrots and 
Ruta-Bagas as they stand in the ground. Directions were given 
last month for Potatoes and are good now. 

When ready to harvest other Roots, begin as soon as the dew is 
off, in a bright day, pull them out and lay them on the surface to 
dry. A tool much like a spade cleft into four fingers is very 
convenient for raising roots, as it does not break them like a spade, 
and its blades are not pointed like those of a dungfork. 

Beets should be drawn without first cutting the leaves ; lay them 
on the ground long enough to dry off surface moisture, then gather 
into heaps ; twist off the tops, and cut off the tails and small roots 
with a sharp tool. Some English writers recommend that this 
last process be done as the roots are drawn. Our fanners find 
that the leaves are readily eaten by cows for green fodder, and 
when judiciously fed out conduce to a full milkpail. To top and 
tail properly, hold the Beet or Ruta-Baga in the left hand, and in 
the right a tool made from an old sickle or grass cutter ground 
sharp ; one blow will remove the top, another the tail of the root, 
which is then thrown into the heap or the cart When the weather 
promises to be fine and dry, it is well to leave them in heaps for a 
few days before storing, as they sweat a little, and will keep the 
better for the drying. 

147 



148 OCTOBER, 

In harvesting Mangel Wurzel, also, twist off the leaves. 

When the Roots are all thrown into the cart, drive the full load 
into the root cellar, where they may be piled in their proper bins- 
While emptying or filling the cart, do not throw the Roots about 
more than is absolutely necessary, for although rough and harsh 
to look at or handle, they decay faster for every bruise. 

The cellar should be well ventilated and drained. The perfect 
preservation of Roots depends mainly on these two ^requirements. 
Darkness is not so essential as is sometimes asserted. Light does 
not necessarily stimulate growth, nor darkness prevent it ; it de- 
pends much more on warmth and moisture. 

Until the nights become very cold leave the windows open, as 
the exhaling warmth of the Roots will keep the temperature high 
in the cellar long after it freezes outside. 

Root cellars are very important in our latitude, and in making 
them their location should be carefully considered in relation to the 1 
barn. We grow Roots to feed to stock through the winter, and the 
greater the daily distance over which this bulky material is carried 
in feeding, the greater our labor, the less our profit Ail new 
bams should , be built with a reference to the storage and transport 
of Root crops. A good plan is to have the stalls for cows and other 
neat cattle in the cellar, if removed from the manure, as it is easier 
to feed with Hay from above, and with Roots from the same level 
with the cattle ; but it is then more difficult to dispose of the ma- 
nure. By carefully considering all these wants before erecting a 
barn, we can provide for them all in the most convenient and sat- 
isfactory way. Refer to the ground plan of our barn and see how 
this is done. 

Barn. — The general (see March) plan shows that it stands on 
a side-hill. The slope of hill from end to end is 12 feet in 100, so 
that much of the cellar is above ground. It is divided into two 
stories, and one story of wood rises over it. The lower, the manure 
cellar, in which are kept the hens and pigs, is 6£ feet high. The 
next story is for $ of its length 7£ feet high ; the remaining 20 feet 
being 6£ feet in height, is at the extreme west end, and is devoted* 
to Roots, of which it can hold at least six thousand bushels, its area: 



THE FARM. 149 

being 50 x 20 feet Directly in front of the. root cellar is a carriage- 
way 10 feet wide, extending from one side of the barn to the other. 
Loaded teams may thus enter at one side and leave at the other. 
Two large sliding doors 10 feet wide give entrance to the root 
cellar, so that a cart full of Boots having entered by the road-way 
may be backed into the root cellar and there unloaded. 

Through the wall in the middle of the root cellar is an aperture 
which may be kept tightly closed by a flap-door, through which is 
laid a railroad that is traversed by a small car. This car being 
taken into the cellar and there loaded with Boots, whole or cut, 
may then be drawn out along the railroad, which extends down 
the centre of the barn, and its load distributed on either side a* 
wanted, or carried to the boiler. When the car comes out or goes 
in, the flap-door is let fall and the aperture is closed. The car 
may be stopped in front of the mash-tub) and there have meal 
mixed with the Boots, or take in cut feed, and then run out, and its 
contents be distributed. 

Such an arrangement tends greatly to the economy of labor, 
and also saves material and wear and tear. 

In the south-east corner of the root cellar is a wooden box through 
which the manure of the carriage horses in the stable above may 
be discharged into the lowest cellar. Under the front edge of the 
loot cellar are spouts for emptying swill, etc., to the pigs. A boiler 
is set in the corner of the meal storeroom for cooking food, and 
the car can be run directly to it. 

In speaking of topping Boots, I said that the tops should be fed out 
to milch cows ; this does not apply to all Boots ; for instance, Buta- 
Bagas, leaves of which some cows will not eat, and which if eaten 
in large quantities generally loosen the bowels overmuch ; if but 
a small quantity is fed at a time, there is no danger, and an in- 
crease of milk. Again, cattle will often utterly refuse to eat the 
tops of Carrots and Parsnips, while sheep eat them readily. Under 
all circumstances, however, it is better to carry the loads, tops and 
ally directly to the barn, and top as you unload. Such leaves as the 
stock will not consume, may then be thrown through the muck-traps 
in the floor, shown in the plan, into the manure cellar, where the 
pigs will eat some and make manure of the rest 

18* 



150 OCTOBER* 

I have said nothing of Potato tops, which are usually dry be- 
fore the Potatoes are dug; in this condition they are called 
" haulm," and may be collected into heaps to rot, or carted to the 
manure cellar as bedding for pigs, or burned, and their ashes spread 
on the spot. 

The Corn crop is to be harvested now. If not cut during Sep- 
tember, send your men into the field early in the present month, 
with tools made from old scythes, or reaping-hooks, to cut it all 
about 6 inches above the ground, leaving one hill in six uncut 
As cut, lay each hill on the ground by itself during the heat of 
the day. Early in the afternoon begin and gather five hills ; stand 
them on their butts about the uncut sixth hill, which will steady 
the whole ; this being done, draw all the tops down a little, and tie 
firmly together with a straw rope. You will thus stack the whole 
firmly, and may leave it for weeks without injury from weather. 
The outer leaves will wither down, and as they dry will offer a 
perfect water-shed to the rain ; whilst the bulk of the stack is not 
so great as to prevent the ready access of sun and air in fair 
weather. 

Corn thus stacked will ripen thoroughly, dry hard and glossy, 
and the stover will cure into a sweet and good fodder, which will be 
eaten almost to the last but by cows during winter, particularly 
if first cut in a stubble cutter. All corn-fodder should be cut up 
before feeding, to insure the thorough decay of those portions which 
the cattle may reject, and which are consequently thrown into the 
manure heap. Were it fed out in its long state, the cattle would 
pick off the leaves and reject the buts, which must then be thrown 
into the manure heap, where they will remain undecomposed for a 
year, their glossy, flinty exterior defending them from fermenta- 
tion and the action of the various acids and gasses generated in the 
manure. 

Many farmers practise a different treatment of the Corn crop ; 
and I will deviate from the rule laid down at the beginning of this 
book, to make a short inquiry into the relative merits of the two 
methods. 

It is the practice of most New-England farmers to go into the 
field as soon as the Corn is glazed, and top it ; %x n cut off the tops 



THE FA^M. 151 

just above the highest ear. These tops are stacked in bundles to 
dry, and then stored in the barn for fodder ; and it is urged that 
thus good fodder is made of the tops which cattle will eat, while 
the bats which cattle will not eat are left. It is true that tops 
saved in this way do make excellent fodder if not too long dried, but 
it is at the expense of the Corn. The Corn is not fully ripe when 
thus topped, and depends on the nourishment supplied by the leaves, 
for its full perfection. Cut off these leaves and the grain is cut off 
from some portion of its food. The experiment has been thoroughly 
tried, and it has been proved that Corn topped weighs 3 to 5 lbs. per 
bushel less than the same kind of Corn in the same field, saved in 
the manner I have directed. Again, by cutting the tops you 
make the buts utterly worthless, whilst under the stacking method, 
the buts cure with the tops, and will be eaten when cut and fed 
out ; and when cut in the method first given, before it is glazed and 
ripe, through fear of early frost, more Corn will fill out and ripen 
in the stook uninjured by frost, which would quite destroy it if 
treated by topping. There is a simple reason for this difference. 
The leaves of plants are their lungs. Sap is supplied by the roots 
in direct proportion to the demands of the leaves ; but when it 
first ascends the stem, it is crude and innutritious, as far from per- 
fection as is unfermented cider or unleavened bread. It ascends 
through the fibres of the stem and spreads itself to the sunlight in 
the sap vessels of the leaves, where it becomes refined and per- 
fected ; it then returns to the tissues, the fruit, or whatever part 
needs it ; unfit before to perfect the Corn, it is now fit and is appro- 
priated by the peculiar sap-vessels of the ear. Beside this func- 
tion of the leaves, they act — how, has not yet been definitely ascer- 
tained — like the exhausting or suction valves in a pump; they 
draw on the roots for moisture, and the roots furnish it, and just in 
proportion to the demand. Therefore, whenever the leaves are re- 
moved the demand ceases. Suppose, for instance, instead of " top- 
ping," all the leaves above the ears were picked off; no apprecia- 
ble demand for sap would be felt above this point, consequently 
none would be supplied. If all the ears were ripe, this would not 
matter, the plant being cultivated for the grain ; but when the Corn 
is unripe it must surely suffer for the lack of those supplies of sap 



152 OCTOBER. 

that are needed to perfect it. What is true of gathering the leaves, 
is equally true of topping, which is merely the same thing more 
thoroughly done ; by either process any farther growth of the Corn 
above, the lower leaves is stopped. 

It is then plain that the farmer who cuts off the top of his Corn 
before the grain is fully ripe, cuts off the food necessary to insure 
perfection in that grain, and loses in corn what he gains in fodder. 

Return now' to the plan I advise. Suppose the Corn to be cut 
at the root at the time when it would be topped under the other 
process, although that would be too early. It is evident that the 
broad leaves will draw up into themselves all the crude sap still 
lingering in the stem, of which we know there is a large quantity 
in the thick and succulent Corn stalks. This crude sap will pass 
through the leaves as it did before cutting, will be elaborated and 
returned to the ears, and so down through the stem, adding just so 
much to the value and perfectness of the grain. 

I have treated this matter at length because it is of great impor- 
tance to a people who depend largely on Indian Corn. 

Cutting at the but seems to those who have not tried it, more 
troublesome and expensive than " topping," because it necessitates, 
first, cutting and binding ; then, re-opening and plucking the ears ; 
then, re-gathering and mowing away the stalks ; but if the work is 
done judiciously, it is not as expensive as the ordinary method, in 
pursuing which we must first, cut, bind, stook, and cure the tops, 
then gather and store them; second, gather the ears into the 
wagons as they are driven through the field ; then cut, stook, and 
store the buts, or throw them to the pigs, or burn them in the field. 
Three processes. 

In my method you cut, stook, and thoroughly cure both corn and 
fodder ; when once well stooked it may be left until it is conven- 
ient to remove it, without injury to either corn or fodder ; the less 
time the fodder is exposed after getting dry, the better for it. The 
centre hill which was left uncut may either be cut at first, and all 
the bundles well braced against each other as in stooking wheat, 
' etc., or when the stooks are opened to gather the ears this hill may 
be cut, and, if not thoroughly dry, be laid in the sun a short time. 
When we are ready to put the Corn into the crib, we send two 



THE FARM. 153 

wagons into. the field, open the stooks, pick off the ears and throw 
them into one wagon, fork the bundles of fodder into the other, and 
drive each to its appropriate place. We thus have but two opera- 
tions instead of three, and have all the fodder together' where it 
may be fed out or made into manure. The centre hill is well 
opened and laid in the sun when the carts are first driven round 
the field, and by the time the loose bundles are all collected, will 
be dry enough to be gathered in their turn. 

Continue at intervals of leisure to open and drain ditches and 
collect materials for manure. If any of the much-travelled and 
level roads need gravel, dress them this month, as the long interval 
of open weather before winter will allow the gravel to become 
well trodden, and will insure a firmer and better road than if the 
gravel is spread in the spring. But do not put gravel on roads 
of steep grade, as the frost and rain of winter and spring will 
wash them badly. 

The principal marketing of this month will be Roots, Cabbages, 
and Apples. Where the accommodation for the crops is ample, 
and they are well gathered, it is better not to seH them before 
spring ; the chief part of the expense and labor of the crop is 
over with the harvest, and the increase of price before spring is 
generally large. In the autumn many farmers of small capital or 
inferior accommodations are compelled to sell, and thus the market 
price of green crops is much lower than in the spring, when the 
supply is small and the demand active. 

Cows. — Towards the last of this month the winter milch cows 
will be near calving, and they should have rather more generous 
food than the other cows. Every effort should be made to have a 
large stock of new milch cows in the winter, as then the price of 
milk is largest, and the manure most easily and entirely saved. 

The value of manure depends very much upon the food of the 
Stock, as manure is only the unassimilated food of the animals that 
produce it. Analyses of the various kinds of food have shown 
that some are more valuable for manure than others, and that this 
difference of value is in proportion to the elaborateness of the or* 



154 OCTOBER. 

ganization of the different parts of the plant \ Thus the seeds are 
better than the fruit, the fruit than the straw, the leaves and straw 
than the wood. Rape cake and oil cake, or the pressed seeds of 
Rape and Flax, when- eaten, produce much more powerful manure 
than the tops of Turnips or roots of Rape or the straw of Flax. In- 
deed, the latter is often found to be poisonous to vegetation. Many 
other examples might be offered in illustration of this fact The 
reason is to be found in the greater amount of concentrated mineral 
and other elements, potash, soda, lime, ammonia, etc, which exists 
in the seed than in the haulm and roots, these elements being the 
most valuable constituents of manure. 

It is a well-attested fact, that the manure of animals fed on grain 
and seeds is much richer than that of those fed on Grass, Hay, and 
Roots ; so that when the animals come into the barn for the long 
winter months, we have within our own hands the means, — which 
we could not have while they were at pasture, — of increasing the 
value of their manure. 

But this is not the only consideration. The Grass on which they 
have been feeding during the summer is always the best and cer- 
tainly the cheapest food for increasing the milk of cows and the 
flesh of fattening animals ; of this they are now deprived, and we 
must find something to supply its place. Hay alone will produce 
neither of the good effects of the fresh Grass ; Rowen is better for 
milk but not for flesh ; but Roots and Grain of different kinds, mixed 
with Hay and Rowen increase both milk and flesh. 

We come back then to the subject of milch cows and their food. 
In summer it costs but little to keep them, but the value of milk, 
unless we make butter and cheese, is low, and the manure is badly 
saved. In winter, on the other hand, the cost of keeping is large, 
but the price of milk rises in proportion, and the manure is all 
saved, and can be produced of better quality. If, then, we procure 
new milch cows at this season, feed them well, and save all the 
manure, we shall get the largest possible profit from the opera- 
tion. 

Breeds of cattle best adapted to our latitude, and varieties and 
uses of manure, will be discussed in the winter months. 



THE FARM. 155 

« 

In September we selected the hogs which were to be killed in 
the winter. Improve the quality of their food as time goes on, 
and keep them warm. 

As the nights grow cold, the horses should be blanketed and 
should be protected from draughts of air. Fowls which are to be 
killed at Thanksgiving, must be separated from the rest and cooped 
up for fattening. As the days grow shorter and the nights longer 
and colder, it will be more difficult for fowls to find food for them- 
selves, and those which are to be killed must be carefully attended 
to. The great point in rattening creatures of all kinds is to keep 
them always improving, and if they once receive a check it takes 
a long time and much extra care to start them again. Laying and 
stock fowls will need but little attention yet 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

Directions were given in September for preparing holes for 
trees and shrubs, and getting the latter ready for transplanting. 

Transplanting should not be begun till the leaves have either 
fallen or changed color preparatory to falling, for at that time, as 
has been shown, evaporation is at a minimum, and the tree has 
the best chance for a good future growth with the least amount 
of pruning. 

There is a theory that pruning may be dispensed with, and trees 
do sometimes live which have been transplanted without pruning, 
but they are starved and sickly for years. It is useless to expect 
half the original amount of roots, mutilated, and in a strange soil, 
to supply sap to the same amount of top as before removal ; as well 
might one expect a full-grown man to live and thrive on a child's 
allowance of food. 

There can be no doubt that the best time for transplanting all 
trees and shrubs which can bear our severe winter after a fresh 
removal, is the fall, for at that time both the trees and the earth 
are in the best possible condition for a successful operation. When 
a tree is moved, the mutilated roots need both moisture and warmth ; 
the tree taken in the autumn from warm earth is set again into 
warm earth, and if this is done early in the season there will be 
time enough before winter for numerous new rootlets to creep out, 
which will give the plant a new hold on the earth and enable it to 
resist the winter winds. The rains of autumn will pack and settle 
the dirt between and about all the fibres, and the tree will become 
firm and steady. Well planted in this manner, it will be found 
by the earliest spring warmth that starts the sap ready to begin 
its circulation and growth quite as early, to say the least, as we 
could possibly think of transplanting in the spring. There is, be* 

156 



ORNAMENTAL. 157 

sides, an accumulation of sap, made by those roots which are below 
frost, which is, as it were, so much capital prepared for the spring 
demand. This sap is what is drawn off from the sugar maple in 
large quantities. Trees and shrubs planted in the autumn gener- 
ally get a start of half a season over those planted in spring, and 
keep their advantage perceptibly for half a dozen years. 

Another advantage of autumn planting lies in the longer supply 
of water before the summer droughts, which renders the tree much 
less likely to be injured by them than if planted in the spring. 

Strongly as I recommend autumn planting, however, I should 
advise its total neglect rather than a poor execution of it- 
There is great ignorance on this subject of tree planting among 
those who ought to be best informed, and none the less that every 
man thinks himself beyond any need of instruction with regard to 
it, and this unconscious ignorance is the means of much waste of 
money and temper. 

Patience, great patience, is the first requisite for a successful 
J>hmter. In fact, the first and the most important acquisition to be 
made before undertaking the management of a country place is 
patience — a large stock of patience. Demosthenes described ac- 
tion as the first, the second, and the third requisite to successful 
oratory, so may I say of patience to him who would succeed in the 
culture of fruit, vegetable?, or rural beauty. No natural process 
can be much hurried ; and when once a tree is well planted, a green- 
house erected, a grapery stocked, a flower-garden laid out, there is 
need of long and patient waiting, endurance of " hope deferred," 
before the wished-for result is attained. 

Starting then with plenty of patience, dig a hole as directed in 
September, not less than 4 feet in diameter and 2 feet deep. We 
want this depth both to secure for the roots free access to the subsoil 
where moisture is mo3t abundant, and to enable us to fill in at the 
bottom good food for the tree during the next few years. If the 
holes were dug in September, or if the ground where these are to 
be made has been well trenched and enriched, you need only open 
out space enough for the proper accommodation of the roots. Ex- 
amine the top of the tree or shrub to be planted, and prune it if it 
needs pruning ; then look to the roots, and if any are broken, cut 

14 



158 



OCTOBER. 




them off smoothly with a 
sharp knife drawn from 
beneath upwards, so that 
the cut surface may point 
downwards, and be left 
like a newly-made cutting, 
all ready to grow. Now 
set the tree into the hole so 
that the part of the stem from which the roots start may be on a 
level with the surrounding surface, — just on a level, — if the hole 
was made in September so that the earth at the bottom has had 
time to settle ; a little deeper when the hole is newly made. It is 
well enough to have the stem in the centre of the hole, though this 
is important only when you are planting a row of trees on a line 
which passes through the centre of all the holes. In general orna- 
mental planting avoid rows. Let your assistant steady the tree in 
the hole while you retire a short distance and look at the effect of 
its top ; recall to your mind its character when full grown, whether 
erect or pendant, and see how your tree should stand to give its 
branches the best chance to develop its characteristic beauty and 
become a fine specimen of its kind ; and let your* assistant turn and 
move it till it stands to your mind. While he still holds it, get into 

the hole and carefully draw 
out all the principal roots into 
the same relative positions they 
held before transplanting; in 










g the same way comb out the 
smaller and fibrous roots. And 
now you will probably find that 
the point whence the roots di- 
verge is higher above the bot- 
tom of the hole than their 
ends, as in cut A. In this case, 
either take the tree out and 
shovel in earth enough to make 
a little mound in the centre of 
the hole on which the centre 



ORNAMENTAL. 159 

of the tree may rest, or carefully work earth in by hand without 
removing the tree, till it stands evenly, all parts having an equal 
bearing. Now let your assistant shovel in earth upon the roots 
slowly, giving you time enough to raise the different roots to their 
proper level ; for although all the roots, if long enough, may be 
brought down to the bottom of the hole, the position is not natural, 
and if compelled will, injure the after-growth of the tree. Gut B 
shows my meaning. Dig the hole widest at the bottom. Fill the 
earth in thus gradually till the hole is about half full, or until 
the upper roots are partially covered ; this, and not the semi-fill- 
ing the hole being the important point If the work has thus far 
been properly done, the tree will stand erect and firm without sup- 
port from the hand. 

I do not advise that tedious process of separating and laying out all 
the fibres of the roots which is so insisted on by most teachers, but 
merely direct that main roots and rootlets should be laid and combed 
out in the same relative positions they held before the tree was lifted. 
Attend to this and to their being carefully covered and surrounded 
with earth, and you have secured the important requisites ; more mi- 
nute and fussy attention will indeed make the success of the operation 
more certain, but not in proportion to the trouble taken, while they are 
pretty sure to exhaust the stock of that invaluable quality, patience, 
possessed by most men ; and when that fails, carelessness begins, 
bad habits are formed, and it is probable that the important steps 
as well as the minutiae of transplanting will then be slighted. 

Leaving the tree in the condition just described, plant others in 
the same way until you have many in this half-finished state. 
When the day is so far advanced that there will be just time to 
finish the work, pour one or two pails of water — varying the 
quantity according to the size of the hole — slowly upon and 
around the roots of each tree; no matter if it is raining at the 
time ; this water has nothing to do with supplying moisture to the 
tree ; its use is to separate the little rootlets from each other, which 
it does better than a hundred fingers, and with no draught on your 
stock of patience, and to draw down and pack close the finer par- 
ticles of earth about each fibre. When the water has drained 
away, throw back into the hole the earth remaining at the side ; 



160 OCTOBER. 

when it is all returned you may gently tread it down. Observe 
that hitherto neither the foot nor any instrument has been used to 
consolidate the earth, for the effect of treading or any other pres- 
sure would have been to injure the rootlets ; but now there is so 
much earth between the foot and the roots, that they cannot be in- 
jured by pressure, while they will get all its benefits. 

If these trees do not thrive it will be because of some unavoid- 
able accident They will not even be hurt by the winter winds, 
though some of the taller ones with large tops may need the sup- 
port of a stake, which should be driven in within an inch or two 
of the stem, before any earth is thrown on the roots. If it is 
driven after they are covered, there is danger that it will bruise 
the larger and tear the smaller roots. 

These directions will not be repeated. They are to be followed 
in all cases and for all trees and shrubs, unless some physical ob- 
stacle prevents, which must be met when it occurs, and cannot be 
foreseen. 

The autumn planting so strongly recommended is not for all 
trees indiscriminately. Evergreens, as I said in September, should 
never be planted in the fall, unless from necessity ; no stone-fruited 
trees ; none that are but partially hardy ; no natives of any lati- 
tude where vegetation commences earlier and lasts longer than in 
ours (although there are some exceptions to the rule), should be 
planted in the fall. But it is the time to plant almost all our de- 
ciduous trees ; I have found the Hickory, Bed Maple, Birch, Beech, 
Magnolia, Larch, Three-thorned Acacia, English Elms and Oaks 
are apt to die when planted in the fall, as are the European Larch, 
Ash, Laburnum, Beech, and Chestnut. 

It may seem to one not familiar with our ornamental trees, that 
these exceptions cut off nearly the whole number ; but a glance at 
the list of trees offered at any first-class nursery, will show that 
the varieties mentioned above as exceptions are but a small part 
of the list ; and many of those I except will not die entirely if 
well planted in the fall ; they are sure to spring anew from the 
root, but the top is apt to be winter-killed. 

And once for all, it is better to plant any of the excepted list in 
October, with the care just insisted on, than in spring in the com- 



ORNAMENTAL. 161 

mon, careless method. I repeat that the later in the fall the tree 
is planted, the greater the danger of its being injured or killed. 

Many things are to be considered in making plantations, whether 
large or small, the neglect of which materially detracts from the 
beauty of the plantation. In another month will be found some 
lists of the trees and shrubs most desirable for this purpose. 

OCTOBER'S HARVESTS. 

When we think of the glowing woods and purple lights and 
mists of October, it seems impossible that the analysis and descrip- 
tion of this month's work can be contained in meagre words and 
uninteresting narrative. No month is so full of rich and varied 
attractions, and none offers gratification and satisfaction to the di- 
verse tastes of so many admirers. 

Theoretically, October should be a sad month, for then the har- 
vests are mostly gathered in, the fields are bare of the summer's 
verdure, the woods in the first stages of leafy decay, the birds gone 
or going to more genial climates, the garden rusty and full of seedy 
or frost-stricken flowers ; every thing telling of the departure of 
genial summer and the approach of chill winter. 

How opposite to this is the truth ! Now the farmer's heart over- 
flows with the consciousness of his wealth. The rent roll of the 
largest land-owner, the stocks and bonds of the richest broker, the 
ships and warehouses of the most princely merchant, can never 
give their owners such an overflowing and contented feeling of 
well-rewarded labor, as the crowded barns and granaries, and well- 
stocked linters and folds give the farmer. He has labored hard 
through the summer's heat, has cast many and anxious glances at 
the clouds and winds, has listened with strained ear for the creak- 
ing of ponderous wagons loaded with hay, as his experienced eye 
read the threats in the gathering clouds. But now under his own 
roof are gathered the accumulated and condensed rays of the sun 
and breaths of summer zephyrs ; the earth's fatness and its increase 
have contributed to make him rich. As he stands on his barn 
floor with the last rays of the sun just gilding the contented faces 
of the cattle enjoying their evening meal or chewing their cud, 



162 OCTOBER. 

and hears the rhythmical beating of the milk on the empty pails, 
or its muffled sound as the rapid stream is lost in foam, harmonizing 
with the quiet oooings of pigeons or the occasional drowsy remon- 
strance of some hen or chick crowded on the well-filled roost, his 
heart cannot fail to overflow with gratitude and thanksgiving for 
God's goodness and nature's bounties. The undeniable signs of 
wealth on all sides give him more positive satisfaction than any less 
tangible property can awaken in its owner. The miser to enjoy 
his hoard must lock his door and chink the gold pieces together, 
else half his pleasure is wanting. Bare ownership never rewards 
men ; the reward is in seeing the possession, and showing it to 
others. The well-filled crib, the high-piled hay-stack or bay, the 
low of sleek cattle, the peaceful bleat of sheep, all reiterate in 
tones unmistakable to us and to our neighbors, our prosperity and 
thrift, and bear constant witness to our summer's work. 

Go to a farmer at such a time if you wish him to contribute to 
any worthy cause, and you will scarcely be refused. 

And it is not the farmer only that October cheers and delights. 
To the eyes of all who love nature, it offers, not decay and death, but 
a rich display of her choicest beauties. ' Every tree is now decked in 
its most glowing attire ; it seems as though all the sun's warmth and 
the earth's rich fatness had been collected and absorbed, only to be 
returned infinitely increased and improved. The air feels its duties 
enlarged, and is changed into blue and purple mists, that envelop all 
the hills and fill the valleys. Nothing is as it was. The hedgerows 
that all summer long have been the home of the cat bird and the 
* thrush, and whose floral beauties have hidden their heads in the thick 
verdure and shadow from the too ardent caresses of the sun. are now 
radiant with the yellow Golden-rod and the purple Aster ; in the 
brown meadows these flowers are almost put to shame by the rare 
blue of the Gentian. Rising from the meadows through these 
flower-mists of Asters and Golden-rods, gaining intensity of color 
as it reaches the Birches, Maples, Chestnuts, and Oaks, blended to- 
gether and yet made more brilliant by the purple atmosphere, the 
spirit of Beauty in color grows more and more wonderful and mag- 
nificent, till the splendors of the earth rival those of the sunset It 
seems as if a consciousness of the long sleep of winter now near 



ORNAMENTAL. 163 

at hand had roused the material world to show its gratitude to its 
Lord and Master for his constant care and kindness — for the gentle 
rains and winds of spring — for the hot and stimulating suns of 
summer — for the bounteous harvests of autumn — into one resound- 
ing hallelujah, in whose song the voice of the smallest flower is not 
lost, though blended with the mighty tones of forest and mountain. 

His heart must be dead who can walk the woods and fields now, 
careless or unconscious of the beauty around him. 

The harvest of the farmer is nearly over, and although 



" like coals of fire the apples 

Glow among the withered leaves/ 1 

he has little more to look for. But now is the very high noon of 
the harvest of beauty, which beginning for the true lover of nature 
in the Violet and May-flower of the spring, has been constantly 
swelling by brook and river, in the deep valley and up the hill- 
sides, all summer long, till now its fully ripened field is spread 
out over every foot of the earth's surface, and only waits the sickle 
of the reapers, who may cut and store away in their memories 
seed-grain which shall feed their minds in all the years to come, 
and growing and swelling in them, shall make them fit to partici- 
pate in all the bounties that God so lavishly pours upon his children 
through Nature. 



CHAPTER XXIII 



OVEMBER. The work of the Greenhouse 
in November is a continuation of that for 
October. All plants should by this time 
have been housed, for the most hardy cannot 
withstand the frosts which may come any 
night. It will not be necessary to start fires 
at present, unless we have a long cold rain- 
storm, or a cold " snap." 
This month and the next are the true winter for nearly all the 
plants in the houses. 

Such plants as have been carried in to blossom (Chrysanthe- 
mums, etc.) are of course in their glory, and must have abundance 
of air, sun, and water ; all other plants are to be watered very 
sparingly, and aired often enough to keep them hardy and vigor- 
ous ; there will be a constant tendency to decay and mildew, which 
can be prevented by fresh air and the immediate removal of any 
dead or dying leaves, twigs, etc Water only when there is a 
promise of bright weather, evaporation being slow in the present 
half dormant condition of the plants, and large supplies of water 
being likely to drown the roots. 

Be very careful that no cold finds you unprepared. In Novem- 
ber there are often ten days or a fortnight of perfect weather, the 
true Indian Summer; but the nights are often very much colder 
than would be expected from the warmth of the days. 

If there are any bulbs now going out of flower, as Tuberoses or 
exotic bulbs, which are not to be stimulated during the winter, 
cover them with dry Band or moss, and lay them away in a warm, 
dry place, till spring. 

Shut Up the sashes early in the afternoon ; put up the shutters 



GREENHOUSE. 165 

and let down the cover for the glass by the time the sun is fairly off 
the house. In this way you may keep a deal of warmth through 
the night. 

The gardener's judgment about keeping up his supply of flowers 
is severely tested in November and December. No good collec- 
tion need ever be destitute of flowers ; but our chief reliance must 
be on the common sorts* and principally on those that were taken 
from the flower-garden ; Roses, Heliotropes, Chrysanthemums, 
Verbenas, and the early-laid Pinks. It is difficult to get much 
variety beyond this. Cinerarias, Callas, Violets, Cyclamens, Pe- 
largoniums, Nemophilas, should be shifted, as they fill the pot with 
roots ; water the Azaleas sparingly, and give Oranges and Lemons 
but little water till they grow. Camelias need abundant water, 
and occasional showering or washing of leaves, to remove dust 
As the Carnations thrust up flower stems, tie them to sticks ; set 
Pelargoniums near the glass, and bring Tenweek Stocks into the 
house near the glass ; keep Spring Roses in cold frames. 

As in almost every house many plants are kept for the purpose 
of bedding out in the spring, and others for forcing in early sum- 
mer, one or more good pits should be made to contain them. 

I will describe several kinds of cold or conservative pits, in 
which plants may be kept either dormant or active. They should 
be made about November, to be ready for plants when first re- 
moved from the garden. 

The chief obstacles to wintering plants in pits, is their liability 
to be harmed by vermin, and the difficulty of regulating light and 
heat 

A Cheap Pit. — Select a piece of ground sheltered from the 
prevailing winter winds, and rather level, but with natural drainage 
enough to prevent water standing within 3 feet of the • surface. 
Mark out a parallelogram of the proportions 2x3, the length 
running east and west if possible, the width never exceeding 6 
feet ; 4 is better for convenience in managing. Dig this parallel- 
ogram 3 feet deep, and throw the earth out ; into the bottom of 
this cellar, and within three inches of each corner, drive into the 
earth a 3 x 4 joist ; those on the back, 5£ feet long, on the front, 



"H 



166 NOVEMBER. 

4£ ; this will leave them 18 and 6 inches respectively above the 
surface of the ground. To these posts, on the inside all round, 
nail inch boards from the bottom of the pit to the surface of the 
ground ; this leaves a space 6 inches wide between the boards and 
the sides of the cellar ; fill this space with oak tan or manure, well 
trodden or rammed. Now nail inch boards to both sides of the 
joists above ground, and fill the space between with well rammed 
tan. You have now a pit the top of which slopes to the south or 
east. Nail across the top grooved strips of wood, at such distances 
as to receive the edges of sashes and shutters. 

The construction of the pit within will differ, according as the 
plants are to be kept over in pots or not. 

If in pots, cover the bottom of the pit 6 inches deep with stones 
(having first underdrained, if the natural drainage is bad) ; over 
them put 1' foot of oak tan, or coal ashes, into which plunge the 
pots up to the brim ; this may be done any time before the first 
frosts. 

The objects to be sought are dryness, ventilation, and warmth ; 
the first to be secured by drainage, natural or artificial ; the second 
as follows : cover the frames, as you would a hotbed, with sashes, to 
slide in the grooves before mentioned ; in the early morning and 
late afternoon keep the sashes closed, but open them partly in the 
middle of the day until settled cold weather comes. At night 
cover the sashes with mats held in their places by boards ; you 
will thus keep a moderate, uniform temperature in the pit Just 
before winter, drive down a post 2 feet from each corner of the pit, 
and on a line 2 feet from the ends ; set those on the back up a 
little higher, and those on the front a little lower, than the parts of 
the pit-roof nearest them ; board up the outside of these posts, and 
fill in between these boards and the pit with well trodden leaves. 
Bank outside of all with leaves or long manure, as high as the 
shutters and mats. 

The cut shows a section of the pit a, interior of pit ; B, corner 
posts ; c, inside boarding ; d, outside boarding above ground ; e, 
sashes, etc ; /, second set of posts ; g, boards on outside of these ; 
H, tan or leaf filling ; i, outside bank. 

When winter is about to set in, lay the shutters over the glass, 



QEEENHOl.'fiK. 167 

over them straw matting, over the matting leaves or straw 6 inches 
deep, sloping ail to the 
lower side ; cover the whole 
with loose boards to shed 
rain. Make openings from 
the outer air into the pit by 
thrusting a handful of straw 
at intervals of about 3 feet 
through the covering into 

the pit; they will act as ventilators, the air passing up and down 
the straw. Whenever, during the winter, the outside temperature 
rises above freezing, and promises to stay so even for a few hours, 
uncover the whole top and open the sashes, so as to change the 
air. Before closing the pit in the fall, strew over the surface 
of the earth plenty of poisoned meal' or bread, to destroy any 
vermin that may burrow in. When the pit is opened during the 
winter, examine it, and remove any decaying plants or dead ver- 
min, and water very slightly with tepid water, but not unless the 
earth in the pots is very dry. 

As spring approaches, the coverings may be gradually removed, 
till the weather allows the plants to be treated as if they were in 
an ordinary hotbed. 

The success of the pit depends mainly on good drainage, gradual 
hardening of the plants during the fall, and as frequent admission 
of air and light through the winter and spring as possible. 

If the plants are put directly into the earth instead of pots, the 
pit most be managed differently. 

First fill in 6 inches of loose stones, then 1 foot of oak tan, or 
compact short manure ; over this 1 foot of rich loam. As early 
as the middle of September plant in this loam Geraniums, Helio- 
tropes, Verbenas, etc. Treat like a hotbed ; give air and water 
often enough to properly ventilate and stimulate the plants. When 
they seem to be well rooted, and begin to make a new growth, give 
all the air possible. Keep (he sashes off whenever the nights are not 
too cold, and gradually reduce the water to a minimum ; be careful 
that they are not touched by froM, and if necessary cover at night 
with mats or shutters ; the aim being to harden the plants slowly, 



168 



NOVEMBER. 



and by checking their growth to throw them into a dormant state. 
From this point treat as if they were in pots. 
An excellent conservative pit may be made in which to winter all 
kinds of plants, if we have the control of a small amount of heat. 
Such a pit should be a permanent structure, and will therefore be 
rather more expensive than the one just described. I do not mean 
what is often called a conservative pit, in which flowers can be pro- 
duced during the winter, but one where plants can be ventilated and 
kept in a more healthy condition than in a close pit The objection 
to the pit before described, is that it is unsightly and clumsy, and 
destitute of abundant ventilation ; the one now to be described can 
be in any portion of the ground without offending the eye or the 
nose. There are few. or none like it in this country, but it is com- 
mon in England, and recommended by the best English authori- 
ties. 

It is 6 feet wide, 3£ feet high behind, 2£ feet high in front, with 
hollow brick walls, the air chamber thus left being a better non- 
conductor than 9 inches of solid brick, beside affording a means 
for ventilating and heating. Length such as you please. The pit 
may be either wholly or partly above ground. Its site is a matter 
of some importance, to secure ready drainage and convenience in 
warming. It would be well to have it near the greenhouse, the 
dwelling-house, or the barn cellar. The cut shows how it could 
receive warmth from dung, and more, if necessary, from hot-water 
pipes. If the plants to be preserved need 2£ feet in the clear, dig 2 
feet additional of cellar. Cover the bottom with coal ashes to absorb 

any water that may 
fall through. Carry 
up the walls, b b y 
on the pigeon-hole 
system; i.e-, lay 
them so as to leave 
an open space every 
other brick, the size 
of the end of a brick. When you reach the surface of the ground, 
<?, begin to carry up either a solid brick wall 9 inches thick, or a 
double wall ; in the latter case, let the air chamber connect with the 




GREENHOUSE. 169 

pigeon-holes below, so that the air warmed by the lining or the fire, 
may ascend into the air chamber. Carry through the walls near 
the floor, and thence by an elbow to the surface, pipes, g y 3 inches 
in diameter, and 6 feet apart, with a movable cover, to admit out- 
side air to the bottom of the pit, the chill being taken off in its pas- 
sage through the lining in the chamber d, and the warming being 
completed by contact with the hot pipes. Build the outer wall, e, 
of solid brick, 2 feet from the inside wall ; cover d with a lid 
shutting down tight. The heating pipes are shown at k. Build 
a floor, t, about on a level with the surface of the ground, 
of crossed strips of wood, making an open work, through which 
water spilled at any time will fall to the coal ashes below and be 
absorbed ; on this floor the pots are to be set. 

No provision is made for aeration, as no cold air holes are to be 
allowed above the surface in severe weather ; at other times the 
sashes may be raised enough to allow confined air to escape ; but 
frtth air will be admitted through b whenever the valve which con- 
trols it at the top is open. 

The chamber between the brick walls at d being filled with well- 
trampled, ■unfermented stable manure, the heat from this will spread 
through the pigeon-holes in the wall b, and suffice for all but the 
most severe weather ; this filling must be changed as often as it 
loses its heat When d is full, shut f and cover it with boards 
and straw. The pipes h h are to be connected with the house fur- 
nace or boiler or range, or with the boiler in the greenhouse, or 
the smoke-flue of some constantly used chimney may be carried 
under the floor. The sashes are movable, and in cold weather 
covered with shutters and mats ; the latter must be large enough 
to cover and lap over the joists. 

When the preservation of the plants is the sole object, it is well 
to let the pit face the north, that the plants may not be too much 
heated and stimulated to grow ; but if a gentle, early growth is 
desired, the aspect should be toward the south or east. In summer 
the sashes can be removed, and in spring the heat can be regulated 
by admitting air. 

No heating pipes or flues would be necessary, if the depth and 

width of d were so increased as to hold a large body of manure, 

15 




5^ 



170 NOVEMBER. 

which must be removed and renewed as often as it loses its heat 
The outer air should always be introduced into the bottom of the 
pit, that it may be warmed before it reaches the plants. Remember 
that perfect dryness is essential to the success of such a pit 

Many of the half-hardy plants can be carried through the winter 
in a pit thus managed, with but little manure, and that seldom re- 
newed ; the half-hardy Roses often live through our winter with 
only a covering of straw, and Pelargoniums and Verbenas can en- 
dure a considerable degree of cold. 

Span-roofed cold-pits made in this manner, cost but little more, 
and like all span-roofed buildings, they are better when light and 
air can be admitted ; but during our severe winters they are pro- 
tected with more difficulty. 

By the use of a peculiarly made rafter, additional warmth may 

be secured. The cut shows a section of such a 
rafter ; b is a shoulder where the sash rests and 
slides ; c is another shoulder where a wooden 
IV shutter slides ; a button, a, keeps it in place. The 
■ i air chamber, 2 inches deep, between b and c, is 
a better protection than an additional shutter. 

November is the proper month for cleaning 
and mending hotbed frames, making new ones, 
and getting them all ready for spring. Hotbeds may be made as 
simply as one pleases, and at a very small cost. The rough and 
cheap kinds answer very well, but require more care and watching 
than the best. We have several varieties on our place, which will 
be described hereafter. v 

Many half-hardy and even quite tender plants may be safely 
preserved till spring, by freezing them up. Surround them with 
rough deal boxes, leaving the top open until violent freezing 
weather comes on. When they are well frozen cover the tops and 
exclude light and air till the spring is so far advanced as to remove 
danger of hard freezing ; then gradually uncover and thaw them 
out In many cases it is not so much the freezing which destroys 
life, as the alternation of frequent freezings and thawings ; this 
may be prevented in the way described. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 



CONSERVATORY. 



There is but little to be done in the conservatory this month. 
The general management is the same as in the greenhouse ; but as 
more plants are in blossom than in that house, there is need of more 
heat, lest they be checked and their buds damped off. All that is 
necessary, however, is to keep a mild and uniform temperature, 
water moderately, and give no general syringing except on bright 
days. 

The Camelias are swelling their buds considerably, and if the 
gardener has shown due attention, there will be a good general 
supply of flowers. 

In no month is a beautiful collection of flowers more cheering 
than now, when the glow and beauty of October are slipping away 
to join the by-gone glories of summer. The trees- have lost their 
leaves, and the occasional Aster or Golden-rod to be met with in 
our walks, only renders the contrast of naked trees, sere and yel- 
low leaves, frost-burnt grass and deserted garden, more sad. 

There will still be beautiful days, and during the true Indian 
summer, when the skies are full of warm, vague lights, and a mys- 
terious haze clothes every thing and penetrates everywhere, we 
shall bask contentedly in the sunshine ; but such days will soon be 
gone. They are the last lingering kisses summer is giving the be- 
loved earth ere she goes. They are indeed beautiful, yet always 
sad. Nature seems tearfully bidding good-by to the loveliness 
that lingers in the land ; and as in our memories the pleasures of 
the past are most prominent, and veil with their rosy light and 
pleasant indistinctness the sorrows, the painful experiences, the 
days of sickness and misery, so is the face of the earth suffused 
with the exhaling memories of spring and summer ; the trees and 

rocks and grassy meadows are all bathed in rare purple and golden 

171 



172 NOVEMBER. 

lights, and covered and penetrated with mists and vapors, which 
seem to clothe lovingly and sympathizingly the trunks and limbs 
that have stripped in preparation for their coming contest with the 
winter storms. 

But these tender and precious memories are still those that rise 
as good-by is spoken. As we stroll through the woods, our feet 
rustle in fallen leaves. We look out through naked stems and 

r branches over wide views, which but a few weeks ago were hidden 
by thick, leafy curtains. No birds fill the air with cheerful songs, 
though an occasional partridge whirs away before us, or a quail 
rises to find more secret cover. The busy squirrel hastens from 
tree to tree with quick leap and sharp bark, eagerly gathering the 
remaining nuts for his winter's store. Before our walk has been 
carried to half its former length, the shortening day and setting 
sun remind us that home-life and firelight must take the place of 
the prolonged rambles of the summer that is gone. 

In such days we receive peculiar delight upon entering a well- 
filled conservatory, whose fresh, green leaves, bright flowers, and 
delicious fragrance beguile the senses, and together with the warm 

. sun and still ajr, induce the belief that summer has not gone, but 
has only come in §x>m the fields without, where she was common 
to all, and yet had about her something of the unapproachable and 
grand, to our hearts and homes, that nearness and daily familiarity 
may make us more intimate with her workings, and unlock to us the 
secrets of her growth and perfection ; and, by bringing us closer to 
her may awaken or strengthen our love for her wonders and beau- 
ties, and bring us into sympathy with the floral loveliness so lavishly 
spread on all sides during the growing year. 



\ 



:<\< * 



('iAT'lKR X\V. 

'■ :• lt -!mtv 'p:ikv> '!t .-h d.t (i( ■uirid* o: s . *h<* jr-l, 
'' .■ : I'-i'j il.i.-' »)>''.'. I. ; *li • '•'•L-.'r'i.:«:*-ii»' , !'<' 4 •t! , >i''' in •» „ . i- '•'••". 
'..j • . j. •- t'ii tru:t ?h<"v K«-^ : is to j ,: j»''ii. and in • *•. • t<j -r, - 

: »» i i«..:i* tii:.« , it '»:v i'ii :j ■] i.ti 1 "-. «mv o^m^* r.i*r . pii-*' *••• 

•••-.i: •... -.1 l)i r n«: l »ii«': I, dsv v, •;i:1hm 3 Jmif a.* M-'-c'v, r- 

. ■ ii :.\d drv f \if ! t-«: <\ }»iii iu-wi- do th's vth'w it i- ••} / :\ m 

.'•i .*. Ii it *v.-'v |. ,).-> .1 ■ It •(> i!j. ',#■:♦, t!;v lnw-» a* ''»• -w 

!-• At :- Iriv' , him . i'ii- « ij-;»;.. ; i-i.i !'i i»t o« '.■ r j»ri »<;-\ . ■. i, j« .1 

• ]\*\ ■« ;>t tin. '\j»* '.-«■ '»t i!u* vut: 1 -'. I* • . d 0.1 
«• •■%. 1 r 'isrtiJii • . f»i »/ ." 'hi \ !!■«•*, •• ' • -i ■'. ■ 

• *. • ■ «J '»\* m tiil.'jf .!»« jmS i'jlo.'l «■ »ol, . 5 ! "■'.'- 

• i(- ■«« u m'!i in* *ji! i- v Am; to tin «« ^ i;.« » i. . 

*d :iiv :ii^i von ol.ji • .';• v< h< •• 1 iiiV'-ii d !•»• r» ■ *v « (ir ••••s. 
.t*t'! v -ill vpriiMis :»iir • <. F<> • in^l-t.-f' ; cut <-'j ti.- hi^i'li, with 

1 "• i,\' •' •• \\<>nd, hv w" ..•(■ it n i\ h- ! j . . l i LT I'O I.I .'i < >'.!, d:l-*'\, 

I'h hi-. !•'■ ., .. >n« v, r |J.' on n'i<» -I,-. 'I, -r. ao'I r i" % i n ot ; it '.,,-. 
•I: :• '.'■. . ),c. p i'I'omwm ■' tv ^u-MrM'l : » Mii'n'h hv 'i -ir.iiif, or l to 
«'*• "*•»., n* ir in 1 1 ,»I1 rnd. ''iii- : :'» rin_: u- (vi-'cr, r'o tiitt 

i'v ' i ri'\ m./v 'hi* ' !'-k jV'.iii ir- iii-i-J !)«)!■<;, and ( tiiruh t h«» 
•« '»•,<,■•.! i-.it rj , „ -. ,. ; n,r \.iil t!: • ' -" » r j • * ! . Mid s«'t il> «•• d io *at<*r. 
•"i . :: *t m »•{■«. o ••! • i-.i»n..ilv. io i'ii »i'v uli.»'orj'!i(»o. 

\ ' 'ii : l\s *!i»' hi. i.ln-s i r i dri\'»< ^ f '><r : :.ir. n.id -i j'jior h' r 

* .. h ui'Il (.i*i"iT. h-ti"'.«_ ; ' ! is fc(\I^ fi'iw tn i'l t V »\ • ll. I II "'.'«'♦ - 



11' -'. • ' r-. 



• l 1- »n« M.od r- ••■!! 1>{< r»» ioi- 



1. "1. 



(>;■ ki*i« h» ;■.>« «*n ! . 



-t 'iti:." 1 01 I'otfciuhi fi/:u Imcl.' ;-. w '■:,!•; h< o.\"'. ,1 .li*. h»* ■ 



;rj* 




CHAPTER XXV. 



GRAPERY. 



The grapery makes but slight demands on the gardener's atten- 
tion during this month ; the retarding-house alone needing careful 
watching, as the fruit there begins to ripen, and in order to pre- 
serve it a long time, a uniform and rather low temperature must be 
maintained. During bright, dry weather admit air freely, to 
sweeten and dry the house, but never do this when it is cloudy or 
damp. Dryness and uniformity of temperature are now the desir- 
able things. If it were possible to darken the house as soon as 
the fruit is fairly ripe, the Grapes could be better preserved, but it 
would be at the expense of the vines. Disbud the vines, as di- 
rected in February. Grapes on vines, retarded in pots, may be 
preserved by setting jhe pots into a cool, dark room, as most culti- 
vators attach no farther value to these vines, which, like all others, 
are certain to be injured by prolonged darkness. 

Many ingenious plans have been invented for preserving Grapes, 
and with various success. For instance: cut off. the bunch, with 
a bit of the wood, by which it may be hung up in a cool, dark, 
dry place, and kept for a long time without shrivelling. 

The berries, however, lie on one another, and often rot ; it has, 
therefore, been proposed to suspend the bunch by a string, tied to 
the stem, near the small end, thus inverting the cluster, so that 
every berry may fall back from its neighbors, and contact be 
avoided ; cut a long cane with the bunch, and set its end in water, 
removing a section occasionally, to ensure absorption. 

Again : lay the bunches in drawers covering, and supporting 
each with cotton batting ; this keeps them pretty well. Undoubt- 
edly the method given before for pears — packing between layers 
of flannel or cotton, in tight buckets, would be excellent for grapes. 

15* 173 



174 



NOVEMBER, 



But the vines are the best place for them as long as they can well 
be kept there. 

With a separate house or compartment for each kind of vine, the 
fruit could be better preserved, as different vines ripen at different 
seasons, and need different degrees of heat and moisture to bring 
them to, and keep them in, the best condition. But this is not 
within our means. 

Prune vines in forcing-house, and cold grapery, as the wood 
ripens ; also the fruit trees. 

Mr. Allen, to whom I have frequently referred, gives, as the 
best vines for retarding-houses, the following names, and propor- 
tions. If the house is small, have fewer vines ; if large, more in 
the same proportion. 



Black Hamburgh, 


6 


Canmon Hall Muscat, 1 


Muscat of Alexandria, 


2 


White Hamburgh, 1 


Zinfindal, 


1 


Escholata Muscat, 1 


Black Lombardy, 


5 


White Nice, 1 


Wortlyhall Seedling-, 


3 


Bed Lombardy, 1 


Tottenham Park Muscat, 


1 


Queen of Nice, 1 


Syrian, 


3 


Bowker, 1 


Black Damascus, 


1 


Bishop, 1 


Black Prince, 


1 


Black Portugal, or Ferrara, 1 


Old Black St. Peter's, 


4 


Prince Albert, 3 



Temperature. — To ensure the right temperature in all our 
houses, during November and December, it is necessary to watch 
the thermometer closely, and have the fires ready to kindle at a 
moment's notice. Our climate is treacherous in these months, and 
we often have several days of unexpected and severe frost, fol- 
lowed by many of mild and charming weather. 

Now, and in future, it is very important to preserve a standard 
and uniform degree of moisture in the house ; and the only accu- 
' rate means of determining moisture and warmth is the hygrometer 
or double-bulbed thermometer. By this instrument you may easily 
ascertain the precise amount of heat and moisture present in the 
air at any one time. To understand it, and its use, we must revert 
to the general laws which govern the atmosphere. 

The evaporation which goes on so rapidly beneath a summer 



GBAPERY. 175 

sun, is water assuming the form of vapor, and rising in accordance 
with the general laws of gases. Gases do not generally, when 
mixed together, form a single gas, but only a mixture, like sand and 
water. Thus the vapor, in the air, spreads itself by its own elastic- 
ity, dependent on its temperature, or is carried about in currents 
of moving air. The amount of' vapor which a cubic foot of space 
can contain, depends solely on its temperature ; although the time 
required to fill, that space with vapor, from water of the same tem- 
perature, depends on the density of the air in it, by which the ex- 
pansion of the vapor is retarded. If air, containing all the vapor 
which its temperature admits, be chilled in any degree, a part of 
its vapor will be changed into water, in a state of very minute sub- 
division, which will float like dust in the air ; this is fog, mist, or 
cloud. If the air is at 70°, but contains only as much vapor as 
might be held by air of 57°, it is plain that mist would not be 
formed until the air was cooled down to 57°. The degree to which 
air must be cooled, to make the vapor in it turn to water, is called 
the dewpoint ; and the dewpoint evidently shows the quantity of 
water in the air. , 

When the dewpoint is high, and the air is by any means forced 
to ascend, and thus by expansion and other causes, to be cooled, 
clouds are formed. The upward motion of the air is indicated by 
the barometer's falling. 

When any surface is colder than the dewpoint, it chills the ad- 
jacent vapor into dew. The simplest exemplification of this 
is seen when a cold surface is held over a steaming kettle, and 
condenses into drops the water which we see in the form of steam ; 
and when a 'film of water collects on the outside of a glass of 
iced water, in summer, the same operation is repeated, the only 
difference being that the watery vapor has before been invisibly 
diffused in the air, instead of being visible as steam. The cold, 
condensing surface which nature holds to collect a portion of the 
unseen moisture in the atmosphere, as dew, is the surface of the 
earth, and the things upon it. Dew falls by night, and not by day, 
because the sun-heats prevents the earth from cooling during the 
day, though it is radiating (i.e., parting with) its heat as constantly 



176 NOVEMBER. 

at one time as at another. All night long the earth gives off heat, 
while it receives none in return, and thus it becomes colder than 
the air that is nearest it, and begins to take heat from the air, i.e., 
becomes at once a cold, condensing surface, and dew is deposited 
on it Remember that cold surfaces become condensers in virtue 
of their power to draw away that % heat from the air, on which, as 
has been said, its power of containing vapor partly depends. The 
rapidity with which dew is deposited depends, therefore, on the 
warmth of moisture in the air, and on the difference between its 
temperature and that of the earth ; cold condenses moisture as 
the hand squeezes a sponge, and when either the air or the sponge 
is nearly as full of moisture as it can hold, a slight squeeze brings 
out the water. 

Objects with a large amount of surface in proportion to their 
bulk, as is the case with grass and trees, radiate heat most rapidly, 
and are, of course, the best condensers, as may be seen by the 
greater amount of dew on them than on smooth ground or boards. 
In cold nights the dew freezes as it forms, and we have frost. 

Independently of the cooling influence of the earth, the atmos- 
phere cools somewhat at night, though its power of radiation is as 
small as its power of absorbing the heat radiated into it 

It is for this reason that a covering of mats in a cloudy night 
protects plants from frost — the mats or clouds acting as a screen 
to prevent the escape of the heat which the earth is radiating, and 
to shut it in about the surface which they cover. 

Understanding, then, that the power of the atmosphere to con- 
tain watery vapor depends mainly on its temperature, its heat 
and the amount of moisture already contained in if, we see the 
value of an instrument by which these two conditions, the heat, 
and extent of saturation, may be ascertained ; in connection with 
the barometer it enables us to foresee changes of weather. The 
, hygrometer is a thermometer with two bulbs and stems ; about one 
of the bulbs a bit of cambric is fastened by one end, while the 
other falls into a cup of water, placed just beneath the bulb, and 
thus keeps the bulb constantly wet, and at the temperature of 
water standing exposed in the atmosphere, to which temperature 
the air must closely assimilate before any rain can fall, and this 



GRAPERY. 177 

temperature may be read off by the height of the mercury in the 
wet tube, while that in the other tube shows the temperature of 
the air not in contact with the wet bulb. 

So long as there is much difference in the temperatures shown 
by the two thermometers, there will be no general deposition of 
moisture, dew, nor especially rain, for that cannot take place till the 
general temperature approaches the dew point But the upper 
strata of air may be at this point, and the probability of rain is 
greater or less in proportion to the distance of air thus saturated, 
and cooled from the earth's surface. The air cools 1£° and the 
dew point sinks 1° for every 100 yards that we rise above the 
earth. 

If the barometer is. falling while the difference of temperature 
between the two tubes of the hygrometer is slight, it is plain that 
we may expect a change of weather soon, at the surface level ; 
and this will come the sooner if the sky is crowded with cirro 
cumuli clouds, — particularly if the cumuli have flat bases, — the 
cirrus at such times showing a very moist state of the upper air. 

By the following formula the probability of wet weather may 
be calculated from the hygrometer, the barometer being examined 
at the same time. When there is a difference of 20° between the 
wet and dry bulbs clouds can scarcely form ; but they form when 
the difference is reduced to 10° or 12°, and then rain may be ex- 
pected, provided the barometer is falling. 



Multiply the difference between Wet Bulb 


and 


Dry Bulb 


by 


40° 




45° 


2.3 


45° 




50° 


2.1 


50° 




55° 


2.0 


55° 




60° 


1.8 


60° 




65° 


1.8 


65° 




70° 


1.7 




above 70° 


1.5 



Subtract the product from the figures of the dry bulb in the same 
line, — that is, from the temperature of the air, — and you have 
the dew point When the two bulbs are within a few degrees of 



178 NOVEMBER. 

each other, a very slight commotion in the atmosphere will pro* 
duce rain. Thus, suppose 

Dry Bulb. Wet Bulb. 

70° — 65° = 5° x 1.7 = 8° 
70° — 8° = 62° = dew point. 

To this point the atmosphere will often cool in summer, and 
in all cases where the multiplying factor is 1.1, or when, in 
other words, the thermometers are near the same point, rain is 
threatening, and will rail soon. For the general use of horticul- 
ture, it is enough to compare the two thermometers of the hy- 
grometer, without making a calculation, for this tells accurately 
enough to what extent the air is saturated. 

Thus in the retarding-house in November, we can ascertain at a 
glance whether the air is too moist, or if with the air in the forcing 
house at a given temperature we wish to increase the moisture, 
we can proceed with perfect certainty of success. 

It is also a great assistance, in connection with the barometer, 
to the haymaker, in deciding upon the weather to be expected. 
And it is the general service which the instrument may render in 
the hands of a careful experimenter, which has induced me to en- 
large to such an extent as I have, on the subject 

The Forcing-House. — This house needs only to be kept 
clear of all decaying matter, ventilated freely, and kept at a uni- 
form temperature, and, as before said, pruned if the wood is ripe. 
So with the 

Cold Grapery. — Keep the vines here as cool as possible, 
without risk of injury from frost As soon as the leaves begin to 
fall, early in the month, cut back all this year's cane, excepting 4 
feet ; cut the spurs which have fruited back to the new wood, and 
those which have not, to one eye which may bear next year. 
This is a good time to cut out all spurs that crowd each other, 
leaving the permanent spurs not less than 8 inches apart an (he 



GRAPERY. 179 

same side of the stem. Clean the grapery thoroughly, and white- 
wash the walls, mixing a little sulphur with the wash. Dress the 
vines, as directed for Peaches in February, with the sulphur wash ; 
towards the close of the month, unfasten them from the trellisses 
and lay them down for the winter, and as the weather becomes 
cold, cover with mats. 



CHAPTER XXVL 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



November is the last month of the flower-garden for this calen- 
dar year ; now is to be done every thing left unfinished in the pre- 
ceding months. Finish planting any bulbs yet on hand. They may 
be planted, indeed, any time before the frost comes, but will blos- 
som better, if planted early enough to make roots in the autumn. 
The beds should be covered with litter ; common Tulips, Hya- 
cinths, Narcissus, and Crocuses, need very slight protection ; the 
depth of an inch or two of old litter, straw, or leaves, scattered 
over the bed, is enough ; indeed, they are so hardy that they can 
stand the frost without any covering at all, but they flower earlier 
and better if they are covered. The choice varieties should be 
protected, with some well-rotted compost added to the litter. 

You may still, if there is room in the greenhouse, etc., take up 
Daisies and Pansies, Gilly and Wall-flowers, which have not blos- 
somed, for winter forcing. Daisies may be carried through the 
winter in blossom, if transplanted now, with a good ball of earth, 
into a common hotbed frame. As soon as planted, put in the 
sashes, and keep them warm enough to start them ; then admit air 
freely, so as to harden them. From this time, keep the sashes 
on only enough to shut out the frost; cover them with mats 
and leaves on very cold days ; admit air whenever it is possible. 
The Daisies will begin to blossom, if attended to by the last of 
March, and continue till the hotbeds can be removed from around 
them. The same treatment of English Violets and Pansies will 
insure a large yeild of flowers early in the spring. 

Ranunculuses and Anemones in this latitude are very difficult 
to raise, unless protected through the winter in some such way as 
I have just described ; some of the latter are so tender as to need 
as much care and attention as a cold pit 

180 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 181 

Early in the month, or before the ground freezes, take up all 
bulbs not hardy, as Tuberose, Madeira Vine, Lilies, Amaryllis, 
Gladiolus, etc. ; dry them carefully and pack them away in dry 
sand till it is time to start them in the spring. The foliage of 
some of these bulbs will have already perished, while that of 
others will be green unless touched by the frost Allow the tops 
of the latter to dry before you separate them from the roots after 
they are taken up. The sap contained in the tops will settle into 
and ripen the bulbs. 

The Polyanthus is quite hardy in this latitude, but the choice kinds 
flower much more abundantly when covered during the. winter. 

Carnations, also, though hardy, are sometimes killed by being 
started in the warm days in February and March, and ought to be 
protected by a light covering of litter. 

Select from your bulbs such as are to blossom in glasses or pots, 
in the greenhouse, conservatory, or dwelling-house, in the spring, 
and plant them or set them into glasses. For this purpose select 
none but the ripest and healthiest-looking bulbs, as any others will 
give a weak and spindling growth, and perhaps prove deficient in 
flowers. The bulbs fitted for such growth are Tulip, Hyacinth, 
Dwarf-Iris, Polyanthus, Narcissus, Crocus, and Jonquil. Regular 
bulb glasses are the best things to use ; set the bulb into the neck 
of the glass and fill with water until it just covers the crown of 
the bulb. If you take a large glass, and cover the mouth with 
coarse wire gauze, you can set into it several kinds of bulbs, which 
will blossom together. 

Protect the tender Rhododendrons, Half Hardy Roses, Mahonia, 

. and, indeed, all tender Evergreen or deciduous shrubs, with bass 

mats, Evergreen branches, or straw. For the Evergreens it will 

be enough to stand branches of Pine or Hemlock closely around 

them ; what they need is protection, not so much against cold as 

against the sun's rays in the early spring. Most of the other plants 

should have straw bands twisted around them, but not in thick 

masses, as the straw is liable to get wet, or heat and decay, and 

thus destroy the plant. Standard Roses should be laid down on 

the earth, where they may be held by long forked sticks, and 

covered with straw or leaves, overlaid with branches of Evergreen. 

16 



182 NOVEMBER. 

Bengal and China Roses must be covered either with earth or 
deep litter ; Musk, Noisette, and Ayrshire should be well wrapped 
in straw and mats ; Bourbon in light litter ; Hyb. Bourbon, Hyb. 
Chinese, Hyb. Perpetual should be lightly wrapped in straw ; 
Provence, French Moss, Rose Alba, and other garden Roses should 
be pruned and have a little manure piled about their roots and be 
left. Prune all hardy Roses before covering, leave tender kinds 
till March or April. For Rose culture see June and July. 

Examine the borders and remove every weed, and, if possible, 
flig them over, also the flower-beds and borders, so that the 
loosened earth may admit the frost freely, to crumble stones and 
clods, and kill the eggs of insects and the seeds of weeds. Any 
beds that will need manure next summer should have a good 
dressing of long and unfermented manure now ; this being dug in 
will, during the winter, ferment and decay, and bring the soil into 
fine condition for next season's culture. 

As you will want next spring and summer a variety of compost, 
make into convenient heaps old leaves, straw manure, wood mould, 
muck and clay, or sand. These mixed with lime and ashes will 
make excellent compost, ready for use when you want it 

Examine the gravel walks, — dig out any weeds that have been 
left, and put on and roll well such gravel as is needed ; the frost 
will mix it with the old stock, and another rolling in the spring 
will give us paths in firstrate order. 

Baskets and all wire-work should be removed now into the tool- 
room for the winter, and the beds enclosed with wire-work be well 
dug over. 

Look over the vines on trellises ; clear away dead branches, 
prune off all straggling ends, and tie the vines carefully to the 
supports, lest the winter winds thresh them about ; untie and cover 
with straw or mats the tender Roses and Bignonias. 

Most of the perennials should have been planted in October, 
but it is not too late any time before hard frosts. I will accordingly 
now give a plan for planting one of our beds with perennials, and 
bedding out plants, to produce an agreeable effect. 

See plan, beds R. The numbers on the plan refer to the 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



188 



heights of plants ; 1 for the highest, and so on. The following is 
the list of plants for those beds : — 



Time of Flower. 


Height. 


Color. No 


. PJants. 


No. 1. Saxifrage, 


May, 


Sin. 


white, 


1. 


Uvularia grandi- 










flora, 


<< 


1 ft. 


yellow, 


2. 


Primula, 


« 


tt 


yellow, red, 


1. 


Double Bagged 










Robin, 


<t 


n 


red, 


1. 


Purple Lupin, 


June, 


2 ft. 


blue, 


1. 


Iris, 


<< 


3 ft. 


blue, white, 


3. 


Blackberry Lily, 


tt 


IS in. 


yellow, 


1. 


Spirea, 


n 


it 


various, 


2. 


Lychnis. 


u 


2 ft. 


scarlet, 


3. 


Fraxinella, 


July, 


n 


blue, 




Monarda, 


n 


tt 


white, scarlet, 


3. 


Hibiscus, 


tt 


"/ 


various, 


3. 


Lily, 


tt 


1 to 3 ft. 


tt 


4. 


No. 2. Solomon's Seal, 


May, 


1 ft. 


white, 


3. 


Columbine, 


*t 


tt 


various, 


4. 


Primula, 


n 


n 


yellow, red, 


2. 


Hairy Phlox, 


June, 


6 in. 


red, 


1. 


Canadian Lily, 


u 


tt 


u 


2. 


Garden Pink, 


tt 


tt 


sorts, 


6. 


Campanula, dpuble 










and single, 


M 


a 


u 


3. 


Flax, 


(( 


n 


blue and yellow, 


2. 


Double Lychnis, 


July, 


1 ft. 


scarlet, 


2. 


Antirrhinum, 


u 


1 ft. to 6 in. 


sorts, 


3. 


Lily, 


tt 


tt 


a 


3. 


Aster double, 


Aug. 


tt 


tt 


12. 


Ladies Tresses, 


u 


6 in. 


white, 


2. 


Achillea, 


Aug., Sept., 


1 ft. 


red, white, 


2. 


Asters Single, 


u a 




sorts, 


6. 


No. 3. Moss Pink or 










Phlox, 


Mav, 


6 in. 


red, white, 


2. 


Pulmonaria, 


tt 


tf 


purple, 


1. 


Lily of the Valley, 


it 


a 


white, 


many. 




June, 


a 


white, blue, 


2. 


Campanula, 


July, 


.1 ft. 


blue, white, 


2. 



In No. 3 room is to be left for some of the bedding plants. For 



184 



NOVEMBER. 



such a bed, place in the back part near the larger perennials, sev- 
eral roots of Sage ; Mexican and Large Purple. Coming forward 
in the bed, put in Orange Lantana, Heliotrope, Pelargonium (Tom 
Thumb, Horse-shoe, etc.), Trailing Lantana, and Verbena ; in front, 
along the edge of the path, will be sown Mignonette and Sweet 
Alyssum. 





BED 


K. 








Time of flower. 


Height. 


Color. No. 


Plants. 


No. 1. Pedicularis, 


May, 


1 ft 


yellow, 


2. 


Uvularia, 


<< 


tt 


tt 


2. 


Dielytra, 


<( 


tt 


red, 


1. 


Peony, 


<< 


a 


red, white. 


3. 


Penstemon, 


June, 


2-3 ft. 


white, 


1. 


Doable Larkspur, 


tt 


3 ft. 


blue, 


2. 


Vervain, 


<< 


2 ft. 


tt 


1. 


Peony, 


tt 


3 ft. 


white, 


1. 


Fraxinella, 


July, 


2 ft. 


blue, white, 


1. 


Dracocephalum, 


•« 


3 ft. 


pink, 


2. 


Lily, 


«i 


1-3 ft. 


sorts, 


4. 


Cotonanche, 


August, 


2 ft. 


blue, 


1. 


Galliardia, 


tt 


2 ft. 


orange, 


1. 


Yucca, 


tt 


2-3 ft 


white, 


2. 


Hemerocallis, 


f< 


<> 


blue, white, 


3. 


Cassia, 


tt 


3 ft. 


yellow, 


1. 


Golden-rod, 


Aug., Sept., 


1-3 ft. 


<( 


2. 


Asclepias, 


tt tt 


2 ft. 


red, yellow, 


1. 


Coreopsis, 


• 


2 ft. 


yellow, 


2. 


Chrysanthemum, 


September, 


1-3 ft. 


60rt8, 


12. 


Gentian, 


tt 


2 ft. 


blue, 


2. 


No. 2. Saxifrage, 


May, 


18 in. 


white, 


1. 


Delphineum, 


n 


k 


blue, 


2. 


Dodecatheon, 


tt 


tt 


red, 


1. 


Soapwort, 


June, 


1 ft. 


tt 


2. 


Double Rocket, 


it 


(< 


white, 


3. 


U\j, 


ti 


1 to 3 ft. 


sorts, 


1. 


Senecio aurea, 


tt 


1 ft. 


yellow, 


3. 


« Antirrhinum, 


tt 


1 ft. 


sorts, 


1. 


* Aconite, 


tt 


1 to 3 ft. 


blue, 


2. 


Chelone. 


July, 


1 ft. 


white, 


2. 


Double Lychnis, 


tt 


1 ft. 


red, 


2. 


Perpetual Pea, 


tt 


2 ft. 


tt 


1. 

• 


Fumitory, 


tt 


1 ft. 


pink. 


2. 



FLOWBB-OARDEN. 



185 



Time of flower. Height. 
July, 1 ft. 

July, Aug., Sept., 1-3 ft. 
July, Aug., 2 ft. 
Aug., Sept., 



<t 



May, 



tt 

tt 
tt 



No. 2. Lobelia, 

Phlox, 

Coreopsis, 

Wild Aster, 

Golden-rod, 
No. 3. Solomon's Seal, 

Columbine, 

Violets, 

Polemonuim, 

Lily of the Valley, 

Iris dwarf, 

Hairy Phlox, 

Garden Pinks, 

Campanula, 

Spiderwort, 

Sedum, 

Lysimachia Nam- 
malaria, 

Mallows, Jnly» Aug., 

Chinese Lychnis, August, 

Ladies' Tresses, " 

Asters, double, Aug., Sept., 

Achillea, " 

Eupatorium, September, 

Chrysanthemum, 
dwarf, 



June, 
tt 

June, July, 



tt 
tt 



tt 
tt 



tt tt 



2 ft. 

2 ft. 

1 ft. 

6 in. 
tt 

u 

1 ft. 

6 in. 

tt 

1 ft. 

6 in. 

2 in. 

1 ft. 

1 ft. 
tt 

1-2 ft. 
1 ft. 
1 ft. 



tt 



Color, 
blue, red, 

sorts, 
yellow, 

sorts, 
yellow, 

white, 

sorts, 



tt 



blue, 
white, 
blue, 
blue, 
pink, 
sorts, 
blue, 
white, 



No. plants, 
3 
10 
3 
3 
3 
2 
3 
6 
2 
3 
3 
2 
3 
6 
1 
1 



yellow, 3 

white, 1 

orange, 1 

white, 2 

sorts, 12 

red, 1 

blue and white, 1 

sorts, 6. 



Plant among these the same bedding plants as before, using as 
annuals, Candytuft, Gillia, etc ; add, in the first class, Dahlias and 
Hollyhocks, in the second, Tuberose, Gladiolus, Amaryllis, and 
Japan Lily, etc 

The question arises here of the grouping of these plants in their 
different sizes and classes ; but no rule need be given except that 
of placing the taller ones in the background, that they may not / 
conceal the others. In setting out bedding-plants care must be 
taken also to give harmonious effects of color. This subject will 
be more fully entered upon in the summer. 

Here we leave the flower-garden until April and May with their 
soft showers and warm sun and winds shall have cleared away the 
effects of the winter's frosts, and prepared the earth for its work again. 

16* 



CHAPTER XXVIL 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The question of the profit or loss of our kitchen-garden will be 
settled this month, for there will be no more income or expendi- 
ture till another season. 

But first comes a very busy time ; for we must not only finish 
all our harvesting, but prepare for spring work, and look to the 
proper protection of the various crops which are to be kept through 
the winter, either for consumption or spring culture. 

Lettuce, Cabbage, and all small salads in frames, are to be fre- 
quently aired, to make them as hardy as possible. As the month 
advances, the cold will become more severe ; there will be some 
days when the sashes must not be lifted at all, and must be covered 
with mats. When winter fairly sets in, cover the sashes with 
straw and leaves, enough to keep out the frost and the early spring 
sun. 

The very first of the month, thin the Spinach plants and the 
Corn Salad, so that they may get hardy before winter. Handle 
them carefully, as the leaves are tender, and if broken at all, are 
very susceptible to the frost ; when winter is close at hand, strew 
over them loose straw or branches of evergreen trees ; the plants 
are hardy, but a slight covering will forward the growth of the 
leaves in the early spring. Cover young Onions in same way. 

Earth Celery and Cardoons, etc, in the coarse of the month, 
but only in dry weather, and make preparations for housing them 
before settled cold weather. The best way is to use one of the 
hotbed frames; plant the Celery in rows, at the bottom of the 
frame, and fill in carefully to the top with well-packed, just-moist 
sand ; then lay on the sashes ; during mild weather give air, at all 
other times keep well covered with mats and litter, but ventilate. 

186 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 187 

It can be planted the same way in the cellar, but it is likely to 
rot unless kept cool and dry. 

Another way of planting, inferior to the above, but still good, is 
to select a row that ruris north and south. Dig the rest of the 
Celery, and bring it to this row. Take the plants which have 
been dug, and lay them closely against the unbroken row, planting 
the roots a little way in* the ground. Having laid one row on each 
side the ridge, cover slightly with sand, or dry loam, and lay 
another row, and so on until you have, laid all you have, or until 
the ridge is as wide as can be easily managed. Cover the sides 
with not less than 6 inches of loam, laid over with straw, haulm, 
or leaves. Cover the top with litter. Drive down a post at each 
corner of your now oblong mound, and others at intervals of 10 
feet along each side, the tops being about level with the top of the 
ridge. Connect the tops of the posts with a stringer, or wall-plate 
of 2 x 3 joist Upon this wall-plate erect a roof, pitched just 
enough to shed rain ; this roof may be made by nailing boards 
lapped over each other like shingles. The space* between the top 
of the ridge and the roof should be filled with litter, and the ends 
of the ridge banked up in the same manner as the sides. The 
Celery and Cardoons are now safe from frost ; and if the ridge is 
opened only at the ends, and closed up again carefully, its contents 
may be taken out whenever wanted, and will be fit to use until 
spring. To avoid the expense of a roof, you can use haulm, or 
straw, thatched enough to shed rain. It is a good way to pack the 
side rows, tops and leaves down, and roots up, as when thus laid 
no water can get into the heart of the plant, and it needs less pro- 
tection. In all cases ventilate like Turnips with straw. 

Cabbages and Cauliflowers are to be preserved in the same way. 
Pull the Cabbages and lay them upside down on the ground, for a 
time, to allow all the moisture to drain out ; pull off the loose out- 
side leaves, and then take them to a well sheltered spot, and plant 
them up to the head ; when planted, cover like Celery. Another 
very good way is to build them up into a few triangular stacks, 
then thatch and cover as before. The worst way is to keep them 
in a cellar, unless it be very cool and dry. If any of them are 



188 NOVEMBER. 

frozen before harvesting, leave them in the ground to thaw, as they 
are more likely to'deca^ if pulled up when frozen. 

Late Cauliflowers and Broccoli will produce heads as long as 
the absence of frost will allow ; break leaves down over the heads 
to protect them against sudden rain or cold. 

Finish harvesting the Root crops, as directed last month. If 
there is not room in the root cellar, the following is the best way 
to preserve them. 

Choose a warm and projected corner of a well-drained field, 
and there make a furrow nearly 2 feet deep, by running your ditch 
plough several times in the same line, north and south. Lay the 
Roots into the furrow in a neatly built triangular stack, throw back 
the earth all over the Roots, to the depth of a foot, and cover the 
whole with straw. At intervals of 4 feet set a small bundle of 
straw on its buts on the Turnips, so that the straw will reach into 
the air through the earth, and will serve as a ventilator, to prevent 
the Turnips heating and growing. Open when you want a supply 
at the southern end, in a bright, warmish day. 

All tubers may be easily and cheaply kept through the winter 
in this way. 

The last Roots to be cared for are the Turnips sown in August 
If left in the ground, freezing and thawing will injure them but 
little, and it is better to have them so, than to put them into warm 
cellars. Very small Turnips often remain in the ground through 
the winter, and start afresh in the spring, if slightly protected with 
straw or evergreen. The same is to be done with those Parsnips, 
Oyster Plants, and Horse-radish, which you do not intend to 
stack, that they may be easily dug in the spring. All these Roots 
are better off in the ground than stored in cellars. But a better 
way than either is to pack them in sand or coal ashes, in hotbeds, 
as directed for Celery. 

Take up Sea-Kale, Endive, Chicory, Asparagus, and Strawber- 
ries, for forcing. 

At every spare moment continue to dig in long manure and 
haulm, and to dig over, without manure, those beds that do not 
need it Collect all litter, leaves, and rubbish, and carry them to 



KITCHEN-GABHEN. 189 

the hog-pen, if you have no other use .for them. They disfigure 
the grounds when left on them, and will be blown about by the 
winter winds. See that by spring all the manure gets sufficient 
fermentation to kill the seeds of weeds which have been mixed 
with the heaps during summer. 

Our kitchen-garden covers several acres, and is laid out in 
straight lines and right angles. All I have said about it applies, 
of course, to a garden definitely located, and in successful opera- 
tion ; but I shall now devote a little space to the consideration of 
the general principles which should govern the selection and pre- 
paration of a spot for a kitchen-garden. 

As to selection one must, of course, be limited by the nature 
of his estate ; but the best soil is a deep, rich, sandy loam ; 
the best exposure, a hill-side, sloping to the south or east, down 
to level meadow or valley, for here earlier vegetables can be 
grown than on level surface. . This is in accordance with the prin- 
ciples referred to in my remarks on the angle to be selected for the 
roof of a greenhouse ; viz., that the sun gives most heat when it 
is most nearly over our heads ; in other words, that any surface is 
most heated by those rays which are perpendicular to it. Now, in 
the spring, when the sun is low in the heavens, the surface of level 
ground gets no rays, which approximate to the perpendicular, but 
a hill-side, during the middle of the day, receives rays which are 
very nearly perpendicular, and are, therefore, absorbed, instead of 
being reflected and wasted. 

But this increased supply of heat ceases to be an advantage as 
the summer advances, and the heat increases, for then the level 
land has enough, and the hill-side is dried up. In the fall perpen- 
dicular rays are again in demand, and the hill-side is again prefer- 
able to the level for gardening purposes. We see at once, then, 
what varieties of crops to grow on different surfaces, and how to 
vary our garden culture. The hill-side will give us early Radishes, 
Lettuce, Peas, Corn, Cucumbers, Tomatoes, Melons; the level 
ground will follow with later Lettuce, Peas, and Corn, Beans, 
Roots of various kinds, Celery, and the later Salads. 

It is well, then, that a kitchen-garden should include both level 



190 NOVEMBER. 

and sloping ground, but it is vain to expect good crops from either 
unless they are well drained; thorough drainage, either natural or 
artificial, being as essential here as on the farm. 

But the quality of soil, and the character of surface are not the 
only considerations in selecting a spot for the kitchen-garden ; its 
position in relation to the house and the grounds in general is im- 
portant. Let it be near the stables and hog-pens, the framing 
ground and the hotbeds, if there be proper ground in that neigh- 
borhood ; but wherever located, let it be for convenience, and not 
for concealment, as is so often advised. There seems to be a gen- 
eral feeling that a kitchen-garden cannot be in harmony with orna- 
mental grounds, and must, therefore, be removed from them, lest 
the sight of it mar our enjoyment of their beauty. Now it is not 
only a necessity, but it may be an ornament to every estate, as 
much as the lawn or the flower-garden. What though its arrange- 
ment be rectangular, while curves preponderate in the other 
grounds ? the two are not necessarily at variance ; the effect of 
each may be much heightened by the contrast which the other pre- 
sents. The love of the beautiful is often developed and the mind 
kept active and appreciative by the stimulus of judicious contrast, 
and a man of taste, who had avoided straight lines, sharp angles, 
and every thing like formality over the rest of his grounds, might 
well display all these in a kitchen-garden, as an expedient for in- 
creasing the enjoyment which he derives from the general grace 
and ease of the place. No better reason can be given for adopting 
such an arrangement in a kitchen-garden, and were it the only rea- 
son it would be sufficient, for I hold that convenience is a consider- 
ation secondary to beauty, and that this is the true order of motive 
in all cases where the means of a proprietor are large enough to 
justify him in gratifying his taste. 

But this desire for contrast is not the only reason for adopting 
the rectangular arrangement Where single rows of trees or es- 
paliered fruit are to be grown, and where much of the culture will 
be on a scale large enough to employ a horse, the permanent lines 
should be straight, if possible ; for curved or irregular boundaries 
are a great inconvenience when teams must be frequently driven 
or turned close to them. 



K I T C H KN -O A KD E.f . 



4 



if 9 9 9 j? gyeoaosz. 



192 NOVEMBER, 

How to lay out a Kitchen-garden. — The spot selected, its 
preparation is the next question. 

First for the level portion. Decide how many trees or grape 
vines you wish to have on espaliers, how many standard fruit trees, 
how many dwarfs, and then stake out, just 15 feet within the limits 
of the level portion, a walk, B, not less than 6 feet wide, and sur- 
rounding the square. 

The space between this path and the boundaries all round is for 
a border. From B, in the middle of each side of the square, carry, 
in both directions a path also 6 feet wide ; this will give four side 
entrances. Having staked out your paths, dig them out from 1 to 
3 feet deep, and spread the earth on the adjoining ground. Now 
trench the remaining surface 2 feet deep (digging it over, the 
whole depth of a digging-fork, is the best course for those who 
cannot afford to trench) ; throw out every stone as large as an egg ; 
collect these stones and empty them into the open paths, until they 
are filled within 6 inches of the adjoining surface. Then send a 
man with a small stone-hammer to lay these stones smooth, crown- 
ing them so that the middle of the 6 feet path may be at least 2 
inches higher than its sides ; as he does this let him break into 
fragments every stone larger than an English walnut, and thus 
smooth the surface still more thoroughly, and bind the whole well 
together. Over his work lay 3 inches of gravel — coarse, but free 
from large stones ; as it is laid in heaps on the stones let a man rake 
it toward him, bringing along the stones which his rake takes out, 
and covering them with the fine gravel remaining behind. When 
all the gravel is laid, the surface of the path will be perfectly 
uniform ; then roll it well to bind and harden the whole. Such a 
path will never be troubled with weeds. 

Having made" the paths, estimate how long a range of espaliers 
is desirable ; you can do this by multiplying the number of trees 
and vines to be grown on espaliers by 10 ; or, if your limits are 
confined, by 8 feet ; espaliered fruit may be grown as near as this 
without danger of injuring the trees. If there be enough to sur- 
round the whole garden, begin at one corner ^and 6 feet from the 
boundary ; set posts 9 feet long and at least 3 feet in diameter into 
the earth to the depth of 3 feet, and 8 feet apart, or fasten them by 



198 

iron straps to blocks of stone, 
gunk in the ground ; connect ' 
them by two transverse bars 
2 inches square, the first of 
which may be screwed to the 
posts at the distance of one 
foot from the ground; the sec- ~ 
and at the same distance from = 
the top of the posts ; now " 

fasten to the bars, and perpendicular to them, strips one inch square 
and 6 inches apart ; give the whole at least two coats of dark- 
colored mineral paint Jf the amount of espaliers decided on is 
not enough to surround the whole garden, put them up on the north 
side first, then on the west, then east, last south. In our climate 
good fruit may be grown on espaliers facing the north. 

It will be well at this stage of proceedings to erect along the 
north and west sides a fence or screen of some kind against cold 
winds, unless the garden is sufficiently sheltered by high woods or 
land in the immediate vicinage, in which case a hedge will answer 
all purposes ; make it of thorn if you wish to exclude vermin. 
An Evergreen hedge is best for beauty and warmth, and if you will 
have the kitchen-garden screened from observation, summer and 
winter, nothing but Evergreen or boards will answer your purpose ; 
for a summer screen the espaliers and. the foliage on them will be 
quite sufficient. Of course something more is necessary if you are 
exposed to thieves. 

The espaliers just described are cheap, and in the opinion of 
many are the best kind ; others prefer iron and wire for material 

They should be put up in all gardens where high cultivation is 
practised, as they give a large amount of fruit in proportion to the 
surface covered, without materially shading the ground. They 
maybe made against the dead walls of buildings, garden walls, etc, 
and enable the cultivator to grow many rather tender kinds of 
fruit (even figs), the degree of success varying with the locality. 
By means of them Nectarines, Plums, and any fruit usually attacked 
by insects may be made an almost certain crop. Different kinds 
of insects are troublesome at different seasons, but none for more 
17 



194 



NOVKUBfiB. 



than a few weeks at a time, either at the flowering season, or daring 
the formation or the ripening of fruit ; and at these seasons espaliers 
may easily be covered with mosquito-netting, which, without exclud- 
ing the sun, rain, or air, effectually shuts out all insects. 

Our espaliers are of several kinds. Those of iron are made as 
follows : Sink blocks of stone 2 or 3 feet into the earth, out of the 
reach of frost, as for the wooden espaliers, and 9 feet apart ; set 
into each stone " uprights " of iron l£ inch square at the bottom, 6 
feet long and tapering to the top ; tie these " uprights " with top 
and bottom rails 2£ inches wide, £ inch thick, and pierced so as to 
slide over both the upright posts, and the smaller uprights, which 
are f inch square and 8 inches apart, and of iron, as are also the 
rails. When completed, paint with a proper metallic paint Such 
espaliers are very costly, and many think that the iron injures the 
trees by its excessive cold in winter and heat in summer. 

Wire, A, makes a better and cheaper espalier. Stones are sunk as 
before, but at the distance of 10 or 12 feet apart, and into 'them 
are set iron posts, 2 x £ inches thick, and 6 feet high ; the corner 
posts are to be particularly well secured, so- as to bear the strain 
necessary for tightening the wire. 2 feet from each corner post 
sink another stone, to which the corner posts are to be firmly 
braced. 




When all the posts are up, begin to strain the wire ; a conven- 
ient and powerful instrument for this, may be made as follows : 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



195 



into a log of wood, C, 18 inches long and 6 inches in diameter, put 
two handles at opposite ends, but not at right angles to each other ; 
through the middle of the log bore a small hole. The wire, £ to £ 
inch in size, having been fastened securely to one of the corner 
posts, lead it through all the holes in the same line in the posts ; 
bring its end through the hole in the log, which should be placed 
against the corner post, and twist it once or twice round the log to 
make it firm and tight Now turn the log by the handles, and 
wind up the wire as tightly as possible ; — and it is possible (o 
strain it very hard ; — when it is tightened enough, let an assistant 
drive an iron or a hard wood wedge firmly into the hole in the 
post through which the wire was strained ; this will prevent the 
wire from slipping back when it is unwound from the log, as it must 
be before it is secured by winding it round the post and then twist- 
ing it about itself on the side of the post opposite that on which it 
was strained. When you break it, leave end enough to admit of 
the repetition of the straining process, when this may be required. 
The instrument, and the method of applying it, are shown in the 
preceding cut at B. Simple as 
this instrument is, its power is 
immense ; it is on the principle 
of the wheel and axle, and the 
longer the handles or levers, 
(radii of the wheel) are, and the 
smaller the log used (provided it 
be strong enough), the greater 
the power which can be em- 
ployed. Quite large trees have 
been pulled up by its strain, 
when they were used for corner 
posts. 

Before putting the wire into 
the fence it should be straight- 
ened, which may be done by 
laying the coil upon the ground. 
Fasten a board, A, to a post ; the board is filled with two rows 
of iron pegs, in parallel lines ; carry the end of the wire between 




196 NOVEMBER. 

each alternate peg, and fasten its end to a pole or short bar, B, 
which a man holds in both hands ; walking backward, he draws the 
wire through the pegs, straightening it ; a second man delivers it 
slowly from the coil ; C shows a splice in the wire ; B represents a 
portable straining post for corners, etc., where no good fixed posts can 
be set; a is to be left in the fence, but b is to be removed after the 
wire is strained, and be set into another straining post, as a brace ; 
it is put under the shoulder of a, and fastened with a screw-bolt 
through cL 

The espaliers being arranged, trees or vines may be planted in 
the ordinary way, to grow upon them. The common espalier fruits 
are Peaches, Apricots, Nectarines, and Pears, but, as has been said, 
Plums and Cherries, and, in sheltered places, Figs and foreign 
Grapes may be grown. 

There are as many plans for training trees on espaliers as vines 
in houses, but nearly all are varieties of the u fan " system, which 
spreads out the branches on the espaliers like the ribs of a huge 
fan. Each cultivator must decide for himself on the best means 
for effecting this, the guiding principle being to cover the trellis 
well with fruit-bearing wood, but to check over luxuriance of 
merely leaf-bearing wood, and to admit sun and air freely while 
you protect fruit and wood from too great heat 
' When you desire a luxuriant growth of wood, prune in the fall ; 
when a diminished quantity, in the spring ; and bear in mind that 
summer pruning is one of the means for producing well balanced 
and thrifty trees. Were a thorough system of root-pruning to be 
followed, summer pruning would hardly be advisable, as the tree 
would make only wood enough to keep up a good supply of fruit ; 
this, however, is scarcely possible when espaliered fruit is grown 
in the enriched borders of a kitchen-garden, all the area of which 
must be devoted to some kind* of esculent crops. 

Summer pruning differs from autumn or winter pruning. The 
gardener should examine the trees late in June, or early in July, 
and selecting those shoots which seem most desirable, either be- 
cause they will fill a gap or are particularly promising, should nip 
off the end and tie them down to the espalier ; such shoots as by 
their luxuriance overshadow or crowd the fruit and old wood, are 



KITCHEN-GABDEN. 



197 



to be cut entirely off, and the rest pinched back to about one-third 
of their growth. By tying the. new shoots with an inclination 
toward the ground, you lead the sap to settle in them, and they 
tend to form fruit rather than leaf buds ; but the theory that gen- 
eral summer pruning has the same tendency, is not supported by 
the best experinece. 

Summer pruning saves winter work, and saves the fruit from 
being threshed and bruised by the long new shoots shaken by high 
winds. 

As a general rule, pruning has much the same effect at all seasons. 
It is best to prune stone fruits and all other rather tender trees 
towards spring ; but the best fruit growers have not found by obser- 
vation and experience any other rule for the time of doing general 
pruning than the amount and urgency of the work on hand, though 
trees bear careless pruning better at some seasons than at others. 

Trees for the espalier should be in the second year from the 
bud, if they have been budded, and should be cut back to the third 
or fourth bud from the stock. As I have said before, their sub- 
sequent training and pruning must depend on the fancy of the cul- 
tivator. The following examples are taken from Loudon's Ency- 
clopaedia of Gardening, and show the best practice of the best 
English cultivators. 






.^®£ 




a, the herring-bone fen ; ft, the Irregular fen ; e, the stellate fen; d, the drooping fen ; 0, 
the wavy fen; f, the horizontal; g % the horizontal with screw stem; h, the horisontal with 
double stem ; i, the vertical with screw shoots ; £, the vertical with upright shoots. 

17* 



198 NOVEMBER. 

So much for the espaliers. 

If the garden is small you may now plant dwarf trees in the 
outer edge of the border, and alternate with the espaliered trees, but 
nothing but want of room and subsequent high manuring can jus- 
tify such overcrowding. 

The proper place for dwarfs and standards is on the opposite 
aide of the walk, and around the inside square. The dwarfs here 
should be 10 or 12 feet apart; standard Pears 20 feet apart; 
Peaches, too, may be planted on the edge of this square, 15 feet 
back from the walk, while the Pears need not be more than 10 
feet from it. 

If there is not room enough here for all the fruit trees desired, 
set a double row through the middle of the square, 20 feet apart in 
the row, and 20 feet from each other. These trees should connect 
the entrance paths on the sides by a blind walk ; that is, the land 
between the double row should be used for culture, and to walk 
and cart over at different seasons of the year. 

Having placed the trees, ascertain how many Currant bushes 
will supply the family ; set them opposite each other, but indepen- 
dent of the trees on the two sides of a path, 3 feet back from the 
edge of the path, and 6 feet apart ; in a small garden they may be 
set only 3 feet apart ; begin at the corner of an entrance path, and 
follow round to the next corner, or farther, if you need so many 
bushes. Gooseberries may be set out in the same manner. 

Next select the best place for an Asparagus bed. Have it as 
near the stables as the character of the land will admit. The bed 
may be made ready for the seeds or roots either in the fall or the 
spring. It is rather a slower process to get Asparagus from the 
seed than from the root, but the first cost is less, and the process 
often easier, though beds are better and more speedily productive 
when made from roots. 

Cover the bed with a thick dressing of manure ; then trench 
thoroughly, 3 feet deep, and loosen the bottom of the trench be- 
side ; take care that the manure is well incorporated with the soil, 
and at the same time work in not less than a cubic inch of salt for 
every square foot of surface. If this work is done in the fall the 



KTTCHEN-GAKDEN. 199 

land is left till spring. Autumn-made beds may have a very heavy 
and coarse manure worked into them, as the winter frost will decay 
it, and take away its harshness. It is well to mix in a large 
amount of broken bones while trenching. You need have no fear 
of making the bed too rich ; Asparagus is a very gross feeder, and 
the bed cannot be thoroughly manured again without being 
remade ; liquid manure, and top dressing are the only means of en- 
riching it after the crop is started. 

The preparation and future treatment of beds will depend upon 
whether it is proposed to force Asparagus at any time, and whether 
the bed is to continue permanent as long as productive. 

Good permanent beds may be made from seed. Sow the seed 
in 3 drills, 18 inches apart, — the bed to be 4^ feet wide, — cover 
the seed 2 inches deep, — sow it the first of May. When the 
plants have grown 6 or 7 inches high, thin them into straight 
lines, and leave them 12 inches apart. u Beds raised from the seed 
will need a pint of seed for a bed 4£ x 30 feet If roots are used, 
160 will plant the same area." $ 

In transplanting Boots, it is all important that they should 
never get dry, or be bruised. Select only the best Boots, which 
will be well grown, and have an abundance of buds around the 
crown. 

Some cultivators prefer plants two or three years old. Year- 
lings are quite as good, and as no bed should be cut for two years, 
the yearling plants will have time to get their full strength. 

The plants may be set in drills or in beds. To make a bed, 
stake out a parallelogram, as long as you please, and 4£ feet wide, 
dig trenches transversely, 3 feet apart, and 12 inches deep ; if that 
depth will allow the roots to be set with their crowns 2 inches below 
the surface, and yet not compress the smaller roots. As fast as you 
set them cover with loam. If you do not wish a regular bed set 
the plants in single drills ; when cultivated by the acre, set the 
roots deep enough to plough in manure over them. 

.As I have before stated, after-enrichment is to be applied by 
forking manure into the alleys between the beds, by top-dressings 
of well-rotted stable manure in the fall, which may be very lightly 



200 NOVEMBEB. 

forked in in the spring (great care being taken not to touch the 
crown of the roots with the fork) ; by top-dressings of guano just 
before rains, or, lastly, by liquid manure, diluted urine or cow 
manure, or guano mixed with water. 

The size of beds will depend upon many local circumstances, 
but a bed of less than 30 square yards will not furnish a reasonable 
dish ; and a bed of 6 square rods will give two or three bunches 
daily through the season. 

The Asparagus bed being decided upon, select the best position 
for Horse-radish, which will grow in any soil or situation, but well 
repays good culture. A large bed is unnecessary for a private fam- 
ily ; therefore, to economize room, choose some strip between the 
espaliers and the fence or hedge, or any other convenient spot. If 
you wish to grow Horse-radish to perfection, you can imitate the 
English gardeners, who are as particular with it as with Celery. It 
is desirable to get long, thick, and straight roots, therefore thor- 
oughly manure and trench the beds to the depth of 3 feet. Open 
a ^rench in the ordinary way, 15 inches deep and 2 feet wide ; 
plant sets 9 inches apart each way, keeping their crowns upright ; 
cover with the earth of the next trench, and continue to plant 
When more than one bed is to be made, leave a space for a second 
bed and open the third. 

The sets during summer grow vigorously ; rake off the decayed 
leaves in the autumn ; early the next April lay a foot of earth 
from the unplanted bed over that of one year's growth, and then 
prepare and plant the new bed. In the autumn open the older bed 
at one end and take out the roots as you come to them ; they will 
have a size and perfection that can only be understood when seen. 
Yon may have Horse-radish sufficiently good, however, from any 
ordinary soil, with common planting and care. 

Now select a place for the culture of pot herbs of various kinds. 
Most of the ordinary herbs are perennials, and must occupy the 
same ground for several years ; therefore as for Asparagus, trench, 
dress, and manure richly before planting. Sow the seeds in the 
hotbed in March ; thin out the plants as they grow, and give air 
enough to make them hardy. As soon as the weather will permit, 



KITCHBN-GABDEN. 201 

set them across the bed, 1 foot apart, in lines 15 inches apart Or, 
sow the seed in the open ground in May or June, but it will be 
much slower in coming to a good growth. Cuttings of the new 
growth may be made and set in nursery beds as soon as the wood 
ripens ; as soon as rooted they may be transplanted into permanent 
situations. The beds will last three years or more, according to 
.culture, soil, and exposure. There are both annual and perennial 
varieties of Sweet Marjoram and Savory ; the perennial are the 
best, and may be readily propagated by seed, cuttings, or divi- 
sions of the roots. Seed should be sown in the spring, cuttings 
be made in the summer, and divisions of the roots in September. 

Pennyroyal is of similar character, and may be grown in the 
same way. Other herbs, like Basil, Dill, Anise, Caraway, Angel- 
ica, Coriander, Thyme, etc, are of but little use, and it is not 
advisable to cumber the garden with them. 

Our kitchen-garden is now pretty well stocked with all the 
fixtures excepting Strawberries, Raspberries, and the annual crops, 
all of which will be deferred until the appropriate time. + 

The garden being thus laid out, and partly planted, as soon as 
time allows some kind of edging should be put to the walk. The 
best is slates. They should be half an inch thick and from 3x12 
to 12 x 24 inches in surface. They need not be more carefully 
cut and made than for roofing, but must be of the best material 
and free from cross grain and waves, so as to be strong enough to 
resist all ordinary concussion. Draw the garden line straight 
along the edge of the path ; set the spade down perpendicularly 
into the edge of the bed, working it backwards and forwards to 
make a space into which the slate is to be set. Set the slate 10 
inches deep into this place, leaving but two. or three inches above 
the ground. Set them edge to edge, perpendicularly, and in straight 
lines, then thoroughly press and pack the earth of the beds and the 
gravel of the paths against them. The deep setting will not only 
keep them firm in their places, but will prevent the roots of grass, 
weeds, or other plants from straying beyond their proper limits ; 
while the few inches above ground give a clean and precise edge to 
both path and bed, and make them look trim and orderly. 



202 NOVEMBER. 

This is a sufficient description of the method of laying out the 
level part of the kitchen-garden. The sloping and irregular por- 
tions should not be treated in this geometrical manner, but in a 
more graceful and varied style. 

I shall postpone the description of such a garden to another 
month. 



CHAPTER XXVHL 

ORCHARD. 

The fruit harvest proper is over before November, but if any 
fruit has been left ungathered, lose no time in securing it 

Thoroughly dig the orchard over with long-tined forks, so as to 
leave the earth light and Open to the frost If manure is needed 
for next year's crop, dig it in now ; you can use long manure, as 
the winter's action will decay it before the young root fibres 
need it. As you dig, cover the ground before you with a good 
dressing of the following mixture, — one barrel of oyster-shell 
lime, slaked with the water which has dissolved a bushel of salt 
This preparation is a very powerful stimulant to apple trees, and a 
great destroyer of insects and their eggs. If orchards were laid 
down to grass, as some are, we should still be obliged to dig up the 
earth round the trees, for a distance at least as great as the spread 
of the branches. The first time the application of this mixture is 
made, two bushels should be used, but afterwards one every year 
is enough. 

Manure the Pear-trees well, as no fruit is more grateful for 
manure, which increases the crop greatly, both in size and number. 
The secret of pear culture indeed, is to give the trees plenty of 
manure and moisture, and to thin out the fruit If there are any 
gaps in the orchard, made by the death of trees, of other causes, 
set out new trees now ; the earlier the better, as this work should 
have been done in October, if possible. Stone fruits must be left 
till spring, as the winter is very apt to injure them. Cherries may 
sometimes thrive when planted in the autumn, but it is not best to 
try the experiment 

Untie the Figs from espaliers, and wrap the branches in straw, 
and then lay them down on the ground, covering with a little light 

203 



204 NOVEMBER. 

litter, or lay them down and cover with earth, like Raspberries. 
Treat all tender Grapes in the same manner. Isabella, Concord, 
and Diana do not require this attention ; but many growers think 
they thrive better, and ripen earlier for it When vines are to be 
laid down prune them thoroughly. The system of pruning for 
out-of-door grapes is the same as that for the grapery, but it is not 
customary to prune them quite so closely as when in-doors. 

The first year cut back within three eyes of the old wood ; the 
second year allow three main canes to grow, and spread them out 
on the trellis or wall, fan-shaped. During summer pinch all side 
shoots two eyes beyond the bunch, and as often as they start, pinch 
back. In August pinch off the ends of the growing shoots, so that 
the wood may ripen well. New shoots will start after pinching, 
which may be treated in the same manner. 

In the autumn of the second year cut down within six eyes of 
the old wood, and cut out or back, to one eye, all side spurs on 
what is left. The third year allow your three leading canes to 
branch out as much as you please, so as to cover the wall or trellis. 
The lower eyes will all break. Pinch off the fruit-bearing shoots, 
two eyes from the bunch, after the fruit is set The last eye will 
start again, and must be allowed to grow for a few weeks, and then 
be again stopped. This practice will hasten the ripening, and im- 
prove the quality of the fruit 

By no means pinch back the first time to within one eye of the 
bunch, as, if you do, that eye may start to the injury of the fruit, 
and to the loss of the bud for next year's growth. Stop the lead* 
ing canes in August, as before. In the fall cut off at least half the 
new growth, and shorten in all the side spurs to within two eyes of 
the cane. Continue this practice year after year until the trellis is 
well covered, then keep well pruned. 

The wood of the grapevine in a few years solidifies ; that is, 
the sap deposits its solid particles in the sap vessels, until they are 
finally filled up, and no longer afford free channels to the sap. 
Therefore when your vine is six or eight years old, in November 
or January it is well to cut back one of the original three canes to 
the but The next spring new canes will start from the latent buds 



ORCHARD. 205 

on the side of the old stock, which may be trained and pruned as at 
the beginning. When they are well grown, and fruit-bearing, cut 
down the other old canes, and proceed with them in the same man- 
ner. This practice, in the grapehouses, is called the long cane 
renewal system. 

November is a good month to prepare vine borders for hardy 
grapes. It is not necessary to take so much care as for those in- 
doors. A deep, well-drained, well-manured loam is good enough. 
In manuring give a large dressing of oyster shells, old mortar, and' 
bones. An annual top dressing, lightly forked in, or liquid manure, 
will be the only subsequent enrichment necessary. Nothing is bet- 
ter for vines than soapsuds, and the suds from the weekly washing, 
if saved, and thoroughly applied, will produce a large crop of 
Grapes. 

Having disposed of your vines, begin to prune Apples and Pears. 
This work will be light if it has been well done before. Be sure, 
in trimming, to cut off all the twigs and branches to be removed 
smooth with their main stems, and with a clean, upward cut 

In pruning, always cut about midway between the buds, with an 
upward cut. In pruning Grapes the whole internode (or space be- 
tween the buds) should be left, as the frost is apt to kill the bud if 
too near the cut. This danger is less with fruit trees, but it is pru- 
dent to leave half an internode, when the trees are pruned, in fall 
or winter. 

Have in your mind, in pruning, a distinct idea of the shape 
which you desire to give to the tree. Every kind of tree has some 
characteristic form, to which each individual of the species con- 
forms, with greater or less exactness, and the same is true of dif- 
ferent varieties of any species of plant. Thus the general form of 
an Apple-tree is quite distinctive from that of other trees, and yet 
different varieties of Apple-trees have still further peculiarities. 
The Rhode Island Greening, the Hubbardston Nonsuch, and others, 
tend to grow and branch low, and cover a large space. 

The Northern Spy grows tall, but weeps very much, with long 
and switch-like branches. 

The High-top Sweeting also grows tall, but with rather stiff and 
stubby branches. 

18 



206 NOVEMBER. 

It is folly to try to counteract these peculiarities ; they must be 
borne in mind in pruning, and the natural shape of the tree con- 
formed to as much as possible. 

In pruning, cut off all branches which chafe each other, all 
those whose ends strike together, and all suckers which crowd the 
tree. There is a dangerous tendency to overprune. The leaves 
are the lungs of the tree, and should only be removed enough to 
give the light and air free circulation among the branches, and not 
so much as to deprive the tree of .its necessary breath, or the fruit 
and stems of shelter from the too scorching sun. 

The general shape to be aimed at for Apple-trees, is a well-bal- 
anced, rounded or umbrella shaped top, so thinned of small 
branches as to admit light and air freely, but not the direct rays 
of the sun. 

In pruning Pear-trees, a difference is to be made between 
standards and dwarfs. Standards grow tall and are gener- 
ally of fastigiate or birch-broom shape, the branches coming out 
from the stem near together, and running in a vertical direction. 
This method of growth brings the branches too near each other, 
so that they chafe and injure the fruit, and also prevent the free 
access of sunlight, as well as offer great obstacles to the fruit 
gatherer. The branches must therefore be brought towards the 
horizontal position, though not without care, as the wood of the 
Pear-tree is not sufficiently tough to bear great weight of leaves 
and fruit, except with the mechanical advantage which it derives 
from the natural uprightness of the tree. However, to some ex- 
tent it is safe to train the branches into a convenient form, and 
this is to be done by pruning in the following manner. In the 

accompanying cut you have 
part of the stem of a stand- 
ard Pear-tree, with a branch 
A, growing upwards, in its 
natural position. The buds, 
a b c, if suffered to grow, 
will grow into the tree and 
crowd it ; rub them off, there- 
fore, and cut the branch off at e ; the bud, d, on the outside, will 




ORCHARD. 207 

will then start, and form a branch growing from the stem, and less 
vertical than A. When this branch has grown a short time, and 
begins to tend upward, repeat the operation, and you will thus 
gradually flatten it and others in the same manner, as much as you 
please. 

Standard trees are those which, growing freely, attain naturally 
a considerable height and size. They are often inconveniently 
large, and it takes several years for them to mature sufficiently to 
bear good fruit. The attention of horticulturists was early given 
to discover some means of avoiding these evils, and it was found 
that they might be modified by what are now called dwarf trees. 
Soon after the discovery of the arts of budding and grafting, it 
was found that by these arts the fruit of tall growing trees could 
be obtained from small ones of the same species, if the former 
were budded or grafted into the latter, thus reducing the size of 
the tree, and consequently hastening its maturity. For the new 
bud cannot receive from the smaller roots and stem of its adoption 
that amount of sap which it naturally demands, and therefore, 
suiting its demand to the supply, contents itself with what it can 
get, and makes its growth with less material, and thus produces a 
tree of a smaller size. Thus a new kind of tree, the dwarf, is 
produced. Experience has proved that these trees have not only 
the advantages above mentioned, but also afford a greater and 
better yield of fruit, proportioned to their size, than that of stand- 
ard trees of the same species, for being less freely supplied with 
sap than is the case with standards, they cease to grow earlier in 
the fall, and consequently ripen their wood earlier, and mature 
their buds and elaborate their juices better, which of course im- 
proves the yield of fruit. Therefore were this the whole state- 
ment of the relative value of these two forms of trees, the case 
would be greatly in favor of the dwarfs, and all growers would at 
once destroy their standard trees, and make fruit and money by 
dwarfs instead. But there is another side to the question. The 
dwarfs have the great drawbacks of being rather short lived and 
very fastidious about the soil in which they stand. Besides, many 
of the choicest varieties of Fear refuse to be dwarfed. 



308 NOVEMBER. 

To meet the difficulty of dwarfs being shorter lived, it is well 
that every third tree in your Fear orchard should be a standard ; 
it will have room enough, and will be in its prime, when the dwarfs 
die. 

To humor their fastidiousness, place dwarfs in a rich loam, deep 
and moist, but not wet ; gravel they abhor, and in a close clay 
they never thrive long. Set them so deep that the Quince-stock 
will be buried from borers, and. in time the Pear will throw out its 
own roots above the Quince, and independent of it But fruit 
growers have been most aided in their struggle against these diffi- 
culties by the discovery that trees can both be dwarfed and brought 
to early maturity on their own roots. The process is as follows: 
Sow seeds of the Wild — but not of the Button — Pear, or trans- 
plant stocks as yet unbudded. In the fall of the next year, move 
them into a new and rich soil, cutting off the tap root ; do the same 
in the following fall ; thus moving the stock three times, the seed* 
ling twice, in two years. The effect of these frequent removals is 
to check the tendency to make long tap roots, and cause a mass of 
fibrous roots to be formed. Graft or bud at the proper time the 
next year, and in the succeeding spring cut down to the bud ; either 
before or after cutting down transplant to the place where it is to 
bear fruit. Or you may vary the process thus : In the second fall, 
when the stocks are removed, they may be packed in damp moss 
and laid away in the cellar ; during the winter, graft them ; the 
next spring set them out in nursery rows again, and the mil or 
spring after, do the final planting, as just directed. Pear-trees 
treated in this manner have produced large crops five years from 
the seed, or the first setting out of the budded stock. 

The dwarf has much less waste room than the standard ; for as 
fruit grows on the small branches, or only on the ends of large 
ones, the latter loses all the space occupied by its large branches. 
The branches of the former being dwarfed as well as its height, the 
fruit is brought nearer the main stem of the tree, and the strain 
upon branch and stem is much diminished. The system of prun- 
ing recommended for Pear-trees may therefore be carried out to its 
full extent with such trees, without the danger that attends its too 
free application to standards. 



ORCHARD. 909 

Dwarfs should be grown in pyramidal form, that 
the lower branches may bear the most fruit, being 
in less danger of breaking from the weight, than 
those above. This form also occupies less room 
and gives more fruit to the acre. 

Begin to prune as soon as the leaves drop in the 
autumn, and continue the work until spring. There 
is no danger to be feared of canker or loss of 
buds, if all cuts are made as directed, — neatly 
and smoothly, and in an upward direction. Some 
care must be taken, however, with the larger 
branches, to protect the cut surface from the air 
and water, which would cause the wood to decay, 
and send disease throughout the tree. Where the cut is small, 
this surface is covered in the next season, by a natural growth of 
wood and bark ; but otherwise, some artificial application must be 

Many good receipts for such coverings, are given in treatises on 
these subjects. The two following are effective . — 

Melt over a slow fire, three parts of clear resin to one of shellac, 
and apply while warm, with a brush. It will harden immediately, 
and be both air and water-proof. This preparation can be kept 
and used at any time, by adding to it as small a quantity of alcohol 
as will dissolve it. 

The other receipt, which makes also a good grafting- was, is 2 
ounces of common resin, melted over a slow fire, till it is clear ; add 
1 ounce of alcohol, and bottle it ; add enough alcohol from time to 
time, to keep it liquid. When about to set a Fear orchard, dig or 
trench the land thoroughly, even if you are able to plant but a 
very limited number at a time, the profits will be great in propor- 
tion. Cherries do not generally need much pruning, beyond the 
removal of dead wood and chafing branches. They should be dug 
round, but not manured. 

The principles already stated, apply to the care of all other fruit 
trees. 

Nut-trees need no more care than Cherries. 

Be sure before the winter is over, to haul all the pranings from 



210 



NOVEMBER. 



the orchard to the brash heaps, as you will be too bus y in the spring 
to attend to it properly. They should be cut into short pieces, 
ready to use, as they make admirable fuel for heating boilers. 

The proper pruning of Peach and similar trees, will be described 
hereafter. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 



THE FARM. 



On the farm as over the rest of the estate, the last work of the 
season is to be done, and it is apt to be done in a hurry. 

The remainder of the Boot crop is now to be gathered, and with 
it the harvest closes. 

Send the teams into the manure cellar, clear out what remains 
there, and draw it on to those fields which you intend to manure or 
to top dress during the winter, or early spring, unless the ground is 
too soft 

If the month prove wet, do not team the manure on to grass 
land, as the wheels would cut the soil badly. Any reclaimed 
meadow, dry enough for grass or culture, where heavy teams can- 
not go while the ground is open, must be dressed after it is frozen, 
when it will bear up the wheels, 

Having cleared out the manure, draw into the cellar as much 
muck, leaves, litter, loam, or even sand, as you have time to collect 
Fill the pig-pens with the same material, to the depth of a foot or 
two, for the pigs to work over during the winter (which they will 
do the better if you occasionally scatter a little corn over the sur- 
face), and as an absorbent of liquid excrement. 

Draw into appropriate bins as large a quantity of leaves as can 
be collected for bedding. Neat cattle and pigs do not absolutely 
require bedding, but they are benefited by such care, and fatten 
much better. Farmers who most truly study their own interests, 
are careful to keep their stock warm and well bedded ; knowing 
that this is a cheaper way to warm them, than by feeding alone. 

A temperature of about 100° must be maintained in the bodies 
of all the higher animals to secure the performance of their vital 
functions ; and in moderate weather this heat is maintained by the 
furnace within them ; t.e., by the combined action of the digestive, 

211 



] 



212 NOVEMBER. 

circulating, and respiratory system, which supply and bring into 
contact oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen in such a way as to effect 
slow combustion over the entire body. Food is the fuel in this 
process, better or worse as it contains carbon and hydrogen in 
larger or smaller proportions. In cold weather this vital heat is 
taken from the body by the atmosphere, and must be supplied 
faster or be prevented from escaping, if the animal is to be kept 
alive ; just the same thing as is true of the fires in our houses. 

The Creator has provided for this necessity by the warmer cov-^ 
ering furnished constantly to those animals which live in Arctic 
regions, and* periodically to those that are exposed to the winter of 
the Temperate Zone ; and also by the instinct which leads every 
animal to prefer in cold weather those articles of food which are . 
the best fuel, or in their absence to eat more freely of such food as 
has less power of maintaining heat In the case of man reason 
teaches him to increase his clothing; instinct leads him to eat 
animal and fatty food at the proper time. Any excess of fuel in food 
is stored up in the form of fat, and in time of need is again 
absorbed and burned, as are our wood-piles. Of course this is not 
the only use of food, but it is the use with which we now have to do. 

Nature then provides animals with means for resisting cold, and 
unless we are willing that our stock should be worse off than wild 
animals, we must give them in winter more fattening food than in 
summer, — grain, meal, roots, in addition to hay. If we wish them 
to be in better condition than wild animals, we must make it still 
easier for them to keep up the vital heat In no other way can 
fat, the extra fuel, collect on them. But the fattening articles of 
food are the most expensive, and it behooves us to shut in the heat 
given by them and bring the atmosphere about our creatures as 
near as possible to that summer temperature, which does not chill 
them and urge them to eat largely in proportion. 

In short the more heat without the less fuel needed within ; in 
proportion as stock is well housed and bedded will it fatten with 
less food. 

Bed all your creatures well, then ; it saves the covering which 
nature gives them. Let none of them show bare knees, hips, or 
back from which hair has been rubbed by the hard floor or stall, 



THE FABK. 213 

but let every part of every animal tell the same story of care and 
kindness. Pile up leaves high in the bins, and even make tempo- 
rary stacks of them. 

It is true that you are thus robbing the soil for the time of its 
natural manure. Leaves are Nature's return, her interest paid for 
the summer's crop which she has borrowed from the earth, and the 
profit on the earth's invested capital, and rightly belong to the spot 
which produced them. By their decay beneath the trees woodland 
is annually enriched ; by their removal it is impoverished. But 
one of the laws of agricultural improvement is that man may with 
profit impoverish one portion of his land, if by so doing he more 
than proportionately enriches another. The gain need not be made 
in the same proportion from every rod of land ; the balance sheet 
may be struck for the whole farm. At another time the woodland 
may be attended to, enriched in turn, and the balance restored. 
Therefore be unwearied in collecting leaves from the woods and 
road-sides. The manure made from a given weight of leaves may be 
less in quantity than that from the same weight of any other mate- 
rial used for litter, but it is better in quality. 

Blanket the horses as soon as the nights are really frosty ; as 
with bedding the cattle you will both save in food and gain in 
appearance. A horse well blanketed and groomed is not the same 
as when his neglected coat is filled with dust and his shivering hide 
sets every hair on end. Cleanliness and friction are as good for 
his skin as for ours ; their good effects are evident in his appear- 
ance and in his work. See that the cattle, too, old and young, are 
from this time well carded and brushed every morning. 

As the nights grow cold the fowls will go to roost earlier and 
more regularly ; let none of them roost out of their proper places ; 
the younger ones particularly are inclined to seek new roosts about 
the stables and sheds ; break up all such irregular proceedings as 
soon as you detect them. Feed regularly every morning — not 
much to the stock fowls, but enough to assure that their crop shall 
be full once in the course of the day ; in accordance with the prin- 
ciples before recognized, increase the food of the fattening fowls, for 
all kinds of which there will be a great demand in the latter half of 



214 NOVEMBER. 

the month ; for staffing two or three weeks with boiled barley, corn 
meal, bits of bread, will entirely change the quality of the birds 
you propose to eat or sell at Thanksgiving. The rapidity with 
which they fatten, when once the process is fairly begun, is almost 
incredible. In all animals this process begins inside ; they most 
store up quite a stock of fat amongst the muscles, along the bones, 
around the various internal organs, before the gain is at all apparent 
on the surface ; but when it does begin to show there, the creature 
seems to gain while you look at it 

The greatest benefit will now be found in an abundant supply 
and use of water of irrigation ; the Grass will be kept green and 
sweet long after it would be worthless unless so protected. 

As good opportunities offer, purchase stock to be fattened in the 
winter. Sheep pay rather the best. I shall give you directions 
and advice hereafter. 

Tools. — On the first wet day collect into the toolhouse all 
the tools, great and small, which belong there ; scrub and polish 
them well with sand and water ; oil with any cheap oil such as are 
not to be used again till spring, and hang them up ; mend forthwith 
any that show the least need of repairs ; carry to the carpenter or 
blacksmith those that are beyond your skill, and do not leave this 
to be done " any time," which is no time. When in good condition 
let them be returned to their shelves. You will find plough-points 
worn or broken, nuts and bolts gone, handles loose, — a thousand 
little things that have escaped notice, or been tolerated during sum- 
mer and fall ; and you should improve your leisure, and by attending 
to these little things, and by comparing the stock of tools on hand 
with the list of last spring, you will know not only what is left 
over from the summer, but also what can be depended on for next 
year. 

Where the owner of tools is the only user, they are broken very 
frequently and mysteriously, but when they are committed to the 
tender mercies of hired laborers, the loss and breakage are fright- 
ful. The best spring supply of shovels, spades, hoes, and scythes 
will present, at the November muster, as sorry an appearance as 

t 



THE FABM. 215 

FalstafFs ragged regiment ; hoes without handles, rakes without 
teeth, shovels with broken corners and centres, scythes gapped, 
snaiths broken, whetstones in pieces* Be courageous and undis- 
mayed at the result, and be sure of one thing, by making this No- 
vember examination you will have twice as much next spring as if 
you leave the matter till then. A winter's cold and snows are a 
sponge to the memory, of farm servants, and an excuse for all 
losses. No one knows any thing in the spring ; the laborers, dis- 
charged at the close of the last year's work, and now scattered far 
and wide, are made to father all losses, and bear all blame ; every 
new man will assure you, upon an honor not to be doubted, — be- 
cause not yet tried, — that he never loses, nor mislays, nor breaks 
tools ; he is the " new broom." 

Any tools, the wood-work of which was originally painted, must 
be touched with paint wherever they are rubbed. 

Run the hay-wagons, ladders, etc., under the sheds, and wash 
them clean ; then examine, repair, and paint at once, fo{ here, too, 
" delays are dangerous." Examine, repair, repaint the sleighs and 
sleds, that they may be ready for use when the snows come. 

Go over the farm, and repair any fences where loose ends, 
boards, posts, or material can be in any way harmed by the win- 
ter's storms. 

Haul an ample pile of short brush into a shed, for the use of the 
house and farm boilers. There is a double advantage in this ; the 
farm is made clean and tidy, and a supply of the very best fuel for 
boilers is secured, which kindles quickly, burns fiercely, heating the 
boiler at once, and as soon as the need of fire is over goes out, with 
little or no loss from unnecessary fire. 

As you now begin to feed regularly, if you have fuel in abun- 
dance boil or steam all the food used, unless it be hay, and even 
hay has been found to gain in nutritive quality from steaming. 
The water of boiling or steaming, called " hay tea," when fed out 
to milch cows, increases their milk cheaply and economically, and 
when mixed with the solid food is very nutritious. 

Be sure to feed regularly, let the food be what it may. Remem- 
ber how faint and irritable you become when one of your meals is 
delayed ; not only are you so annoyed that the food gives less than 



216 NOVEMBER. 

usual satisfaction to the palate and mind, but your digestive organs 
are weak with emptiness ; and in your haste to satisfy hunger, you 
probably eat too fast, fill the vacuum with half-chewed food, to your 
discomfort for a long time. Thus the foundations of dyspepsia are 
laid. Cattle suffer in the same way when their food is delayed be- 
yond the proper time. 

The same is true of food taken before the accustomed time. If 
you, like a rational being, live on plain but wholesome food, to eat 
a hearty meal you need a good appetite, more than if you were in 
the habit of creating an artificial appetite by stimulating condi- 
ments ; when the proper time comes, hunger is the best sauce ; but 
if 'food is placed before you too soon, you feel but little desire for 
it, and do not eat as much as usual. So with the beasts in your 
barn, whose only sauce is hunger. If fed before their stomachs 
are ready, they will smell over and reject much that would have 
been eaten with a relish if offered at the proper time. 

See, then, how necessary it is to feed regularly. Feed often. 
Do not allow so long a time between meals that the hungry ani- 
mals gorge like Boa Constrictors, when their food comes. Feed in 
small quantities, that all may be eaten, and no rejected and fouled 
remainder may lie before the animal to disgust it with similar food 
when next presented. Feed late at night ; cattle do not, like men, 
sleep only at night ; whenever there is nothing else to do they 
sleep ; so our dietetic analogy no longer holds, and we need not 
fear that they, like us, will suffer from late suppers. On the con- 
trary it is a weary interval for them to wait from the early supper 
through the long, cold night, till breakfast Go into the barn just 
before your bed-time, and give all the animals a little, if it be but 
a forkful of hay. They will eat it up clean, and go to sleep much 
more contentedly for it 

I know that animals, like men, may acquire habits of fasting ; 
and if you kept animals without any interest in their welfare, and 
without a qualm of conscience, sought (like some keepers of sta- 
bles) to get your money at the expense of others, it might — for one % 
season — be for your advantage to disregard the natural require- 
ments of stock placed under your charge. But you keep your 
creatures for their milk, their flesh, their labor or speed, and when 



THE FARM. 217 

the special object for which you bought them is attained you dispose 
of them. Consequently it is for your interest to aid the develop- 
ment of those peculiar qualities for which you procured each, and to 
this end all my directions have been tending. If you neglect them 
it will be from laziness, — either that laziness which prevents our 
acting upon our convictions, or that which prevents our being con- 
vinced, when we foresee, that conviction brings with it increased labor. 

Supply water regularly ; animals need great quantities of it 
Water is supplied to our barn in the following manner ; of course 
•other methods may be better for other localities. By a stop-cock 
the water can be at once let into the trough before each creature, 
so that he may then and there drink his fill. The advantage of 
admitting water thus is apparent in many ways. Careful milk 
growers have found, from experiment, that a cow's milk is shrunk 
appreciably by her being turned out on a cold day, into a barnyard 
to drink and shiver. 

Horses, too, suffer more from want of water than can easily be 
imagined. Your horse is led out to water at sunset ; from some 
reason he does not want to drink ; perhaps it is but a short time 
since he had his dinner drink; he may be almost thirsty, but 
his instinct is not reason, and he does not know how to provide 
against a future want ; he does not, like man, drink when he is 
supplied, though he may not need it, but only when his stomach 
cries " give." Hence the old proverb, "Any fool can lead a horse 
to water, but the Devil can't make him drink." He is returned to 
the stable and left with his supper of cut feed or of hay and oats 
before him ; his stomach loaded with bulky food, soon craves water, 
but he must go without it ; not for the few hours between break- 
fast and dinner, or between dinner and supper, but for 10 or 12 
hours ; and we all know how hard it is to bear thirst. 

Within the barn water is supplied to our cattle as follows : — 

A pipe is brought from a 
6pring into a hogshead which 
stands higher than the man- 
gers. This pipe is laid below 
the reach of frost, and when 

it rises to enter the hogshead, 

19 




318 NOVEMBER. 

is enclosed in a charcoal-filled box 1 foot square, and thus secured 
from freezing, by an excellent non-conductor. By the faucet i, 
water may be drawn from the hogshead for any purpose. The pipe 
</, leads from the bottom of the hogshead to a set of mangers, and 
is also boxed in charcoal ; the turn-cock n, controls the water in it 
The mangers are double and 
~ V shaped ; the lower part (A 
in the wood-cut) is of 2 inch 
planks spiked together — or 
better of slate, — and is waJ 
i ter-tight Over this is a lid 
B turning on a rod by means 
_ of the wheel and axle. The 
- upper surface of this lid is the 
bottom of the manger a, which 
is spiked or cemented to the 
trough below. When the b'd 
,. B is down, the manger is en- 
tirely shut off from the water, 
and from it the cattle eat their 
"* food. When the food is eaten 
and it is desirable to let in the water, turn the cock n; a single 
turn of c throws up the lid B and admits the creature to the water 
in A. When all are satisfied, shut off the water at n ,- a waste 
pipe at the other end empties the troughs, and the lid is again shut 
down. Thus the work is done quickly, neatly, and under cover. For 
greater convenience in turn- 
ing, the wheel and axle may be 
at the same end with n. Where 
there are several separate man- 
gers, water may be carried to 
each in succession, from the 
same or from different heads j 
a water arrangement of a sim- 
ilar kind is working most suc- 
cessfully in the barns of Dr. E. 
■id.oftti.tKdb. HobDs,ofWaltham,Masa. 




THE FARM. 219 

Remember that mineral poisons injure cattle as they do men, 
though not in the same degree, and do not use lead pipes, unless 
all the water which has been standing in them can be drawn off 
before any is offered to your cattle, either to drink or mixed with 
food. 

Another advantage in not turning cattle out, is the saving contu- 
sions and similar injuries. In every linter there will be some cat- 
tle by nature bullies and quarrelsome, who will be sure to try to 
crowd and hook their weaker companions, who are often much in- 
jured in this way ; besides the bullies often keep the more timid 
from the water troughs, even after they have themselves drank 
enough, from mere mischief; and the weaker creature will stand 
shivering and shaking, till the desire to drink is lost in the wish 
to hurry back into warmer quarters. 

Thanksgiving. — Taking, leave of November, we close our out- 
of-door work for the year ; and its end in that part of the country 
for which this book is particularly intended, will be wound up and 
celebrated by the annual Thanksgiving. 

And what more fitting close can the year's work have, than a 
true and hearty thanksgiving for the blessings and mercies that 
God extends to all, but to farmers in particular. 

Well may he, looking with overflowing heart at his abundant 
and well-housed crops and his happy cattle, return hearty and re- 
peated thanksgivings for all this bounty. 

Our Puritan fathers, when they instituted this holiday, little 
thought that they were but following the example of Pagan men, 
set long before the coming of Christ These Pagans, after the 
harvest was gathered, met for joy and congratulation, and feasted on 
the fat of the land ; but they went farther than this ; they selected 
the choicest of the flocks and herds, and offered them in sacrifice 
on the altars of their heathen gods. Let us follow their example ; 
let us remember that though our God is a Spirit, and cares not for 
the flesh of ox and lamb and fowl, and has no need of the tithings 
of corn and wheat, he yet claims his share. He has expressly said, 
" Whatsoever ye do to the least of these, my children, ye do also 
to me." Let us then select from the best the tithing for God, and 



220 NOVEMBER. 

divide it among the many poor, who have little to eat or wear ; 
let their hearts, too, overflow with the gladness of the harvest time, 
and their store of comfort and prosperity so swell, that they may 
truly say, " Our harvest is gathered." 

It is fitting that the farmer and his children, his servants, his 
' very cattle, should each feel the glow of enthusiasm, now that they 
pause and look hack on the successful year. No more joyful sight 
than the loaded table, the cheerful faces of kindred, young and old, 
the merry games of blind-man's buff, after the table has been 
cleared and set aside. Truly delightful it is to watch the fire as it 
flashes and flickers through the gathering shades of evening, when 
• all draw their chairs around the welcome blaze, and listen to tales 
of the good old times, or recall the hurry of the past summer, when 
man, woman, child, and beast, each seemed nerved with a new and 
resistless zeal to hurry the hay-cart out of the way of the coming 
storm. 

Then remember the poor, the sad and gloomy homes where no 
fire lights the hearth, where hungry and half-naked children quar- 
rel over the fragments picked up by the road-side, or sorrowfully 
begged at the rich man's door ; they sit in no cheerful firelight ; 
they tell no tales of the happy past ; their only memory is of sor- 
row, their best recollection of some fitful time when chance gave 
them food and fire enough for a few days. Remember them now, 
farmer, whether rich or poor ! If you are rich, you are but the 
steward of a larger bounty ; if poor, you are richer than those who 
have nothing. Go over your stock, select some fatted lamb, some 
well-grown turkey, some sacks of com, some load of wood, and 
with truly thankful heart take it to those whom our Saviour has 
said " ye have always with you." 

Such a close to the year may well crown it with honor, and save 
you from that mortifying self-reproach which ought to visit u the 
unthankful," when God sends " his sun to shine, and his rain to 
fall," on them even as on the thankful. 

Now that the evenings lengthen and the cold drives you to the 
fireside, do not imitate the black bear, who at this season takes to 
his warmest hole, and there sucks his paws for dear life, content if 
he but get through to another spring. Remember that we do not 



THE FARM. 221 

live to work, but work to live ; that the accumulation of wealth is 
not the end, but a means by which you and your children are to 
develop your minds, to cultivate your intellects ; and to cultivate 
them for their own sakes, not for the money they may return to 
you in shrewder management and keener bargains. Your plainly 
spoken mission in this world is to fit yourself for another, — not 
by merely being or doing good, but by expanding your mind, and 
filling it with knowledge, which will in that other world, where the 
pursuit and attainment of knowledge will be the end and the oc- 
cupation of each day, put you on a level with those with whom 
you are thrown, and will enable you to sympathize and advance 
with them. 

Think over the year's work not merely to see how money has 
been made or lost, but how far you have increased your knowledge 
of the wisdom and mysteries of Nature. 

Lay out your plan for the coming year ; go over every field and 
every crop in your mind ; see what is best adapted to each, and 
consider both how you may get the largest yield, and how when 
harvested it may best be used. 

For the next few months there will be but little to say of the 
monthly routine of the farm, and I shall devote the space hitherto 
occupied by these details to a general inquiry into farming, its 
theories, its capabilities, how it may be of the greatest benefit to 
all, and what the country and country life offer to every man. 

19* 



CHAPTER YYY. 

ORNAMENTAL. 

The ornamental grounds receive in this month the last touches 
for the season ; for the next few months their beauty, for a certain 
beauty they will have, will not depend upon or arise from what we 
can do for them. 

Go over the grounds, and trim and tie up all the ornamental 
shrubs which need attention, as directed in the flower-garden ; sur- 
round tender plants with straw and Fine branches. 

Spread over the lawn and all ornamental Grass, a good top- 
dressing of the finest and best-rotted manure. It will make the 
surface unsightly, but will compensate for this evil in the spring. 
Either before or after this dressing, the Grass should be well 
rolled, as it will thus be kept firm during the winter, and be less in 
danger of being thrown up by the spring frosts. 

Examine all the roads and paths, and be sure that their surface, 
is even and the gutters and drains clear, so that rain and melting 
snow may be rapidly removed without wearing and washing the 
gravel. 

Take up and house all ornaments which will be injured by win- 
ter storms ; renew any paint upon them, that requires it, early in 
the winter, that it may be thoroughly dry before spring. 

Examine the dams and banks of the artificial water; at this 
season muskrats are very apt to burrow into them for winter homes, 
and do serious damage by letting in water, which gradually under- 
mines the banks. Wherever there is danger of ice freshets in the 
spring, the banks may be fortified by sinking squared logs along 
the shore, by one end, while the other end rises several feet above 
the water ; the ice will slide against the timber, and be caught by 
it, so as to leave the water free to pass off without injuring the 
bank. Unless this precaution is taken, the rapid rush of the water 

222 



ORNAMENTAL. 223 

will plough the ice into the ground, and perhaps wash the bank 
entirely away. Mere water freshets need not be much dreaded, if 
the bank is covered with close, firm Grass, which will shed the 
water like a floor. To prevent injury from freshets, ponds are 
sometimes made large enough to hold this occasional increase of 
water, but this is a poor expedient, which sacrifices the beauty of 
the pond through the greater part of the year ; and quite unneces- 
sarily, as even close sodding is a sufficient protection to the banks. 
Sods laid even as late as November will be very useful in this 
way. 

Planting ought to be quite finished before this time, and if it has 
not been done there is no time to be lost, as during the last of this 
month there will be heavy and cold rains, that will cool the earth 
and prevent the roots acquiring any hold. Trees planted now 
should be well staked. 

The ground is generally frozen up by or before Thanksgiving. As 
soon as it is frozen have all the dry leaves raked up, or they will 
be blowing about all winter, and keep the grounds dirty and littered. 
If you have enough in the barns and cellar for bedding and ma- 
nure, make a pile of those now collected and cover it with boards 
and branches. Or, better still, if there is any hole or pit about 
the place, fill it with the leaves wetted and matted together with 
the salt and lime mixture ; in the spring they will have been con- 
verted into the best kind of mould for potting and for general 
greenhouse uses. 

Go over all the trellises on which you have had deciduous vines, 
as Clematis, Madeira, Convolvulus, Apios, etc ; cut the straw away 
at the surface of the ground, untwine them from the trellis and 
throw them with the dry leaves. 

The ornamental trees and shrubs may be pruned and trimmed 
into any shapes you please ; but do not prune the tender ones, lest 
the operation should expose them to greater danger from winter 
killing. 

The work is now to be closed for the winter, and during the long 
interval of frosty weather there will be ample time to lay plans for 
next summer's work. 



CHAPTER XXXI 



GBEENHOUSE. 



ECEMBER. The care of the green and 
and other glasshouses now becomes the gar- 
dener's principal occupation, but it will be 
found enough to keep him very busy. Should 
the first of the month be warm, it may be 
possible to get along without fires, but only if 
the weather is very clear and bright ; then 
the sun's heat will warm the house so thor- 
oughly, that by putting up the shutters and letting down the covers 
early, we may retain heat enough to prevent frost during the night. 
The advice so often given that the house be covered with mats and 
shutters during all moderate weather, is " penny wise and pound 
foolish ; " for plants are very much injured by darkness, particularly 
in cold weather, and even with the closest covering it is but rarely 
that fires can be dispensed with in December. Start your fires 
every cold afternoon, but do not let them heat the house higher 
than 45" to 50" at any time in the month. 

Air the bouse thoroughly on bright and warmish days, and admit 
some air by the sashes every sunshiny day, unless there is a high 
and very cold wind, when all the sashes should be closed as tightly 
as possible, and the bouse be ventilated and aerated by the opening 
in the front wall, where the air enters upon the hot pipes, and by 
the ventilators in the back wall. Through them no high or cold 
wind can harm the house. 

Carefully examine the plants daily, and pick off decaying leaves. 

Water sparingly, and syringe only on bright and mild days, when 

some air can be admitted. Give little or no water to the Cactus 

family and all similar plants. 

> In the hot portion of the house more fire heat must be kept up, 



GREENHOUSE. 225 

bo that the temperature may never fall below 45,° and may average 
55° to 60.° Not only are the plants here natives of warm climates, 
but many of them are to be forced into flower in order to take their 
place in the conservatory. Water more freely than you did last 
month, and set pans of water over the pipes that they may send a 
constant and warm moisture through the house. Admit less direct 
air than in the greenhouse, as a chill will be much more severely 
felt than there. Let the ventilators be nearly or quite closed at 
night, unless the weather be very warm. 

The exotic bulbs planted in the fall have now grown considera- 
bly, and must be treated like all other plants in the same stage of 
growth. 

Fumigation. — It may be necessary to fumigate the houses this 
month, to destroy aphides and other vermin which are always 
present, and begin their work on tender shoots and foliage, as 
soon as they start. For fumigation take one or more common 
portable furnaces, such as plumbers use; make a charcoal fire 
in them, and set one under the middle, or at each end of the 
stagings; on the fire lay common leaf tobacco, — no matter 
how cheap and poor, — it will fill the house with a dense smoke. 
Do this about sundown, and leave the smoke in the house all 
night. 

For aphides a gentle fumigation is enough, but for coccus and 
thrips, you must make a dense and pungent smoke. About 11 A.H., 
the next day, if it be mild and bright, open the gashes as freely as 
is safe, and let the air circulate. 

This fumigation will destroy all living insects, but has little or no 
effect on their eggs, some of which will hatch in two or three days ; 
bo repeat the fumigation three times at intervals of two days. By 
the last time, you will probably have destroyed all that would 
trouble you for some weeks. A single fumigation injures the fra- 
grance of the flowers as much, and renders the house as disagreeable, 
as three, while it does not half do the work. After the last fumiga- 
tion, air freely, and syringe well with water which has been stand- 
ing in a warm place long enough to lose its chill ; this will remove 
all dead insects and feeble leaves. Thorough fumigations early in 



226 DECEMBER. 

i 

the winter, often suffice for the season. The gardener must judge 
however, as to the necessity of a repetition. To fumigate a few 
plants, you may put some charcoal coals in the bottom of a small 
pot ; on this lay tobacco ; invert over it another pot of the same size, 
or a trifle smaller. The smoke will come out through the hole of 
the top pot quite cool. 

Another kind of work should also be done often ; viz., wash- 
ing the pots, were it only to improve the appearance of the house. 
Many gardeners insist that the green and slimy accretions on the 
outside of the pots do no harm, and may as well be left there. 
That the injury to the plant in the pot is small, is doubtless true, 
but such collections of fungi, foul the air of the house, and render 
the task of keeping it clean and sweet much more difficult. Scrub 
the pots clean occasionally, with sand and water. 

Cleanliness is a leading principle in all successful hothouse cul- 
ture, and it will be found that the houses most infested with mealy, 
scaly bugs, aphides, etc, are those where the pots and plants are 
allowed to become dirty and mossy. 

Bulbs from Seeds. — The last of December is the time to sow 
seeds of Ranunculus, Anemone, Auricula, Cyclamen. When large 
quantities are • required, separate beds must be formed and treated 
with special care ; but we need few. Ranunculus and Anemone are 
rather shy. 

Take shallow garden pans, with holes for drainage, and cover 
the bottom with an inch of good potting-earth, from which all earth- 
worms have been carefully removed, Sow the seed thinly over the 
surface, and cover with a shallow dressing of the same earth, never 
more than quarter of an inch ; set the pans where there will be direct 
light and a moderate bottom heat The earth must be kept moist by 
daily gentle watering, through a pot with a very finely pierced 
rose ; the water must fall very gently and regularly. Keep the 
pans always in a uniform temperature and state of moisture. When 
the seeds have germinated and begun to grow, treat like all other 
bulbous plants. They will grow rapidly, and mature in the early 
summer. As soon as the leaves have fairly withered, carefully ex- 
amine the earth in the pans, and pick out all the roots ; many of 



GREENHOUSE. 227 

them will be very small. When all are gathered, dry and lay 
them away like the larger ones for planting, in the following falL 
They will begin to blossom the third year from the seed. 

Examine the cold pits as often as the weather permits, and give 
air and light ; remove all decayed leaves, and, if the plants seem 
to be suffering for want of moisture, water gently and slightly, 
through the nose of the watering-pot. Daisies and Neapolitan Vio- 
lets may be brought into the house to flower ; repot Carnations 
coming into bloom ; nip back strong shoots of Pelargoniums, to make 
them stocky, and repot young plants ; water Cyclamens liberally, 
and repot Achimenes and Gloxinia. Head back plants lately re- 
moved from the ground, for reasons already given. 

Persons who have no glasshouses, and wish to grow a few bulbs 
for the early spring flower-garden, need not start them till later in 
the winter, when directions will be given. 

You may now pot out of the seed pans, some Lobelias, Nierem- 
bergias, Gilias, Nemophilas, etc., which are to be suspended in dif- 
ferent parts of the house, from the pillars and brackets, as hanging 
plants. Select for the same purpose some of the fine foliaged and 
drooping Verbenas, and Lantanas. 

Attend to the bulbs in glasses. If you have not put them into 
glasses, do it at once. Bulbs usually grown in glasses may be set 
out in pots, like those previously described for that purpose. Do 
not cover the bulbs to more than half their depth. 

Any Pinks, Chrysanthemums, or bulbous plants, taken from the 
garden, which have ceased flowering, may now be removed, and 
the bulbs left to dry up slowly. Remove the Pinks and Chrysan- 
themums when out of bloom, to the back of the house ; set them un- 
der the shelves, or in a cold pit, and supply their places with succes- 
sion plants, or some taken out of the pits. Water them very rarely, 
the bulbs and Chrysanthemums may be allowed to grow quite dry, 
but the Pinks will need water and care occasionally, till spring. 

Pot well-started cuttings which are for spring bloom ; repot 
Roses which are growing strongly ; Tree Peonies will bloom in 
spring, if taken out of the garden and potted ; Japan Lilies can be 
set in pots in the cold frames. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

CONSERVATORY. 

The directions for the conservatory are nearly a repetition of 
those for the greenhouse ; as before said, keep it warmer than the 
greenhouse. 

Daphnes, Pettosporums, and similar plants are coming into 
blossom, and need more water than before ; all these plants, Ca- 
melias, Azaleas, and the like, are much alike in general char- 
acter, and need similar treatment; they should have a peculiar 
house to themselves. As we have no such house, but are obliged 
to keep them in the conservatory and greenhouse, I will describe 
the treatment of the Camelia, which is the most capricious, with 
some minuteness, premising that the others are to be managed 
similarly. 

Camelia. — The Camelia can endure a very considerable 
amount of cold for a short time, during the season of rest The 
thermometer may fall 2° or 3° below freezing, and yet the plant 
be uninjured ; but this tolerance of cold is only at certain times ; 
when the plant has blossomed and begun to grow, it needs a great 
deal of heat and an abundance of water ; — there is but little dan- 
ger of giving too much ; — when it has made its growth and formed 
its flower-buds, it relapses into a dormant state for some months, 
and so remains till vegetation begins again, a period which varies 
according to the time of flowering. The proper time to examine 
and repot such plants is just before the renewal of growth. The 
Camelia generally blossoms very fully, then rests a few days, and 
sometimes a week or two, then begins to make its new growth, and 
needs, as I have said, plenty of heat and moisture. When the 
new wood is formed, the flower-buds make their appearance. 
When they are formed, gradually diminish the supply of water 

228 . . 



CONSERVATORY. 229 

and heat, giving only water enough to prevent drought, till it re- 
commences its growth. It is impatient of standing water, and 
requires thorough drainage. In the summer, which is usually its 
dormant season, it may be removed from the house, and set in 
some cool and shady place, where it is well to bed it in coal ashes 
to insure the immediate and thorough absorption of falling water, 
and to prevent insects or worms from getting into the pot. 

As before said, examine its ball of earth just before the roots 
begin to grow again, give fresh loam, and if need be, repot ; it is 
rarely necessary to repot large plants oftener than once in two or 
three years, the time depending on the thoroughness of its drainage 
and the quality of the loam in which it has been planted. Many 
specific preparations of earth have been proposed for Camelias. 
The best and most reliable is good virgin loam. If this is rather 
tenacious, reduce it with pure sand. The only means of subse- 
quent enrichment is liquid manure, which should be applied, ac- 
cording to the best English growers, only during the season of the 
plant's repose, never during flowering or growing. 

As soon as growth recommences the flower-buds swell ; two, or 
at the most three, are all that should be allowed in each cluster ; 
if more appear, thin them out with sharp-pointed scissors ; if this 
be not carefully done, they will crowd each other off. 

By no means bring them at this season into a very warm house, 
for much heat will cause the buds to fall off; keep them as cool and 
well aired as possible. If they get dusty, sponge the leaves or syr- 
inge very thoroughly. The general health and good treatment of 
the Camelia are proved by its breaking all its buds at once, as it 
starts afresh. It is very apt to lose its lower buds and grow from 
the top only, thus spindling up and becoming naketl below. Take 
every possible means to prevent this. Be sure that the supply of 
water is regular and abundant when the buds are developing, or 
they will drop. The other plants named are not so shy or difficult 
to manage as the Camelia, but need the same general treatment. 

Azaleas. — As regards soil, the Azalea, Erica, and Rhododen- 
drons prefer peaty soils, and if good peat can be had, it should by 
all means be used especially for the Ericas. 

20 



230 DECEMBER. 

The variety of Azaleas is great, and they are a beautiful family 
of plants, whether we refer to the Azalea Viscosa of our own 
swamps, the Azalea Pontica of the flower-garden and shrubbery, 
with its many varieties, or to the yet more varied Azaleas of the 
greenhouse. They are easily grown from the seed, from side cut- 
tings, and from grafts. " For seeds, the soil is made smooth by 
white sand; as soon as the seedlings have made two or three 
leaves, transplant them to store pots, — many together, — in sandy 
peat. The seed pans should be put where they will have bottom 
heat. Cuttings are prepared by taking the tops of the young shoots 
when 3 inches long^putting off the lower leaves, and leaving the 
upper ; many should be put together into a pot three-fourths full of 
peat, one-fourth white sand-; water gently upon planting, and cover 
with a bell glass ; set in a shady place, where the temperature will 
be from 50° to 60° ; after they have made roots, remove the bell 
glass — during the night at first, and finally dispense with it wholly 
— to harden them ; at last, pot in 2£ inch pots, and keep them 
shady and warm till they are well established, then treat like all 
other hard-wooded plants;" — like the Camelia, in general they 
bear pruning well, and may therefore be shaped as you please* 
If from imperfect drainage or any other cause the roots become 
diseased, examine carefully when you pot, cut away the dead, and 
give the living roots a fair chance. 

The chief objection to the Azalea is its liability to die without 
much apparent cause. It often dies at the surface of the ground. 
Grafting the tender into the more hardy is no protection, as they 
die just above the stock. They are also very much attacked by 
the thrip ; u the best remedy (for the latter) is, to prepare strong 
lather of soap and flower of sulphur, in a tub, and to immerse the 
plants two or three times in it, setting them again on their stages, , 
and shutting up the house or pit close for two or three days." 
(Mcintosh's Book of the Garden, p. 684.) At this season, water 1 
but little till they commence to grow. 

The Oleander is another very fine conservatory and garden 
plant ; it is a strong, free grower, may be got from seeds, or cut- 
tings either of the new or old wood ; the latter root freely when 



CONSERVATORY. 231 

hung in bottles of water. The trouble with the Oleander is its 
shyness in blossoming. It should be planted in strong, rich loam, 
and when the flower buds appear should stand in pans constantly 
full of water. After it has blossomed it should have as much sun 
as possible, and little water, till the spring of the next year, when 
the watering and stimulating should be recommenced. 

A glance at the Oleander shows that three shoots start from the 
growing points, which in large plants are the flower shoots. If you 
would have a plant or a part of a plant blossom freely, rub off the 
young shoots as soon as they appear at the base of the flower buds ; 
all the sap will then be thrown first into the buds, and will conse- 
quently develope magnificent flowers, while three other buds or 
shoots will start lower down on the branch, which terminates in the 
flowers. By carefully attending to this you will not only get much 
better flowers, but will keep the plant in much better condition and I 

shape, as without pruning it often becomes straggly and unmanage- 
able. 

Cut down the plants every spring, after flowering. Once in 
three years you must repot If you cannot obtain pots large 
enough for the entire roots, pare the ball with a sharp knife, on the 
sides and bottom, till it fits the pot ; after repotting set in a shaded 
place, and in a few weeks the roots will form anew. 

By thus carefully watching and managing Oleanders you may 
obtain their full and great beauty. They are great ornaments to 
the garden in summer, whether in pots or tubs, above the surface 
or sunk in the open ground. 

Rhododendrons are quite as impatient of heat as .Camelias, and 
need more water while forming their flower buds. They may be 
freely grown from seed, cuttings, layers, or by budding. Daphnes 
are freely grown by cuttings, or by grafting on common sorts of the 
same species. In December hang up here, as in the greenhouse, 
the plants which you wish to have pendant from the roof and 
windows. Give Acacias, as they come into flower, abundant water. 

Now is the time for persons who have no large estates or garden 
structures for keeping and growing plants, to do something in a 



232 DECEMBER. 

small way, by which they may secure the delights of flowers and 
plants in winter. 

Some persons have a knack at making all kinds of plants grow in 
the most unfavorable circumstances. I think this is partly owing to 
a magnetic attraction existing between such persons and their plants. 
The plants seem to know that they are loved, that they are house- 
hold treasures, that every new leaf and flower is as welcome as the 
new words and expanding thoughts of a baby to its mother. Ap- 
parently conscious of this, they do their utmost, and in places the 
least adapted for successful house culture of plants, we often find 
stands or individuals equal to the best greenhouse specimens. 

I was never more impressed with this than in the town of Beau- 
fort, near Quebec. The road winds along beside the St Lawrence, 
and through a village of French people, who have preserved the 
customs of their old French ancestors, and whose houses are repro- 
ductions of the picturesque cottages of Northern France. Their 
climate is very extreme, and the thermometer, for months together, 
is 10° or 15° below zero. The houses are some of stone, some of 
wood, plastered on the exterior, heated only by stoves, and yet in 
the early spring there may be seen, in almost every cottage by the 
road-side, large plants — Roses, Pelargoniums, Fuchsias, some five 
or six feet high, and not in blossom merely, but so filled with 
flowers that the leaves only served like the green in a bouquet, to 
show the flowers to better advantage. 

Apart from the singularity of such successful culture under these 
unfavorable circumstances, how beautiful it is to see these, or any 
flowers, in the houses of the poor ! it is a proof that there glows in 
the heart of the occupants a recognition of something in life more 
worthy of admiration than the merely practical and bread-earning. 
A few flowers in the window, a border neatly trimmed and kept 
in the front yard, a vine trailing over the door, along the eaves, or 
overhanging the architrave of the window, are the best possible 
proof that the dwellers in that house are, whether rich or poor, 
capable of rising above the troubles and cares of life, to the higher 
and better regions of Nature and God. 

We talk often of natural and revealed religion which point us 
to the earth, to the universe with its wonderful mechanism, as a 



CONSEKVATORY. 233 

proof that there is a God, and that no such wonderful elaboration, 
where each part fits into its appropriate place, and where the 
whole machine, subtle, grand, and simple, works so calmly and 
perfectly, could have existed except by careful design. They tell 
us that the proof is overwhelming that one mind arranged every 
part and detail before the world was started on its career ; and un% 
doubtedly their argument is just and weighty ; but it has not half 
the power that lies in the color and fragrance of the Rose, the 
twinkle of the dew-drop, the flashing, shifting ripple of the brook, 
the calm, holy, and indescribably beautiful reflection along the 
shores of some wooded pond or mountain lake. These are the 
visible manifestations of God. He is the Beautiful ; and when 
we love and cultivate the beautiful, we love and cultivate his plain 
outward manifestation. 

Every flower that blooms, every crystal or water-drop that glis- 
tens, is a proof positive of the presence and all-pervading influence 
of God ; and every heart that is open to the love of a flower even, 
is open to the love of its Maker ; though covered, concealed, unac- 
knowledged, it is there, and sooner or later the simple flower will 
lead its lover to other higher loves. Teach children to love flowers, 
waters, trees, skies ; open their hearts early to all the powerful and 
subtle influences of nature if you would have them noble and 
worthy men and women. 

God might have made £he whole earth green ; might have spread 
no varied feast of form and color for the eye, without a change in 
the daily motions of the heavens or in the daily events of life ; 
and yet how different a world would this have been ! how dull and 
uninteresting ! Take color from the forms of creation, and you take 
away a stimulus without which the mind would grow dull, listless, 
indifferent to some of the highest pursuits which now engage it. 
The constant presence of beauty is the strongest evidence for the 
immortality of the soul. 

The annual death of the leaves and flowers, and their annual 
resurrection teach an unmistakable lesson. The dewy mornings, 
gentle verdure, and whitening blossoms of May and June, have 
appealed to the noblest and best in man since history's earliest 
record; the rich summer beauty and luxuriance of July, the 

20* 



234 DECEMBER. 

brilliancy of October, have aroused and ennobled innumerable 
minds ; and we, who in the enthusiasm of youth or maturity of 
manhood reverence and admire the beauty of nature, are worship- 
pins the same outward revelations of God, which have appealed 
to mankind for many generations. 

• The simplest flower, a single bud, the crimson spider that flashes 
about in our ponds and rivers, the sea anemone achored to its rock, 
are all parts of, and necessary to, the whole wonderful beauty of na- 
ture. In beauty there is a law of gravitation ; each atom attracts the 
whole in proportion as it is itself attracted. The simplest object in 
the natural world is as important, as well-recognized by God, as 
valuable to the discerning eye, as the greatest and most impressive. 
Therefore, cultivate a love of the beautiful ; cherish every flower 
you may. Be sure that whoever truly loves a single flower, whether 
in the home of wealth or in the Five Points of New York, has in 
him some recognition of goodness and purity. Never sneer at the 
humblest stand of flowers ; the poorest specimen. • The Gera- 
nium growing in the broken tea-pot that stands on the dusty sill 
of a dusty window, in a fever-stricken town, may have a value 
in the eye of its owner and a power of good over his mind, not to 
be equalled by the rarest conservatory or the most beautiful garden 
of a rich man. 

Do not think that this book is written for the rich, to promote 
their ease and luxury. It will be a greater satisfaction to me to 
awaken the class of day-laborers to the value and power of beauty ; 
to show them how they may arouse in themselves and in those they 
love, an appreciation of Nature and Nature's gifts to her worship- 
pers, than to show the rich how they may get a greater return in 
beauty or fruit for the money they expend on gardens and pleasure 
grounds. I would impress it on all classes, that loving ennobles 
and purifies the soul ; loving is of value according to the nobleness 
of the thing we love ; and he who in his little village-garden grows 
and loves his flowers for their own purity and nobleness, will receive 
a richer reward and get a better — because an inward — growth, 
than he who pours out his money like water to produce rich gardens 
and costly plants, that they may be external and evident proofs 
of his wealth and power. 



CONSERVATORY. 235 

Before we leave these winter months, I hope to show both that 
this is true and that the love and pursuit of agriculture is the le- 
gitimate occupation of the best portion of our nature. 

I have described planthouses fit for men of large means. I will 
now describe a 

Conservative Pit on a large scale, but not very costly to 
make or expensive to support, which will return an unlimited 
amount of satisfaction. Such a pit might be erected on the L roof of 
a city house, may be large or small, cheap or costly, according to the 
fancy of the builder. I shall describe it as standing on the ground. 

Stake out a parallelogram 18 x 80 feet, and dig it out to the 
depth of 3 feet ; along the front side and at both ends lay a solid 
stone or brick wall 3 feet high. At the back erect a solid brick or 
stone wall 3 feet high, and above this a hollow brick wall 24 inches 
thick and 20 feet high. In the base wall on the front and ends 
leave openings for ventilators as shown in the plan. In the top 
of the front side of the back wall leave tubular openings 4 feet 
apart, as shown in the plan for top-ventilation. All these openings 
in the walls must have tight covers on the inside, and wire gauze 
covers where they open into the outer air. The top-ventilators 
open under the coping of the top of the wall, which will protect 
them against high winds. In other respects the exterior is made 
like that of ordinary greenhouses ; the glass roof is divided into 
two sashes, the upper sliding over the lower. Refer to the plan of 
the end. e is a door which slides to the right to give entrance ; it 
is 3 feet higher than the floor of the house, being on a level with 
the surface of the ground, and steps which curve to the right 
descend from it to a path (d in the section), 3 feet wide, which 
leads to the other end of the house. On the left of this walk is the pit 

Pit. — Mark out a parallelogram 9 feet wide x the distance be- 
tween the walk at the foot of the steps and the other end of the 
house ; lay a tile drain and a pipe for heating the soil, through the 
length of this parallelogram ; at each corner drive down firm posts, 
Bed Cedar or Locust, or squared stone posts, not less than 3 inches 



square in the clear; to these post?, if of wood, spike closely 
matched 2-inch planks ; if of stone, fasten by bolts and iron straps 



SECTION o 

Scale. — One-fourth inch to the foot. 



dp; c, plank or BlHtfl front to pit ; rf, floor of w«Jk 
a; /, KrtTol underdralolnp for pit; g, mttb- etc.. 



COSBERTATOBT. 287 

stabs of slate lj inches thick; cany up the planks or slabs 3 feet 
in front, 4 feet at the back of the ends, sloping gradually to the 
front. There is no. need of planking against the back wall. Fill 
into the space thus enclosed. 



BHD OF COKBBBTATITB FIT. 

Scale. — One-iburtli inch to the foot. 
in will; b, r,rklt fcundition, afoethlgb ; (, doable mil, 2 (bat tnkk ; d 
i tor the tii[i ot the will, protecting Tentllltion lube; I, door, 3 felt wide; /, ■ 
; g. wooden base; A, top Huh eliding orer ; i, lower eub, Hied, 



238 DECEMBER. 

Over these stones lay 6 inches of tough sods-, over the sods 3 
inches bones and oyster shells, over these 3 inches best loam, over 
the loam 3 inches of bones etc, as before, and 6 inches well-trod* 
den, unfermented horse-manure. Fill up to the edges and slope 
nicely with the best loam you can get. Leave all to settle for a 
fortnight or two ; then fill up anew with loam. Into the top of the 
back wall drive a row of staples 4 feet apart ; do the same at the 
bottom, and between the rows stretch coarse wires for a trellis ; at 
the foot of each wire plant a choice running Rose (Safrano Tea, 
La Marque, Cloth of Gold, etc.) ; cut them down within two buds 
of the surface. Over the rest of the pit plant what you like : 
Lemon Verbenas, Bourbon, Tea, and China Roses, Heliotrope, 
Sage, Lantana, Verbena, China Orange, and other and smaller 
plants ; among these Double English Violet, Daisy, Lysimachia, 
Lycopodium. Set the plants in August, and let them all be small, 
so that as they grow you may give them shapes as you prefer, b 
(in the section), on the right of the walk, fs a table 3 feet wide and 3 
feet high, to hold pot plants, cuttings, boxes of Cucumbers, Melons, 
or Strawberries, or any low-growing plants ; under the table carry a 
double hot-water or steam pipe, with a coupling to connect at will 
with the pipe under the pit. 

Do not put on the sashes till late in September, and only then 
if hard frosts threaten ; after the sashes are on, leave them open 
and air the house as much as possible ; get what heat is necessary 
from the sun and the use of the shutters and mats, and do not re- 
sort to fires while you can avoid it. Keep the temperature as low 
as 40° to 45°, till the last of December ; gradually increase the 
heat if you cannot otherwise keep out frost, but rely principally 
on the increasing heat of the sun as the days lengthen. 

The plants will begin a slow growth in October, and gradually 
throw out a few leaves and blossoms till January ; in this interval 
water sparingly; as December grows old, give water lukewarm 
and in greater quantity ; the plants will soon begin to grow vigor- 
ously. During the rest of the season, till warm weather, water 
and syringe as in other greenhouses ; keep a moderate temperature 
during the night, and let the sun heat the house thoroughly during 



CONSERVATORY. 239 

the day; the plants will soon begin to blossom freely. Train 
the vines on the wire trellises as fast as they grow: they will 
grow the better, and you can give them any shape. 

Here, as in other houses, the plants need fumigating. Once a 
month give a copious watering of liquid manure, made as before 
directed. 

During the coldest weather, connect the pipe which runs under 
the pit so as to warm the earth below, but only in a moderate de- 
gree ; it is not desirable to stimulate growth by bottom heat to any 
great extent, but to give just enough to keep the roots warmed in 
proportion to the increased heat about the branches. 

As the spring advances, use the front shelf to start cuttings for 
bedding out, and to grow plants for the kitchen-garden. 

Later in spring withdraw fire-heat, and toward the last of April 
give less and less water. By the first of June take off all the 
movable sashes, and entirely cease watering, or in droughts water 
just enough to save the plants from being dried up. Under this 
treatment they will cease to grow, and will ripen their wood ; when 
this is effected, cut them — vines and all — back as much as you 
judge sufficient to enable them to blossom and grow next season 
without crowding. If any of them do not suit you, this is the time 
to substitute others. Cover the top of the pit with a liberal dress- 
ing of well-rotted manure, and dig it in carefully with a foot or 
hand fork. After August, follow the directions already given ; t.e., 
begin the year again. 

The fire and boiler-room is not shown here. If the dwelling- 
house is heated by hot water or steam, its pipes may connect with 
the pit ; or a simple flue and fireplace may be built at one end 
and instead of hot pipes, a brick flue, through which all the fire 
and smoke must pass, may be carried along the ends and front of 
the house. Water may be caught from the roof, raised from a 
well, or supplied in whatever way is mast convenient ; the fire and 
cistern, are in a small shed at the back of the house. If the cis- 
tern is above the level of the floor, a pipe may be led from its 
bottom to the centre of the house, in order to lessen the labor of 
carrying water. 

The cost of a house built on this plan may be greatly increased 



240 DECEMBER. 

or reduced, at the fancy of the proprietor, and will depend on the 
amount of ornament and finish. When present cheapness is the 
grand desideratum, substitute for the brick walls double wooden 
ones, built like those of an icehouse, with a space of a foot, at 
least, between, into which sawdust is put, or which is back plas- 
tered. Clapboard on the outside, putting tarred paper under the 
clapboards ; inside use tarred paper under sheathing or lath and 
plaster. 

Such tf wooden house, 18 x 30 feet, can be built now, and in the 
vicinity of Boston, for about $600 ; a brick house, for $800 to 
$1000. 

A person of small means may think I have hardly made good 
my promise to describe a cheap house, since $1000 for such a pur- 
pose is scarcely more easily spared than $2000. And, of course, 
only those who have some balance of money to their credit can 
afford any planthouse ; such things are out of the question for men 
whose every moment is spent in struggling for freedom from debt 
But for one who can afford it the first cost named is very small in 
proportion to the return which will surely follow, while the after 
cost of keeping the house will be very small. It is easily warmed, 
not requiring more than 3 tons of coal at the utmost, probably not 
more than l£ or 2 tons. Most families could manage it without the 
help of a gardener, there being no necessity for potting or starting 
slips, no grape vines to be watched, pruned, and thinned. The 
work is simple, and if you choose, you may carry the plants with 
which you start through many years. 

But beware of one error with regard to this house ; viz., the cal- 
culation that it will pay a portion of its cost, or its running ex- 
penses, by sales of flowers and plants. Professed gardeners may 
do this, but the attempt will only bring to an amateur disappoint- 
ment and annoyance. He will always scrimp himself in cutting 
flowers, lest he may not have enough for sale, and will never be 
satisfied if he does not succeed in making money out of his house ; , 
but if he undertakes it with no expectation of pecuniary return, he- • 
will get his pleasure without any disappointment, unless it be the 
pleasant one of an unexpected surplus, which may bring in a few 
dollars. 



CONSERVATORY. 



Window Gardening. — A few plants can be effectually culti- 
vated on a etill smaller scale, and so as to produce a very pleasant 
result. In any room where a fire is kept up throughout the win- 
ter pnt up a window-case. A bay window is the best for the pur- 
pose, as it projects and receives sun and light from several sides, 
but other windows will answer. The above engraving repre- 
sents a three-sided bay window, projecting 8 feet beyond the room : 
if you can afford it, make a double window of this, with a pane 



242 



DECEMBER. 



c 



I : 



in the top of each of the two 
outer side sashes, swinging 
i hinges, so that by lower- 
ing the inside top sash, and 
opening one or both of these 
swinging panes, cold air may 
be freely admitted to the 
case. Now cut a piece of 
l£ inch planed plank to just 
fit into the window on one 
side, and to project into the 
room as far as you please on 
the other, where it may be cut 
into any shape which suits 
you. In the cut it is of the 
same shape as the portion 
within the window,. so that 
the whole is a hexagon. This 
plank, A, is to be the ceiling. 
Into its four front comers 
sink holes to receive the 
posts, which are to form the 
frame of the window. (See cut, a', post rebated to hold sash.) The 
size of the posts is decided by the height of the window, and they are 
chamfered on the outside to meet the angle of the hexagon, which 
they are to occupy, and rebated on each side deep enough to hold 
the sash. Now construct a framework, B, of 2 x 3 planed joist, just 
the size of the plank ceiling, and- with holes corresponding to those 
in the ceiling ; countersink in opposite sides, grooves or cuts 1 inch 
deep and 2 inches wide, 1 foot apart ; into these grooves fit planed 
slats. As the bay window does not reach the floor cut four 8x4 
smoothed joisls, to reach from the floor to the sill. Screw them 
against the four corners of the window. Cut two other posts, c, 3 
inches longer than the first four, and halve their tops, so as to make 
a joint, on which the frame of the floor of the window-case may rest. 
Have a zinc pan made which trill just fit the floor of the case, 
and make a tight joint all round ; its edges must be turned op 2 



CONSERVATORY. 243 

inches to prevent any water spattering over upon the floor, with a 
one-half inch waste pipe in its centre, to discharge water into the 
pail below. 

Paint the whole inside wood-work thoroughly, with at least two 
coats of best zinc paint ; when this is dry, put the pan in its place. 
Make two small stagings which will fit into as much of the two 
opposite sides of the case as you please ; they should not be nearer 
each other than 2 feet, and their shelves should be not less than 5 
inches wide, with a rise of 4 inches for all ; or the first 3 inches, 
and each other step two more than the last The number of the 
shelves will depend of course on the area of the floor ; they may 
be carried straight across or curved concavely ; the latter being 
more pleasing though not quite so well for the plants. Against the 
sides of the window and case you may carry up shelves 1 foot to 
18 inches apart, to the very top. Screw some hooks into the ceil- 
ing from which to hang drooping plants ; they should be hung with 
cords of different lengths, so .that when well grown they may form 
a kind of arch with the plants on the sides. Paint stagings and 
shelves before plants are set on them. From the bottom of the 
case hang a curtain to conceal the pail — which must stand under 
the pipe before mentioned — and the various utensils used in man- 
aging the case. > 

This case is a miniature greenhouse. It will be thoroughly 
heated by the sun which shines on it during some portion of the 
day, and if enough of this heat cannot be retained to warm it 
through the night, the doors should be thrown open to admit the 
warm air of the room. . 

It should be stocked with a variety of plants. Set near the 
posts pots of vines, as running Roses, Smilax, Tropeolum, Wax- 
plant, Solanum, etc ; on the stagings and in the pan set Gerani- 
ums, Verbenas, Heliotrope, Lantana, Cuphea, Fuchsia ; in shaded 
places, Daisies and Violets; on the shelves, drooping Fuchsias, 
Mahernias, drooping Heliotrope, Lobelia, Nierembergia, Giiia, 
etc. ; hang up any you please of these last 

Of course you are not confined to these plants, but they are 
enough to give a good variety ; be careful not to get too many and 
crowd the case. 



244 DECEMBER. 

Suppose all this to have been done early in October ; during the 
rest of the month, and the whole of the next, water sparingly and 
give plenty of air ; do not induce the plants to grow more than is 
quite natural. The sun's warmth will be enough for day and night 
In December set the bulbs in their glasses into the front of the 
case ; water sparingly, and on very bright days syringe thoroughly. 
Still keep the temperature low, not higher by the sun's heat than 
75° in the day, and at night let it fall as low as 40°. In January 
water more freely and with tepid water, syringe twice a week, and 
keep the temperature at night as high as 50°. The plants -will 
now begin to grow. Once a fortnight give weak manure- water. 
Admit air as often as the outside temperature allows. During the 
day let the case get as hot as 75° to 80°, and at night fall to 55° ; 
follow this treatment till spring. Your plants will be healthy, grow 
strongly, blossom freely. Whenever aphides appear, fumigate three 
times, allowing an interval of two days for the eggs to hatch ; after 
each fumigation, syringe well to clear away the dead insects. 

For your fumigations you may use a small brazier or an alcohol 
lamp with a wire netting supported over the flame, which should 
be as small as possible, that the tobacco laid on the netting may 
burn slowly, and the smoke not be too hot 

Any severely cold night frost may be kept out by shutting up 
the case, first setting inside a large, lighted solar lamp. Its heat 
will keep out frost 

In late spring take out all plants not trained to the wood-work ; 
set them in a cool, shady place, and reduce their water till they stop 
growing. Do not withhold water entirely, or allow the earth to be- 
come dry in the centre of the pots. When they have thoroughly 
ripened their wood, cut them down to a convenient size. 

In August, or at the proper time for each kind of plant, repot, 
shifting to larger pots if necessary ; examine the roots, give fresh 
earth. Put them into the case again in October ; but before doing 
this examine and scrub the paint and wood-work ; stop all leaks ; 
fumigate with sulphur and tobacco of such strength as will kill in- 
sects and eggs, but not affect the paint. 

A very neat case of this kind can be made when the win- 
dow is flush with the room, as in ordinary windows, especially if 



CONSERVATORY. 245 

the window selected lies between the chimney -breast and the wall, 
80 that three sides of the case are made by the chimney-breast, the 
opposite wall, and the intervening window. It is best to have all 
the sunlight possible ; but sunlight is not indispensable, although 
abundant daylight is. For this reason, if not for beauty, it is well 
to have all sides of the case of glass, as the, plants thus get more 
light and grow more symmetrically. 

A very neat and pretty case of this kind can be built for $15, 
and stocked for $5 or $10, and once built and stocked it costs noth- 
ings more while it lasts. Its great advantage over plant-stands for 
rooms ^s, obviously, in the facility it offers for excluding dust, for 
watering, syringing, fumigating, and regulating heat. Such cases 
may be made on the outside of windows, but unless very carefully 
built it is impossible to keep them warm enough. The contrivance 
was suggested by the 

Wardian Case, — which is another simple and pretty method 
of growing a few plants in a room. In original theory, the Ward- 
ian case was air-tight, but in practice this is not necessary ; in- 
deed, it is found that by considering the case as a small greenhouse, 
and managing it on greenhouse principles, a more perfect result is 
secured ; the advantage of the Wardian case being in equality of 
temperature and moisture, and in protection from dust, rather than 
in tjie exclusion of outside air ; the latter being in fact nearly im- 
possible, because air will find its way through the earth and pot 

It is from badly regulated supply of moisture that room plants 
mainly suffer. Out-door plants are supplied by rains, by winds, 
by local currents of air which bring moisture where it is needed ; 
and the importance of this supply is shown by the stunted and with- 
ered appearance of vegetation during droughts, when a reduced 
quantity of water is furnished by the roots, while none can be ob- 
tained by the leaves from the air. In greenhouses this diffused 
moisture is artificially supplied. 

Plants taken from the greenhouse into the room of a dwell- 
ing, are at once placed in a very dry air, always drier than that 
oat of doors, and in cold weather made still more so by fire 
heat ; and the most copious watering at the root will not remedy 

21* 



246 DECEMBER. 

this evil, for the roots cannjot do the work of the leaves as well as 
their own, and cannot give the moisture usually furnished by the 
breathing pores of the leaves. 

It is clear then, that the dryness of the air is a cause of the com- 
mon failure in cultivating plants in our rooms. There is, besides, a 
great deal of dust, ashes, and soot always floating in the air of our 
houses. This dust is very fine, and abundant enough to injure plants 
seriously. By shutting plants in close cases from which all currents 
and circulation of air are excluded, this evil of dust, etc., is removed. 

Again, plants not only absorb moisture from the air, but also* give 
out a great deal by perspiration, which, in the ordinary course of 
things, is carried off by the winds. The earth also evaporates 
freely under a warm sun or a dry wind. Set a glass jar over a 
pot plant, and this usually invisible process will be demonstrated to 
the eye. The glass is no hindrance to the sun's rays, which warm 
the earth and the plant in the pot and draw up moisture through the 
plant, and also evaporate it directly from the earth. To this mois- 
ture the glass is a hindrance ; it shuts it all in, and as the sun 
leaves, and the glass and the air within it cool, the vapor condenses, 
and runs down the glass to the earth again. This process is re- 
peated day after day, with no sensible diminution of the moisture in 
the pot Plants have been kept in this condition for many months 
without the addition of a drop of water to the original supply. 

The evident drawback to such a case is the dimming of the glass 
by condensation of moisture, — on the inside, when the air without is 
cooler than that within — on the outside, when the relation is re- 
versed. In either case it may be temporarily obviated by a small 
door in some part of the case, by opening which the temperature 
within becomes the same as that without. 

A beautiful feature of this arrangement is the power the case 
has of regulating the heat within, by the process described under 
the glass jar : the condensation increasing in proportion as the tem- 
perature within rises above that without, and so shutting out the 
rays which would soon make the temperature within too high for the 
health of the plants. As the case cools by the loss of the rays so shut 
out by the veil of mist, the evaporation ceases to supply material 
for condensation, — the veil is withdrawn and the sun looks in again. 



coNSERViioiir. 247 

In each portable greenhouses the most tender and delicate ex- 
otics, — Ferns, Lycopodiu ms, etc, — have been grown successfully. 
Unfortunately, the cost of glass and the inconvenience of having 
very large cases in our rooms set a limit to our collection and the 
size of our plants. 

I have dwelt on the effect of the sun's rays on the case and its 
contents, in order to make the process plainer ; but direct sunlight 
is not essential to a perfect case, and by keeping tbe case out of the 
sun during the greater part of the time, the condensation and con- 
sequent dimming of the glass may be avoided. 

Wardian cases of every shape have been made to suit the taste 
of cultivators. Not only are plants preserved in the best condition 
by these means, but cut flowers may be kept under similar glasses for 
a much longer time than in the ordinary way. Id the middle of a 
shallow glass dish set a bouquet in an appropriate glass ; pour an 
inch or two of water into the dish, and cover the bouquet with a 
bell-glass, which will shut down into the water, and make the space 
within really air-tight. The flowers will preserve their freshness 
for a marvellously long time. The cut shows a Wardian case. 
"The stand is 22 inches 
high, and fitted with a 
groove all round, to hold 
tbe box ; the glazed top 
or cover is 19 inches 
high; whole height of 
case, 4 feet 2 inches." 

The sides are of ma- 
hogany, (he bottom of 
pine, l£ inches thick ; 
the upper edge of the 
box is furnished with a 
groove, to receive the 

glass roof, and this groove t 

is lined with brass to pre- 
vent the rotting of the 
wood. The roof frame is 
of brass, and is glazed with the very best flattened crown glass ; the 



248 DECEMBER. 

brass astragals arc grooved for the reception of the glass — not 
rebated as in ordinary glazing. The case is 3£ feet long by 2 feet. 
Eyed Btuds are cast on the inside of the ridge astragal, about half 
an inch in length, to sustain small orchids or ferns from the roof; 
the box is lined with copper, and from one corner a copper tube, 2 
inches long, and furnished with a cock, leads off all superfluous 
moisture." 

" One of the panes in the roof is made to draw out, being less 
firmly set than the others in the groove of the astragal ; this is nec- 
essary for the occasional arrangement of the plants, though the 
general arrangement is made by removing the entire top." This 
latter, however, is seldom necessary, as "plants, both in pots 
plunged in moss, and planted out in proper soil, and well drained 
below, have been kept in a healthy state for nine months without 
removal." 




" B is a very elegant plant case, which might stand in a iiall, or 
the centre or corner of a drawing-room. An iron or earthen pot. 
with a groove' cast in the upper surface, which holds the glass cover ; 
in the middle set an earthen stand, with an iron standard to hold 
small orchids or other hanging plants. It may drain through the 
bottom. C is a wire basket for holding flowers and plants, either 
with or without a cover ; the stand and bottom of the basket are of 



CONSERVATORY. 249 

iron or wood ; the sides of wire outside, and zinc in ; the bottom 
channeled, to allow the water to pass off by a small pipe. Such a 
movable case is very beautiful, and is easily arranged and cared for." 
Another very delightful and instructive companion and ornament 
for the house or conservatory is the 

Aquarium. — The very general interest in, and knowledge of, the 
aquarium renders it unnecessary for me to enter minutely into a dis- 
cussion of the principles to be observed in making and managing it. 
It must not be supposed that because it is a means of growing aquatic 
plants it is therefore the complement of the Wardian case, where 
we grow land plants, and to be managed on the same principles ; 
for not only is it necessary to introduce animals into an aquarium 
in order to make its plants thrive, but its great purpose is to make 
us familiar with aquatic animals, and they are its main attraction, 
the plants being secondary, though essential. 

An aquarium can be made in any water-tight, open-mouthed 
vessel, but the habits of the plants and animals can be studied 
much better if the sides of the vessel are of glass. 

Water in which aquatic plants are cultivated soon grows foul, 
and its surface is covered with green slime, and this was the great 
difficulty to be overcome in establishing the aquarium. 

In 1842, Dr. Johnson, an English naturalist, mentioned, in a 
work on Sponges, that having placed in a jar of sea-water plants 
and branches of sea-weeds, to some of which minute shell fish 
were attached, he found that not only did the water remain clear, 
but the plants and animals throve perceptibly. In 1845, Mr. 
Ward, the inventor of the Wardian case, announced to the scien- 
tific world that he had succeeded in growing sea-weeds even in 
water artificially prepared. Since that time the attention of natur- 
alists has been strongly directed to aquariums, and some of the 
earlier establishments were so successful and charming as to arouse 
an immediate and wide-spread enthusiasm on the subject, and re- 
cent periodical literature has abounded with articles about it. 

The first step was the discovery that when the plants introduced 
into jars of fresh water had snails attached to them, or those in 
salt water, periwinkles, the water did not become foul or filled with 



250 DECEMBER. 

confervas. This attracted attention to these animals both in con- 
finement and in their native waters, and then it appeared that they 
are the scavengers of the refuse of the waters ; and a little reflec- 
tion showed the observer that a sea, a lake, a pond is but a large 
aquarium, in which each animal and plant contributes something 
to the support of all, and that his aquarium, to be successful, must 
copy nature's. The plants in water supply by their exhalations 
oxygen to the animals, who in return furnish the plants with car- 
bonic acid ; the decaying vegetable refuse becomes food for snails 
and minute animalcules, which are eaten by small fish, and they, in 
their turn, by large. The whole life of the waters is like an end- 
less chain, which, when broken into parts, is valueless for its origi- 
nal purpose. 

The result of these observations is the rule that the plants are 
the first thing to be established in the aquarium ; that as soon as 
they have fairly begun to grow, snails must be put in, then insects 
and fish. Then we can watch — as it were from beneath the 
waters — the whole miracle of life, death, and reproduction, 
which is perpetually wrought in the unseen depths of ocean and 
lake. 

The beauty of the aquarium depends on the beauty of the veg- 
etable and animal forms within, and as motion lends such an addi- 
tional charm to all things, the fish and other animals are the most 
beautiful and bewitching portion of the stock, and every owner of 
an aquarium is eager to increase this portion. The number of 
plants is obviously limited ; there can be but few species and vari- 
eties even in a large tank, and their beauty is injured by crowding ; 
but it is hard to believe that animals may not be added at pleasure, 
as they occupy little room, and are constantly changing their quar- 
ters. But the laws of animal life are inflexible ; they set a fixed 
limit to the number of animals which may be kept in good condi- 
tion, as they do to the number of persons who can comfortably use 
a room ; and by the same rule ; viz., their proportion to the amount 
of oxygen supplied, whether in the tank or the room. Think of 
the air in a crowded lecture-room, and you will understand the 
condition of an aquarium overstocked with animal life. Within 
its narrow compass the limit- is quickly reached, and the first mis- 



CONSERVATORY. 251 

take of all who start aquariums is in overstocking with animals. 
Their shapes, colors, and movements, are so fascinating, that it is 
hard to resist the inclination to put in every one we find. 

I am not at all competent to define these limits, or even to name 
the many wonderful and beautiful things to be found in every col- 
lection of water. I shall content myself with giving some of the 
results of my experience, and shall leave the reader to elaborate 
these general directions for himself. 

For several reasons, I urge every one who has a little spare 
time and money to make an aquarium for himself. It unlocks to 
the mind a new world, it takes us into the secrets of nature. A 
growing plant is a beautiful sight : its gradual increase, its healthy 
color, its stretching branches, budding leaves, opening flowers, are 
wonderful and lovely ; and the repetition of this process over the 
whole face of the earth, or over a single acre even, is not less 
marvellous ; but we cannot grasp and comprehend it as we can the 
process within our aquariums ; we live in it, we are a part of it. We 
cannot form a miniature earth, which we may watch from without, 
and into which we may successively introduce plants, insects, 
beasts, birds, men, and watch and enjoy their growth and devel- 
opment ; for we are ourselves members of the system, and cannot 
get outside to look at it from afar with observing and discriminating 
eye. But we can isolate a part of this whole, and make a minia- 
ture world of waters, which we may control and keep under con- 
stant observation. It is curious that we should possess this power 
over that portion of the system which ordinarily baffles our obser- 
vation most completely. 

We see the waters about us, sail over them, bathe in them, make 
constant use of them, admire their colors, motions, reflections ; in 
our enthusiasm we call water the eye of Nature, because it in a 
peculiar way lights up her face and gives it expression. But our 
acquaintance is with the surface only. Of the rich beauty and 
wonders of the depths below we get no more than occasional 
glimpses ; yet these, momentary as they are, show us plants and 
animals as delicate, as beautiful as any thing in the land life from 
which they so strangely differ. Our delighted and wondering 



252 DECEMBER. 

imaginations are at once busy in peopling those unseen depths, and 
the vain-glorious theory that beauty was made for man's delight 
disappears in the face of the fact that in those waters where man 
can never go there is just as overflowing an abundance of beauty 
as on the land ; a beauty, too, which seems rather intended to es- 
cape human eyes, for the fish or plant is no sooner raised from its 
native element than its life and beauty depart The great fact is 
hardly modified by the few exceptions in the way of aquariums, 
which show us such mere fragments of the aquatic life. 

Little as these contrivances show us in relation to the whole, 
that relative little is in itself immense, and is besides so per- 
fect a reproduction of the system of that whole, that we are 
justified in saying that it unlocks to us the secrets of the world of 
waters. 

Make your aquarium. Cover the bottom of your vessel — be 
it bathing tub, water pail, glass jar, or proper tank — with two or 
three inches of clean sand and pebbles, taken from brook or pond, 
or from the sea-shore, if your collection is to be marine ; set in this 
such plants as you please. Suppose your collection to be of 
fresh water ; get stones covered with graceful, exquisite lichens 
and algae ; from the river bring the Bladderwort, the Pond-weed, 
Duck-weed, Eel-grass; put in at the same time a few snails, 
and fill the vessel with wetter. You feel that you have nothing as 
yet; the plants are indeed beautiful, but there is nothing that 
seems to you like life. Leave the aquarium for a few hours, till 
the water has cleared ; now examine it. There, swaying on the 
graceful top of that plant, is a group of Hydras, stretching their 
tentacles in every direction in search of food ; from that folded 
leaf starts out the restless crimson spider Hydracula, or the 
water-boatman, which are to the water what swallows are to the 
air ; on that stone is a bryazoda, or a jelly fish ; the snails are 
creeping up the glass with a smoothness of motion curiously fasci- 
nating ; look closer and you will see their little tongues, like reap- 
ing-hooks, gathering up every particle of vegetable decay within 
their reach. You find that without having intentionally got a 
single fish or highly organized animal, you have before your won- 



CONSERVATORY. 253 

dering eyes a life and a variety which you may spend hours in 
watching. Now add a few silver perch, bream, or shiners, a 
stickle-back, an eel, or a leech, a gold or silver fish, a water newt ; 
and the circle is complete. 

Add as you please. I cannot tell what is the proper number, 
but your observation may. When you see the fish come often to 
the surface, gasping, they are too many for your plants, and some 
of them must be removed. If any have died, draw off the water 
through a syphon, remove the fish, and supply fresh water, and 
repeat this process till the equilibrium of animal and vegetable life 
is established. If green slime collects on the glass, get more snails ; 
ttyey will soon dispose of it. But keep no worms or Crustacea, 
however curious, which are always hiding under the stones or bur- 
rowing in the sand, for they only foul the water, without furnishing 
instruction or pleasure. 

What an immense field of delight and research such a collection 
opens. Already the aquarium has given an impulse to the study 
of natural science, has drawn into these pursuits many who were 
previously repelled by the dry system of the books, the array of 
hard words, that brought up to the mind no distinct images. It is 
teaching us observation, training a faculty that has been sadly 
neglected in our modern systems of education;* and were this its 
only use it would still be invaluable as* a promoter of healthy 
science. 

I know of no cheaper and better material for a tank than slate 
and glass. The slate is easily worked for bottom and posts, and 
the joints can be made tight with the best Roman or Portland 
cement, laid on with the smallest sized mason's trowel, or with 
a tin trowel, made to order ; or they may be packed with Red 
Lead and oil, and over this a solution of rough Gutta Percha, 
in common Resin, thinned with Turpentine, may be painted. If 
the cement is not kept well moistened while it is setting it will 
crack. 

The cut shows such an aquarium in elevation, a ground plan of 
the base, and an outline of one of the corner posts. When made 
of slate and glass they need not cost more than $3. 

22 



It will be seen 
that I by no 
means look on 
this as a mere 
amusement for 
an idle mind, or 
as a mere orna- 
ment ; though it 
is among the 
best and most inexhaustible amusements, and the most elegant 
ornaments, and as 
such is quite in 
place in the con- 
servatory ; the more 
so as aquatic plants 
form one of the 
marked features in it. 
These plants, curi- 
ously enough, are no- 
wise particular about 
inequality of the soil 
in which they grow, but seem to flourish equally well in the richest 
mud and in the poorest sand ; and whilst on land manure and stimu- 
lation are the watch-words of successful culture, in the water 
neither is of any consequence. 

I hope I have succeeded, in the preceding pages, in making clear 
what are the obstacles to successful plant culture, and how they 
may be overcome ; too much heat, too much water, too much med- 
dling, is ruinous to bouse plants ; yet constant and assiduous pains 
must be taken to ensure healthy and satisfactory specimens. 

It will more often be found that plants thrive in the cold rooms 
of the poor, than in the heated houses of the rich, because during 
most of the winter, plants in a state of nature grow little or none, 
all that they need being protection from frost. The cool rooms of 
the poor, ill ventilated as they are, furnish more fresh air than can 



*» 



C0N8EBVAT0RT. 255 

survive the furnace heat and constant dust of the better class of 
houses. 

With a little judgment and care every one may have some kind 
of plant during the winter, as a link between the past and the 
future, to carry us hopefully over that desert season. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

GRAPERY. 

Untie the vines in the forcing-house and cold-grapery from the 
trellises, and lay them down on the ground, covering with bass mats. 
In the cold-grapery keep the temperature up by fire and sun, night 
and day, but not much above freezing, say 40°. 

In the forcing-house give more heat ; let the mercury rise in the 
daytime as high as 55° or 60°, and do not let it fall at night 
below 40°. 

The fruit is now ripe in the retarding-house, and must be pre- 
served with care and watchfulness ; some fire will be necessary to 
save it from frost 

These directions will be much the same for the next two months. 
The same temperature prescribed for grapes is suitable for the 
fruit trees in the graperies. They lost their leaves in October and 
November, and should have been pruned then ; if this was neg- 
lected, do it now as soon as possible. The directions given for 
pruning espaliered out-of-door trees, are to be followed in the 
houses, and further directions will be given hereafter. 

The out-of-door treatment of trained Peach-trees is nearly the 
same with that of Pears; any necessary variations will suggest 
themselves to the gardener in the course of practice. I will in 
another place describe the peculiarities of Peach culture more in 
detail. In many parts of New England, where the climate is too 
cold to permit the favorable growth of Peaches in the usual man- 
ner, they may be trained to espaliers with great success. 

It is difficult, in this country, to obtain the best evidence as to 
the relative merits of different houses for the culture of Peaches, 
Apricots, and Nectarines. 

Those persons who have such houses are either the few wealthy, 
who leave their arrangement and management to gardeners, who 

256 



GRAPERT. 257 

being generally men of no cultivation and acquainted with no' 
method except that followed in the particular house where they 
worked before, have neither the observation to detect, nor the con- 
trivance to remedy, the defects of that method, and can therefore 
conceive of no improvement on the kind of house they are familiar 
with ; or they are poor men who grow fruit to sell, and must there- 
fore content themselves with cheap houses, and refrain from any 
experiments, however likely to be improvements on ordinary fruit- 
houses or ordinary methods. In short, American enterprise and 
invention have not turned in this direction. 

In England, on the other hand, the culture of fruit under glass 
has been carried to the highest point, and the houses and trees are 
sans reproche in all those establishments that pretend to take a high 
rank. We must, therefore, examine the English houses and systems 
of planting, pruning, and training, for our models, though different 
cultivators differ so much in their methods, that we shall find it dif- 
ficult to select the best from the variety offered to our choice. 

I shall describe several kinds of houses, either of which will 
prove successful. 

Fruit trees may be cultivated either in tubs or in borders, and 
the treatment differs according to their position. I shall first de- 
scribe those in borders. 

Fruithouses. — The oldest, simplest, and cheapest houses for 
this purpose have been found to be better than any others, if some 
modern improvements are added. These improvements are chiefly 
in the ventilation, which in the first houses was extremely defective. 

No plants subjected to hothouse culture .are so imperious in 
their demands for sufficient pure air as fruit-trees. Some cultiva- 
tors in Europe are accustomed to remove the sashes entirely at 
certain seasons, in order to admit the largest possible amount of 
air. Such a system is, however, rude, ill-judged, and unnecessary. 

The accompanying figure, A, shows one of the earliest forms of 
peachhouse, and originated in Denmark ; it is from 30 to 40 feet 
long, by 9 feet high, and 6 feet wide at the bottom. The top sash 
is short, and slides down over the lower ; the back wall is brick, 
and chambered with flues for hot air ; the front may be of wooden 

22* 



258 



DECEMBER. 




posts driven into the ground, in lieu of brick. In front is a hot air flue. 

The trees are planted in the soil c. 
A great difficulty with this house was 
entire want of good ventilation. The 
trees are planted within 12 inches 
of the back wall, and are warmed 
by the hot air in the chambers ; thus 
the wall is warmed gently, and the 
house is kept as hot as you please, 
by the front flue. This house may 
be improved by adding a stone 
foundation, both as a security against 
frost, and an assistance in drainage ; 
and by making openings through the 
wall, bb; one into the hot air flue below, to warm the air of the 
house, as before described; the other conveying the hot air away 
out of doors. If the back wall is carried up a little higher, and 
the ventilating tube turned upward, it will be still better. Such a 
house would give large crops of early fruit ; or by omitting the 
fires, it could be used as a cold-house, which would ripen the fruit 
in July and August. 

All plants, however, which are so far removed from the light, 
thrive slowly in comparison with those brought directly to the glass. 

B is another cheap house, but better 
than the last. The trees are here trained 
within 1 foot of the glass, a is a slanting 
roof, either of wood, slated, or of glass. 
This gives the trees good head room. In 
this case, as in the last, the foundations 
and ventilators are added to the original 
plan, and the former may be of wood, 
supported by wooden posts instead of 
brick. This house is wider than the last, 
to allow the extra head room, and con- 
sequently higher at the same pitch. The 
pitch must vary in this latitude accord- 
ing to the season of the year when the 
greatest heat is desirable. 




GRAPERY. 



259 




fe C is a very good house, heated by hot water. It may be of any 
length ; the pitch is 30°. The front sash and parapet wall are 3 feet 9 
inches from the ground 
to the top of the spout or 
water-gutter. The spout 
serves both as a plate 
to support the rafters 
and also to convey the 
wafer which falls on 
the roof. The plates 
and rafters are metallic, 
but may be as well made 
of wood. The table trel- 
lising is supported by 
small stone or brick 
posts; the roots of the 
trees on the curved trel- 
lis extend out through the arches of the front wall to the border in 
front of the house. The hot-water pipes b> b, are supported on 
brick pillars, and run parallel to the front and end walk, 2 feet 
from the table-trellis. The boiler is in a niche in the back wall, 
and is managed from a shed. The back trellis springs from within 
9 inches of the back wall, and slopes as shown in the drawing. 
The whole trellis is composed of iron rods, 6 inches apart." 

u D is a very good span- 
roofed peach house ; 
standards grown in the 
middle ; dwarf varie- 
ties on the sides ; heated 
by hot-water or steam 
pipes a»> a; ventilated 
through the ridge 5, b, 
also by sliding sashes in 
front, and by openings 
c, c, against the pipes. 
The sashes are entire, 
but may be made mov- 




J 



260 DECEMBER. 

able. Such a house should have its length mailing north and south ; 
the sides should be as high as the angle of pitch will allow, to give 
the lower branches abundant room ; the ridge should therefore be 
from 12 to 14 feet from the ground." Span-roofed houses are un- 
questionably the best for fruit trees, and would be in general use, 
if it were not for the iron band of prejudice. In such houses 
Peaches could also be grown in boxes or pots, thus prolonging the 
season. 

"E is an interior per- 
spective view of a very 
successful range of 
houses at Everingham 
Hall, England. The 
trees are trained over 
the whole back wall, 
and over the curved 
trellis in front. Gable 
trellises might be set 
up at the end?, or the 
vines carried up the 
rafters; in these two 
ways a large addition 
to the training space 
would be secured, and 
the fruit in these posi- 
tions would be better 
than the rest." The back part of the front trellis should be rather 
higher than given in the cut, although it would then shade the 
lower part of the trees on the back wall ; this is of little conse- 
quence, as but little fruit grows on those branches. 

Cherry, Plum, Fig, and Apricot houses are similar in character to 
those just described, and are to be built on the same principles. 
The trees in them should, however, be principally in tubs, as it is 
always rather difficult to get a perfectly satisfactory assortment, and 
if in the ground it is difficult to make changes and alterations. This 
may be done with ease when the plants are in pots. The plan F, 
is the only one I shall give for this kind of house. These fruits, 



GRAPERY. 



261 



except the Cherries, may be grown in lower houses than Peaches, 
and the houses should, if possible, be span roofed. 

"House F is very 
much like D ; a, a, a, a, 
are the ventilators ; b, 
by shelves for Strawber- 
ries, etc The floor is 
of slate slabs, or strips 
of plank. Sashes may 
slide or not, as you 
please. The side ven- 
tilators are 1x3 feet, 
and should be opened 
and shut all together, c, c, are side lights. If the top sashes are 
fixed, the openings in the ridge should be 10 inches wide. The de- 
tails of construction, ventilation, etc., are the same as for the houses 
before described." In all cases I have introduced the improved 
ventilation into the proper place. 

Having devoted as much space to this subject as this month will 
allow, I shall defer a detailed account of the proper treatment of 
the houses till the next months. 




CHAPTER XXXIV. 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

There is no call upon the gardener's time in December, in the 
actual garden, if the directions for the last month were carefully fol- 
lowed. 

During this month, air the spring Salads, Cabbages, etc., when- 
ever opportunity offers. In the middle of mild days, open the 
ridges of vegetables and take out supplies for the family, or the 
market, and then close them immediately. 

Continue to pile in heaps, for manure, dried leaves and haulm. 
Collect, if the cellar is over filled, a pile of manure in the garden 
for summer use. 

Get the hotbeds in order for spring, and if there are any to be 
built, make the plans and get the materials. They may be made 
in the workshop, and not carried out till it is time to put them to- 
gether for use. 

For directions see January " Kitchen-Garden." Prune Goose- 
berries and Currants ; mulch Strawberries; lay down and cover with 
earth Raspberries ; remove to greenhouse or grapery Figs and 
Fruit trees in tubs. 

At the close of the last month, I said I should describe the proper 
treatment of kitchen-gardens laid out on sloping and irregular 
surfaces, at some other time. I shall hardly find a more convenient 
time than the present. 

Economy and convenience, considerations which are potent in 
the kitchen-garden, generally induce us to lay it out in squares and 
rectangles, but these very motives may lead us to arrange a partic- 
ular garden in an entirely different manner. For instance, if it 
were on the side of a hill, it is plain that under the ordinary method 
some of the paths must ascend the steepest part of the hill, and 
consequently be very difficult to make, to keep in order, or use. 

262 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 263 

And here let me say, that however desirable it may be to have 
some sloping ground within the limits of the kitchen-garden, the 
whole area should never be of that character, except from necessity. 

Paths — Their Construction. — On the side of a hill, then, 
the paths must not be straight, but must follow the surface, and 
wind round the bases of .the smaller elevations, across rather than 
up the hill, — must, in short, follow the easiest line of ascent The 
greatest difficulty in making them — and very troublesome it is — 
is their liability to be washed by rains ; for they become water 
courses to carry away the water from the beds, and the lighter bits 
of gravel are washed off, and they are left rough, stony, and un- 
sightly. In England, they are often covered with a mixture of 
tar, asphaltum, and gravel, which of course cannot be washed 
away ; but this is very costly, and, besides, the heat of our summer 
sun softens the tar and asphaltum, so that it runs and sticks to the 
foot in a most annoying way. Another method is to pave such 
paths, and if this is well done, it never needs repairing ; but it is 
costly, and- besides seems out of place among grass and green trees. 
Again, such paths have been made entirely of oyster shells, which 
do not wear into such small pieces as to be washed, and which 
allow water to percolate freely into the drainage below ; but they, 
too, have their peculiar drawbacks. 

No material is so satisfactory as gravel, could the washing be 
avoided. Much may be done by making the path higher in the 
middle than at the sides, so that water can run off laterally into 
small paved gutters. If the hill is very steep, raise bars a few 
inches high to cross the paths diagonally at intervals, and check 
the current as well as turn it to the gutters. Occasional openings 
may be made from the side gutters into the grass land, where the 
soil is clayey, boggy, or peaty, for its texture will be improved by 
the gravel washed on. 

Nobody can afford to make such paths poorly. Dig them out 
deep, and fill in principally with stones ; cover with rather coarse, 
and finish with the finest and hardest gravel. Then roll often, 
watering freely from the rose of the watering-pot. If the mate- 
rial is good, and the work well done, there will be but little wash. 



264 DECEMBER. 

These directions apply to ornamental grounds as well as to 
kitchen-gardens. 

Having made the paths, put in the slate edgings for the beds, 
that the loam may not wash out of them into the paths. 

For the rest, the arrangement of the garden should be much the 
same as on level ground, with the exception that all rows should, 
when possible, be carried across the slope, in order to check the 
wash, and collect and save the lighter particles of earth. With 
the same view, strips of grass may be left transversely to the line 
of slope. 

A kitchen-garden is especially for use, must be watched and 
worked over constantly, and, except on very small estates, is to be 
looked at with a purely practical eye, so located and laid out that 
without regard to beauty or variety it may answer best its practical 
purpose. But on a piece of land too small to admit of one por- 
tion's being devoted to practical, and another to ornamental pur- 
poses, beauty and profit must both be got from the same land. So 
there arises another kind of kitchen-garden, where economy and 
convenience are no longer the sole considerations that govern, but 
where the arrangement is made with an eye to beauty, the three 
harmonizing like pedestal, shaft, and capital, in a column, or like 
stem, leaves, and flowers, on a plant This garden cannot by 
means of hotbeds, espaliers, and the other appliances which wealth 
commands, produce fruit and vegetables in long succession, and 
most perfect in kind and quality. It cannot show beds rich both 
in foreign and native shrubs and flowers, but must be content with 
few varieties ; and perhaps their bloom will be brief, instead of ex- 
tending through every month of the growing year. Its trees are 
of the commonest kinds, and can soon be counted, but every tree, 
shrub, and flower, is loved and watched with an interest unknown 
on a large estate, and out of this familiar acquaintance will come 
blessed influences over the owner, his family, and his friends. A 
very small piece of ground may do much toward furnishing the 
table, still more toward furnishing the mind, if it be used for but 
one purpose. But both may be combined, and while the appetite 
for food is supplied, the equally instinctive hunger for beauty need 
not go unsatisfied. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 2 65 

I recommend to any person, — however humble his means, how- 
ever narrow his land, — if he must choose between beauty and 
profit, between flowers and shrubs on the one hand, and vegetables 
and fruit on the other, to have beauty. If your garden plot is 
not large enough for both flowers and vegetables, devote it solely 
to the flowers. 

I know that this advice is directly opposed to the common opin- 
ion, which holds that all the land in the possession of a man not 
really rich, should be made " to pay," to feed, or in some way sup- 
port the bodily life of his family. But I hope I have already 
clearly stated that which I shall urge more and more, that the 
chief consideration in managing any piece of land should be how 
it may give the largest amount of beauty consistent with necessary 
convenience and economy. Potatoes and Apples you may buy 
about as cheap as you can grow them, and you will buy them if 
you do not grow them, to keep body and soul together. Beauty 
can only be bought at the most extravagant prices, and if it is not 
cultivated at your home, will hardly be bought ; there is no physical 
appetite to clamor for it, and common economy begins by dispens- 
ing with it. 

I have something more to say about this which you may find 

under " Ornamental Grounds." 

23 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 



Continue to prune, as directed last month, unless the weather is 
severely cold. Not that the cold would injure the trees in pruning, 
but that the work would be so disagreeable that it would probably 
be imperfectly done. Be careful to cover the stumps of any large 
branches with the mixture of shellac and alcohol, as it will keep 
out the cold and rain, and prevent any tendency to canker. As the 
mixture is fluid, it is easily applied, even in the coldest weather. 

You will remember that I closed my last month's farming direc- 
tions by saying that I should devote the winter months to the gen- 
eral subject of farming. 

First, let us dispose of the work in hand. The cold will soon 
become severe, therefore take advantage of the sunny days to tarn 
the young and dry stock out into the yard, and throw to them, on 
the snow (or if there is no snow, enclose in racks), a supply of Corn 
fodder, or coarse Hay. Cattle will eat up in this way a great deal 
of material that would otherwise be valueless, except as bedding or 
manure. The appetite is whetted by the cold, and, besides, all ani- 
mals like to have occupation. Nothing is more agreeable to neat 
cattle, in warm weather, than when standing in the shade, or up to 
their bellies in water, to chew the cud whilst they thrash off* the 
flies. But the most romantic heifer could find but little pleasure in 
lying down in the snow to chew its cud ; they will, therefore, browse 
round, and pick off the leaves from the Corn stalks, chew old buts 
too hard to be even smelled of in the barns, and hunt out the sweet 
stalks among the driest meadow hay. Let them remain out only 
during the warmest part of the day. Do not turn the milch cows 
out at all, if the weather is sharp ; and when, on sunny days, they 
go out, do not let them stay long enough to get chilled. The econ- 

266 



THE FARM. 267 

omy of farming is now to be practised ; you have harvested the 
crops, dow how can you use them to the best advantage ? 

Cut every thing you feed out ; Hay, of course, as it is more eco- 
nomical, and more digestible. Stalks, by all means, as they will 
be more readily eaten, and the refuse, when turned to the pigs, 
will, as we have seen, decay more readily. Occasionally throw a 
handful of Corn into the manure heap. The pigs will scent it, and 
root for it, and thus work the manure and loam over much more 
thoroughly than when, without any such object, they merely root 
for practice. Shut off the water of irrigation as soon as the fields 
are fairly covered with ice. 

The weather is now both cold and steady, and promises us ample 
time to kill and cure pork and beef; if this is done in cold weather 
they will be sweeter, and keep better than when stored at any other 
time. 

For home use, do not let your pigs get over fat ; kill them when 
they are between one year and eighteen months old. If 'they have 
been well fed, and have grown rapidly, they will be in the best con- 
dition for use. Too fat pork, or indeed too fat meat of any kind, 
is most unwholesome food; and although the annual premium 
offered at the county show may stimulate the farmer to get his 
creatures as fat as possible, and the irrational practice on the part 
of the butchers, who pay the best prices for the fattest cattle, may 
tempt him to gain this profit, yet the practice of over-fattening is bar- 
barous, and unwholesome, and my advice to you is, by all means, if 
you must fatten, to sell the animals to such as like them, and keep 
for your own consumption the more healthily developed specimens. 
I will not here enter into an argument to prove this point; it 
has been again and again settled beyond dispute, and on purely 
scientific principles, in treatises devoted to the subject 

As the fowls get fat dispose of them ; there will be no profit in 
winter fattening. Keep them warm, and well fed, and they will 
lay regularly through the winter. Vary the food of the sheep and 
cattle you are fattening, occasionally ; it keeps the appetite better 
and ensures quicker development. 

Occasionally look into the fruit room ; keep out the frost, and be 
sure that the barrels are always closed at once, after being opened 



268 DECEMBER. 

to take out fruit Any admission of air is likely to hasten decay. 
It is very common to open a barrel of apples and keep it open till 
its contents are all gone. The rotting process is so rapid that the 
owner often blames the packer for it, when the fault is really in 
the careless keeping which has produced just the effect that might 
have been anticipated. The barrelled fruit having been artificially 
preserved for a season, is subjected, when least able to resist it, to 
the very worst influence. Buy sheep and oxen to eat up the crops 
of Hay and Boots accumulated, and sell all poor, dry cows, to be re- 
placed by better. 

Watch the market carefully, and sell fruit and vegetables 
whenever they command a fair price ; do not be deluded into wait- 
ing for a possible increase of price, when you can sell so as to be 
remunerated for your labor and expense. It is a species of gamb- 
ling in which, your articles being perishable, the chances are all 
against you. Pay off all the laborers except one man at the stables, 
a gardener, and a boy. 

Continue the overhauling and repairing of all tools, etc, and 
bring your farming account up square, so as to see the probable 
profit or loss, for a guide for the next year's operations. 

The next year's work should always be the result of careful de- 
liberation ; and if each day's work is not indeed accurately forseen 
and provided for, yet each must take its place as it comes, as part 
of a methodical whole ; a whole which would not be systematic, 
but only irregular and annoying, if any of the cogs of the great 
wheel of life should not fit into its proper groove as the wheel re- 
volves. 

" Farming is a dog's life, and is unprofitable in New England at 
any rate." This is the text of all village gossip ; of fanners at 
the stores and in their barns, and too often in their clubs, and at the 
county meetings. It is hinted at directly or indirectly in half our 
agricultural periodicals, and openly asserted in the rest of our cur- 
rent literature. 

Farming not Drudgery. — Farming is looked upon as a 
necessary occupation, and well enough as a substratum to soci- 
ety, and farmers are considered as the raw material for the produc- 



THE FABM. 269 

tkra of mechanics, merchants, men of letters, soldiers, sailors, and 
loafers. In their position as farmers they are deserving of pity, 
and they must each and all struggle with all their might to better 
their condition, by escaping from their present life.* This may be a 
strong expression of the prevailing opinion, but it is in the main a 
correct one. And this opinion I pronounce to be false and un- 
worthy, though I must acknowledge that the practice of the agri- 
cultural community gives too much ground for it 

It is true that we have a very difficult soil to cultivate — some- 
times stony, sometimes sterile, — a soil that needs a great deal of 
artificial stimulus in the way of manure, but with the proper 
culture the crops are on an average larger than on the more favored 
lands of the south and west ; it is a common thing for our farmers 
to get from 60 to 80 bushels of Indian Corn, 20 of Wheat, 30 or 
40 of Rye, to the acre. And when this 'crop is harvested it is at 
its market; so that the cost of transportation is very light, and the 
difference between outlay at the farm and the market-price is nearly 
Clear profit 

We have to work hard for these crops and to harvest three tons 
of hay to the acre is no child's play. It must be done under a hot 
sun, and often hurried almost beyond human endurance, to avoid 
the threatening showers. But when harvested it is worth money 
enough to pay well for the trouble, and when sold, in the form of 
beef or milk, will return an ample profit to the farmer. 

It would be foolish to deny that the chief consideration that de- 
termines a young man in the choice of a profession, apart from 
special taste, is a pecuniary one, and most men will turn from one 
in which the daily gain is small or uncertain. But the daily gain 
is not always a just criterion. Let us look into this matter for a 
few moments. 

A farmer hires his farm servant at a cost of from 75 cents to $1.25 
per day, while he pays the mechanic who comes to mend his barn 
from $2 to $2.50 for his day's work, which is shorter than the 
farmer's. So far the advantage seems to be on the side of the me- 
chanic. But the mechanic's work is one of great uncertainty, 
employed as he is only for a few days at a time, now here, now 
there, now nowhere. The farm servant, on the other hand, is 

23* 



/ 



270 DECEMBER. 

» 

employed without variation in price for many months, knows what 
to rely upon, and what will be the wear and tear. His net earnings 
may be laid aside with a feeling of certainty that he will get 
renewed and steady employment the next year ; business may be 
dull, mechanics idle, but farms must be cultivated. Then his work 
is, taking the year through, no harder than that of the journeyman 
mechanic, though it may seem so at first sight The length of the 
summer's day is compensated by the shortness of the winter's one. 

He gets up at 4 in summer, and goes in the clear, cool morning 
to milk the cows and clean the stables ; no hard work, surely. 
With a hearty appetite he eats a substantial breakfast, and then 
goes out to plough or dig, sow or reap. Mowing and reaping are 
very hard work; but they are the hardest in farming, and after all 
are- no worse than running a saw or pushing a plane all day. Take 
all the working days together, the ten hours of mechanics' work is 
more fatiguing and wearing upon the mind and body than the 
farmers' longer day. You will find it so, farmers, if you change 
and try it If the farm servants would work for 10 hours with 
the diligence and perseverance with which good mechanics labor in 
order to receive the best wages, they would do more in that time 
than is ordinarily accomplished in twelve or sixteen. 

I will not pursue this train of thought ; any one may carry it on 
for himself, and however contrary to the general theory, I think any 
person who carefully compares all classes of labor, will find that 
the farm servant's work is no more severe than that of any other 
journeyman. Having decided then on the equality in hard labor 
between farming and other occupations, and having seen that the 
greater wages of the mechanic are balanced by the steadier employ- 
ment of the farmer, we now find on further examination that in 
every other respect the farmer's life is to be preferred. His work 
is healthful, being out of doors in the fresh air, and is agreeable, 
from the pleasant objects it constantly brings before him, and from 
its variety. 

And this superiority is still more apparent when we look at the 
comparative success of different occupations. An examination of 
the careers of those who begin life as journeymen in any trade, 
will show us that the percentage of those who ever rise above that 



THE FARM. 271 

condition into one of pecuniary ease is extremely small. Smfficient 
means at the outset to give a good education, and a small capital, 
will increase the chances of success, but even with this advantage 
the per centage continues small. The risks in any kind of business 
are so great, and the outlay required so disproportioned to any im- 
mediate return, that young men without large capital or peculiar 
opportunities stand a poor chance of doing any thing more than 
gaining a bare livelihood. 

Moreover, when having laid up a small sum he ceases to be a 
journeyman and sets up for himself, his little earnings will be much 
better invested in hiring or buying a small piece of land, and will 
give a much surer prospect of a good return, than if spent in tools 
for a mechanic's work, or laid out in stock for any kind of business. 
A little calculation will show that there can be no better invest- 
ment for a steady and enterprising young man, than to buy a few 
acres of land, paying what ready money he can, and giving a mort- 
gage for the rest. He pays no rent or interest to another, but to 
himself; and instead of putting his savings into some outside in- 
vestment, which must always be more or less insecure, he puts 
them into his land, which is sure to give' a good return. I recom- 
mend this course to any young man who is prudent and earnest in 
his work, and am certain of his success ; for not only is he more sure 
of his interest, but it may be made compound as it were, nay, even 
greater in its rate of increase, when put into high farming. Rich 
manure, good drains, thrifty young orchards, etc., pay each year an 
increasing percentage on the money invested in them. 

To make the previous statement more definite, let us enter into 
a calculation. Whether he engages a farm near a city or in "the coun- 
try, he will easily get one for six per cent on its value, per annum. 
Let the farm be worth $3,000, the rent will be $180. The size 
will vary from 10 to 100 acres, according to the locality. Were 
he a mechanic or a day laborer he must pay at least $50 rent, 
which reduces the excess of rent for the cultivated farm to $130 
per annum. He had $500 which he invests in stock and tools, — 
interest $30, — or whole interest more than a journeyman me- 
chanic would pay, $160. 

This farm ought to net over cost of cultivation $500, besides the 



} 



272 DECEMBER. 

milk and vegetables consumed by the family ; — less rent of culti- 
vated land gives $340 for his year's wages, — earned for himself, 
subject to no master, and in the fresh air. If he had worked as a 
mechanic, he would not have received for wages more than $400, 
with the best of luck ; — $340 less $50 rent of house, gives $290, 
— this goes for household expenses. He will lay up a little of this, 
which invested in his farm will pay tenfold. If he buys his farm 
upon mortgage he will pay off the cost of the farm as he saves, or 
he will make improvements in culture, drainage, and stock, that 
will give him every year a much larger balance ; the first year is 
the smallest earning ; and in an ordinary life time, if he be expedi- 
tious, careful, and energetic, he will accumulate $10,000 to $15,- 
000 in money or improvements, besides educating his family and 
living well. Any prudent, industrious, and willing Yankee can do 
this in New England if he farms as he ought to ; and but very few 
merchants, professional men, or mechanics do more ; and the aver- 
age not as well. 

I have considered the question only from a pecuniary point of 
view ; and this is the least important. In the next month, I will 
speak of the higher benefits and advantages of a farmer's life. 



CHAPTER XXXVL 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

In the " Kitchen-Garden " I said that beauty should be the dis- 
tinguishing feature of every homestead, its aim and spirit, its warp, 
into which may be filled the woof of sundry conveniences and com- 
forts. But this is not the practice of the world in general, and it is 
by dispensing with beauty that economy begins. Economy being 
necessary as well as commendable, it is much practised ; and too 
often it is used as a catch-word by heads of families, as an ex- 
cuse for denying their families something which is not attractive 
to themselves, while they substitute something more to their 
taste. 

That economy which feeds the body well at the expense of starv- 
ing the mind is wretchedly short-sighted. The Bible expressly 
teaches that what can be put on the back, into the purse, or into the 
stomach is valueless in comparison with that which clothes and feeds 
the soul; — that perishing wordly treasures are not to be counted 
with those everlasting possessions, which instead of being left for 
our heirs to quarrel over, are ours forever when once they are ac- 
quired, are in fact the stock in trade with which we are to begin 
the next world. Yet the mass of those who profess to believe in 
the Bible, hurry on to get a little more money and neglect to pro- 
vide for the soul. 

All of which may be very true, but what has it to do with grow- 
ing flowers and other ornamental things instead of vegetables and 
fruit on a bit of land too small for both ? 

Let me tell you how the two things are connected in my mind. 

I have often seen a small house in a dusty street with a bit of a 

garden in front; over its windows and door, pretty vines climbed; 

bright Roses, Marigolds, and Hollyhocks lighted up the dark, sad 

cloud of poverty that hung about the place ; though they were of 

273 



274 DECEMBER. 

no economical value as food, drink, or clothing, they gladdened the 
minds of the laborers who passed to and from their work morning 
and night These men and women too closely pressed by want to 
do more than scrape together the wherewithal to keep body and 
soul together, yet find a moment to stop and enjoy the color and 
fragrance, which are to them the best proof of a God who watches 
over all his creatures. Seeing the beautiful things, they sigh for 
time and space to cultivate the same, and thus a spot is kept warm 
and green in the corner of their hearts, ready at the proper time to 
give liberal foothold and nourishment to any seeds of goodness and 
nobleness which may be dropped there. The tendency of the life 
of the poor is to materialism ; it is hard to persuade them that 
there is any object more important than providing for the body. 
Tied down in the din of machinery ; unable to go out into the God- 
made country where the truth might come freely to them, seeing 
their employers and companions seeking those things only which 
bring money, — how can they believe what they hear at Bible-read- 
ings, that these things so greedily sought are of no real value ? 
But when they see time and labor spent to grow flowers, merely 
because they are beautiful, they perceive dimly that there is some- 
thing precious beside money and the things it buys ; and the throb 
of pleasure in their own hearts as they stand in the beautiful pres- 
ence testifies yet more strongly to the truth. 

Millions of dollars are spent in this country for education, not 
only because it is a help in getting bread, but because it is right 
that men should be educated. This education is directed to the 
development of other qualities than shrewdness merely, — truth, rev- 
erence, taste ; and to this end no plan is better than to show chil- 
dren that their teachers value all things for their intrinsic worth, for 
the power they have over the mind for good. What the child sees 
its teachers and parents love and cultivate, he will cherish and 
love. The presence of purity and nobleness in the soul drives out 
impurity and meanness, as water rejects oil. 

Think of this tax-payers and fathers ! If you wish your taxes to 
give the greatest return, surround your children when at home 
with objects and influences which will make their minds best able 
to enjoy and expand, under the teachings of the public instructor. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 275 

If they see you surround the home with beautiful things, because 
you love them, they will do so loo. If they see your garden ar- 
ranged for beauty as well as utility, while all oyer the homestead 
stern economy occasionally yields to a reverential love of nature, 
and to a sense that the gratification of the eye and the mind is 
quite as important as the gratification of the appetite, they will grow 
up with liberal, generous feelings and opinions, they will be men 
and women who have the best interests of the age at heart. 

When discussing the laying out of the kitchen-garden, I directed 
that some paths should be straight and some curved ; these direc- 
tions were not purely arbitrary, but are the result of certain prin- 
cipled. Hon to make a road or path is settled in a few words ; 
how to lay it out depends upon many con side rations. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 



LOCATING ROADS AND PATHS. 



Starting with the fact that the road or path is to be a means 
of going from one point to another, most men will say that it 
must plainly be as straight as possible, must be the shortest dis- 
tance between the two points, if such a line of travel is practicable. 
But I cannot think this reasoning correct. I am sure much evil 
has grown out of it. Of course the purpose of a road is to connect 
two places for travel, and of course it does not answer its purpose 
if it is not pretty direct ; but it is possible to sacrifice too much to 
this directness, and the sacrifice is so often made that I consider it 
important to inquire into the matter at some length. 

Though the inquiry is made particularly to determine what rules 
should guide us in laying down roads and paths on private estates, 
I shall first speak of public roads, believing that we may thus ar- 
rive at conclusions which will apply to private roads with even 
greater force than to highways. 

Suppose yourself travelling a road carried as straight as a rail- 
road, but not travelling by steam power ; you are walking or 
driving in no more than ordinary haste. For miles ahead you see 
your road ; if your journey is not to be long the end is in sight 
from the beginning, and you measure off the distance, step by step, 
thinking in spite of yourself how slowly you get on, till you grow 
impatient, hurried, fretful. Get what glimpses you may on either 
hand, that provoking vista robs them of genuine variety, and with 
its stupidly familiar face takes away all chance of a pleasant sur- 
prise. It will not let you tarry to enjoy a pleasant side view in 
peace, but is always reminding you of your purpose, and upbraid- 
ing you with neglecting it. If good fortune has put a hill in the 
way too thick or hard to cut through, you are relieved for a moment 
only to see with a more annoying distinctness from its top your 

276 



LOCATING ROADS AND PATHS. 277 

whole road marked out. Across marshes and prairies such roads 
are necessary and proper ; there is no excuse for their curving, 
and any deviation from the straight line would be an insult to public 
good sense, as well as robbery of the public purse ; but they are 
never favorite roads to pedestrian or equestrian, unless he belong 
to the cultivated class, who think trotting horses the great delight 
of life. With what relief we turn from them to a road which 
winds to avoid water, or to cross mountains by an easier ascent ! 
how we enjoy the unexpected views which burst upon us at the 
sharp turns, the alternation between the woods or glens that shut 
in about us, and the valleys that open before us, or the heights that 
give us a glimpse of our destination, without revealing all the road 
by which we are to reach it ! We can linger when we like with- 
out a guilty feeling that we are wasting time, and at last are sur- 
prised at some curve to find that it is the last, and has brought us 
unawares to our journey's end. Variety is a great delight and a 
great aid to the traveller ; it refreshes not only his mind, but his 
body ; for variety of surface calls into play a different set of 
muscles. 

Another disadvantage in straight roads in a hilly country (mean- 
ing roads which doggedly hold to their original direction and curve, 
— when curve they must, — up and down, not right and left), is 
that they lead over the hills in the line of most difficult ascent, and 
so try man and beast to the utmost ; they call a new set of muscles 
into work. We need not dwell on this point. Every one knows 
how much more easily he gets round than over a hill, and how 
difficult and expensive it is to keep steep roads in repair. 

A rigidly straight road, then, must be disagreeable, wearisome, 
expensive. There is another objection to it, great though not very 
obvious ; it stultifies the minds of those who travel it ; not utterly, 
but surely, the more completely as they travel it more frequently, 
and have less internal resources. 

The fact of its monotony implies this, for we all need the stim- 
ulus of variety to keep our minds active ; we grow stupid, and 
u whistle for lack of thought," when we are shut in by outward 
sameness, and deprived at the same time of books and companions. 
We should return in very different moods from a walk through 

24 



278 DECEMBER. 

Holland, and from one through Switzerland. Men may sneer at 
the idea that scenery modifies character, may instance Swiss Cre- 
tins, and ask where are the Swiss poets ; but the exception does 
not disprove the rule, and poetry speaks in other ways than in 
verse. Though there be boors among mountains, and wits and 
philosophers on prairies and marshes, the mass of mankind have 
been, are, and will forever be, refined by quiet beauty, quickened 
by the picturesque, made deeper and stronger by the sublime. 
They are susceptible to these natural influences, though in different 
degrees. The blood colors the cheek and brightens the eye of one 
man quicker than that of another, when they stand together in 
sight of Mount Blanc, or on the seashore, but depend upon it the 
blood flows quicker in every man's veins when he looks on such 
sights. We are. all barometers beneath these influences, and you 
are not foolish but wise to judge of these influences by the more 
susceptible instruments. The folly lies in thinking there is no 
quicksilver in those veins which are more sluggish, or that their 
sluggishness proves the absence of heavenly influences. 

I have gone into this inquiry about the advantages and disad- 
vantages of straight town and county roads thus at length, because 
here is the very stronghold of narrow-minded prejudice ; here is 
the public error which so vitiates private taste. 

No vandalism is so common in New England as that which 
obtains among road surveyors, county commissioners, " selectmen," 
and well-to-do farmers. Possessed with the idea that directness is 
the only virtue in a road, they straighten curves, cut down hills, 
fill up valleys, and rather than swerve from some fixed line, cut 
down noble trees, the growth of centuries, and whose beauty and 
majesty typifies Divinity itself. Trees are sacrificed every year 
that were the very ideals of perfection of their species, and were the 
pride of the whole country round. The absurdity becomes painful 
when a tree, produced by the concentrated energies of the earth, air, 
and sun, for years, the noblest of its race, as beautiful as Venus or 
Apollo, worthy of daily love and worship, is removed, because 
some headlong milkman or hurried stage driver can thereby save 
a few feet. Generations of milkmen and stage drivers may have 
sprung up and died since it was a sapling, and other generations 



LOCATING ROADS AND PATHS. 279 

would pass away before its natural decay, and yet some astute 
road-maker or officious village dignitary orders its removal, and 
the green head is brought low. Such outrages are barbarous, and 
their perpetrators ought to be known, and their names written in 
the annals of the rogues and scapegraces of the neighborhood, and 
handed down to the contempt of posterity. 

This public mistake is so prevalent that it influences private 
opinion, and the multitude, who are too ignorant to have any mind 
of their own, or too timid to carry it out, follow the public fashion, 
and accordingly we find in private grounds straight avenues, 
straight walks, straight rows of trees, rectangular enclosures. All 
the variety and grace of nature is ruled and straightened out of 
them. 

HI advised as this treatment is at any time or place, in the pub- 
lie road and kitchen-garden, it seems somewhat excused by the 
plea of business and necessity, but in ornamental grounds even 
that is removed ; there every argument and fancy should favor the 
introduction of whatever may tend to refine the mind, banish 
thoughts of business and money, and awaken emotions of taste, 
and so far from following the leader, every one should be careful 
to measure his improvements before he makes them, not by " What 
will they say ? n or " What do they do ? " but by what seems most 
akin to the graceful, beautiful, and refined. If he cannot study 
some acknowledged canon of good taste, has neither time, money, 
nor opportunity to visit places improved with taste, and which are 
truly ornaments to nature, let him make the best attempt he can, 
assured that he will be ridiculed by those who are safe because 
they do not infringe upon public opinion, and conscious that his 
discernment will be improved by the effort made, and that if he 
tries faithfully, he will get right in time. 



CHAPTER XXXVUX 

GBEKNH0C8E. 

ARY. The greenhouse will demand more 
ition daring the rest of the winter than it 
hitherto done. After the year turns there 
19 a disposition in plants to increased 
rth; the days are longer, there is more 
, and heat to stimulate the tissues, and 
the sunlight is more magnetic. Be care- 
iiu, in your impatience for flowers, not to in- 
crease the heat of the houses too rapidly ; we shall have colder 
weather yet, and we must not get up our greatest heat too soon. 
Water all plants a little more freely, and syringe as often as a 
clear, bright day promises sun enough to evaporate the moisture 
on the surface. From this time till spring warm water may be 
used in watering with great advantage. The small boles in the 
rose of the syringe are the best to use ; and although after fumi- 
gations it is well to syringe forcibly over and under the plants, to 
wash off dead insects, it is generally better in syringing the house 
to throw the shower up into the air, so that it may fall perpendic- 
ularly, and with only the velocity it receives from its own weight, 
upon the plants. 

This manual being for the guidance of amateurs and learners, I 
shall now give the general treatment of a large and important class 
of plants, to which much of the beauty of well-kept greenhouses, 
conservatories and parterres is due. Geraniums (Pelargoniums), 
are as familiar bla household words to all lovers of plants ; to all 
who wish a few plants in the house, and in some of their many 
varieties are easily cultivated, and sure to give satisfaction. In 
England and our Southern States they will pass the winter out of 
doors, and unprotected, or with a slight covering. There are dif- 



GREENHOUSE. 281 

ferent degrees of hardihood among Geraniums, and this difference 
must be understood to render their culture certain. Some kinds, 
like the Common Scarlet, Tom Thumb, and Horse Shoe, are so 
tenacious of life that they may be removed from the garden into 
pots, be cut down near the ground, and left in any outhouse or cel- 
lar where the temperature is above freezing, and they will live, 
and may be set out in the flower beds the next year, to renew their 
growth and beauty. Geraniums vary in their power of withstand- 
ing the sun ; some varieties will not bear our hot sun in summer, 
they neither grow nor blossom well in it I have said in a pre- 
ceding month that as a general rule succulent plants are tender, 
and need more heat than the woody varieties ; but Geraniums are 
succulent or woody, according to the rapidity of growth ; they may 
be exposed to a very low temperature ; when in the flower-garden 
they often stand several severe frosts without injury. On the other 
hand, to ensure that they grow and flower well a degree of heat is 
desirable that would ruin Heaths, and many other hard-wooded 
plants. 

Our limited means forbidding us to give the peculiar culture, 
which makes each plant thrive best, we must be content with so 
managing our small house as to give all a fair chance. 

The soil in which Pelargoniums especially delight is old sods, 
cut and stacked for a few months, and then chopped, with a spade, 
moderately fine. The cuttings and young plants need rather finer 
material of the same kind. In the growing and flowering season 
keep the plants near the glass, and give each room enough to ex- 
pand well on all sides. A span-roofed house or pit is best for 
them ; when they get the sun only on one side, turn them often, 
that they may be symmetrical. Some Pelargoniums bloom but 
once a year, others nearly all the time ; the latter are the only ones 
which should be cultivated in the ground, with the exception of the 
Rose Geranium, whose fragrant leaves are more desirable than its 
flowers. After blossoming, or when to be removed to the house 
from the garden, cut them back to within a few eyes of the old 
wood. Such as are in pots should be taken out, their roots pruned, 
and cut out if dead, and they repotted in pots one or two sizes 

24* 



282 JANUARY. 

smaller. This " underpotting " is a very common expedient of 
gardeners to throw plants into flower. Most plants flower from 
their new growth, and a new growth can be stimulated only by new 
roots, and underpotting induces new roots. As they grow, shift into 
larger pots. Shifting is transferring the plant to a larger pot 
whenever the present pot is crowded, and each increase of size, 
giving new material, stimulates the plant to renewed efforts. The 
sizes of pots increase slowly, so that the next size affords just the 
room wanted. After potting, set them into a cold pit or other cool 
place, where light is abundant, and the thermometer does not fall 
below 40°. When the roots have fairly begun to grow into the 
new soil give much air, to harden the plants ; as soon as the new 
growth is pretty well hardened set on the staging. They may be 
put into larger pots for dowering, as soon as wanted. The ever- 
blooming varieties may be kept in a constant state of growth, or 
remain quiet until the time comes for setting them anew in the 
garden, at the pleasure of the gardener. 4 

Small new plants generally do better in the garden , than old 
stocks, although the latter commence blossoming sooner. If you 
set out old stocks, cut them down just before setting out, much as 
for repotting in the fall; this will ensure a more vigorous and 
healthy growth. 

Pelargoniums may be propagated by cuttings, seeds, roots, and 
layers. The latter is the surest method for nearly all plants, but is 
slower, and only resorted to from necessity. Plants which strike 
easily from cuttings are more often increased in this way. 

To make the best cutting of a Geranium (see p. 285) cut off a 
small branch of new wood which has not blossomed, together with 
a bit of the old wood on which it grew ; the old wood at the joint 
is called a heel ; it is full of invisible though active eyes or buds, 
which readily make roots. But good cuttings which grow readily, 
may be got by cutting with a sharp knife directly across young and 
unblossomed shoots, below a bud ; remove all the lower leaves as 
high on the cutting as it is to be set deep into the sand or earth ; 
but do not remove any leaves above this point ; do not bruise them 
or allow them to wilt — with one exception to be made hereafter— 



GREENHOUSE. 288 

i 

and on this account plant your cutting as soon as possible after it is 
made. This is very important 

The general soil for all cuttings is white, clean river sand, an 
inch or more in depth, as free as possible from iron and other im- 
purities, laid over such soil as best suits the* variety of plant from 
which the cutting is made, so that when they strike and emit 
their roots into the sand, they may work slowly through to the 
earth below, where they will grow in proportion to their strength. 

Many experiments have shown, that with some plants, charcoal 
dust, brick dust, charred turf, bone dust, and other materials are 
excellent for cuttings ; — almost every gardener has a specific pre- 
paration for the purpose. 

To insure that they shall do well, it is best to make a bed 
like a common hotbed, in which there may be some bottom heat 
To support its leaves the cutting must emit roots, and to this end 
all the collateral circumstances must be favorable. The first act of 
a healthy cutting is to form a callus, already described in speaking 
of transplanting ; to the formation of this callus, warmth and mois- 
ture at the cut end are essential ; and by setting the cuttings in a 
hotbed, or by placing the pots and pans containing them on or over 
hot-air or hot-water pipes, a moderate bottom heat is obtained. 

Beside being supplied with warmth and moisture, cuttings must 
be protected against too rapid evaporation by bell glasses, or by 
being set in comparatively dark places. The more tender and 
shy plants should have air in only a moderate degree, until roots 
have started ; the hardier need less care. Constant watchfulness 
is indispensable with cuttings of succulent plants, when set in 
warm, damp, and shaded places, lest they damp off; this is a mys- 
terious but common cause of disappointment ; the cutting rots near 
the surface of the earth. 

Before making your cuttings, prepare the vessel in which they 
are to be set ; fill the pot to within 3 inches of its top with broken 
crocks; over these put l£ inches of such soil as the plant likes 
best ; over this 1-J inches of sand or such other material as you 
prefer ; set the cuttings round the edge at a slight angle from the 
inside outwards. Those cuttings always strike most readily which are 



284 



JANUARY. 



nearest the pot ; experiments have proved conclusively that cuttings 
need air as well as moisture, and this seems to be supplied to a suf- 
ficient degree, through or along the sides of the pot. 

Better than pots are shallow pans made for the purpose, and 
easily drained. 

The facts about air and moisture led to the following invention,* 
which has proved excellent for its 
purpose : a 48 sized pot (B) is ren- 
dered water-tight by plugging up the 
hole in its bottom with a handful of 
clay (a) ; over this are laid enough 
broken crocks to raise the top of a 
small sized pot (E) level with the 
top of B ; the hole in E is plugged 
with a cork. Over the crocks and 
around E is filled in soil fit for the 
plant after it begins to grow; over 
this to the top of B, pure sand, in 
which the cutting is set, as in all 
other cases, 1 to l£ inches deep, and 
inclined toward the side of the inner pot 
in a warm, shaded place. 

Some plants form calluses slowly ; by partly severing the cut- 
tings some time before using, the cut part will callus like a layer 
before it is removed, and when made into a cutting, will strike 
more readily. The best time for making cuttings of plants under 
glass, in order that they may get well established before the next 
winter, is the late winter and early spring. This rule, however, is 
not without exceptions ; some plants, as Ericas, must be stimulated 
to grow before cuttings are taken from them, as it is their young 
shoots, with or without a heel or bit of the old wood, which are 
needed; and all plants have especially appropriate seasons for 
taking cuttings, which will be noticed in the proper place. You 
may decide whether a cutting has struck, i.e^ has sent out roots, by 




Set the whole apparatus 



* Mcintosh, p. 349. 




GREENHOUSE. 285 

gently touching one of the old leaves ; if the roots have fbrjmed, 
the leaf will drop at touch, as a new growth has begun ; if no roots 
have formed, the leaf will not come away without twisting. 

Cuttings, as I have said, are the easiest 
means of increasing a stock of plants, and 
they are so easily grown from most plants 
that the ordinary methods seem good 
enough; but however easily they grow, 
the operation is much more rapid and sure 
when they are exposed to bottom heat A 
leading authority in such matters, lays it 
down as a rule that " it is not the tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere, but of the soil that 
requires to be raised ; we must first obtain roots, the leaves will 
follow/' "As soon as the cuttings begin to grow, more light and air 
may be admitted to them, and such as begin to push up weakly 
should be topped, and when fairly rooted, transplanted from sand 
into pots in their proper soil." As many plants which will root 
freely in sand, refuse to grow in it, all cuttings should for safety 
be removed as soon as they have fairly begun to grow. Where 
large quantities of Scarlet Geranium are wanted for bedding, they 
should be planted in a dung bed in March, where they will grow 
rapidly. 

I have said there is an exception to the rule that the leaves left 
on a cutting must not be allowed to wilt before it is set ; it is in the 
case of strong, fleshy plants, full of sap, which may with advan- 
tage be allowed to lie on the table a few hours to evaporate some 
of their superfluous sap. 

" When the object is to get new and improved varieties,'' seeds 
are sown, which is a simple process, but care must be taken in se- 
lecting seeds. 

The shape of the flower, the substance, size, and color of the 
petals are the points to be preserved and improved, and this is to 
be sought by careful hybridizing or intermixing the pollen of dif- 
ferent plants. 

For the benefit of some of my readers, who may not understand 
this common term, I will give a short description of a process by 



286 JANUARY. 

which varieties of plants are obtained. Every perfect flower has 
a calyx or cup ; this is the green outside, seen to the best ad- 
vantage in the bud when the calyx folds around and encloses the 
rest of the flower, as the green outside of a Rosebud. The corolla 
is next the calyx, and is what is usually called the flower, and is 
either whole or divided into many parts. These parts are called 
petals, as the red or white leaves of the Rose. Next to the petals 
are the stamens, which more or less in number, are arranged next 
the petals or corolla in all flowers ; they have two parts, the fila- 
ment and .anther ; the filament is the long and narrow stem of 
the stamen, and the anther is the generally round or oblong body 
attached to the top of the filament, and of a slightly different 
color, as the crowd of yellowish, slender bodies inside the colored 
petals of the Rose. Next to the stamens, and within them, is the 
ovary and pistil, or pistils, the central part of the whole flower ; 
the ovary contains the object for which the whole flower grew and 
blossomed ; viz., the seeds or ovules. 

Careful experiments have shown that these various parts of the 
flower are all formed from the some original material, the leaf, 
which is the source and type of all. The calyx is often at first, 
and sometimes throughout the life of the flower, a rude leaf, and 
many instances will occur to every student, where the transformation 
is in process ; the petals are in very many cases interchangable 
with the sepals or divisions of the calyx, and in many plants it is 
difficult to distinguish between them. Stamens constantly change 
to petals, as every one knows who has examined a Pond Lily. 
The ovary, when simple, is merely a leaf folded upon itself, "whence 
it derives its Latin name carpel, and a compound ovary is only 
several simple ovaries combined. 

To return, I said the ovary and its pistils are in the centre of the 
flower ; the pistils surmount or surround the ovary, and have some 
secret communication with its interior and its contents the ovules. 
A plant without a pistil and ovary is barren, seedless. These organs 
alone, however, do not produce seed, except when fertilized by the 
pollen of the stamen. This pollen is a yellowish powder of 
changing character, contained in the anther, which you remember 
I said is attached to the filament of the stamen. At the proper 



GREENHOUSE. 287 

time in the development of the flower, the anther of the stamen 
opens and ejects some of its pollen on to the pistil of the ovary. 
What the precise action is, physiologists do not know ; it is sufficient- 
to say that this pollen fertilizes the pistil, and through it gives life 
to the seeds contained in the ovary. 

It was for this the flower blossomed ; soon after the pistil is fertil- 
ized the flower droops, decays, and leaves the ovary to ripen its seed. 

Hybridizing is removing the stamens from a flower before they 
have fertilized the pistil, and then carrying the pollen of another 
variety of the same species to the flower operated on. This foreign 
pollen fertilizes the pistil, as that of the stamens which have been 
cut off would have done ; the flower dies, the ovary grows and 
produces seeds, the flowers from which will neither be like the 
flower which was artificially fertilized, nor that from which the 
pollen was brought, exactly like neither parent, and yet resembling 
both. In this way all the best varieties of flowers and fruits have 
been obtained, the hybridizing having been sometimes the work of 
man, sometimes of nature. 

By this method you see you can change your Pelargoniums at 
will and in any direction. Let the seed to be propagated ripen 
fully and freely ; gather, dry, and keep it in a cool, dry place till 
March ; then sow it in a rich, light soil in a well-drained pan, 
which is then to be set in a warm place where it will have a mod- 
erate bottom heat When the seedlings have two leaves, and are 
an inch high, remove them to some place as near as possible to the 
glass ; water but moderately, lest the plants damp off. After a 
week's exposure pot into 60-sized pots, in a compost of rich loam, leaf 
mould, and one-eighth sand ; replace under the glass after potting ; 
as they grow, shift from time to time. During the first summer set in 
a warm, well-ventilated place out of doors, on boards or other dry 
substance ; the next winter keep close to the glass ; do not top or 
manure them. So soon as they blossom select the desirable plants, 
and throw away the rest. The plants retained are to be cut down, 
the tops used for cuttings, and the plants stimulated to grow, and 
give more cuttings and finer flowers. 

u Tuberous-rooted Geraniums, and some others, may be propa- 
gated by dividing the roots. Remove all the soil from the roots, 



288 JANUABY. 

and cut them into short pieces with some fibres annexed to each ; 
plant the pieces in small pots, which are to be plunged into pita 
with a mild bottom heat, and watered ; as the young shoots appear, 
give air. If many shoots come up, remove all but the strongest, 
never keep more than three ; when these are 8 inches high stop 
their growth by pinching off the end, to induce side shoots." 

The process here described answers for most hard and soft- 
wooded plants. 

Some plants have the power of growing from their leaves alone. 
When the leaf is placed under favorable circumstances, buds appear 
on the edges or along the mid rib, which grow and produce perfect 
plants. The leaf is pegged down upon clean sand, or is kept in 
place by a small stone, then set in a warm and moist place, and 
treated like a cutting when the buds appear. 

The principal plants which grow thus are Achimenes, Gloxinia, 
Gesneria, Begonia, Bryophyllum, Malaxis, Aspidium bulbifennn, 
Nimphea micrantha, Dionea, Mentha piperita ; occasionally Dros- 
era, Portulaca, Cardamine pratensis, Nepeta glehcoma ; also some- 
times Crassula, Aloe, Eucomis regia, Lilium candidum, Hyacinth, 
Squill, Ornothagulum thyrsoides, the Ficus elastica, Hoya, 
Camosa, Citrus, Aucuba, and Theophrastus. 

Pinks, Carnations, and other flowers having jointed tubular 
stems, are propagated by pips or pipings : " They are taken from 
young shoots of the current year's growth ; the lower leaves in 
case of the Pink, are stripped off within two or three joints of the 
top of the cutting ; the lower part is cut off close under the joint 
with a clean sharp knife ; never cut off or mutilate the remaining 
leaves ; the pips ready, press them down into the sand three-fourths 
of an inch, and the same distance apart" If they are too limp to 
set well, lay them in cold water for a few minutes to stiffen. They 
may be covered with bell glasses, or left exposed; they strike 
root readily ; after they have rooted, transplant to pots, frames, or 
the open ground. 

Some plants can be increased with certainty only by cuttings of 
the flowering stems made like pips, just before flowering ; such are 
Double Scarlet Lychnis, Double Rocket, and some other border 
plants. 



GREENHOUSE. 289 

Cuttings of the root are often successful when other means fail. 

I do not pretend to give full lists of names, but content myself 
with these general directions, and leave my readers to experiment 
for themselves. All common greenhouse plants may be propagated 
in the ways described, or by layers, by grafting, or budding. The 
following common stock greenhouse plants may be increased as 
first described. 

Pelargonium, Roses, Erica, Salvia, Lechenaultia, Heliotrope, 
Verbena, Diosma, Fuchsia, Daphne, Deutzia, Calycanthus, Clethra, 
Bryonia, Azalea, Cleanthus, Cytisus, Coronilla, Gardenia, Wei- 
gelia, Myrtus, Sedum, Polygala, Steevia, Lantana, Mahernia, and 
many others. 

I give the foregoing only to show how to commence increasing 
a collection ; a few trials will enable you to grow all varieties in 
their proper way. Oleanders, as we have seen, thrive best in bot- 
tles of water, whence they are to be transplanted into small pots, 
as soon as well rooted. 

u Cuttings of hardy fruit trees should be taken off any time be- 
tween the shedding of the leaves in autumn, and the first coming 
out in the spring ; n the earlier after the ripening of the wood, they 
are cut, the better ; keep them moist till spring, then plant on the 
north side of a wall, where they will be shaded till they have 
rooted. Evergreens may be propagated by cuttings, taking off the 
new growth with a heel of the old wood. Cuttings of partially 
ripened wood of hardy Evergreens, shrubs, and Roses, are found 
to grow best." 

" It is very easy to send cuttings to great distances without de- 
stroying their vitality, if placed loosely in a tin case, with half a 
table spoonful of water, — more or less according to the size of the 
case, — which should be hermetically sealed." 

Layering is done after the following manner : Lay bare the stem 
by removing the soil from about the roots of the plant which is to 
be propagated ; select the shoots to be layered ; bend them down 
to the ground to find the point that can be most easily induced to 
touch the earth without breaking the shoot ; in cases of succulent 
and soft-wooded plants, this must be done with great care, as their 
shoots and branches are often broken by being bent. The point 

25 



290 



JANUARY. 



sought being found, begin to cut with a sharp knife on the under 
side of the shoot, upward and toward the middle of the shoot, for 
about 1 inch, thus a, 1, : the cut should always be begun just below a 

bud, so that the bud may be 
separated from the parent, 
except so far as it is attached 
to the upper part of the 
tongue of wood thus made. 
The cut made, bend the 
shoot to the ground as in 
Fig. 2. Set a forked stick 
over the branch at b (Fig. 
3), this will hold the whole 
branch firmly to the earth ; 
now carefully remove the 
earth under the cut part of 
the shoot, at a (Fig. 3) ; the 
hole being made, take hold of 
the end of the shoot and bend 
it up as in Fig. 4, leaving a tongue at a, projecting into the hole just 

made. With the hand press earth 
carefully into the space now left at 
a, between the tongue and the old 
wood, also pack earth all round the 
bent portion of the shoot and the 
forked stick, so that the shoot shall 
be kept in its bent position, and the 
tongue remain open. The shoot 
will receive sufficient nutriment 
through its uncut portion, whilst the 
tongue will callus and send roots 
into the earth. After these roots 
have grown considerably, which may 
be told by examination, cut the shoot 
off at by and the severed portion will 
be a perfect plant. 

The season for performing this, operation extends over nearly 






GREENHOUSE. 291 

the whole year, on an estate where there is a greenhouse, as the 
plants in the house may he layered while vegetation is suspended 
out of doors. Many plants root so easily from layers, that it is 
not necessary to tongue their shoots, hut merely to twist them 
enough to break the bark and the close connection of the woody 
fibres. Others, again, only need to be laid down and covered with 
earth. A shoot is in the best condition for this operation when its 
upper part is still growing, while the lower has ripened. Still 
shoots and branches of last year's growth may be layered with 
success. 

Some rare and shy plants are layered by bending a shoot into 
the hole in the bottom of a pot which is suspended near by ; the 
shoot is thus brought through the pot to the air above, and earth is 
filled in about it in the pot. All layers must be watered and kept 
rather warm, but they need no shading. 

Many herbaceous plants like Pinks, Sweet Williams, etc., are 
layered in some of these ways instead of making cuttings. Lay- 
ering is much the most certain practice, but is slower and affords 
fewer plants. 

You remember my saying that cuttings of the Grape may be 
made where only a single eye or bud is taken. The theory seems 
to be that each bud is as complete in itself as a seed, and has stored 
in its immediate neighborhood all the food it needs in the early 
stages of its growth, if the surrounding circumstances are made fa- 
vorable. Consequently, in making a cutting it is enough to put 
into the earth just so much wood as seems to belong especially to 
the bud, giving the latter a reasonable access to light, air, heat, 
and moisture. 

Buds are the only perfectly reliable source for the propagation 
of any particular variety. Seeds as I have shown may be quite al- 
tered from their original intention by hybridizing, and easy as this 
operation is to man, it is still more easy to nature. Bees, wasps, 
flies are all means used by her for intermingling the pollens of dif- 
ferent plants ; they dive into the flower in search of honey, get 
showered with the pollen of the stamens through which they brush, 
and then fly to another plant ; if this is a different species, the pol- 
len they bring will produce no effect on the pistil, but if it is the 



292 JANUARY. 

same species, but a variety differing in shape, color, or otherwise, 
the imported pollen when brushed against the pistil, will attach it- 
self and fertilize it Such natural hybridization is the yearly an- 
noyance of those who cultivate plants of the Squash and Cu- 
cumber family. Melons being the most delicate members of this 
family, their flowers are constantly overcome by the stronger pollen 
of Squashes, Cucumbers, etc The fact is so well established tipt 
no good gardener will plant these different members of the same fam- 
ily near together. The hybridizing of a season does not appreciably 
effect the fruit of that year, but the seed contains the future fruit 
which will prove disagreeable next year. It sometimes becomes 
necessary for cultivators of rare varieties of plants, whose color, 
shape, etc., they wish to perpetuate, to cover the flowers they se- 
lect for seeds with bellglasses, or lace bags, to prevent insects from 
performing this hybridizing. 

Propagation by cuttings of single buds is a valuable means of in- 
creasing those plants whose seed is scanty, or which from some 
cause cannot be budded or grafted, as Hollyhocks and other her- 
baceous plants, Grapes and. some other woody plants. Grapes may 
be grafted, budded, or grown from long cuttings, but cannot be multi- 
plied by either process so fast as by cuttings of a single bud. The 
best kinds of Hollyhock, Double Lychnis, and other herbaceous 
plants, should have their cuttings made after this manner : 

So soon as the plant has blossomed enough to satisfy the grower 
that it is a desirable variety, cut down the flowering shoot ; new 
shoots will start up around it ; when these are 18 inches to 2 feet 
long, cut them into pieces, each containing one eye, — much like 
cuttings of the Grape. Instead of using the secondary small shoots, 
the main stem may be divided longitudinally, aud then cut into 
pieces 2 or 3 inches long, taking care not to injure the buds. Place 
these cuttings under light, rich soil, and cover them just leaving the 
bud open to air and moisture ; soon roots will be sent out from the 
cut ends and edges ; when these are pretty well grown, transplant 
to a seed bed of light, rich loam, well sheltered, but with more di- 
rect light ; treat carefully with air, moisture and warmth, and you 
will soon have fine plants. 

Growing the Vine from single eyes is much the same practice as 



GREENHOUSE. 298 

thai just described. The eyes should be prominent, well developed, 
and on the last year's wood ; cut an inch above and an inch below 
the eye ; select a pot of 4 or 5 inches in diameter ; put in good 
drainage, fill with rich, light loam, and set the cuttings so that the 
eye shall be covered by at least an inch of the loam. Give the pot 
if possible, a bottom heat of 70° to 80°, and keep the air at 60°. 
In a short time a shoot will appear. Before this, little care will be 
required ; keep the earth in the pot just moist ; as soon as the 
shoot is above the surface, water occasionally and watch well that 
no worms get into the pot, which they cannot do if the pots are set 
into a few inches of coal ashes. In a month they will be nice plants 
six or eight inches high, and may be repotted for the last time. Sub- 
sequent treatment depends on the use to which they are to be put. 

There are several other methods of propagating the Vine, but 
,this is the best and allows of the speediest increase. 

Pelargoniums will be coming into blossom, — should have a Jast 
shift of pots, and have abundant light and moisture. 

Repot Achimenes, Gloxinia, Cineraria, and all climbing plants 
not yet repotted, Verbenas, Japan Lilies, Fuchsias for spring show ; 
if the Carnations need it, give a larger pot. Dielytra spectabalisr 
and Pansies may be introduced into the house for the spring bloom. 

Water Camelias abundantly whilst in blossom, and as the 
Azaleas start to grow, give them more water. 

25* 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

CONSERVATORY. 

The conservatory should be, at this season, truly a winter 
garden. The climbers on posts and trellises are now in bud and 
blossom; the Camelias, Daphnes, etc., are blooming, and the 
Roses, Heliotropes, and numberless other smaller plants lend their 
colors and fragrance to complete the beautiful whole. Under all 
is the delicate green moss, the Polypodiums, the Stone Crops, etc 
Lysimachia nummularia, with their green leaves, make a carpet 
of verdure. The cold weather without enhances the delight of this 
in-door garden, and no owner will regret the labor and expense that 
has brought about such a result. 

There is generally more mild weather in January than in die 
other winter months ; on many days fire-heat may be dispensed 
with altogether. Be careful, however, lest sudden cold take you 
unawares,, and never be without fire at night The work is light 
now — admitting air, regulating heat, and supplying moisture. In 
fine weather syringe often, letting the showers fall perpendicularly, 
as before directed. On warm days change the plants, removing to 
the greenhouse those out of blossom, and replacing them with 
others just coming into bud. 

294 



CHAPTER XL. 



GRAPERY. 



Continue the treatment laid down for last month in the grapery. 
We shall not begin to force till next month, but in the interval 
must keep the forcing-house rather warmer than hitherto, but not 
higher than 40° or 50° in the daytime. The cold grapery must be 
just above freezing ; the retarding-house, as last month, cold and 
dry, but above frost All this needs but little fire. Peach-trees, 
Fig-trees, etc., which were housed in the cellar or sheds, should now 
be brought into the houses. 

The mushroom bed, which I described as under the table, in the 
forcing-house, and of which no further mention has been made, is 
yielding an abundance of mushrooms ; other beds may be made in 
the other houses, if you please. 

In the last month's grapery I gave drawings, and some descrip- 
tions, of houses for Peaches and other fruits, with the promise of en- 
tering more fully into the method of growing and managing such 
fruit under glass. It is obvious that trees to be grown under glass 
must be of smaller stature than when grown in the open air, and 
that means must be found to dwarf them. Beside this, they should 
be under different degrees of excitement at different seasons, to 
accomplish which many schemes have been devised. It is usual to 
plant such trees in the ground like vines, and in this way large 
crops may easily be got ; but a better way in many respects is to 
grow them in tubs. If trained on dome or curved espaliers of 
course they must occupy the same place for years, and in that case 
they should be planted in the earth ; but you will remember my 
saying that span-roofed houses are the best for all such culture, and 
there the trees assume the shapes natural to them when grown out- 
oMoors. To ensure perfect crops, and to keep them entirely 
under control, the trees should be allowed a period of entire rest ; 

295 



296 JANUABT. 

and if they could be removed, after bearing their crop, from the 
house where they have been excited, to a cooler and shadier place,* 
they would be carried through an artificial winter, and so hare the 
needed rest, and be prepared for profitable forcing another year, 
and if continuous crops of fruit were wanted it would be easy to 
secure them, by having two houses, with different exposures, and 
removing the trees from one to the other, as heat and stimulus were 
desired, or shunned. Evidently this is out of the question with 
trees planted in the earth, for their roots must be undisturbed to 
secure growth and fruit, but by cultivating in tubs of size sufficient 
to give the roots full room, the change can be made with ease. 

I will give directions for cultivating the tree fruits in the ground 
before I speak of them in tubs. And I shall give English rather 
than American experience, for, as I have said before, these fruits 
are but little grown under glass here in comparison with what is 
done in England, nor do general cultivators carry their practice to 
as great perfection here as there. We need not cultivate these 
fruits under glass unless we wish to have them out of season. The 
English, on the contrary, must grow most of them under glass to 
have them at all, their climate being too damp and cold, and their 
hours of sunshine too few to bring Peaches, in particular, to per- 
fection. Some of our cultivators, however, are very successful in 
growing fruit out of season, for instance, Allen, of Salem ; Hol- 
brook, of Brain tree; Stetson, of Bridgewater, and others, who 
yearly exhibit the successful results of their labors on the tables of 
the Boston Horticultural Society. 

In gardens Peach-trees are generally grown on their own stock, 
the buds of improved varieties being transferred to ordinary stocks 
got from planting the stones of any kind of Peach. When Peaches 
were a new fruit, and not common, we had, in whatever part of 
country they were cultivated, perfect trees and perfect fruit, but 
the demand increasing with unusual rapidity, it was difficult for 
nurserymen to supply it, and in their eager efforts to do so they 
neglected the precautions, without which perfect trees and fruit 
cannot be secured ; viz., to select stones of the best fruit from the 
healthiest trees, which show no taint in their constitution, and to 
plant these for stocks. Stocks thus grown are healthy, and if bud- 



GRAPERY. 237 

ded from equally healthy trees, will make healthy and satisfactory 
trees. But the nurserymen, in their haste, planted all stones indis- 
criminately ; they were so careless about the kind and quality of 
the tree which bore these stones, as to pay boys by the quart for 
stones collected in city streets during the Peach season, many of 
which were, of course, from poor trees, and perpetuated, when 
planted for stocks, their own defects. The stocks thus produced 
were budded with choice varieties ; the bud governs the kind of 
fruit produced where it is inserted, but the health of the tree is 
governed principally by the stock. 

And the nurserymen were not content with violating nature in 
this way. The careful cultivator knows that every {riant grown 
for a number of years on the same spot, exhausts in that ground 
the food which it particularly needs, and that to secure good crops 
from such ground a different plant must be grown on it, which will 
need few or none of the constituents necessary for. the preceding 
crop, but wants just those that are left in abundance in the soil. 
But the Peach growers were not only careless about the seed 
which supplied their new orchards, but they planted these orchards 
on the ground before occupied by Peaches, and thus deprived the 
young trees from the first of their vital necessities, and compelled 
them to feed on vitiated and exhausted earth. 

Still another rule of agriculture was neglected ; viz., that each 
year's crop must be carefully cultivated, manured, ploughed, hoed. 
What should we think of the prospective Corn crops of a farmer, 
between whose rows the ground was thickly sown with Grass or 
Rye ? Why, that he would lose more from his Corn than he could 
possibly make good by the additional crop. But Peach growers 
sowed Grass between their rows of trees, or allowed it to grow 
there. This double demand on the ground results either in impov- 
erishing both trees and fruit, or in shortening the life of the tree. 

When speaking of 'Pear-culture, I said that its success depends 
on plenty of moisture, plenty of manure, and on thinning the fruit. 
This last process has an important influence on the quality of all 
fruit crops, and is indispensable to success in Grape growing, as 
the merest tyro knows ; but this, too, was neglected by the Peach 
growers, who, in their greediness for large crops allowed the trees 



298 JANUARY. 

to bear all the fruit they set, and consequently got no fruit equal 
to that grown on properly thinned trees. 

What wonder that our trees with such a pedigree have " the 
yellows," are uncertain bearers, and in many parts of the country 
complete failures ? Whoever wishes to get perfect fruit and long*- 
lived trees, must go back to first principles, must select his seed, 
grow his stocks, and be particular about the source, especially in 
growing trees under glass, where the process is expensive and 
tedious, and where one diseased tree may be the cause of a large 
loss. 

Remember, too, the discovery made in Pear culture : that large 
growing varieties worked upon the stocks of small growing plants, 
preserve their superiority of fruit, while the tree continues of 
small size. This is of great consequence under glass, where room 
is all-important; small tops and roots are desirable both in the 
trees planted in tbe ground, and in those in tubs ; and this is the 
case even in span-roofed houses, where the middle trees may and 
should be larger than the side rows. 

Supposing our peachhouse to be built, or the trees grown as in 
our graperies, the proper soil is the first consideration. 

Perfect drainage and a light soil are necessities. It has been 
supposed that the Peach does not need rich soil, because in the 
open air it thrives better in light and sandy, than in rich alluvial 
soil. Not so. The things to be especially avoided are over-damp- 
ness and over-richness near the roots ; the former is particularly 
bad, and causes rot, the latter, canker. To insure drainage, the 
soil must be sandy and porous, but it should be highly and con- 
stantly fertilized with well-rotted, not with rank, manures. If the 
situation of your house is wet, drain well, and under the border 
lay a foundation of rubble stones. Through this rubble it will be 
well to carry, as in Grape borders, a pipe from the boiler ; because 
to insure success in forcing, we must keep the roots warmed in 
proportion to the top. By covering the outside border every fall 
with a good coat of leaves and horse manure, as early as October, 
the summer heat may be retained enough to enable you to dis- 
pense with heat through the rubble in winter. Upon this lay two 



GBAPEBT. 299 

or three feet of rich maiden, loam ; in .this loam the trees will 
thrive so long as its fertility remains unexhausted, To avoid 
exhaustion, water at the proper season with liquid manures, and 
also every fall, after the wood is ripened and the leaves have fallen, 
remove the two or three upper inches of loam, and replace with 
old pasture mould, or well-chopped turf; before laying this on, 
fork in lightly a dressing of well-rotted manure, or give several 
copious waterings of liquid manure. 

The border prepared, select, whether for walls or trellises, 
healthy trees, one year from the bud, of those varieties you prefer ; 
set them out, all trees of the same size and habit of growth for the 
trellises ; but for the back have dwarfs and standards alternately. 
The stock on which to work Peaches in order to dwarf them, is 
Plum or Bitter Almond. Choose trees budded near the ground ; 
set them so as to just cover the base of the bud, and plant in fall 
or spring ; the fall is the best time if the house can be ready then. 
Cut the stem back to four eyes from the bud; 
through the winter keep the house just above 
freezing ; do not let it get much higher than 40° 
in the daytime, and rely upon the sun's heat kept 
in at night by shutters and mats, unless the weather 
should be so severe as to render it impossible to 
keep the temperature above freezing without fires. As the spring 
comes on the sun will get more power, and the house, even if con- 
stantly ventilated, will warm in the daytime above the growing 
point, and soon the buds will swell and start to grow. Before they 
do this, cover the tree with the following wash, which is to be ap- 
plied by a brush drawn up along the stem, so as not to disturb the 
buds, and is the same which is to be used for grape vines ; 2 oz. 
flour of sulphur ; 2 oz. soft soap ; 4 oz. quicklime* mixed in a 
gallon of rain-water. This is to be applied at least two weeks be- 
fore you begin to syringe. As the buds swell, increase the hu- 
midity of the house by syringing morning and evening when the 
day is bright, and once during the day in cloudy weather. The 
four buds will produce four shoots ; bend them into such shapes as 
suit you, but keep them low down ; let them grow at will till mid- 
summer, and then pinch off their ends. This will check growth 





300 JANUARY. 

and the wood will ripen. As soon a§ the leaves fall, cut back the 
four shoots to within four eyes each of the old wood. Cover the 
border as before directed, with litter and manure. Keep the house 
this winter as the last, cool, till spring excites the trees ; during the 
winter fumigate with sulphur; whitewash the house to kill red 
spiders and other destructive insects ; examine the stock near the 
ground to detect any borers that may have got in (though they 
should never get into a house well cared for) ; should there be any 
sign of them, run a wire into the hole till you touch the worm ; 
kill and pull it out Before the young shoots begin to start in the 
second spring, wash the stem and roots with the mixture just di- 
rected. The cut shows the present appearance of the tree. Al- 
low the four present branches to grow in 
the same direction as hitherto, and allow 
two buds, new shoots, to grow up the wall 
at a sharper angle than the others. Treat 
the house this year as* the last ; allow no 
fruit to grow. During the second fall of 
growth or the third since planting, cut a a, 
b b, back one-third of their length, and the 
new shoots to 4 eyes. The diagram shows 
the tree during the third winter and spring. 
Give it more heat this year after February 
than before, and induce it to grow earlier ; this may easily be done 
without fire heat. During the third summer allow no fruit to grow 
unless as a specimen, for if the trees bear so young, they will lose 
in permanency and strength. Let the new shoots grow up the 
wall so as to perfect the fan shape ; let the other branches grow at 
will till midsummer, when they must be pinched as before ; in the 
fall prune all back one-third of their length ; cover the border 
deeply with manure and leaves. The fourth winter you may be- 
gin to force — not earlier however than the middle or last of Feb- 
ruary. Go over all the young wood with the lime and soap mix- 
ture. During January keep the temperature higher than before, 
but not over 50° in the day, and let it fell at night to 35° or 40°. 
Give plenty of air. Before beginning to increase the heat, ascer- 
tain whether the earth in the borders has retained heat enough to 




GRAPERY. 801 

render forcing well-balanced, and if not, be ready as you heat the 
house more, to throw some heat into the pipe which traverses the 
rubble foundation. The proper heat of the border cannot well be 
prescribed, as it will depend on circumstances not to be forseen ; 
but if the gardener remembers the analogy of Nature, he will 
easily be guided into the right course. When out-of-door vegeta- 
tion begins in the spring, the earth is quite cold, but lately un- 
locked from frost, with a temperature from 35° to 40° ; and it grad- 
ually warms as the season advances. If then the borders are at 
about 35°, we may safely begin to heat and slightly increase the 
heat in them month by month. 

During January give the inside borders two or three copious 
waterings of warmed liquid manure, which will warm them about 
enough. 

It is found at this stage that the trees seem to receive great ben- 
efit from ammoniacal vapors, and in old times gardeners heaped 
stable manure under them ; the vapor may be obtained as well 
from pans of urine set over the flues and pipes to evaporate, and 
the unsightly manure be avoided. 

When we begin forcing after the application of the wash to the 
young wood, we must dispense with the syringe for a time, as it 
would remove the wash ; the proper humidity must be kept up 
by watering the floors and flues, and by setting evaporating pans 
of water about 

* During pleasant days early in this winter, all the heat which is 
necessary, may be got by shutting the house up ; the temperature 
in the day may range from 45° to 50°, and must not fall below 40° 
at night ; and to maintain this night-temperature, fires must be 
made. " About 12 or 15 days after increasing the heat, the blos- 
soms will begin to expand ; at this period the humidity of the house 
hitherto caused by steaming and syringing, should be lessened, and 
a slight increase of temperature afforded ; the increase should not 
be over 5°, for to hurry the expansion of the blossoms and the 
setting of the fruit, might endanger the whole crop. The more 
slowly the buds swell and go through the stage of forming the 
parts of fructification, and the important offices dependent on it, so 
much the more certain will success be," 

36 



802 JANUABT. 

"When the flowers are fully expanded, and the pollen fit for dis- 
persion, a more abundant ventilation will be necessary, and this 
must not be withheld, even although it becomes necessary to in- 
crease the heat every morning and continue it through the day, 
to make up for the air admitted." 

" At this time the greatest care must be taken that ventilation be 
properly administered, and that no draughts of cold, frosty air be 
allowed to blow in directly upon the trees." 

You will now observe the great advantage of the kind of venti- 
lation or aeration advocated in the plans of houses I have proposed. 
" The temperature, although well aerated, may now range from 
50° to 60° in the day, and must not fall at night below 45°." In- 
crease heat and moisture with the expansion of the fruit 

" As soon* as the flowers begin to decay, the young fruit will be 
seen seated between the fragments of the petals. If the embryo 
fruit is many days struggling to get free of the decaying blossoms, 
it is a sure symptom of a sluggish action of the root 

On the contrary, fine fresh trees in their prime, will soon enable 
their progeny to escape." " This is an important fact, and should 
constantly be borne in mind by cultivators, as it indicates more 
surely than the after state of the foliage whether the roots are 
healthy or not" " When the fruit has arrived at this state, less 
ventilation and consequently less heat must be given ; but the 
changes must be effected slowly, as all sudden changes of temper- 
ature with stone fruits are particularly dangerous. The artificial 
heat may remain at 50° — 60°. The sun-heat may raise the temper- 
ature to 75° without danger, for there is a great difference in the 
connection of vegetable life with artificial or sun-heat In propor- 
tion as the sun heats the house more, ventilate more." " At this 
period of the fruit's existence moisture must be increased by 
syringing, to refresh and nourish them, and to keep down the ap- 
pearance of thrips and red spiders, the existence of which may be 
often traced to too high and dry a temperature." 

After the fruit has fairly set, the trying season is over, and all 
that follows is judicious thinning the fruit and stimulating its growth. 

"To insure growth close attention must be paid to pruning the 
new wood, which may at this season be effected principally by dis- 



GRAPEBY. 808 

budding," i^ by rubbing off all those buds which have not com- 
menced growing, but which would overcrowd the tree if allowed to 
grow. " By timely disbudding much after-pruning and over- 
crowding- the tree is avoided." " Disbudding should commence as 
soon as the young shoots are 2 inches long, and should be carried 
on progressively until the tree is disburdened of its superfluous 
wood, and left in condition to perfect what is left ; the work should 
be followed for four or five weeks, and the trees be gone over 
often." 

" During the process of disbudding two kind of shoots will be 
observed, the one strong and robust, emerging from the centre of a 
group of buds, and proceeding in an outward instead of a lateral 
direction, which if laid into the espalier would be broken ; these 
strong and watery shoots are to be removed, reserving only such as 
may be necessary for filling up the centre of the tree ; the other 
wood is often of slender growth, but it is the wood destined to pro- 
duce the flower-buds of the next season. This should be moderate 
in growth, not drawn to great length, and very short jointed, and 
thickly set with buds. Too high temperature, want of ventila- 
tion, and inattention to disbudding all cause this unnecessary elon- 
gation. A contrary course tends to the formation of short, 
stout, well-formed shoots, abounding with bold and well-swelled 
buds." 

" The period of stoning is considered a precarious time with all 
stone fruits ; if all be not right at the roots, if sudden changes of 
temperature or inefficient ventilation be allowed to exist, then many 
of the fruits will fall off." During the whole culture of fruits, re- 
member thatthe aim should not be to violently force nature, but to 
accelerate her progress, and all attempts to drive vegetation rapidly 
by heat will produce sickly, drawn, and unfruitful results. 

Syringing over the leaves as a preventive to red spiders, must be 
constantly persevered in, but care must also be taken that the border 
is neither too wet nor too dry, either state being injurious to the 
fruit Throughout the season every leaf and fruit which falls must 
be carefully picked up, as they produce and harbor vermin, if left 
to decay on the ground. 

Fruits ripened under glass have not usually the color or the high 



804 JANUARY. 

flavor attained by fruits grown in the open air ; they may be better 
protected from insects, and may also have more certain and regular 
temperature. 

Just as soon as the fruit is gathered remove all movable sashes, 
and let the air have free access to the house ; the more rapidly the 
wood ripens the better it will be for the trees ; this ripening may 
be hastened by pinching off the ends of the shoots. When the 
wood is ripened, prune off at least a third of all new growth, and 
keep the houses as cool as is possible, until the approach of winter 
renders it necessary to renew heat in the houses, and prepare for 
next year's forcing. I omitted to say that as the season advances, 
and artificial heat is no longer necessary, you may let the house get 
as hot as the sun will make it, only creating all the ventilation that 
is possible. By subjecting the house during autumn to the lowest 
possible temperature, and keeping it so a long time, the trees 
"break" better, and produce better wood and fruit the next year ; 
and in fact the thorough ripening of the wood in the fall is the 
most important part of the year's work, as upon it, in a great 
measure, depends the success of the next year's crop. 

So far I have described the peachhouse as if all the trees were 
dwarfs, and yet I gave directions that every other tree on the walls, 
' or the high trellises, should be a standard. The standards should 
be grown up to a single stem, until they are above the wide part 
of the fan-shaped dwarfs ; they may then be encouraged to throw 
out side shoots like the dwarfs, and may be treated in the same 
way. Sometimes fruit-growers plant in this way, intending in time 
to remove the dwarfs, and give all the room to the standards. I 
doubt the wisdom of this course with short-lived triees like the 
Peach, as the standards would live no longer than the dwarfs. It 
is well enough to plant Cherries and Peaches alternately with thia 
view, as the Cherry outlives the Peach. 

Cherries, Nectarines, Apricots, and Plums are to be treated in 
most respects like the Peach. 

I have mentioned that the Peach-trees in tubs are to be treated 
differently from those planted in the borders. They can be forced 
earlier, with a good chance of success, as the tubs are above the 
floor of the greenhouse, and it is easy to give them bottom heat, 



GRAPERY. 305 

and so stimulate all parts of the tree. Trees in tubs should be 
grown in span-roofed houses, and in three rows, the middle being 
standards, the two outer rows dwarfs ; thus the light may be fairly 
distributed among alL Pruning and training should be much the 
same as with espaliered trees and dwarfs, out of doors. The pyr- 
amidal shape will be found best. 

As trees in tubs are very heavy, I recommend laying three rail- 
road tracks, made of bar iron, set on edge in cuts made in sleepers. 
These tracks should all converge at the door, and pass through it 
to the reserve or supply-house, whither the trees, out of bearing, 
may be removed, to be replaced by others, which are fit to be 
forced. The rails may be near together, and each tub may stand 
on a little truck, with wheels, or one truck may be used for all, the 
tubs being lifted on to it when they are to be moved. 

Peaches may be ripened in pot culture as early as April and 
May, but only with a large expenditure for heat, and with the loss 
of the perfection which characterizes fruit grown later. A signal 
advantage in pot and tub culture is, the ease with which decayed, 
diseased, or worthless trees may be removed, and replaced by 
others. 

I have given the whole treatment of Peaches thus at once, in 
order that a more clear and connected idea may be gained by those 
who wish to grow them. To succeed perfectly they should be cul- 
tivated in houses especially adapted to them ; in which, however, 
early crops of strawberries, and various vegetables, may be started 
and forced. Grapes are often grown in the same house, and the 
arrangement scarcely interferes with the perfection of some varie- 
ties, and must be made by persons like ourselves, who are re- 
stricted in room ; but the danger is, that one kind of fruit may 
at anytime need more heat or more air than agrees with the 
other. 

The advice of a distinguished cultivator of Peaches is, to take 'trees 
of a year's growth, cut them back to four bujls, and plant in a 12 
inch pot, shifting them yearly, till their roots fill an 18 inch pot, 
which, he believes, is the largest size required. The soil he uses is 
a good turfy loam, mixed with decayed bits of wood from the bot- 
tom of the wood-pile. When the trees are established to his mind 

26* 



306 JANUARY. 

he brings them into the house, in mild weather, daring November. 
Do not start all at once, but take in the tubs at different times. 
Begin forcing with heat at 55° during the night, falling to 50° 
by morning ; but in mild weather never falling below 55° ; during 
the day the sun's heat may be allowed to raise the temperature 
even to 90°, until the fruit is stoned, then keep it at 95° to 105° ; 
of course a great deal of moisture is required with this high tem- 
perature ; syringe over head twice a day, or oftener if necessary, 
to prevent green fly and red spider. Very little water is needed 
at the root till the trees are covered with leaves ; after that give an 
abundance. As the fruit approaches maturity the water must 
gradually be withdrawn, to heighten the flavor. In all cases — in 
pots or in the ground — the slower Peaches are ripened the finer 
and higher flavored will be the fruit ; and those who think to in- 
crease the size and appearance of their fruit by a close course of 
treatment, will make a miserable mistake. 

Much advantage has resulted, in early forcing, from assisting the 
early impregnation of the flowers, particularly where the trees are 
young, and of robust habit, and are deprived of the natural agents 
in this process, as plenty of air and the aid of bees and other 
insects. The pollen may be transferred from the stamens to the 
pistil, by a camel's-hair pencil. 

In cases of some very fruitful trees there is a great abundance 
of fruit buds, but no leaf buds, except the terminal ones, which 
would be cut off in pruning; these trees, even if they set their fruit, 
lose it immediately after for want of the terminating buds to draw 
up sap ; this may be remedied by* inarching leaf branches of other 
trees into these too fruitful branches ; — the former have grown and 
supplied the fruit with all needful sap, and have ripened it well. 
It is sometimes a successful practice to transfer fruit buds into 
barren branches, and thus get . fruit from otherwise useless 
wood. 

The tendency to buds or fruit is easily seen and directed during 
the different pruning* ; the best branches are three-budded, and of 
a rich brown color; two of these buds are blossom, the middle is a 
leaf bud ; branches which have only single buds are leaf branches, 
and those with double buds only have no leaves. 



GRAPERY. 307 

I have, throughout these directions, dwelt especially on the im- 
portance of frequent syringings, to remove insects, or rather to pre- 
vent their collecting. If, in spite of all efforts, they attack the 
trees, you must fumigate. 

The red spider is prevented and removed by syringing, or killed 
by gentle fumigations of sulphur, of which small quantities may be 
strewed on the flues or hot-water pipes ; it may also be showered 
over diseased trees out of sulphuraters, or applied with water. To 
subdue or destroy the insect these applications must be carefully 
made, and perseveringly followed up — having been commenced in 
season. 

Thrips of two species are destroyed by the same means, but 
both insects must be taken youn^, and before the trees leave out, 
as the old animals can bear more of these applications than the 
young foliage. Fumigate after the trees are pruned, painting, 
white-washing, and washing all the old wood with spirits of tar and 
other preventives. 

The earwig is very injurious to flowers and young fruit ; it har- 
bors in decayed and hollow branches, under bricks, wood, etc It 
may be easily trapped by laying over the ground the hollow stalks 
of Beans, Artichokes, etc, the sweet pith of which entices it in, 
where it may be destroyed in great quantities. A mixture of 
powdered sugar, arsenic, and wheaten bread, in equal parts, also 
attracts and kills it 

The Peach and Poplar saw fly are very injurious to trees on 
walls and espaliers, particularly out of doors. They hatch in im- 
mense, numbers in April or May, cover the leaves with minute 
cobwebs, eat them, and then form pupae. They may be destroyed 
by removing a few inches of earth about the roots in the fall, and 
charring it, which should be done as soon as the leaves have 
fallen. 

There are several varieties of aphides, which may be destroyed 
by fumigation, but their eggs can only be removed by friction. 
The wash recommended for application just before forcing is 
begun, kills the insects as soon as they are hatched. 

Fumigate when the leaves are dry ; when wet they afford secure 
hiding-places to many of the insects. Choose a still evening, and 




308 JANUARY. 

stop every hole through which smoke can escape ; by mixing damp 
hay, pot herbs, etc, with the tobacco, the smoke may be made more 
dense. The best way to fumigate trees is by a tunnel-shaped tin, 
with its nose bent at right angles ; in its throat put some glowing 

wood embers, and lay the tobacco, etc., on them, 
with a fine wire gauze over it to prevent the flames 
escaping with the smoke ; fit the nose of a bellows 
to the tube. You can now blow as dense a smoke 
as you please into the parts of the tree most in need 
of it, and may easily kill all insects. Be careful not to blow so 
fiercely as to heat the leaves or fruit, lest you shrivel or destroy 
them. 

The turtle scale is sometimes very troublesome. They are 
readily seen, as they are white, and collect in masses ; their eggs % 
are killed by washing the old wood with spirits of tar, but this is 
too strong for the young wood. 

There are several weevils, the curculio, etc., which trouble 
Plums and Nectarines, less, however, in the house, than in the 
open ground. They are easily prevented by care. Remove all 
the fruit that falls and contains eggs, and during the season when 
the fly is active, frequently dust the tree with flour of sulphur ; it 
may be yet further excluded from trees on walls and in tfte open 
air, by covering them with musquito netting. ■ 

As before said, the Apricot is to be treated much like the Peach. 
In pruning, be very sure to cut at a wood bud, or a triple bud, that 
there may be something to grow and draw up sap. If any branch 
has nothing but fruit buds, do not shorten it at all, unless there is a 
necessity for wood in that place. If possible, train some leaf branch 
over the place, and remove the fruit branch after it has borne. 
Strong growing varieties may be pruned back one-third, medium 
one-fourth, weak still less. Apricots often bear on spurs of two or 
three years old ; carefully watch and prune accordingly. When 
the fruit has set, and is as large as a small marble, thin 'each 
group to two or three ; later, after they have stoned, thin again 
down to the quantity the tree can bear ; the green fruit makes a 
good sauce or pie. Apricots are apt to ripen one side, whilst the 
other is hard ; gather and lay in a tray, with the hard side upper- 



GRAPERY. 309 

most ; set in a sunny place, and in a few days the hard side will 
have ripened. It is well to gather all Apricots before they are 
ripe, as they are more juicy when ripened off the tree. If any 
of these trees — in-doors or out — grow too rank, prune the roots 
as hereafter described. 

The Cherry under glass is to be managed like the foregoing, 
only with less pruning ; it needs no shortening back, except for 
overgrowth. The same is true of the Plum, and their growth is 
best checked by root-pruning. These trees being natives of a cold 
country, make and ripen wood even in short seasons, while natives 
of warm countries, like the Peach, Nectarine, and Apricot, grow 
through the whole season, never ripening their wood well in our 
climate, even under glass. 

Root pruning is performed in many ways, and is quite as often 
serviceable to trees out-of-doors as under glass. The rudest 
method is to lay bare all the tops of the roots of trees which have 
grown too luxuriantly, and leave them thus exposed for a long 
tune ; when the earth is removed to kill the eggs of insects, which 
is sometimes done, the roots must be left bare all winter ; but this 
is a very imperfect method. To prune the roots properly, dig a 
trench all round the tree, at the distance of 3 to 6 feet from the 
stem, according to its size ; dig deep enough to cut all the roots 
across ; leave it open a day or two, then fill back fresh earth. The 
operation may be performed in spring, summer, or fall, the latter 
being perhaps the best time for most trees. It is a very severe 
check to trees which have a large stock of leaves, and may some- 
times cause them all to wilt 

The evident effect of such pruning is to reduce very much the 
number of roots, and consequently the supply of sap ; when sap is 
supplied less liberally, the next growth is much less free, and the 
tree sets more fruit and less leaf-buds. Many trees, particularly 
standard Pears, which grow nothing but leaves, may in this way 
be thrown into full bearing. 

The reason for this change in the character of the buds is, that 
the sap flows more slowly, and being carried through a greater 
number of leaves in proportion 1 to its amount than before, is bet- 
ter elaborated and ripened, made richer, and when it settles 



810 JANUARY. 

into the buds it carries the elements of fruit rather than leaves, 
which demand a more rank and raw sap. For the same reason, 
branches which are bent down — whether the stem stands or is 
trained on an espalier — produce more fruit-buds ; the sap in them 
is retarded, ripened, and the buds show its quality by tending to 
fruit rather than to leaves. 

Grapes in Pots. — A few pages back I said that some vines 
could be grown in the peachhouse, and in a former month (Octo- 
ber), I gave a short notice of Grape-vines grown in pots. I there 
mentioned that, as in the case of Peaches in tubs, the fruit can be 
forced in pots earlier than in the open ground, because the roots 
can receive a larger amount of heat and stimulus. 

I left those vines in their fall sleep previous to the commence- 
ment of the winter forcing. Let us now return to them. They 
sank to rest in the early autumn and may be kept in a perfectly 
quiet and cool condition till you decide to commence forcing, which 
may be as early as you please, since both tops and roots are en- 
tirely under your control. Vines started and well managed in De- 
cember, will ripen their berries in May. Before giving any heat, 
cover the vines with the wash recommended for Peach-trees ; re- 
move the pots soon after to some place where they may receive 
plenty of bottom heat ; if fires are not needed in any of the houses, 
plunge the pots in hot manure ; the roots may receive a heat of 
75° to 80°. Before the buds break, remove a little of the powdery 
soil from the surface of the pot, and replace with rich, turfy loam. 
In order to make the buds break early, bend the canes into a circle. 
As soon as the young shoots show the bunches of Grapes, a selec- 
tion must be made, and no more bunches retained than the pot can 
well maintain ; a 15 inch pot may be allowed six bunches, and for 
every variation of an inch either way a bunch may be added or 
subtracted. , The after treatment is like that of ordinary vines ; 
the shoots are stopped an eye beyond the bunch ; when the berries 
begin to swell for the last time, stop the shoots again. During 
growth water freely, and so train the shoots that they may have 
the most abundant light, as this, more than any thing else, adds to 
the strength of the vine, and the perfection of the fruit. Use ma- 



GRAPERY. 811 

nure-water till the fruit begins to ripen, when pure water only 
should be given and that in reduced quantity. Bottom heat may 
be kept during forcing as high as 80°; atmospheric heat may be- 
gin at 45° and increase to 75°, or higher if the increase comes from 
the sun's heat ; night heat should fall at starting as low as 45°, and 
never rise higher than 60°. In cold, dark days let the temperature 
stand at about the night heat I repeat, that if you would succeed 
you must strictly observe the practice of nature. Remember that 
however hot the days may be in summer, the nights are, with very 
few exceptions, cool ; and that in cloudy weather, the days are but 
little warmer than the nights. Plants understand this better than 
we, and grow accordingly ; and a little observation will show that 
at such times there is almost no growth, and what there is seems 
unhealthy unless ripened by a sun soon after. 

When the berries ripen, set the vines into a cool and light room, 
with a north exposure ; the fruit keeps better in the dark, as I have 
6aid, but the vines suffer, though this matters little if you do not in- 
tend to force them again. 

Vines well laden with fruit may be used very effectively with 
other plants or fruit, to ornament a dinner table. 

If you intend to force the vines again, when the fruit is cut, en- 
courage the ripening of the wood in every way ; prune it as soon 
as ripened, and treat as in the years before. It will often be found 
better not to force them two years in succession, but to lay them 
aside for a year and treat like young vines, that they may recruit 
and gain strength for future bearing. 

An improvement, as some think, on simple pot culture is trough 
culture. 

"The plants are from buds planted in pots, which are plunged into 
a heat of 80° to 90° ; when they have m grown 2 or 3 inches they 
are repotted into 60s, in loam, leaf mould, sand, and a little decom- 
posed manure ; they are replaced in bottom heat, the air kept sweet 
and pure. As soon as the roots have filled the pots, transfer them 
to 32's, using more manure in the compost. Set the pots as near 
the glass as possible, in a temperature of 70° to 80°. 

u When the pots are full of roots, shift to 8's, using a stronger 
compost, and draining thoroughly ; set them at least 5 inches from 



312 JANUARY. 

the glass, and raise the temperature 5° to 10°. When the vines 
have grown 8 or 10 feet, stop them, and if they are healthy they 
will at once throw out laterals from the buds at the extreme ends. 
It is to be hoped no other buds will break ; pinch these top laterals 
when 6 or 8 inches long. But all laterals emitted from the base, if 
fruit buds, should be stopped at first joint ; — allowing the end lat- 
erals to grow freely is the best means of preventing the starting of 
the other buds. Water freely during the whole time, and occa- 
sionally with liquid manure. When the wood is ripened, set the 
plants against a south wall, and protecting the roots from the frost 
let them remain as long as is prudent" 

" As the leaves fall off, shorten the canes to the required length, 
which will be regulated by their strength. The time for taking 
them into the house again will depend upon the time the fruit is to 
be ripened. Take the vines into the house in December ; they 
will then ripen in May. Begin the temperature at 55°, and grad- 
ually increase it to 70°. Keep the atmosphere moist by syringing, 
and if dry at the root give weak manure-water. To prevent the 
roots getting too damp, set the pots on pieces of brick, which also 
improve the circulation of air in the house : when the buds have 
well broken, transfer them into a trough of this kind : plank (or 
slate) troughs are carried the length of the house, about half way 
between the floor and the glass roof. The bottom of the troughs 
is made of crossed strips ; upon these lay pieces of turf 3 inches 
thick, to keep fine loam from sifting through ; upon the turf 3 
inches of compost, made of equal parts turfy loam and rotted ma- 
nure, with a little sand ; remove the vines by turning the pot up- 
side down and lifting it off the ball ; examine the ball and take out 
worms and pieces of crocks, but do not break the roots or loosen the 
earth. Now set the balls into the loam in the trough, and 8 
inches apart. Fill between the balls with the same compost ; cover 
the roots 1 J inches deep. The plants are now as well off as if 
planted in an open border. Tie the canes of the front and back 
troughs to the rafters, and of the middle to the posts of the house, 
or to wires carried up to the roof. Syringe well, water occasion* 
ally, and pour the water on the ball and not upon the remaining 
earth, as the roots have not yet spread. When the shoots have 



r~ 



GRAPEBY. 813 

fairly oommeDced to grow, stop them as in all other cases, leaving 
but one bunch to each, or 8 to 12 to every vine ; a heavier crop 
would injure both the color and the flavor of the fruit. Water 
abundantly ; the superfluous water will run off through the open 
bottom of the trough. In this way the grower may produce Mus- 
cats as readily as any other Grape, and a constant succession of 
fruit may be kept up without forcing the permanently planted vines 
too early. After the fruit is cut, remove the vines carefully from 
the trough, and set them out of doors where the roots may be pro- 
tected from the sun ; they may be replaced by another set of vines 
for a late crop." 

u When the vine borders are vaulted or well warmed by hot air, 
water, or steam, the Vines growing in them may be forced as much 
as you please, but it is not judicious to do it, as the strength and 
long life of the vine is sure to be injured. Pot or trough culture 
is equally favorable for retarding or for forcing grapes."* 

j. f. Allen's list of grapes. 



Cold-grapery. 




Fordng-houM. 


Black Hamburgh, 


10 


Black Hamburgti8, variety.. 


Wilmot's New Hamburgh, 


10 


Red and Rose Chasselas. 


Wilmot's No. 16, 


10 


Chasselas de Bar Sur Aube. 


Victoria Hamburgh, 


10 


White Frontignan. 


White Frontignan, 


2 


Black and Grizzly Frontignan. 


Grizsly do., 


2 


Golden Chasselas. 


Pitmaston, white Cluster, 


1 


White Gascoigne. 


Golden Chasselas, 


2 


Royal Muscadine. 


Chasselas de Bar Sur Aube, 




Muscat of Alexandria. 


Rose Chasselas, 




Tottenham Park. 


Red do., 




Zinfindal. 


Royal Muscadine, 




Cannon Hall Muscat. 


Red Traminer, 




Red Traminer. 


White Rissling, 




Macready's Early White. 


Macready's Early White, 




Early Black July for extra early 



General Planting. — " Black Hamburgh for greatest num- 
ber ; Grizzly, Black and White Frontignan are all admired by those 



* Rednced from Mcintosh. 
27 



314 JANUARY. 

persons who like the Muscat flavor ; they are liable to shrivel, and 
are more delicate than other grapes, and do not keep well when 
ripe ; the Grizzly is the earliest of these. Tottenham Park Mus- 
cat is very like the above, but not so high-flavored : sets its berries 
better. Portuguese Muscat, Chasselas de Bar Sur Aube, Pitmaston, 
White Cluster, Syrian, white, has very large bunches, sometimes 
weighing 20 lbs." 



. CHAPTER XL. 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The cold beds containing various plants for spring culture and 
winter use, must be examined as often as the weather permits, and 
if we have the usual January thaw, they may be uncovered 
and receive light and air in abundance. 

Li my last month's description of the treatment of hill-sides used 
as kitchen-gardens, I omitted one point of considerable importance ; 
viz., that a close board fence or close stone wall should be erected 
across the hill toward the top of the garden, if you propose to cul- 
tivate either early or late crops there. Beside the protection given 
by such a fence or wall against; high winds, it is very important as 
a means of retarding frost ; and the lower down the hill it is, the 
better it works. You know that as air cools it condenses, becomes 
heavier, and falls to the earth, and when there, it runs like water 
over an inclined surface to the lowest level. Let the air on the 
top of a hill grow cool, it will run down the sides, if not so fast as 
water, yet in obedience to the same laws ; and as it runs lower 
down it becomes colder, until at the bottom of the hill it is cold 
enough to produce frost, though at the top it was merely cool. A 
close fence coming down to the ground will stop this current of air 
as it would water, and either the air must find an outlet by running 
along the side of the fence, or it must pile up against it as water 
against a dam ; so that, in time, the air at the bottom of the fence 
will be cold enough to freeze, while higher up it is mild. 

This is not mere theory ; it has been practically proved, and 
plants growing on the lower side of such a fence, and opposite a 
hole in it next the ground, have been found frost-bitten at that part 
of the stem which was no higher than the top of the hole, but un- 
touched higher up. 

Here, then, is a means of increasing the value of your garden. 

315 



en, m p. 814. 
STREET 



r 



VILLAGE-GARDEN. 317 

An evergreen hedge will have the same effect ; so will a close 
hedge of any kind that spreads evenly over the ground when in 
fall leaf. 

Now is the time to prepare the hotbeds for extra early forcing, 
though for ordinary forcing February is early enough. I shall 
enter into the details of managing hotbeds next month, and those 
directions may be applied to January, if you choose to begin so 
early ; but in general I advise against beginning such culture be- 
fore February. The earliest forcing of Lettuce, Salads, Endive, 
and Cauliflower, and the development of Cardoons, Chicory, etc, 
may be carried forward in the forcing-house and cold-grapery. 

Agreeably to my promise in last month's kitchen-garden, I shall 
now give drawings, details, and description, of the 

Village-garden. — This garden may belong either to a man 
of wealth, or to one who lives by daily labor. I shall describe it 
as if it belonged to the latter. A richer person may devote more 
to ornament, and make more expensive improvements; but I wish 
to show how one whose time and means are both limited may get 
the most pleasure, beauty, and profit, out of his little garden. 

I assume that this place is half an acre in size, situated on a vil- 
lage street, and that a house is to be built on it I have made it, 
like most village lots, a parallelogram, with no great difference be- 
tween its sides. The front on the street measures 125 feet, the 
depth is 174. The main house is 35 x 25 feet ; the L 15 x 20 
feet ; piazza on the eastern side 6 x 30 feet. This makes quite a 
roomy house, larger, perhaps, than would be generally wanted by 
persons of small means. 

I make the entrance to the front within 8 feet of the south-east 
corner of the lot, and carry the path to the house with an easy 
curve. The distance is not thereby made much greater, yet by 
curving thus, and planting the swells of the curves with trees or 
shrubs, the house not only appears to stand farther back from the 
street, but its front may be somewhat concealed and rendered less 
public, and the occupations and amusements of its occupants made 
more private. My object in placing the house thus far back 

27* 



318 JANUABT. 

from the street, 40 feet, is to give an opportunity for both these 
effects. 

The house might as well be on the west as on the east side of 
the lot, but near one side it should be, in order to leave the land 
more in a body for economical or for ornamental purposes, and the 
side selected should generally be the one which is farthest from any 
neighboring house. Where the house is in the centre, the whole lot 
is cut up, and the place cramped. Not so with a house placed as in 
this plan, for we see at once that the little strip on one side is but 
a small portion of the place, whilst the other is of an undetermined 
size, and if the trees, etc., are well grouped, seems much larger 
than it really is ; the breadth thus secured enables us to vary the 
direction of our paths, so that they seem to traverse a large area, 
and we can make our flower-beds and plantations in good sized 
masses. The object in a small place is to avoid all standards for 
comparison, which may enable a critical visitor to compute readily 
its size. By judiciously varying the direction of the paths, con- 
cealing their terminations, filling their bends with trees and shrubs, 
so that standing on one part we may not see the rest, we practi- 
cally increase the size of the place. Straight lines and right 
angles reduce the area to its smallest possible size. They provoke 
a calculation, as follows : This path must be about so long to the 
first angle, and to the next thus-much longer. There are 20 Pear- 
trees standing on it, 10 feet apart — 200 feet one way, 10 on the other 
— 20,000 feet in the place ! I do not mean to say that every visitor 
would thus reduce your place to figures, but that is the tendency. 

Again, if the space on the sides of your house is narrow, you 
can plant but a few trees, shrubs, etc. ; you can make no masses, 
or even tolerably sized groups ; you cannot hide your neighbor's 
house or boundaries ; they are constantly thrust in upon you. 

But by putting the house at one side, you increase the available 
area, and can make those groups and combinations which will be 
both ornamental and useful, and will serve to divert attention from 
the narrowness of your estate, to the great variety and beauty of 
the things which you grow on it. 

You will see as you follow this description through, that the 



VILLAGE-GARDEN. 819 

place, small as it is, is really capable of producing a great quantity 
of material both for beauty and use ; and if this is so arranged as 
to be presented to the visitor's eye at different times and unexpect- 
edly, it will seem much more, and be more surprising. 

But the good effect is not for strangers alone. Gossiping and 
curiosity are the prevalent vices in our towns and villages, which 
it is the duty of each of us to check so far as he is concerned. If 
the grounds on each side of our house are so narrow as to bring 
our neighbor's affairs constantly under our eyes, it is difficult not to 
be too interested in them ; but if we have quite a large space on that 
side of our house which we most use, large enough both to conceal 
our neighbors and to give us something beautiful of our own to 
look at, we remove from ourselves much of this temptation to 
meddlesomeness, and every time we look out of the window, our 
eyes rest on natural and peaceful beauties of our own, which soothe 
and interest us, and divert our attention from the business of other 
people to those objects which in themselves suggest instructive and 
pleasing trains of thought Having started with the rule that we 
ought to make our homes as beautiful as possible, for the sake of 
ourselves and our families, we must in carrying out the rule make 
due allowance for human nature. 

Perhaps our education has been purely practical, and we have 
been taught to value a piece of land with a house, solely for its 
productive capacity. We may admit the force of the arguments 
for cultivating beauty, and yet find great difficulty in bringing 
ourselves to act accordingly ; and this difficulty will be increased, 
if the land on both sides of your house is equally narrow, for, as I 
have said, it is too narrow to admit of pleasing effects, without 
much contrivance and somewhat unnatural arrangement ; it will 
be much easier to arrange it with an eye to the practical, and we 
shall be more inclined to yield to our mistaken inclination. • Now 
our duty is to strengthen ourselves against our meaner selves. 
Look at the plan, and see how, by placing the house as I have 
done, there is room on one side for nothing but the piazza, — cov- 
ered with vines, both for beauty and to act as a screen, — and an 
espalier for Pears, with the necessary borders for them to grow in. 
But on the other, are first vines covering the house and embower- 



320 JANUARY. 

ing the windows, next, little beds of bulbs and Verbenas in the 
turf, next, a larger flower-bed ; — then an ample path, then a fine, 
large Apple-tree, then more grass ; — trees and flowering shrubs, 
grass and espaliered fruit. The area is not great, — 75 feet wide, 
— yet by judiciously breaking it up and grouping pleasant things 
together, we secure a very great amount of diversity and beauty, 
a pleasant feast for the eyes at all seasons of the year. Now look 
at the space in front of the house, where are shrubs, flowers, grass, 
and trees, and yet but little space devoted to them. 

Whoever passes such a place, when the trees have attained their 
rail beauty, will stop to enjoy the pleasant sight, and will say to 
himself that the children he sees playing about cannot fail to do 
well in the world, if the influences within doors correspond to those 
without. 

Follow the path from the front door to the kitchen-garden ! You 
begin your walk through flowers and grass, shrubs, and trees ; as 
you proceed you come to stout and thrifty Pear-trees, well loaded 
with flowers or fruit ; among them are Currants, crimson with their 
beautiful fruit, or behind them, Strawberries ; beyond the waving 
tassels of Corn-, most beautiful of grain crops, and at their feet 
yellow Squashes, golden Pumpkins, or ruddy Tomatoes As you 
round the curve, Peach and Cherry-trees greet you, and only as 
you turn a bend in the path do you come upon the henhouse and 
pigsty, where, well secured, are those animals which, if kept close, 
may be made to contribute to the economy and pleasure of the 
family; but which, if allowed to stroll about, are entirely de- 
structive to the garden, a trouble to their owner, and a pest and 
nuisance to his neighbors. The fowls lay their eggs everywhere 
but on your own premises, and scratch up and deface every part of 
the garden, while the pigs destroy every vestige of fruit, flower, 
and vegetable, and reduce the whdle place to the appearance of an 
Irish hovel. 

So plain is this to every one, that my reference to it may seem 
superfluous, but it is lamentably true that even in thrifty New 
England towns and cities, people who would feel grossly insulted 
if their neighbors did not consider them respectable, allow their 
pigs to run at large, and the most common sight in every village is 



VILLAGE-GARDEN. 321 

platoons of hens rummaging, scratching, and destroying the gardens 
of their owners, and of all the neighbors. Now you may lay it 
down as a fact, that it is hens versus garden. If the hens are not 
closely shut up throughout the growing season, your garden is 
good for nothing ; a few hours' investigation by a set of hens of 
active minds and legs, will reduce your best hopes in horticulture 
and floriculture to despair. . And certainly one-half the ill-feeling 
between country neighbors is due to the ravages of the domestic 
animals, of one or the other. I have a garden, and sacrifice my 
hens ; soon my neighbor, who has no garden, but has hens, receives 
a notice from me, polite, perhaps, but sarcastic, that his hens are 
my nuisance, and must be abated. He promises well, but does 
nothing ; it is too much trouble or expense to him to shut them up, 
and any time will do. I send more and more messages. At last 
he shuts them up for a few days. I breathe more freely, and my 
terrified flowers, plundered Currant-bushes, and pecked Melons 
start anew to grow. But that henhouse was a temporary struc- 
ture ; its door falls off the hinges, or is left open by some one of 
the family, who goes to get eggs, carelessly or designedly, because 
I " needn't make such a plaguey fuss about a few old Currant- 
bushes or green Tomatoes," and I see the hens again in my garden. 
Now I am enraged ; perhaps I swear ; at any rate I stone the hens, 
and knock one in the head, but don't kill her, and in my wrath toss 
her over the fence after the others, where she performs sundry 
drunken evolutions, as running round in" a circle a vast number of 
limes, with her head between her legs, or straight into the barn 
door, each foot stepping on the other as she goes ; she screeches, 
and all the other sympathizing fowls do the same. There is music 
My neighbor rushes out, sees the whole story at a glance, comes to 
the fence, looks over, and calls me " a nasty, mean feller, to be so 
cruel as to hurt a poor hen, that never hurt me." At such times 
hen proprietors are very chicken-hearted, and have an unwonted 
supply of the milk of human kindness. To his abuse over the 
fence I perhaps say nothing ; perhaps I return it In either case 
we are enemies ; we talk each other down at all village meetings, 
and my neighbor particularly pronounces me the meanest and most 
unneighborly of men. * 



322 JANUARY. 

This is a common experience. My neighbor doesn't consider he 
has done any thing mean to try my patience and ruin my garden ; 
the meanness is all on my side. 

Now I recommend all my readers to keep a gun, if it be not 
against the law to fire a gun within the limits of your town ; where 
it is, poisoned meal may take the place of the gun ; and after fair 
notice, to kill every trespassing hen. Do it early in the season. 
If you must have the quarrel, save your garden ; don't lose the 
garden and have the quarrel to boot. 

The house located, the general arrangement of the place is next 
to be determined, and that this may be intelligent and satisfactory, 
make a plan of it, as you would like it when completed to your 
mind. If your land is perfectly level you may represent it accu- 
rately on paper, and however uneven its surface may be, a plan is 
an important aid in laying it out My directions for making this 
plan will be general, and the plan in the book may be taken as an 
illustration ; I shall return to my description of that plan presently. 
Measure off, upon a piece of drawing paper, the dimensions of 
your land — be it parallelogram or other shape — according to some 
scale : supposing your land to measure, on one side, 120 feet, allow 
on paper each inch of a foot-rule to measure 30 feet, each half-inch 
to measure 15 feet, and so on ; then one side of your plan will be 
4 inches long. Go out and measure the distance from each front 
corner of the lot to the middle of the front of the house, also the 
distance from these corners to each corner of the house. Then 
measure the outside of the house all round, noting down the 
measurements as made. Return to the house and find that point 
on your plan which corresponds to the middle of the front of the 
house. To do this set the legs of a pair of dividers by your scale 
of 30 feet to the inch, so as to measure the distance from one corner 
of the lot to the middle of the front of the house, as. you have 
noted it down. Set one leg of the dividers on that corner in the 
plan, and with the other leg make as much of a circle on the paper 
as will reach from the front line back into the plan farther than 
you think the front of the house will be ; do the same thing with 
the corresponding measurement from the other corner, and where 
these two curves Gross each other, will be the middle of the front 



VILLAGE-GARDEN. 323 

of the house on the plan. In the same way find the corners of the 
house on the plan ; connect these by a line drawn straight through 
the middle point, and you have the front line of the plan of your 
house. From this line measure out in accordance with your notes 
all the sides of the house, and be sure that all the angles corre- 
spond to the real ones. Having put the house upon paper, go out 
again and decide where you will put the gates, which will give ad- 
mission to the front and kitchen doors, bearing in mind what I have 
already said about them ; also select the position for the henhouse 
These points settled, ascertain the relative positions on the boun- 
dary lines, and returning with these measurements, apply them to 
the plan. Now draw your path to the front door, then that to the 
kitchen, and to the piazza. If the local circumstances make 
straight paths the most desirable and pleasant, make them straight ; 
but otherwise curve them. If the surface is uneven keep the 
paths to the hollows as much as possible, and when you ascend a 
slope follow the easiest line of ascent. Curve the paths whenever 
this will enable you to produce a pleasant effect, by planting a 
group of trees or shrubs in the bend, or to give a good view of the 
house and garden, or for any good reason. Make them 5 feet wide 
at least. This will seem to you too wide to look well, a waste of 
ground, and involving expense in construction. In fact it will look 
better than any less width, and 6 feet is better than 5 ; for proof 
refer to any of the plans which accompany this book, where all the 
paths are 5 to 6 feet wide, and see that were they narrower the 
plans would look pinched and meagre. And as to waste of land 
and money, it is not wasting to make a thing satisfactory, which 
you must have in some form or other, as you must paths; and 
surely a path, which forces friends to walk in " Indian file," and talk 
to each other over their shoulders, is not satisfactory, but very an- 
noying, and if it be over a small place, it forces us to notice and 
regret the narrow limits which lead to such scrimping. If on such 
a place the paths were wide enough for three or four persons to 
walk abreast, they would seem wasteful, for their breadth would 
be unnecessary and incongruous. If our path allows two persons 
to walk abreast easily, it is wide enough ; I do not mean so that * 
they can just squeeze along without treading on the border, but so 



1 



324 JANUARY. 

that they may walk, easily, side by side. And this brings us to a 
principle in path-making. 

Most persons think that paths are the most important features on 
a plan, and that how they look, and into what pretty shapes they 
divide a surface, are the important questions. But if paths are 
rightly placed, and of proper width, they are the least important 
features in a place ; if badly placed, the most important FW a 
path should never attract notice to itself, any more than a coat or 
the frame of a picture to themselves. It is merely a means of ac- 
cess to something, and should be so managed as to afford this access 
in the pleasantest way, and to do nothing more. If wide enough, 
its width attracts no attention ; we walk along it, talking with our 
friends, and looking at the landscapes or the flowers. 

Draw your paths then 5 feet wide ; wherever two of them meet, 
round the corners so as to allow a wheelbarrow or a child's carriage 
to be drawn round them easily ; this, too, being no waste of room. 
Next fix the place for your well, if that is to be out of doors, and 
turn a path to it. Next assign a place for the clothesyard, which 
should be large enough for use, and no larger ; mark on your plan 
that this is to be surrounded by a hedge of evergreen, which, when 
grown, will effectually screen the yard from cold winds and from 
observation, so that washing-day may come and go unknown to any 
person outside the house. 

The next thing is to draw such a path as will traverse the whole 
garden, giving access to the henhouse on the way. Avoid sharp turns 
and corners, and it will seem to lead on without reference to the 
boundaries, whether near or distant, crooked or straight. Curve it 
to avoid inequalities in the surface, and for the sake of grace and 
beauty, but make all its curves as long and easy, and gently-chang- 
ing as possible. A comparison between a straight and a crooked 
line, is almost always in favor of the straight ; its simplicity and di- 
rectness fills us with disgust for crooks, and sharp, unnecessary 
turns. The same principle will guide our choice between well and 
ill-curved lines ; the best curve, like the line of beauty, possesses 
the good qualities of the straight line, and seems appropriate ; the 
bad curve, like the wriggle of a wounded snake, is like the crooked 
line, meaningless. Do not think that because a line is not straight 




VILLAGE-GARDEN. 325 

it is beautiful. For instance, let 
I a, a, and b, b, be paths over the 
same surface. If that surface 
were very uneven, and b, b> followed its undulations, or was lost 
among copses of trees and opened at every turn on some pleasant 
sight, it would be appropriate ; but if short, and over a level sur- 
face as in our garden, the worst possible path. The changing path 
should beguile us along unconscious of any change, except as new- 
objects are brought into view. 

A gentleman once objected to a change made in his grounds, 
which would alter some straight paths to curved, that he should 
never like it, could never get along with it, for he was accustomed 
to walk much lost in reverie, or in thought, and should be con- 
stantly running into the borders if his paths were curved. This 
was a perfectly natural feeling ; his idea of a curve was a crooked, 
hump-backed line. The change was made in accordance with the 
principles just laid down, and to this day he walks lost in his medi- 
tations, and has never yet been wrecked on the dreaded borders. 

Our garden path was to give access to the henhouse, but should 
not quite touch it. Such a building should stand as far back from 
the line of direct walking as convenience will allow, for although it 
is useful and desirable, it is generally ugly and noisome. The for- 
mer objection may be removed by vines well trained ; the latter by 
sprinkling the pigpen occasionally with diluted sulphuric acid, and 
covering the floor of the house with plaster of Paris, chloride of 
lime, or charcoal, all of which answer the same purpose, being ab- 
sorbants of ainmoniacal, and other gases valuable for manure but 
disagreeable to smell. 

You will now make, agreeably to directions before given, as many 
espaliers and of such kinds as you please. In the plan, to which we 
now return, there are 365 feet of espaliers, giving 45 trees 8 feet 
apart; of these 2 are Figs (sometimes they will bear, and some- 
times not, — but as curiosities have them), 4 Nectarines, 6 Apricots, 
12 Peaches, 3 Plums, 3 Cherries, 15 Pears. Had you no other 
fruit these would be enough, but I shall let you have more. Where 
the paths A and B cross, you may turn back a short path, which 
will render access from one to the other easier ; in the little trian- 

28 



326 JANUARY. 

gle thus left, you may put an Apple-tree ; it will do less mischief 
there than anywhere else. In so small a place plant no Apples in 
the borders, unless they are dwarfs ; for when Apples are plentiful 
they are very cheap, and when scarce, your trees are not likely to 
do better than your neighbors ; and no tree is so unprofitable in a 
small place as the Apple. It covers a large surface, shading it so 
that no smaller tree can grow, and gives no compensating return. 

Dwarf Apples are not so bad, but I should never plant any. 
Cherries are about as bad, but occupy less room, so that I have put 
in a few in those swells of the path where there is room enough, 
also in places where you want a screen. Set dwarf Pears around 
the inside of the paths, 10 to 12 feet apart, as before described; 
our place will accommodate 18. We shall thus have 33 Pear-trees, 
the annual value of whose fruit will be not less than $2 per tree, 
when well established, and more if you use them yourself. For di- 
rections about planting, etc, refer back. Set currants between the 
Pears, each bush 3 feet from a tree, their centres 4 feet apart; there 
may be 50 Currants ; in the place of some of these you can sub- 
stitute Gooseberries if you choose. 

From the clothesyard, measure back a strip of land 50 feet long 
and 5£ wide, which will be large enough for the smallest sized 
Asparagus bed described under the directions for the culture of 
that vegetable. I have made it 12 feet wide to insure a sufficient 
supply. At right angles to the lower or north end of the Aspara- 
gus bed, are rows of Horseradish; cultivate this as I have 
directed, and short as the rows are, they will furnish enough for 
any family. At the west of the clothesyard is the Raspberry bed, 
6 rows allowing 125 plants at 3 feet apart, and 2 feet in the row. 
Perpendicular to the Raspberry and Asparagus beds, are 7 rows of 
Strawberries of different lengths, quite enough to give a good sup- 
ply through the season. Enclosed by these different beds is an 
area, not large certainly, but enough to give, under good manage- 
ment, an abundant supply of summer vegetables. 

By planting only so many vegetables as will suffice for your 
family, you may have an abundance and variety for that purpose; 
but if you are possessed with the usual spring mania for planting 
everything in large quantities, you will be cramped for room. Twenty 



VILLAGE-GARDEN. 327 

Tomato plants will give all the Tomatoes any common family needs, 
and allow some for preserving and pickling, and they need not oc- 
cupy more than 400 square feet of land. Let other things be in 
like proportion. You should no more think of growing Potatoes 
on such a small place, than of planting Apple-trees ; all such large* 
growing crops are too unwieldy for a small garden. 

You observe on both east and west sides of the place, the espaliers 
are carried past the house and into the grass land. You must allow 
a border here at least 12 feet wide (taking both sides of the espal- 
iers) for the roots of the trees ; this must not be cropped with any 
thing, but must be well manured. 

Pears, as I have said, need plenty of manure and moisture, 
whilst Peaches and similar fruit are injured by strong manure ; 
and by manuring around those trees upon a pretence of taking a 
crop, the trees are injured, although you may get good crops of 
other things. 

You will see on the left, of path A on a bend, 4 Quince-trees 8 
to 10 feet apart, and 2 by the henhouse ; these 6 trees are enough 
for your Family. 

Return now to the front and ornamental part of the place. On 
each half of the eastern side of the house are vines ; 2 Woodbines 
at each corner; next, 2 monthly Honeysuckles; next, 2 Roses 
(Queen of Prairie and Rosa-ruga) ; in the middle a Virgin's 
Bower, or Clematis Virginiana, and Clematis Azurea, Grandiflora, 
and Flammula (white and fragrant). On the front of the house, on 
either corner, a Monthly Honeysuckle ; on each side of the door, 
Woodbine ; between door and either corner, Boursault Rose, and 
Mrs. Hovey (Prairie). On west side 8 vines ; at north-west corner, 
Monthly Honeysuckle ; at south-west, Wisteria ; next to each of these 
a variety of Clematis ; next, Trumpet-creeper and Woodbine ; in 
the middle, Sweetbrier, and annual vines. In each hole may be 
planted some tubers of the Apios, the wild Ground-nut, and of the 
Madeira vine ; and in the proper places where it will show to advan- 
tage, the Ipomea Learii and others. The two latter should be taken 
up in the fall, as the frost destroys them. On the west and north L of 
the house, Grape-vines are put, and if the varieties are well selected, 
and carefully pruned and trained, you will be able to ripen the 



328 JANUARY. 

Grapes on the north exposure, though the east and south are better of 
course. Either the Concord, Hartford, or Diana Grape will ripen 
there ; the Isabella and Catawba must have more sun ; and the Ca- 
tawba does not ripen with certainty anywhere in our latitude. The 
east side of the house may be devoted to Grape instead of orna- 
mental vines if you choose. I prefer the ornamental. The henhouse 
may be covered with grapevines ; over the well, too, which you 
see just where the kitchen path B reaches the house, a little well- 
house may be erected and covered with vines. Hop-vines thrive 
in such a place, and although this is not the best way to cultivate 
the Hop for a crop, it will give shade and some hops. 

Ascertain what objects in the neighborhood should be screened 
from sight, and what are agreeable ; fix these points on paper (to 
a scale). Let A be a window in the house, from which the object 

B is to be concealed ; draw 
the lines A C, A D, which 
shall embrace between 
them the whole of the dis- 
agreeable object ; plant in 
the triangle thus formed 
trees as gracefully grouped 
as possible, and unless by expanding the group you would shut out 
something you wish to see, spread them out beyond both lines 
.enough to make a pleasing group. Carefully compare the size and 
shape of the different trees with which you mighUnake the screen ; 
to determine which you will need draw imaginary lines in the air, 
which will enclose the top and bottom of the object, and by them 
judge how high your leafy screen must be. When the trees and 
shrubs are selected, mark their names down on paper, and put 
the points which show the stems at least 10 feet apart, and as much 
more as the future size of the tree will allow consistently with its 
purpose of a screen. 

Here let me notice a pestilent theory which has taken possession 
of the minds of some planters, who getting a theory apply it at all 
times and places, regardless of the principle which is its life. This 
notion is that in planting groups of trees they should be placed as 
far apart as they ought to stand 20 or 30 years later in order to have 




VILLAGE-GARDEN. 



329 



their perfect development. No theory could be better where a 
group is made for its beauty alone, with ample room and free choice 
of material, for in no other way can the greatest amount of beauty 
be obtained ; but where trees are planted to screen an unsightly 
object, this theory has no place. What you want is a screen, and 
to get this you might put up a high, close fence, were it not ugly, 
expensive, and perishable; you prefer trees because they have 
neither of these defects, and form in time a perfect screen ; but you 
defeat your purpose unless you plant thickly, so thickly that in a 
few years the object of your planting will be secured. If you 
must wait ten or twenty years for this, you will either become so 
accustomed to the nuisance as to be careless whether it is hidden 
or not, or you will N cease to wait for earthly things. Again, it is 
foolish when planting for a screen to use such trees only as will 
have the greatest individual beauty when full grown, for they may 
be slow growers or short-lived. You may secure the result at 
which the" theory aims and yet have your screen, not by mixing 
slow-growing or distant trees with shrubs, the latter to spring up 
and make the screen without crowding the trees ; but by adding 
to these, trees of a rapid growth and short life, which will serve 
as nurses to the slower-growing trees, and will soon make a screen 
which can be cut down as soon as the permanent trees are large 
enough to take their place. 

I would use permanent trees and shrubs when and where the 
latter are high enough to cover the object, and should like them 
better than trees, but only if sure they would do this. 




28* 



330 JANUARY. 

In case that whilst there are some objects like roads, unsightly 
buildings, windows of inquisitive neighbors, which you wish to 
u plant out," and others which you wish to retain in view, reverse 
the practice just described. B, C, and D to be shut out, and A to 
be seen if possible from the whole line £ F, either because it con- 
nects windows of your house, or because it is a favorite promenade. 
Draw on the plan, or beyond its edge, on the same paper, the loca- 
tion of the three objects ; then draw the lines £ A and F A, and 
£ B and F D ; make the most varied plantations you can between 
£ B A and FAD, and connect if possible these groups of trees 
with shrubs, thus. You will get a varied outline, beside concealing 
and showing respectively the given objects. 

Where a group is planted for other purposes, the guiding princi- 
ples are very different, as I have said, and for them I refer you to 
the month of September, where the subject is more fully discussed, 
and to future months. 

If circumstances do not permit you to study and imitate any par* 
ticular group of trees, if there is none in your neighborhood which 
you care to study, you must be guided by this consideration : in 
selecting and planting your trees, both the beauty of the individuals 
or their appearance in combination must be considered, in your es- 
timate of the pleasure to be derived from them. As I have repeat- 
edly said, variety is an important constituent of the beautiful, and 
its presence is a powerful inducement to the mind to consider new 
things, while the enjoyment of familiar things is prolonged. How- 
ever beautiful any one object is, — supremely so if you please, — it 
will pall on the mind at times ; you may be an enthusiast (though 
not a monomaniac), may sell all you have to obtain some work of 
art, may enshrine it in the most appropriate manner, may visit or 
live with it, may show it with a torrent of enthusiasm to your 
friends ; yet there will be times when it loses its control over your 
mind and eye ; you will go to other things less beautiful. Leave it 
then for other things — inferior things; freshen your soul and 
eye with them, and when you return the old love will re-assert its 
control with new power. 

This undeniable fact controverts a theory, which from the time 
of Gilpin and other authorities in landscape gardening to the pres- 



VILLAGE-GAKDEN. 331 

ent day, has had many advocates ; viz., that any spot to be im- 
proved should be planted with trees entirely or mainly of one kind, 
as in no other way can great effects be produced, and the full 
beauty of the trees be ascertained. This is not true even on the 
large scale of mountain and forest, as each man's experience will 
testify. Recall the scene you admire and love most, count over in 
memory, or on the spot, the varieties of trees which are blended 
together to produce the effect ; there are not only trees, but vines 
mounting the trunks, and throwing their wreaths over the branches 
and top, and by changing form and color, giving new and unwonted 
life to the whole. Lower down at their roots are shrubs of many 
kinds, and their feet again are fringed with flowers. I admit that 
in a case like the 27 Oaks at Waverly, Mass., the pleasure is in the 
individual trees, whose perfection and magnificence is not surpassed 
in the United States, nor could they be improved by planting other 
trees amongst them, but there is no oak effect ; it is the beauty of 
old and individual trees, which have been growing only 600 
years, and are not likely to be reproduced in much less time. 
All of us know of some dark, solemn Pine wood, in a deep glen, 
where no other trees seem to exist ; but the peculiar beauty of 
those Pines is seen and felt only when we are within the wood, not 
when we look at it from a distance ; its depths have a variety not 
to be found on its skirts.; it is the dim-colored light, the whispering 
winds, the contrast of the columnar stems with top and foliage, the 
intermixture of shrubs, etc ; while the spot in the wood most loved 
is where a break in the trees has opened a bit of water, or a pros- 
pect, or where has sprung up a ruddy Maple or a golden Hickory. 
To try the theory by a smaller scale, and on our plan ; south- 
east of the house is a group of 9 trees, 5 of which are in a row, 
that worst of all positions for good effects. Red Maple in front 
will relieve its red blossoms in early spring against 3 White Pines, 
and contrast its light budding spray, and irregular shape with 
the more stubbed branches and elliptical outline of the Sugar 
Maples, and the fastigiate Elm and Tulip-tree. In the fell its gold 
and red will be heightened by the dark green of the background ; 
before its color is gone it will be taken up, as is a song that was 
gradually hushing away by stronger voices, and the brilliant Sugar 



382 JANUARY. 

Maples will bring back the fading glory, and carry it up to a yet 
higher resplendence, always intensified by the deep green of the 
Pines on one side, and the English Elm on the other. Can any- 
body maintain that this group would be better all Pines, all Maples, 
all Elms ? And as I have just hinted, color is not the only gain by 
this arrangement ; the shape and variety of spray are equally 
beautiful, and in their turn contribute fully as much to the beauty 
of the whole. Variety is an element of beauty in virtue of the 
contrast it affords. What is more bewitching than the tracery of 
the Elm against a winter evening sky ? Words cannot describe its 
beauty, its magical effect, no hand can trace it or reproduce it ; the 
interlacing of the branches overhead, the arches and beams of this 
member of a cathedral that would have delighted medieval build- 
ers. And in the spring, when the tree feels down in its vitals the 
moving power of the early sun, and long before other trees have 
swelled their buds, expands its own, how — just as they burst into 
flower — the same tree which we so much admired for the purity, 
distinctness, and variety of its spray, and its crossing branches in 
fall and winter, seems now, in the light of the setting sun, to have 
entangled in its network one of those rare purple mists of autumn ! 
and to have woven it into a garment as beautiful in color as the 
Tyrian purple of old, which none but kings might wear, and as deli- 
cate in texture as those fabrics of the Eastern loom, which may be 
passed through a ring, and are yet ample enough to clothe an East- 
ern beauty, whose form and limbs are not more lovely than those 
of that same noble American Elm. 

Look now at our grouping in the south-east corner, where such 
an Elm stands surrounded by stiff Maples, Ashes, and Pine trees, 
and heralded by Norway Spruces, whose picturesque grace is a 
good preparation for a true appreciation of the Elm. 

If then you are making a group on your plan, remember that 
you are to introduce a variety of trees " in a variety of positions, 
and so placed that each will be seen to the best advantage, and 
combine into the most graceful whole. Around and among these 
trees, plant those shrubs which will grow in the shade, and on the 
edges of the group, others needing more light ; and the group may 
be rendered yet more beautiful by fringing these edges with Asters 



TILLAGE-GARDEN. 333 

and Golden-rods. In another place will be given a list of suitable 
trees and shrubs. 

Our flower-beds are placed according to previous advice ; the 
round ones directly under the windows are for bulbs, and later for 
bedding plants, or such annuals as you prefer. Fill the other beds 
with a choice selection of perennials, with spaces for other varieties 
of plants. 



CHAPTER XLI. 

ORCHARD AND FARM. 

In the orchard continue to prune ; remove and burn the brush. 
It is well to hurry this work a little, as there will soon be more 
demands on the limited labor of the farmer ; take scions the last 
of the month. 

Throughout this book I assume that the balance sheet of profit 
and loss in dollars is not the only test of rural improvements or 
the sole inducement to agricultural labors. Burns has said : — 

" The rank is bat the guinea stamp, 
The man's the gowd for a' that/' 

and it needs very little reflection to see that in those two lines the 
history of the world is written. Success in a worldly point of 
view is desirable, and its evidence speaks to all men, in better 
clothes, better houses, better equipage, —7 in the " guinea stamp." 
And this is worth some effort to gain ; it is natural and proper that 
men should strive for those things which contribute to their own 
comfort and pleasure and consequence, which elevate them in the 
opinion of the world. But good as it is to be current coin in 
this way, how worthless it is in comparison with being the gold 
of true manhood. 

Education is the watchword of New England. Now how would 
you educate your children ; by sending them among coarse, sensual, 
semi-barbarous people, or by associating them with the refined and 
noble ? The latter, of course ! If you, as a farmer, have a crea- 
ture to fatten, you put it in the most favorable circumstances, you 
give it the best pasture, the most abundant supply of water, the 
mildest temperature, you do not allow it to be worried by dogs or 

834 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 335 

boys ; you give it shade from the fierce sun, and shelter from the 
biting wind. This is right ; this is good farming. 

So if you have a child to educate, and wish to make him a noble 
man, true gold, surround him with the most favorable influences. 

Assuming, then, that the aim of every man is, whilst he gets his 
" living," to develope himself fully, he cannot place himself more 
favorably than by following some occupation which will constantly 
carry him into the fields and woods, and bring him into close com- 
munion with nature, where every influence will be for good. Look 
how these influences surround the farmer ! he works for his daily 
bread. It is hard work, but he does it thankfully, because it as- 
sures him that the blessings of home and love will be continued to 
him, without fear of famine and ruin. As he goes out to his early 
work, he sees sights that would well repay any man for severe 
toil : the colors of the sky at sunrise, the glistening of the dew- 
drop, the general wakening of nature. The songs of birds come 
to his ears, the flower under his foot speaks of beauty and wisdom, 
the fields have a voice that is pouring out praise to God. 

As he turns the mould with the ploughshare, a bit of quartz or 
spar catches his eye, attracts his curiosity, and leads him through 
pleasant thoughts of geology, how these crystals were formed, of 
the structure of the globe, the stratification of rocks, the formation 
of soils. The tree he is cutting bends, and as it falls shows him 
the rings which have marked its growth, and starts his thoughts 
afresh — upon the wonderful structure of trees, the phenomena of 
growth, the wonders of reproduction. Every graft or bud he puts 
in, teaches him vegetable history. As he goes to the barn at 
night, the cry of a calf new born from a cow of a favorite breed, 
which promises to be the most perfect of his stock, arouses a thou- 
sand thoughts of the providential wisdom which not only secures 
the perpetuation of races, but provides man with the means of 
improving each race of animals to ultimate perfection. 

His labor over, he returns to his house, lying warm and glowing 
in the rays of that setting sun, whose rising was so beautiful and 
so delighted him. The rich, yellow light gilds the tops of tree and 
chimney, is lost in the deep shadows of the pond shore, or sparkles 
in the spray of the waterfall. With a painter's eye and a poet's 



336 JANUARY. 

soul, he drinks in these sights, and involuntarily thanks God for 
his lot, and pities the poor inhabitants of cities, condemned to pass 
their lives within brick walls, and shut out except for a few brief 
days in the stated summer vacation from the feast daily spread 
before him. 

You will say, " How absurd a picture is this ! to find a farmer 
earnest and enthusiastic, poet, artist, and naturalist, is as rare, as 
impossible, as to invent perpetual motion." I grant it is rare ; but 
by no means impossible. 

We have several senses, sources of pleasure or pain ; of these, 
sight and hearing are the two most valued, and productive of most 
pleasure. Suppose a man possessed of all these senses to put out 
his eyes. In horror you ask his reason for the act. " Oh," he 
says, " the dust gets into them, the sun dazzles them ; and besides 
I was near-sighted, and could not see half so much as you, and I 
never thought half a loaf better than no bread." 

Or suppose him for the same reason to tie a bandage over his 
eyes, and keep it there the greater part of the time ; his eyes 
would soon grow weak ; he would lose his sense of color, and his 
discrimination of form. You meet him at a time when the ban- 
dage is removed, and congratulate him on the enjoyment he must 
receive from the beauties of nature. He peevishly asks, What 
beauties ? for his part all things are alike, the annoying sun makes 
such a dazzle, 'tis hard work to keep his eyes open ; every thing is 
green, and one thing so like another that there is no variety worth 
looking for. You reason and remonstrate, point out the difference 
between things as he sees them and as they really are, perhaps tell 
him it is because his eyes are weakened that he does not see as 
you see. He listens with a tired patience, and says in conclusion, 
It is very well for you to say so, but he can't see it as you do, and 
if a man isn't to believe his own eyes, what can he believe ? You 
would leave such a man in disgust; and perhaps you are now 
thinking me tedious and foolish for putting the absurd case, — and 
yet it is possible that you are that blindfolded man. 

You read these accounts of what farmers may see, hear, and 
know, and you call it all twaddle and nonsense. You "know 
better ; " you've farmed it all your life, and know 'tis hard work 



I 



ORCHAKD AND FARM. 337 

and lots of it, and little profit in it, and a dog's life, and kills the 
women folks, and makes all hands too glad to go to bed at dark to 
stay up and admire Venus, and the comet or the moon, or to read 
and think. City people and rich folks may go about the country 
and see what they call beauty, but for your part you don't believe 
in it Trees are sort of pretty, and you don't know but 'tis well 
enough for the women folks to have a few flowers in the front 
yard, but you've something else to do. You don't see any beauty 
in having to get up early and milk,— maybe it is as I say, but 
you don't see it, — and as for geology and botany, and all that, and 
structure of the earth, that's book learning, and not for poor folks 
' like you. Chopping wood is hard work ; you can't stop to count 
rings, and if you should, how would you know that they really did 
show how old the tree was ? But I won't go on quoting from you. 
You know it is all true as well as I, and you are blind and won't 
see ; you not only have put a bandage over your eyes, but you 
won't let any one take it off. You know best, and if you can't 
believe your own eyes, what can you believe ? 

Do you suppose that a nice sense of the beaufiful is the common 
property of man, and that you would have it as much as another, 
if you were to have had it at all? The appreciation of the beau- 
tiful is the result of much self-culture added to natural quickness 
of sight. My mind may be naturally more apt to learn some 
things than is yours, but you can cultivate yours as I mine. The 
eyes of all are not alike, and yet education brings every eye to see 
those things it wishes to see. Turn a city laborer into the woods, 
where he must get his living by hunting, and defend himself 
against savage men and beasts, and his eye, hitherto ignorant of 
woods and woodcraft, will become in time so acute that he will fol- 
low a trail for miles through the primeval forest, and know whether 
it was made by man or beast, how many have travelled it, and 
whether fast or slow. Early education makes a great difference 
in this, and some men are more acute and will learn these signs 
more easily than others, but all can and will learn them under ne- 
cessity. So the sailor sees objects barely visible on the distant 
horizon, and discriminates between the spouting of a whale and 
the sail of a vessel, knows a ship from a barque, a schooner from 

29 



838 JANUABY. 

a brig, will tell you whether a ship under bare poles is a merchant- 
man or a man-of-war, — all at a distance where you and I, lands* 
men, can scarcely see any thing without a glass. Yet if we wish 
to learn this, we shall. 

Those who are most remarkable for their love and appreciation 
of beautiful things, make them their constant study, seek them out 
whether near or distant, compare one with another, note their ex- 
cellencies, and use each new object as an aid toward understanding 
and enjoying others. 

When you commenced farming you knew but little about cows, 
horses, stock of any kind ; you went to cattle-shows, examined your 
neighbor's stock, looked for points of excellence ; and have finally" 
educated your eye so that you are a better judge of stock than 
your neighbors, and thus make your stock more profitable than 
theirs. Precisely in the same way can you educate and refine your 
mind. By studying the beautiful, and inquiring into the mysteries 
of nature, you will render yourself as much more tasteful than 
your still slumbering neighbors, as your stock is more improved 
than theirs ; and the gain in this kind of development is immense. 

Money at interest doubles in a fixed number of years, but the 
wealth invested in the mind often doubles in days, and each day 
opens new stores of pleasure and instruction* You are no mere 
dweller on the earth's surface, but a confidant of Nature's myste- 
ries, a growing man. 

You and I see at the railroad station a wonder-working and 
queer looking machine of enormous power ; we understand that by 
fire, and water, and iron, its marvels are wrought, but we are un- 
initiated, not at all acquainted with the life and workings of the 
machine ; its boiler and steam chest, valves, pumps, et&, are all 
" unknown terms " to us, and while we admire the engine and its 
results, we regret our ignorance of its mysteries. If some kind 
engineer explains the wonderful machine, is patient with our ignor- 
ance of principles and details, until we become fully possessed of 
its theory and construction, what a revelation seems to be made ! 
It is no longer a strange and terrible beast of burden, but an ac- 
quaintance. When it passes us, dragging its long train of cars, we 
no more feel inclined to do homage in blind reverence, but would 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 339 

salnte with the same earnest God-speed as though it were a great, 
powerful, honest fellow, bravely laboring up the hill of life with his 
load. We have learned something — principally a lesson about 
our own ignorance; — a ray of light has gleamed into a hitherto 
closed chamber of our minds, not only making us aware, with its 
pleasant light and warmth, that we have such a chamber, but show- 
ing us how empty and hung with cobwebs our mind is. We feel 
that an unexplored field of discovery is opened to us, that we may 
go on with the enthusiasm and promise of explorers ; for it is the 
privilege of learners not to stop with any one lesson, not to be de- 
pendent on any instructor, however able, not to cease when the 
' limits of present knowledge are reached, but to go on and add to 
that knowledge. 

We cut down a tree to burn, a common thing, and of no great 
consequence. What if the tree has been growing many years, 
and is the result of vast natural processes ? It is but a tree. The 
sap begins to stir beneath a spring sun ; we see the buds swell, 
the flowers and leaves expand, the fruit mature : an every-day 
thing, the natural result of the change of the seasons. Study 
the anatomy and physiology of the tree ; humble your conceit 
a little ; do not think it beneath the dignity of a man, earning 
money and carrying on a household, to be as a little child. 
Look first at the little seed, swelling with heat and moisture ; be- 
fore you are aware, noiselessly, and yet exerting a prodigious 
force, the tender little radicle, or first root, and the still more deli- 
cate plumule or first stem and leaf have burst the coats, which the 
whole mechanism of the plant was a year in forming for 
them. The rootlet goes down into the ground, and the plumule 
up into the air. Cut such a little plant into delicate slices, and 
place a bit under a magnifying glass ; you now see that it is full of 
living cells, end to end, hardly stronger than water, and seeming 
the most fragile of things. You are told this is vegetable tissue, 
the principal constituent of all vegetation. A few weeks later cut 
a section of another little plant, which has opened a few. leaves ; 
on examining the section as before, you see mixed with the cells 
small bundles of harder fibres ; these you learn are woody fibres, 
which, when compacted enough, make the solid trunks of trees. A 



340 JANUARY. 

section taken still later in the season shows its centre fall of what 
you have long known as pith, surrounded by a minute ring of cells, 
woody fibre, and cells again ; these outer cells, on examination, 
look different in shape and closer together than the inner ones ; you 
do not yet know why, and — forgetting the shame-faced unwilling- 
ness of the man to learn like a little child — you get a section of a 
plant of two years' growth, and find in it two distinct rings around 
the inner pith, and two distinct rings of outer cells, or what you 
call bark. The cells of the outer rings differ as before from the 
inner, and resemble each other, only the outer of all has its cells 
most closely bound together. A three year's old plant shows you 
three rings of woody fibre, but two of outer cells ; the two of last 
year have become one, while there is still a young bark within. 
The next spring you make a cut across the stem of one of these 
plants, and find three layers of woody fibre as before, with another 
layer almost woody, and nearly three layers of bark. In the fall 
the same plant has four layers of wood, and only two of bark ; you 
now see that what was nearly woody in the spring is quite so now, 
and what was nearly bark then is now quite bark, whilst the second 
ring of the spring is lost in last year's bark. Now you believe that 
ring of wood shows a year's growth, and you are excited to know 
more. 

Reading or investigation teaches you that in the early spring the 
sap is taken up by the roots, sent up through the woody fibres into 
the twigs, and thence into the leaves, where it is spread out to 
ripen ; and when ripened, is sent down to feed the growth of new 
twigs, and nourish the cambium layer which makes new bark and 
new wood. Farther study tells you that the wood and the new 
roots alone contribute to the life of the tree, and that so far as this 
is concerned, every ring but that of last year, might be removed 
without affecting the vitality of the tree. Thus you get insight 
into nature's operations ; you see the life of the tree, — are taken 
behind the veil. You can almost hear the trickling of the water 
in the spring to the roots, — its gurgling as the sap runs up the 
stem and down again into the wood and bark. You really believe 
now that the leaves are the lungs of the tree, and that it is of no use 
to manure your trees near the stem, but the manure must be put out 



ORCHARD AND FARMS 341 

where the new roots are forming. The tree is no longer merely a 
thing to bear fruit, give shade, or fuel ; it is an organized being, with 
the most wonderful and delicate mechanism, and as much the object 
of the bounties and cares of Providence as are animals and men. 
Insensibly you are led on to new researches ; you no longer plant 
your crops mechanically ; you think how the buds and leaves of one 
will differ from those of another ; buds, tubers, seeds, all have a 
new meaning for you. You no longer look on the rain and sun* 
ahine as sent for the crops of yourself and other men, but compre- 
hend that God kindly allows you to understand and take advantage 
of his mysteries, and that the real work of the season is done by 
the wind, the rain, the sunshine, and the organs of the plants ; that 
all your powers and efforts are weak and useless, compared to 
these ; and you begin to go about your work more reverently. 

You read how stones decay, form soils, and feed plants, and you 
wonder that rough, hard stones, can betaken up into the delicate cells 
you have seen under the microscope ; so you are led to consider the 
different stones, how some are more easily dissolved than others, and 
to wonder if these are not the ones used by plants. Inquiry shows 
that they are ; then you wonder whether the supply is equal to the 
possible future demand. You begin to read about the rocks, and are 
led on into their history, and into that of the formation of the 
earth's crust, into accounts of the kinds of stones, the way they lie 
as respects each other. Your mind is rapidly growing. When 
next you plough, you put the share in deep, to bring up more of 
these stony particles to the roots of the crops ; you hoe with some 
understanding, and it is no longer dusty, dirty work, but an aid to 
nature's laboratory process ; you are stirring the soil to break up 
stones and clods, and set free their particles, to open them to the 
dissolving power of rain and the life developing influence of the 
sun. 

Perhaps you meet some day a man with a curious stone in his 
hand ; yon look at it, and say, " Oh ! yes, shells ! " he looks at you 
with surprise, and asks if you know about them ; half ashamed, you 
say, " Well, no ; but then, I've always seen them." He tells you, 
pointing with his finger, these are shells, those ferns, those coraU ; 
he shows you a Trilobite, and explains that it was the earliest ani- 

29* 



842 * JANUARY. 

mal of its kind ever introduced into the world. He points you to 
the river bed with its bold sides, where the waters have cut their 
way through the solid rock, a hundred feet deep, two hundred wide, 
and carries you, half against your will, to the stream. You know 
well the Hemlocks and Arbor Vitaes, which fringe the bank from 
its top to the water's edge ; you have hunted and fished among 
them many a time in your boyhood ; — he lifts a layer of moss, 
and shows you the bare rock as full of shells, ferns, and corals, 
as the piece which first attracted you in his hands. With a 
few words he carries you back through the long path of ages, 
and shows you the earth as a sea, full of creeping and swim- 
ming things, that died, and were buried under sand or clay, and 
turned at last, into stone, and so have been kept imperishable till 
to-day, for you and him to study and decipher. Thus another page 
of the book of nature is opened to you, and you grow excited. He 
finds you a willing listener, and tells you how in that world of 
waters, convulsions of the globe formed dry land, on which grew 
trees of gigantic size, and of species now unknown, or only repre- 
sented by dwarfed vegetation ; how they were buried in the earth ; 
and, as they grew by absorbing sunshine, so now they are dug up 
as coal, to return in the fires of wintry climates, the condensed sun- 
beams of ages so long passed away, that the interval can hardly be 
numbered in years. He leaves you delighted, astonished, eager for 
more such knowledge. 

Now you believe that you have had a bandage over your eyes, 
that you had at best but half your eyesight, and you no longer 
answer to one who tells you of nature's wonders and beauties, that 
you can't see them, and therefore don't believe in their existence. 
Remembering how blind you were, you are cautious. Still you 
say, — openly or to yourself, — This is all true and wonderful, and a 
good thing to know, because it enables one to get his living more 
easily and understanding^ ; and besides, such knowledge does ex- 
pand the mind, and make one more of a man, and thus place nun 
higher in the esteem of his neighbors ; it is practical and useful ; 
but the time spent over beauty and art, and looking at die 
landscape, is wasted ; such employment can only be justifiable in 
men of great wealth and ample leisure. In fact you feel fortified 



OBCHABD JlND F±BM. . 343 

* 

in this position by your recent discovery of the things to be learned. 
They are so many that you want for the farther study of them every 
moment of that time, which you have discovered since you cared 
to look for it can be given even by the hard-worked farmer, 
during which you can manage to keep awake, though you once felt 
quite too weary to do any thing but sleep after supper ; and if your 
work takes up all the daylight, and your scientific studies all the 
time you can spare from sleep, what remains for this star and land- 
scape gazing, this fine idling. 

Do not think that since the bandage was taken away you have 
seen all that is to be seen. There is to be a wider range to your 
vision. You have learned to admire and love things at which you 
once sneered, have learned that they are for you as well as for the 
rich and the men of leisure, and they have lightened your toil, and 
given a new value to life. You have tasted the exquisite pleasure 
of mental growth, and should be wiser than to think yourself 
familiar with the full extent of this joy. Learn now that the 
greater ease with which you get your living, the higher stand you 
have taken in the estimation of your townsmen, since you began 
these studies, is but a small part of their value, is, indeed, merely 
an accessory of their value, which really lie in the degree of help 
they give you in carrying out the law of mental and spiritual growth. 
You have found out that the man who only does his work, eats 
his allowance, and begets his children, is but one remove above the 
brute ; and even if he does this honestly and morally, you think him 
entitled to no great credit for doing what is no more than what is his 
duty. You are rising ; but the wings have but just begun to grow, 
which shall finally lift you high enough from the earth to see what 
that word duty means. That word, among many other things, will 
groWmore full of meaning as you grow more full of understanding. 
Believe me, that as much as you have gained by becoming a pupil 
of those, at whom you once wondered or sneered, you may gain 
just as much more, and of a far higher quality, by listening to the 
lessons of beauty which Nature is ready to read to you and they to 
expound. 

This sense of the beautiful is not to be created, but only to be 
cultivated in you ; it exists in you already, and practical as you 



844 JANUARY. 

consider yourself, it has much to do with jour likings and dis- 
likings ; under another name, indeed!, but with an unmistakable 
resemblance to the feeling which moves poets and artists. 

You have in your stable two heifers ; one straight-backed, with a 
small head, fine neck, tapering limbs ; the other high in the rump, 
big-jointed, coarse-headed, clumsy limbed. One you call handsome, 
the other homely. You like to look at the one, and dislike to look 
at the other, entirely apart from their relative qualities as a matter 
of profit. One of your yokes of oxen is sprightly and well-formed, 
with small heads, small and shapely horns ; the other is awkward, 
heavy-headed, and large-limbed. Again you pronounce one yoke 
handsome ; the other you say are "monstrous fellows to work^but 
homely," and you " rather hate" to drive them yourself; you send 
a hired man or boy with them, and work the others yourself. Your 
mind insensible to beauty ? By no means. 

As you drive up to your own home, the evening sun is gilding 
the tassels of your corn, is caught like a cobweb in the branches 
of the old Elm which shades the door, gives a new charm to the 
meadow behind the barn, is full of swallows flitting to and fro , and 
you say " handsome enough for a picture." Handsome, is, perhaps, 
your only word for such things ; you know it means something 
about appearances, or, as you term it, " looks ;" and you say 'tis all 
well enough to have things look well and be handsome, if it doesn't 
cost more, and doesn't take time that belongs to other things. 

You cannot be indifferent to beauty, for the nature, which your 
Maker implanted in you to enjoy the world,- which he has made 
beautiful, because he loves the beautiful, will assert itself. And 
now assuming you to be in earnest to develope the nature he has 
given, you will look about to find how the beautiful may be culti- 
vated without interfering with the practical. 

As you feel yourself greater, and life grander, because of this 
study and insight into the natural sciences, so will you become beau- 
tiful and refined ; so will your home be calmer and holier, your 
work nobler and more elevating, from constantly cherishing and 
studying nature's beauty. And in time you will feel artistic beauty, 
for all true art rests on natural beauty, and presupposes an acquaint- 
ance with it j is great only so far as it is true to nature. 60 we 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 345 

must know nature before we can enjoy art, and then, when our en- 
joyment is at the height, we shall feel that nature is as much above 
and beyond art, as it is the manifestation of a greater artist 

I have talked to you as if you went along with me ; I have tried 
to show you how our natures may be opened and developed, and 
how our occupation more than any other, affords a wide field for 
pleasure and improvement.. We have seen that the better the in- 
fluences about a man, the better can he do his duty. I have faintly 
indicated what that duty is. If, for one year, you will follow out 
this plan, you will be so strengthened, instructed, and delighted, that 
your motto ever after will be, " Onward !" 

The farmer is like a fallow field, turned out to be benefited by 
the elements. Every thing about is favorable ; no envious walls be- 
tween him and the sun, the wind, and the rain, to shut out the ex- 
hilarating winds of winter, the delicious zephyrs of spring ; to blind 
him to the rich colors with which the world is painted ; to dull his 
eye to the variety, grace, symmetry, grandeur of the forms of crea- 
tion ; — and yet he obstinately refuses to look upon the earth as 
any thing but a workshop, where, with difficulty and much toil, he 
may earn a meagre support. Talk to him of knowledge, science, 
beauty he shakes his heavy head and says : " Get up at sunrise and 
go to bed at sunset, — no time for that." He will open his shell 
like an oyster, to eat and drink, but attempt to show him how much 
more there is in life, and he shuts it up tight again. 

Farmers are discontented, when they have every thing to make 
them contented. Remember that the purpose of your lives is to 
develop your mental and moral natures, whilst you get your living, 
and that this is your duty, as it is the duty of all men ; that for the 
secondary object of getting a living, your chance is as good or better, 
than the average ; while for the primary objects of life, your 
chances are far the best, if you will seize and improve the opportu- 
nities held out to you. God and Nature are your next neighbors. 
You can grow food and clothes, and cultivate your mind, and fit 
yourself for the real life to come, without the help of those men 
and neighbors engaged in other pursuits, while they are dependent 
on each other and on you. If you choose, you can have the pleas- 
antest homes, the most beautiful farms, the best schools, the bright- 



846 JANUARY, 

eat children, the purest morals, the most satisfactory lives ; and, 
striking the average of the years, your drawbacks and discomforts 
are mere trifles not worthy of notice. 

Assuming that you purpose to be " improved " farmers, I will 
next show how such farmers get larger and better crops than their 
ignorant and prejudiced neighbors. 



CHAPTER XLIL 



GREENHOUSE. 



BRUAEY. I shall not weary you with a 
repetition of former directions, for now that 
winter has come with all its rigor, there 
needs nothing but care and watchfulness. 
During clear days, the sun will heat the 
house immoderately, unless ventilation is con- 
stantly maintained, and this, too, when the cold 
winds have kept the thermometer at zero out- 
of-doors for many days. Remember that you must keep your 
plants growing and healthy, and allow no check or chill, but must 
not, on account of excessive cold without, overheat within ; at 
night allow the thermometer to go to the lowest limit hitherto given 
for the different species of plants now in active growth, and on 
cloudy days raise the temperature but little over the night heat 
Such treatment will make the plants stocky and vigorous, and in- 
sure a rich reward at flowering time. 

Remember that now all the bulbs are to be brought near the glass 
for direct light, and that sunlight is good for every plant. Fans of 
seed should be sowed, and cuttings made, and the pans set where 
they will get bottom heat. As the bulbs grow, and show indica- 
tions of flower stems, give more water. Some of them which you 
know blossom in their native lands, in swamps, or during the rainy 
season, should stand in saucers filled with water. 

Japan Lilies, Ache mines, Gloxinias, Fuchsias, Cinerarias, Steph- 
anotus, Alamandia, Pansies, Dielytra, Roses, Verbenas should be re- 
potted ; Monthly Carnations, which have outgrown their pots need 
larger. Azaleas as they grow, may receive more water; early 
Pelargoniums should receive a final shift, and be pruned well to 
make them stocky. 



848 FEBRUARY. 

I have, as may be seen by turning back, given the treatment 
proper for all the cuttings, seedlings, etc., which you need make for 
several months, and to these directions you should now refer. Be- 
sides this, read all books upon the treatment of different families, 
to which you have access, and thoroughly acquaint yourself with 
their natural history and habits. By so doing you will not only be- 
come a more successful cultivator, but will acquire a large and en- 
tertaining stock of information. 

I spoke last month, of commencing hotbeds as a work to be under- 
taken about this time, and will now give directions for making them. 

Hotbeds. — They are of many kinds, and heated in various ways. 
Where not a large surface is to be covered with them, the easiest 
plan is to use rank manure, which, by its fermentation, gives out a 
large amount of heat As this is the oldest and cheapest method, 
I have no doubt it will continue to be generally practised, to the ex- 
clusion of all other methods, but, as I shall show, it is not the best 

Market gardeners, who depend upon the earliest crops to obtain 
the largest prices, will have begun their new hotbeds in January, and 
will have carried some through December ; but this would be a very 
foolish course for us. Had we been very desirous of early salads, 
we could have grown a few in some of our glass houses; to go to all 
the trouble of hotbed culture for them, would not be good econ- 
omy. It needs the greatest care and judgment to carry hotbeds 
well through such a month as February, when the thermometer is 
sometimes at zero for days together, and when the seedling plants 
from beds prepared in January, are just in the state to be quite de- 
stroyed by a moment's carelessness. I therefore, recommend you 
to prepare your hotbeds during the last of this month, and have 
them ready for planting early in March. We have two months of 
virtual winter after this, and but little outside culture can be under- 
taken before the first of May. 

Hotbeds are usually made of about the following proportions, 
the length of the range varying to suit the kind of plants you pro- 
pose to grow, or the amount of glass you use ; the bed should be 5 
feet wide, and be divided into lights or frames 3 feet wide ; the 
sides of the frames are to be of l£ or 2 inch plank, as high again 



GREENHOUSE. 349 

above the surface behind as in front. Dig a trench 6 inches larger 
every way, than the inside of the frame, and 1 foot deep ; spike 
the planks firmly to 2 x 4 joists, which are to be cut as long as the 
entire depth of the frame, which depends on the plants to be forced 
in it; Cucumbers, Salads, Flower-seeds, needing only shallow 
frames, whilst Asparagus, Tomatoes, and similar tall plants, need 
something deeper. For the former class of plants, the frame should 
be 18 inches to 2 feet in the back, and 9 inches to 1 foot in front ; 
larger plants need 3 feet in the back) and 18 inches in front But 
where it is necessary to use the same frame for all kinds of plants, 
another expedient may be resorted to ; make a frame of the ordi- 
nary size, and another which will just fit on to the first, covering it 
exactly ; it may be held in place by bolts or bands. When the 
plants have grown so as to fill the first frame, take off the sashes, 
and, placing the second over the first, put the sashes on the upper 
frame ; thus you will get all the additional depth desired. 

The front plank should be £ inch lower than the outside of the 
frame, to allow the sashes to slide ; and the end planks should be 
rebated from 1 to l£ inches, to leave a place for the same purpose ; 
mortise into the top and bottom sash, 3 feet from each end of a 9 feet 
frame, crossbars, 3 inches wide, and 3 inches thick, into which, on 
each side, a groove or rebate has been made, corresponding to the 
groove in the end plank, into which the sash is to slide ; over every 
joint, where planks, etc, come together, nail, or screw strips to ex- 
clude any air that might otherwise creep in. This done, prepare 
the sash, which is to be made like the sash of a greenhouse, — 3 
lights wide for a sash 3 feet wide. The glass is not set as in a 
window, where each light starts from, and ends in, a properly pre- 
pared piece of wood ; the Fash is divided into 3 equal parts, which 
are separated from each other by two transverse bars, grooved like 
an ordinary sash, to receive the glass ; the lower pane of glass is 
put in first, the next laps over it, like a shingle, £ inch, the next 
over that When the glass is firstrate, it is not necessary to lay 
any putty between the panes at these joints, but with ordinary glass, 
the joints will not be tight, and must be filled in with putty. Of 
course, glass thus laid, sheds rain like the roof of a house. 

The frame and sashes ready, begin to make the hotbed. My 

30 



350 FEBRUARY. 

directions were to. dig a trench 6 inches larger in every direction 
than the frame, and 1 foot deep, which will cany the bed 1 foot 
into the ground. Some cultivators prefer to have the whole above 
the surface, because they think it then easier to regulate the heat. 
Ours, however, is sunk 1 foot. 

Drive down at the four corners 3x4 joists, and spike to their 
outer sides 2 inch plank, as for the cold pit ; this framework is to 
be brought up nearly flush with the top of the ground, and to be 
just the size of the frame previously made. Set the frame on to 
the foundation, where it may be kept in place either by screwing 
down a few cross strips, or by its own weight Now fill into the 
bed 2 feet deep of strong manure, unfermented; — a mixture of 
litter soaked in the urine of cattle and horse droppings ; — lay this 
in, shaking it well and beating it with the fork, but not treading it ; 
fill the bed 3 to 6 inches higher than it is to stand, — it will settle 
that much in the course of a week or two, — and pack it in higher 
behind than in front, so that the top of the finished bed will .have 
the same slope, as the sash. Lay over the manure 3 to 6 inches 
of the best light loam to be had, which should be taken from one 
of the heaps made for this purpose last year from lime, leaves, and 
sods. Such heaps should be covered up all winter to prevent their 
freezing solid ; a slight freezing is beneficial, as it kills the eggs 
and larvae of insects and the seeds of many weeds, but it is better 
not to let it freeze at all, than to have it solid and unmanageable. 

Your bed is now ready for the sashes. When they are in place, 
surround the bed as high as the sashes with seaweed, leaves, or 
coarse litter; this is called a lining. Later, as the lieat of the 
fermenting manure reduces in intensity, this lining must be re- 
placed with strong manure to keep up the proper temperature. 
In a few days the manure will begin to ferment, and will give out 
an immense amount of hot, ammoniacal gas and steam ; so hot 
often as to burn the vitality out of the loam above the manure, 
and totally destroy the tender roots of young plants. To avoid 
this it is well to sow the seeds in small pots, which are plunged 
into the earth up to their rims ; as the heat grows more intense, 
these may be withdrawn a little every day, just enough to save 
them from being burned ; as the heat moderates,* allow them to 



GRBKNHOUSSU 



351 



settle back into the earth. At the same time sow in the mould 
the seeds of such plants as you intend to cultivate. 

It is always quite easy to ascertain proximately the heat of the 
beds by thrusting down pointed sticks into the manure, and after a 
short time withdrawing them; the degree of heat which their 
points indicate to the touch, will show how safe it is to sow seeds. 
It is a good plan to have two beds, the second rather larger and 
deeper than the first, and made later ; into the second may be 
transplanted, or, as it is technically termed, " pricked out,' 9 the seed- 
ling plants which have been started in the first bed. If there then 
is but one bed, the seeds which have germinated in the pans are to 
be pricked out into it 

Should the heat threaten to be too great, thrust large, round 
stakes down to the very bottom of the bed, and then withdraw 
them ; the holes left will act like smoke-jacks, and will carry off 
into the upper air of the bed considerable of the heat, which may 
be discharged into the open air by raising the sashes. The heat 
will soon abate, and this, too, at a time when perhaps it is most 
wanted, when the outer air is intensely cold, while within the 
frame the young plants are just expanding their second leaves. 
Until several leaves are open you must keep the heat well up, and 
ventilate constantly, but moderately ; afterwards more air may be 
admitted, and pains be taken to harden the plants as much as 
possible. It is important in the hotbed as in the greenhouse to 
prevent the direct access of decidedly cold air to the tender foliage. 
To admit air within a frame to which the sashes are not confined 
by strips of wood, you raise the sash at the back ; but when this is 
done, cold air would rush in and cool the frame too rapidly ; so 
nail blocks of wood to the back of the frame A, at b, also screw or 

nail a ratchet, pierced with 
holes, c, to one side of the 
frame ; nail to the top of the 
sash ajt the back an old mat, 
e, which may hang down 
over the opening into the 
frame, and being kept by the 
block b, from clinging to it, 




352 



FEBRUARY. 



I 



and thus shutting out air, will temper and retard the current as it 
enters, and thus give it time to mix with the warm air within, and 
lose its dangerous qualities. The sash is kept up by thrusting 
through one of the holes in the ratchet an iron pin, which will pass 
under the sash and give it sufficient support When more air is 
wanted than can be supplied by the opening allowed by the ratchet, 
slide the sash down the frame or remove it entirely. 

The strong manure which I have said should be substituted for 
the " lining " of leaves, as the manure ceases to ferment and fur- 
nish sufficient heat, is to be thatched on its outside, or be covered 
with boards to keep the heat from escaping into the air or being 
reduced by rain and snow. 

When Cucumbers or Melons are to be forced in such beds, it is 
usual to start them on bits of sod laid into the loam, grass side 
down ; if they are afterwards to be grown in the open air, these 
sods are removed thither as soon as the plants are well grown 
and the external temperature permits; but if they are to be forced 
in beds they are removed as soon as they begin to run, to a fresh 
hotbed, where to prevent injury from heat, they are at first planted 
on mounds of earth (see cut) ; the earth is filled in level with the 
mounds as soon as the heat abates. On these mounds, the vines 

are set as in the figure, the 
top of the mound being within 
4 or 6 inches of the glass. 
The vines do not increase 
much vertically, but they run, 
land as their growth is the bet- 
ter the nearer they are to the 
glass, they should be properly placed at starting. 

The second story which is added to the bed when the second 
frame, already described, is put on, gives room enough for Toma- 
toes and other tall plants. 

Asparagus may be forced in frames so as to.be very early. 
The manure pit is to be made 3 feet deep, and at least 6 inches of 
earth laid over it ; into the earth set the roots, covering the crowns 
2 inches. The plants should be from 1 to 3 years old, and should 
be set as follows : at one end make a small ridge of earth, 4 inches 




i 



GREENHOUSE. 853 

t 

high ; along it set the plants as close as possible without crowding 
top and roots ; cover the roots with a little earth, and set the next 
row, and thus continue till the bed is full ; then cover the crowns 
with 2 inches of rich loam. After the sashes are put on, examine 
the manure daily, as directed to ascertain its heat; overheating^ 
the beginning of forcing will kill the roots. For cooling the ma- 
nure, proceed as already described. Be very careful in cutting 
the shoots not to injure the crown or the roots, either of the plant 
you cut, or of its neighbors. No culture is easier or more satisfac- 
tory than this. When Asparagus is to be winter forced, the roots 
should be moved in the fall, to dry sand in the cellar, where they 
may be kept dormant till you wish to use them. 

This, then, is the common and the cheapest way of heating beds, 
but as you see it is very uncertain, and not only needs constant 
care, but may at any time result in disappointment 

From the temporary character of the frames, and the necessity 
of having the manure all below the bed, whence it can be removed 
only when the bed is abandoned for the season, it is obvious that 
when once it has ceased to give oift heat, its uses are over, except as 
food for the roots of plants. Again, the " linings " are outside and 
above the surface, consequently, even when they are well covered, 
much of their heat must be wasted by escaping into the air. Finally, 
the heat when obtained, cannot be well controlled, bat is now so 
much too great as to endanger the plants ; and presently so slight 
that tender plants are liable to damp off. , • 

No better heating material foitemporary uses can be found, as for 
instance in making a bed in which to strike cuttings or germinate 
seeds, which need bottom heat in moderate weather, and which, when 
once they have fairly begun to grow, need no more extra heat, but 
are to be potted or transplanted to the open border. 

The temporary character of the bed and the exposure of the lin- 
ing may be obviated by pits made with vaulted brick bottoms, 
which can be more or less heated by linings external to the frames ^~S 
but under the surface of the ground. A frame made after the man- 
ner of the Cold Conservative Pit answers well for this purpose, if 

we add a dungbed in which to get immediate heat, and where seeds, 

30* 



1 







vV 



854 febSuabt. 

etc., may be planted. The pit shown in the cut is que of the very 

beat if manure is to be the 

means of generating heat 

A is the interior of the pit, 

| and the space between,/,/, 

holds the loam for cultural 

| purposes. The pit A is 5 

feet in breadth; allow 16 

inches for side walls = 6 feet 4 inches, add to this 2 feet for the 

space h, which holds the manure = 8 feet 4 inches, and 9 inches 

brick walls. The whole space will be 9 feet 10 inches wide. Dig 

this whole space 3 feet deep ; build -. the walls c, 9 inches thick ; 

and the front wall 3 feet 6 inches high ; back wall 5 feet high. 

Mark off 2 feet inside each wall, and carry up on brick piers the 

walls d, 8 inches thick, on piers 2 feet apart. The full height of 

the back wall is 6 feet 6 inches; of this 3 feet 6 inches, is open, 

and supported on brick piers ; the front wall is 5 feet high, of which 

2 feet is solid. 

The space E is now enclosed on each side by a row of iron 
or stone posts which support the bottom, e, of the pit. From t, 
and resting on these piers, carry up on each side 2\ inch brick 
wails,/,/, to a convenient height ; at the top of these walls carry 
over tiles to cover the space between / and d ; this will leave a 
hot-air chamber between d d, and the piers which support d ; cover 
• the top of these piers with tiles, slabs, or planks, which will make 
the floor e ; on top of the walls S, lay the sashes as for a wooden 
frame ; cover the tops of the openings h, h, in each side of the pit 
between c and d with a lid fastened into the walls d. This space A is 
to be filled with closely packed fresh manure, shown in the cut; 
there will always be an air-space between d and/ and under the floor 
e, through B ; and through these air-spaces there will be a constant 
circulation of air, and the bed may be kept as warm as you please- 
Whenever the heat is too little, a part or the whole of the lining 
may be withdrawn, and its place supplied with fresh. Being under 
ground, covered with a substantial cover, and enclosed by brick 
walls, there can be little or no loss of heat. 



GREENHOUSE. 355 

4ft 

l"he floor, e, of the pit may slant like the sash, or be level, 
though the top of the earth when filled in must slant like the 
sash. 

This pit, which is taken from the " Book of the Garden," and 
Loudon's Enclycopaedia of Gardening, is undoubtedly the best for 
manure heat, but is sometimes objected to as taking a very large 
amount of manure, and not giving so quick heat as the common 
bed ; but this is more than equalized* by the facility with w.hich 
linings may be removed and added, and by the complete protection 
of the plants from any danger of being burned. Should the loca- 
tion of the bed be at all wet, underdrain with tiles. It will add to 
the permanent efficiency of this frame to line the inside with rough 
mortar. 

• 

Hotbeds Heated by Water or Steam.*— It is strange that 
the best cultivators should continue using even these improved 
dung pits, which, at the best, are troublesome and expensive, and 
uncertain in their heat, when they have at hand heating apparatus 
vastly better for the purpose. The second step in'heating horticul- 
tural buildings was the use of hot air ; a furnace being placed in 
one end of a building, the chimney at the other ; the two were con- 
nected by a flue, which carried the fire and smoke, and of course 
grew hot, and gave out a great deal of heat. This was, for a long 
time, the only way of heating large glass-houses, and even now a 
slight improvement on it, known as the Polomaise, is much advo- 
cated and used. Such apparatus is better than to rely on heat 
from dung and sun, but it is not the best, and there are grave ob- 
jections to it ; the bursting of flues, dryness of air, and what is 
more important, the constant leakage of gas through the chinks 
into the house ; almost all gases from fire are injurious to 
plants, and those from the burning of coal are particularly hurt- 
ful. 

Seeing that apart from its disadvantages it was difficult to apply 
this cumbersome apparatus to hotbeds, cultivators naturally preferred 
for them the old manure plan, for which they moreover claimed the 
advantage of supplying ammoniacal gases. 

Unquestionably these gases are good for plants, but it is not 



c ;> 



.% 



356 FEBRUARY. 

necessary to resort to unsightly manure-pits to get them. Pans of 
dissolved guano, of sulphate of ammonia, or of urine, set in hot- 
beds, or on the flues of greenhouses, will give all that is needed of 
such gas. And this can be done with the later invented and vastly 
superior apparatus for water and steam, where the pipes occupy 
but little room, rarely get out of order,, and of course can discharge 
no noxious gases into the house. The wonder is that any other 
apparatus has been used, fcince they appeared, for although their 
first cost is greater, their greater durability makes up the difference, 
and they do the work much better. Pits heated by water or steam, 
or by both together, are so much simpler to manage, and so much 
more efficient than those just described, as to scarcely admit of 
comparison. The air from these pipes is never so dry and burned 
as that from hot-air furnaces, and by a further improvement (tanks 
or troughs) all dryness is removed and much warmed moisture 
thrown into the air of the house. 

I have several times, in the different months, given directions for 
setting pans of water — pure or otherwise — upon the hot-air flues 
to evaporate, and both warm /md moisten the air. This leads at 
once to the idea of making tanks of heated water do all the heating 
tor a house by their evaporation. On a large scale they would 
giye off a great deal of moisture, sometimes too much. We may 
regulate this by reducing the number of tanks, and supplying the 
place of those removed by hot pipes carrying air, steam, or water : 
thus a, a, a, are such pipes carried through gutters or troughs of 
water. These gutters may vary in breadth and depth as we please, 





a 



and thus we may have entire control both of the heat and the 
moisture. 

I now propose to give a plan of a hotbed, to be warmed with 
water, and unquestionably superior to any hot-air or dung-heated 
bed ever used. The range may be as long as you please. The 
bed is figured in Mcintosh's " Book of the Garden," p. 442, whence 
I also take the description. It combines in the best way top and 



GREENHOUSE. 




bottom heat, with the 
humidity requisite for 
such structures. 

" Fig. A is a section 
of the pit supposed to 
be built entirely above 
the ground level; the 
walls are hollow, and 
built of brick on edge, 
to economize material." 

As this pit is planned for England, where the weather is milder 
than here, it will be well for us to build thicker walls, by setting 
the bricks flat n 

" Fig. B is the ground- 
plan, a b marking the sec- 
tional line. The details 
are as follows : Under each 
rafter is carried up hollow 
pillars e, c, e, c, projecting 
only four inches within the 
pil, and having no commu- 
nication with the general 
cavities in the side walls. 
In these a cavity is left at • 
the top and bottom ; along 
the centre of the pit a 
flue of brick in bed d is 
carried 2 feet wide, and 1 J in depth, with openings in its bottom, 
«, corresponding with those in the pillars along the front of [he 
pit, and also with those in the back ; the openings in the latter 
being just below the levels of the tops of those in front. These 
openings are all to be connected by fines or tile-drains ; the hot- 
water pipes are to be laid along the centre, as shown in the plan 
and section, but somewhat elevated above the floor on which they 
are placed, and covered over about 9 inches above their upper sur- 
face, with slate slabs, three-fourths of an inch thick. The commu- 
nicating openings between the flue in which the pipes are laid and 



1 



358 FEBRUARY. 

the hollow pillars of the back wall, should be 3 inches below the 
top of the said flue, to act as chambers to retain heated air. The 
boiler is to be placed at one end of the pit, unless the pit is so sit- 
uated as to be heated from a boiler adjoining ; the space J] be- 
tween the hot-water pipe flue and the back wall, are to be made 
solid with earth and rubbish, so as to form a good foundation for 
the connecting openings or flues to be laid on top of them." 

"In this climate, and to economize heat, it would be better, in- 
stead of filling this space with rubbish for a foundation, to carry 
through it, in solid brick-work, the chimney flue from the boiler ; 
the smoke, etc., would heat it thoroughly, and go far toward warm- 
ing the pit in an economical manner." 

u The space between this flue and the front wall should be filled 
with hard, dry, open materials. 

" In fitting this pit for the reception of plants, the space between 
the hot-water pipe flue, and the front wall of the pit, as well as the 
whole surface over the flue, should be covered, as shown in the sec- 
tion, with stones, brickbats, or coarse gravel, to the depth of not less 
than 12 inches. 

" Over this, if for Melons and Cucumbers, is to be placed a layer 
of turf, with the green side undermost, and over it the necessary 
compost, h. If the pit is intended for Fines, or other plants in 
pots, then gravel or coal ashes may be substituted." 

"By this arrangement three things are attained, bottom heat, top 
heat, with an atmosphere constantly moist, and finally a constant 
circulation of ^air. Unless I am much mistaken, supposing the pit 
to be 6 feet wide and 3 feet high at back, and V S ff in front, above 
the mould, the whole atmosphere of such a pit would pass through 
the flue once in every two minutes, when the apparatus was in full 
work, thus producing a constant and vigorous circulation ; farther, 
if it be desirable to change a portion of the air continually, small 
apertures to the outward air may be made in the front descendingr 
flues ; a small portion of fresh air will then pour in continually, 
mingling with the descending air, and ascending heated into the 
pit, supplying the place of that which will escape through unputtied 
laps and other crevices." 

"The internal areas of the pilaster-flues should not be less than 



GREENHOUSE. 859 

6 inches square, which they may be according to the proposed plan ; 
and the cross-flues and apertures into the pit must have the same 
area. If it be found that, with this area, or apertures, the heat 
produced by the pipes is brought up too rapidly, not having sufficient 
bottom heat, and overheating the top, these apertures may be 
diminished. If they be too small, an inequality will arise between 
the temperature of the back and front of the pit, caused by an ex- 
cessive difference between the ascending and descending air ; the 
total heat brought up will be the same ; for as the heat increases 
the velocity with which the air will ascend will increase also. But 
if an aperture of the size above recommended be employed, there 
will not be two degrees difference between the front and back of 
the pit In order the better to disperse the ascending currents, it 
may be well that the aperture, instead of opening directly into the 
pit, should have a semi-cylindrical draining-tile, placed in front of 
it, to throw its draught right and left. But this is an unnecessary 
refinement; a pair of 4 inch pipes will be found sufficient for 
Cucumbers, Melons, or Fines, in a 6 feet pit" 

You remember that these two pipes are to be laid in a chamber 
just above the floor ; the only drawback to the perfect action of 
this arrangement is, that the air is liable to lack the great moisture 
needed in a pit ; by enclosing a portion or the whole of the pipes 
in gutters or troughs, as previously shown, to be kept full of water, 
moisture will be supplied in abundance. These troughs may con- 
nect directly with the pipes, and thus ensure their being constantly 
full. 

" Should the temperature afforded by 2 four-inch pipes be insuffi- 
cient, 4 may be used, but if a nozzle-pipe were attached to the 
boiler, and the entire flue in which the pipes are enclosed were 
made water-tight, and used for a tank, an ample supply of both 
heat and moisture would be afforded/' 

There are some apparent but unreal objections made to this plan 
by Mcintosh, and afterwards refuted by himself, which I shall not 
quote, but shall leave it with his further endorsement ; viz., that 
experience has proved this to be a very superior pit 

* " Pits might to a very considerable extent be heated on the tank 

* " Book of Gaiden," p. 450. 



860 



FEBRUARY. 




system, at little expense, if arranged as shown in the cut Figs. 
A and B are ground plans and sections of such a set of pits ; they 
show how a large range of pits may be heated by a single fire in 
a very economical manner. The ground plan is intended to rep- 
resent four distinct pits, each 50 feet in length, and 6 feet wide in 

the clear; the boiler is 
to be placed in the mid- 
dle (dotted lines), at 6, 
or as better seen in sec- 
tion B, with the stoke 
hole under the level of 
the walk or passage be- 
tween them; the floors 
are to be rendered per- 
fectly level and firm with 
a coating of concrete, 
and afterwards covered 
with cement over their 
whole breadth, as are 
also the side walls to the 
height of 6 or 7 inches. 
Down the middle of each 
• tank under each pit, let 

a line of bricks, set on edge, be placed, leaving the ones nearest 
the extreme ends out ; this will give a flow and return current, the 
line of bricks forming the outer edge of each tank being kept 3 
inches clear of the side walls, to prevent the loss of heat by ab- 
sorption or otherwise ; over the tanks thus formed, thick slate or 
thin pavement is to be laid, and closely joined with cement, ex- 
tending from back to front of pit. Apertures at every 5 or 6 feet 
may be cut in them, to which iron or earthenware tubes may be 
attached of 4 inches diameter, and furnished with stoppers, to ba 
taken out for the admission of moist heated air into the atmosphere 
of the pit, and replaced v/hen that is not required. Cut C, a, tank ; 
b, pit ; c c c y tubes of iron leading from tank to top of earth in pit, 
and open air ; these tube's would not only moisten and warm the air 




GRKENHOUSK. 



when opened, but would radiate heat into the earth around them at 
alt times. 



■&,■* 




" Similar provision should be made over the apertures a, be- 
tween the outer edges of the tank and the side walls, to allow the 
heated air in them free access to the pit, and as the air from such 
openings is not over moist, the apertures may be left uncovered. 
The back walls may be 3^ feet high above the ground line, that is, 
allowing 8 inches for depth of water and top covering, and 3 feet 
10 inches from top of covering (of tank) to the glass. 

" The front wall above the ground line should be 2 feet 6 inches 
high. Circumstances will always direct this, as the height of pits 
must be suited to the purposes for which they are intended. The 
boiler will supply all or part (of the tanks), as may be required, 
and this can be regulated by stop cocks placed in the pipes which 
connect the boiler with the tanks, and these again can be subdivided 
by sluices, as in the adjoining cut 

" By this means we should 
have 1200 feet of surface 
heated by one fire, and for 
the purpose of growing young 
plants in pots, forcing French 
Beans, Strawberries, Aspara- 
gus, Salads, etc., such pits , 
would be invaluable. The f 
• walls should be 9 inches thick 
for durability, aud also to re- 
tain heat and exclude cold, 
and if they are built hollow ' 
n much the better, and the 



362 



FEBRUARY 



sashes of the best Yellow Pine timber ; the glazing should be with 
6 x 10 crown glass ; to use larger glass in such structures would 
be unnecessary. The roof may be on the ridge and furrow prin- 
ciple without much difference in the cost ; the range should extend 
from east to west, so as to present the frontage nearly to the me- 
ridian. To heat the greatest possible space at the least possible 
expenditure of fuel and cost of erection, we think this the best of 
all methods." 

X is a house for Strawberries, heated 
by hot-water or steam pipes ; in the spring 
and latter part of the year for Tomatoes, 
Melons, etc., which are grown in pots ; the 
pots are set on shelves, which are sus- 
pended by wires to the rafters, and may 
upon occasion be unhooked and entirely 
removed. 

Y represents another pit, heated by both 
hot-water pipes, a, and tanks, d 

There were many difficulties in growing 
Melons by hot water or air, from the diffi- 
culty of imparting that amount of moisture 
to the roots so grateful to Melons. You will see by the annexed 
plan that there are valves (shown by the dotted lines) just above 
the water pipes, and the mois- 
ture may escape and ascend 
to the outside air. The tanks 
are covered as usual with 
slate slabs, over these is laid 
rubble, and over that loam 
for the plants. Small pipes 
or tubes go through this loam 
to the rubble. When it is desirable to moisten the roots of the . 
plants, water is poured into the pipes, and is thus diffused through 
the rubble and spread over the warm surface of the slates, where 
it is converted into vapor, and thence ascends into the earth of 
the pit ; as the fruit arrives at maturity, this moisture can be with- 
held, and the fruit thus attain perfection; 








GREENHOUSE 863 

We have thus followed all the improvements in hotbeds ; and I 
think it must be clear to every reader that he, who has any large 
surface covered with hotbeds, can hardly afford to heat them by 
the rude and unmanageable dungbed, when it is so very easy to 
heat to any desired degree, in a clean and neat manner, by the use 
of steam and hot water. 

Roofs. — I have not given any explanation of the method by 
which steam and hot water are made to circulate, so as to diffuse 
heat throughout and over a large surface ; nor have I referred to 
the great difference between hot air, hot water, and steam. Before 
doing this I will say something about the glass roofs of hotbeds and 
similar . structures. Thus far we have supposed ourselves to be 
using the ordinary flat sashes for hotbeds and for houses either 
flat or curvilinear sashes. 

There is another kind of glass roof which on the large scale is in 
all respects superior to any other kind of sash, the ridge-and-furrow 
roof. This is, as you will see, built according to the best prin- 
ciples of construction is applicable to both large and small sur- 
faces. I should, however, prefer it only on the large scale, or for 
hotbeds, as I think the other roofs about as efficient in this coun- 
try and rather easier to manage ; but to cover a large surface, the 
ridge-and-furrow is best 

The original principle of all steep roofs is that embodied in the 
child's card-house, — mutual support by leaning. But A 

as the material used for roofs is very heavy, another / \ 
problem, beside that of sustaining them at the ridge Jf , \ 
and holding them up at the eaves, must be calculated. / ♦ \ 
The mere support at the eaves may be got by setting posts under, 
as in the cut, but these posts only hold up the per- 
pendicular weights over them, which is more or 
less, according to the pitch of the roof; the sharper 
the pitch, the more the weight is brought over the 
supporting posts ; the flatter, the less over the posts ; 
and in all cases the weight not carried down to the 
perpendicular posts, tends to fall in the direction of the slant of the 
roof. This is called, technically, the thrust of the roo£ and if not 





364 FEBRUARY. 

prevented, this weight or thrust would press the tops of the sup- 
porting posts apart, till the ridge fell in (see cut). To hold the 

posts together against the thrust, beams were 
carried across from .the top of one to the other, 
and to these the roof was securely attached ; so 
that whatever weight was not carried directly to 
the perpendiculars might be so tightly hold to 
these cross beams or " plates," as to be indirectly carried to the 
perpendiculars. Of course this expedient is useless in very wide 
buildings, for there no cross or tie beams can be long enough to 
hold the posts together. In building with opaque walls, this diffi- 
culty is easily overcome by the introduction of inside walls, floors, 
rooms, etc, and in churches and other large structures, by various 
contrivances of timber and masonry. But these, though well 
enough where the roof is valuable only as a protection, are impossi- 
ble when light and heat are to be admitted through the roof. 

Thus a limit was set to the size of glass-houses ; their number 
might be increased indefinitely, but beyond a certain limit their 
size could be increased only in the vertical direction, and in that 
case the difficulty of heating set a new bound. By the device of 
ridge-and-furrow roofs this difficulty was removed, and the means 
of the proprietor are now the only limit to superficial extension ; 
and with all your plants under one roof, you may get much more 
pleasure and profit from the same expenditure than when they are 
divided between several houses. 

This roof is simply the combination of several common pitched 
roofs, which, but for the introduction of iron as a building material 
could not have been done successfully and economically ; for were 
these many parts connected by timbers, the inside would be dark 
and obstructed. 

On the ends of an iron rod 8, cut B, of the proper thickness, and 
about two-thirds the length of the distance between the posts a, a, 
screws are made ; other rods c c,e e,dd, of proper length and thick- 
ness have screws on their ends, which enter into clasps made for the 
purpose, where either two are screwed up at once, or each has Us 
own nut, and is screwed separately ; 3 rods like c, b, c, which tie 
the posts together, are tightened by a screw of this character. See 



GREENHOUSE. 



365 



C. b 9 by are the hollow ends of a clasp screw, or nut on a large 





scale, the ends b, b, are chambered, and have a female screw turned 
on their inside, into which the ends a, a, of the rods are entered. 
These ends have a screw made on them which will screw into the 



I 



wwmm 



mwm 



ends b, b ; the space between a, a (the ends of the rods), is open ; 
into this space a hand spike is entered, and by turning this, the whole 
clasp turns, screwing on to the two rods at its opposite ends, and of 
course drawing the two rods toward each other. This is a very 

31* 



366 FEBRUARY. 

powerful apparatus, and enables the rods a, a, to be tightened at 
will. Into the aperture between b and b the other rods may be 
brought and tightened by nuts on their lower ends. 

This is the principle followed in putting up a ridge-and-furrow 
roof. The methods, the screws, clasps, etc., differ according to the 
building and the architect. Thus we may extend our roofe as much 
as we please, and yet bind them together tightly, cheaply, and even 
ornamentally. But at the same time, we seem to run into a new 
difficulty, arising from the great quantity of water shed from these 
many roofs, into their valleys, where there is no inclination to send 
it off; there it would accumulate till its weight endangered the 
whole house. This difficulty however, is met by making the col- 
umns, that support the roofs along the ends, and through the length 
of the building, of hollow iron, and thereby economizing material, 
without losing strength, and, at the same time, providing gutters by 
which the water runs off from the valleys. A drain under the 
bases of the columns, collects and carries off the water, either to 
waste, or to a cistern, from which the water for the boilers, and the 
other uses of the greenhouse is supplied. 

Houses with this roof, have the further advantages of requiring 
a less proportional amount of heat, of securing more light and 
heat from the sun, and of resisting hail better than houses of the 
same area, with an ordinary roof. 

They can be thoroughly heated at a much less cost than a build- 
ing of smaller area, which is higher in the centre, for as you increase 
the height of a room, you increase the difficulty of maintaining a 
proper temperature at the bottom, without over-heating the top ; in 
other words, the waste of heat- is in proportion to the height of roof, 
not to the area covered, 

They secure more light and heat by having the same advantage 
over an ordinary roof, where there is but one angle of inclination, 
which I some time ago showed is a recommendation of the curvi- 
linear roof; viz., that of presenting some surface at right angles to 
the sun's rays, in whatever position he is in the heavens, and thus 
admitting those rays, which, like the vertical rays of midsummer, 
bring most heat with them. And, securing as these roofs do, the 



GREENHOUSE. 367 

advantages of the curvilinear, they are more easily built, because 
the choice of material is not limited as in the curvilinear, to that 
which is pliable, and can be bent to the proper curve. 

They resist hail better, because they make its blow glancing in- 
stead of square, for they receive it at an acute instead of an obtuse 
or a right angle, in which position they would have much less power 
of resistance. 

Accumulations of snow are borne up by the strongest part of the 
roof. And if the principle be applied to an ordinary span-roof, as 
shown in the cut, or even to a lean-to house, the roof will rather 
facilitate, than obstruct the discharge of snow and rain, an important 




consideration in our climate. The cost of making span or lean-to 
houses in this way, will be greater, but they would gain in every 
other respect 

When a ridge-and-furrow is to be used horiaontally, the valley 
posts, and consequently the valleys, should be 20 feet apart ; but 
when applied to an ordinary house, this distance is to be determined 
by the angle which we wish the sashes to present The width should 
be much greater than that of the ordinary sash ; about that made 
by leaning two ordinary sashes against each other at a good angle. 

I have described these houses minutely, because, although they 
are much admired and frequently built abroad, they are rarely seen 
here. Their greatest value seems to lie in the ease with which they 



368 FEBRUARY. 

allow large surfaces to be covered, and the reduced cost as compared 
with any previous plan to effect the same thing. 

Any small garden might be wholly covered in in this way, and, by 
a little more expense and variety in the roofing, the effect would 
be made more picturesque, and the facility in removing snow in- 
creased. Such a garden would be a real winter-garden. Parterres 
of flowers, small trees, shrubs, and other plants, could be enclosed, 
and the most beautiful combinations effected. Of course, this is 
not a luxury for the poor, and cannot be accomplished at small ex- 
pense, but any one who has the means to spend upon it can pro- 
cure a more satisfactory result for the same amount of money, in 
this way, than in any other. In a southern latitude, the cost of 
maintaining such a garden, would be slight, as the sun's rays would 
supply even more than heat enough, except in decidedly cold 
weather, and during the sun's absence. 

The ridge-and-furrow roof applied to hotbeds is very advan- 
tageous, and costs but little more than any other roof, while it is 
very much better. 

In the case of a pit 78 feet long and 7 
feet wide, an English gardener, wuq gives 
the views of Sir Joseph Paxton, advises as 
follows : " Cover the pit A with a ridge-and- 
furrow roof, making the space from the 
ground in front of the pit a, to the val- 
ley-rafter b, 3 feet 6 inches, and the back 
wall below the rafter c, to d, 5 feet 6 
inches. Divide the whole length into 4 compartments, for growing 
different sorts of plants, by 4£ inch brick walls. Divide the whole 
length of the ridge-and-furrow roofs into 12 bays, having ventila- 
tion in the angle of each pediment,/, g. n Now to get at the plants, 
each light is hinged at the valley-rafter, and fastened with a thumb 
button at the ridge-rafter. By referring to cut B, it will be seen 
that the light or frame leaves the ridge-rafter in the direction of, 
and lies flat upon, the next light at c. Each light may be opened 
in this way so that the workmen may get at the pit. Each ridge 
is formed of two lights, resting on the top sides, where they open 
from each other, and secured at the lower sides by hinges, so that 




i it is necessary to give a 



369 
i the interior of the 



pit, they can be tilted to any required height, or be thrown back 
like the leaves of a book against the ridges on either side. In wet 
weather these top lights can be kept quite closed, as an abundance 
of air can be admitted at both the back and the front of the pit, 
by means of triangular ventilators situated immediately under 
each ridge. The water which tails on the pit is carried off in 
gutters formed in the rafters upon which the lower sides of the roof 
rest. In Fig. B, a represents a light open, with the iron stay 
pierced with holes to regulate the opening, and to which the lights 
are secured by a bolt, which can be easily removed ; f, wooden 
ventilator, closed ; g, the same, open. Fig. D is a plan of rafter 
under each pair of lights, with a concave centre to carry off water, 
and small gutters, a a, on each side the 
rafter, to carry off water of condensation. 
Fig. E is the plan of a hinge. In the pit 
figured above, all the work is carried on 
from without, and consequently the plants, 
etc., in the back of the pit are rather inac- 
cessible ; the plants to be forced are grown 
upon beds of fermenting material, whilst 
the pit is also used* to keep plants through 
the winter, which stand upon a plank c 
slate flooring. 




370 



FEBRUARY. 




dl 



5 E 



C 



j^ 



Zb 



But increasing the size of the pit so as to introduce space for 
entrance, and heating with hot water in tanks and pipes would be 

a great improvement The 



section of a pit so improved 
is represented in the cut 
In this there is head room 
provided along the back of 
the pit, by sinking a narrow 
passage, a ; and there is also 
a tank, b b y for bottom heat, 
and two 3 inch water pipes, 
£}-, c, between the tank and the 
front wall, for atmospheric 
heat, to be used together 
with the tank, or not, accord- 
ing to circumstances, that is, as dry or moist heat is required. 
Under the tank Sea-kale or Rhubarb may be forced, or Mush- 
rooms grown. 

It would hardly be necessary to have the sashes themselves 
movable, when the pediments may be lowered down, as through 
the latter, being at opposite ends of the pit, any amount of air may 
be introduced. " Of course a pit made in this manner would re- 
quire to be broader than that first described, and more expensive, 
and would be unnecessary for simple forcing." 

I have now presented all the best methods for the construction 
of hotbeds. 

The hotbeds upon our place are near the house-stable and the 
greenhouse. The range is double, and heated by a boiler placed 
in the middle, which warms tanks and pipes in the different beds. 
Two of these beds are for the conservation of plants through the 
winter, and are upon the plan described in October, in which fire- 
heat is resorted to. As I said in the commencement of this notice 
of hotbeds, we shall not begin culture till the first of March, as 
that will give ample time for the growth of all the plants that we 
wish to force. We shall begin a slow fire the last week in Feb- 
ruary, so as thoroughly to warm the pits and the earth before 
planting seeds and cuttings. When the dwelling-house is heated 



GREENHOUSE. 871 

by steam, or has a kitchen-range with a hot-water back, a small 
number of hotbeds placed near the house can be conveniently 
heated by pipes from the house. Hotbeds seem a formidable care 
to those who have never been accustomed to them, but they are in 
reality simple and easily managed, the chief requirement being 
watchfulness, to keep the temperature at the proper height 



CHAPTER TTJTT. 

CONSERVATORY. 

The pleasure derived from this house continues unabated, and 
the number of flowers is constantly increasing. After plants fairly 
begin to grow, the development of leaves and flowers is usually very 
rapid. Some of the orchids are now beginning to bloom, and their 
strangely fantastic forms lend a weird charm to the whole interior. 

Watch the plants carefully, to detect the earliest signs of thrips, 
aphides, red spiders, and other insects, and be after them at once ; 
it will not do to delay at all, for their power of reproduction is 
wonderfully great, and the sooner they axe attacked the easier it 
will be to exterminate them. 

tThe intense cold of the outer air renders more 
fire heat necessary now than hitherto. Any 
snow that falls upon the roof should be removed 
as soon as possible, both to avoid the injury to 
the glass from its freezing and thawing, and to 
restore the light which it excludes. It will be 
— easily removed on the first bright day. For 

the warmth of the house, and of the sun, will 
at the same time compact it, and loosen its hold 
upon the glass, so that by starting it near the 
eaves the whole mass will slide off together. 

During the intensely cold days of this month 

the water of condensation will collect rapidly, 

and run down over the glass and astragals, and 

3 1 on to the floor and plants, in all badly ventilated 

I^B^ houses. The only way to remove it is to bus- 

V^HV pend tin conductors under the sashes. But 

^^^P rafters and astragals may be made to pro- 

^™ vide against this difficulty. When the ventila- 



CONSERVATORY. 873 

tion is good there is comparatively little condensation, as the con- 
stant circulation prevents the moist air from remaining for any length 
of time in contact with the roof. A very simple rafter and astra- 
gal may be used in building the house, which will collect such 
moisture as may be formed, and carry it down to the gutter in front 
of the house. The cut shows sections of three rafters, either of 
which fully answers the purpose. 

The second one has small copper conductors nailed along its side. 
The house should be so well ventilated as not to need these articles, 
but it is always safer to have them in case of need. The rafter 

may be made as ornamental as the architect chooses. 

as 



CHAPTER XLIV. 



GRAPERY. 



We begin to force one house this month. First cover the whole 
border with a good dressing of 1 to 2 feet of strong stable manure. 
Fork it well together with the old litter already upon the bed, and 
then cover with mats or boards, to protect against snow, rain, and 
cold. 

The slight warmth which has been for the last two months kept 
up in the house to protect against frost, is now to be raised to 60° 
in the daytime, and 40° at night Keep this temperature up for 
10 days, and then slowly increase to 65° by day, and 45° by night 
Water the vines well with the syringe, and keep pans of water 
over the pipes or flues, for evaporation. Some ammoniacal prepa- 
ration mixed with the water benefits the vines, by the exhalation of 
gas. Admit air freely in sunny weather, and at all times allow as 
much air to pass through the ventilators as is consistent with the 
proper degree of temperature. The sun may raise the heat in the 
day much above 65°, but it should never be higher from fire heat 
Towards the last of the month, about the 25th, perhaps, raise the 
temperature 5° more, and allow- the sun heat to become even more 
powerful than before. You may now expect to see the buds begin 
to swell, and very likely some of them will break, or commence to 
grow. As soon as they are well broken along the whole vine, tie 
the vines to the trellises. Syringing the air frequently, and keep- 
ing it very moist by evaporation, will conduce more than any thing 
else to the uniform and rapid swelling of the buds. 

During the month it will be found advantageous to water the 
grape-borders with rather weak liquid manure ? which, as well as 
all the water supplied during this period, should be warmed at least 
as high as 65°. The easiest way to warm the water is to let it 
stand in shallow tanks in the grapery about 24 hours. 

374 



GBAPERY. 875 

The temperature of the cold grapery to be kept as hitherto, 
and the vines are not to be excited in any way. 

The vines in the retarding-house will by this time have ripened 
their wood, and probably lost their leaves. As I have said before, 
the method of pruning these vines differs a little from that where 
the grapes are to be induced to grow early. The pruning in the 
retarding-house is to be delayed as long as possible, and though late 
pruning is likely to make the vines bleed, it does not materially in- 
jure them, but tends to delay the ripening of the fruit It is best 
to begin the process of retarding in November, by disbudding. 
Pick off all the buds but the lowest, which you wish to have grow 
the next season, as soon as the wood has fairly begun to ripen, but 
not until all danger of a new breaking of buds is past, as if the 
bud which is left should break, it would probably cut off all 
prospects of crop. In February cut back to this bud. Pruning 
should be done about six weeks before the vines start, which 
will be the last of March or the first of April. After prun- 
ing, dress the vines with the soap and sulphur preparation ; untie 
them and lay them down as the other vines, and keep the house 
as cool as possible without freezing. One of the benefits of 
this treatment is that the wood thus seems to gain vigor and elastic- 
ity. Vines long subjected to a high temperature, dry and crack ; 
the wood becomes brittle ; but by giving them a share of cold 
weather each year, this danger is partially avoided. 

Should there be any days sufficiently warm, air the conservative 
pits, and the frames which contain the salads, etc. Remove into 
the forcing-house and cold grapery boxes and pots of Strawberries, 
Salads, etc., for early forcing ; also from the cold pits some Cauli- 
flower, Broccoli, and Endive, and boxes or casks of Cardoons, Sea- 
kale, etc, as will be more particularly described hereafter. 



CHAPTER XLV. 

THE FAKM. 

I have treated the subject of farming, thus far, wholly from one 
point of view, and have implied, it may be thought, too strongly, 
that self-improvement, for both profit and pleasure, is not only the 
best but the easiest thing to do, and requires only resolution for its 
success. But I am by no means ignorant of the many great diffi- 
culties in the way of the farmer, who seeks to develop himself 
into the perfect man. 

One great drawback is the pecuniary one. The want of money 
not only makes more work necessary, but it irritates the workman 
and leads him to attach too great importance to it, and so forget the 
greater in the less. He must work himself, because he cannot 
afford to pay others, and labor early and late to accomplish his 
work in season. The day's fatigue unfits him for evening reading 
or study ; even the most ambitious student must yield to this diffi- 
culty. But these days of extra work are not constant, and time 
will come in the course of the year which it depends only on our- 
selves to improve. Besides, however hard the day's work, it is 
not often that the farmer is too tired too talk, or to hear others 
talk ; and often when eyes unaccustomed to reading would swim 
and close over the printed page, he could talk for hours with a 
neighbor about the approaching election, or the new candidate 
for the vacant pulpit Seldom is a day's work hard enough to 
unfit him for going to the caucus, which is to nominate a friend or 
a favorite politician ; he can go to a circus or a prayer-meeting, 
although his day's work has been large enough to excite the admi- 
ration of all beholders. 

This leads us to the secret of improvement in agricultural pur- 
suits, — association. 

Combine with a few neighbors who are also interested in the ad- 

376 



THE FABM. 877 

vancement of agriculture, and form a club, which shall meet 
weekly, for the interchange of information, or for special remarks 
from some member appointed by the rest, to find out something in- 
teresting and instructive. Go to the club-meeting willing to be 
taught even by a neighbor, whose general information you think 
not superior to your own, but who on this occasion has taken 
pains to acquire new facts on a given subject Listen to his commu- 
nication ; take part in the discussion which will arise ; tell what 
you know on the subject ; ask explanations of all doubtful points ; 
express your doubts and difficulties freely ; you may thus get help 
from those who are better instructed, and gain the gratitude of 
those who share your ignorance, but lack the courage to say so, and 
who will thank you for speaking for them, and opening the way for 
them to speak for themselves. The replies you get may be satis- 
factory or not ; if not, and the crooked path is not yet straight, you 
will have something to think over in the interval before the next 
meeting. Your mind will be excited by the inquiry, and you will 
find yourself in the evenings more inclined to look up the subject 
in books, and get what light you can upon it, than to go to sleep 
over the fire. Perhaps you can find nothing in your books, and 
have no newspaper whose light is more than the glimmer of a 
farthing candle. Some of your neighbors have other books or bet- 
ter papers, and will gladly lend to you. Have no scruples about 
asking them. We are all complimented by having our opinion 
asked. Press on in this way, now talking, now reading, now in- 
quiring, now imparting, and you will soon have an increased 
knowledge and zeal that will necessarily lead you to farther acqui- 
sition. 

Such associated efforts in the way of clubs and social gatherings 
are of great value to farmers. They bring together a great variety 
of information in the form most easily appreciated. A distinguished 
man once said that good talk is the healthiest and most nourishing 
food for the mind ; that each man's mind is both a sieve and a mill, 
which selects, assorts, and grinds all the facts and theories pre- 
sented to it, turning out an elaborated result, flour or bran for the 
use of others, just according to the character of the individual mind. 
And this result of the process of sifting and grinding, when forced 

32* 



378 PEBRUABY. 

into the minds of others through the channel of conversation, is 
particularly well adapted for their nourishment and expansion. 

In your farmer's club, where no member has had much intel- 
lectual training, the winnowing process may be less thorough than 
the case would justify, but it will certainly be more complete than 
any member could make it alone. The idiosyncracies of different 
members will lead them to select different books, to fasten on dif- 
ferent facts, or see the same facts in different lights, and so to make 
good each other's deficiencies. 

But remember that you do not meet to register isolated individual 
experiences, — of how many quarts A's cows gave, how many bush- 
els of Corn B got to the acre, or how large a crop of Apples C ex- 
pects. Unless these things have some relation to each other, 
some bearing on the topic for the evening, they are mere gossip, 
and will not expand your mind, though they may keep you awake. 
Remember that you and your associated fellows are building an ed- 
ifice, — the perfect farmer, who is to be a conglomerate of facts, ex- 
periences, and theories, and will be perfect in proportion as these 
are of the best quality, and harmoniously combined. If you were 
building a dwelling house, you would select among the materials 
offered, would reject many stones and bricks, would cut off the ends 
of boards that were shaky or pierced with knot-holes, would throw 
away many imperfect nails ; but if the plan with which you stalled 
was good, you would at last have a satisfactory house. So in build- 
ing up your intellectual structure, — the perfect farmer, — you must 
expect a great amount of rubbish to come under inspection, to be 
tried and found wanting ; but build on according to the best plan 
you can make, and with the best materials you canr get Want of 
practice here will of course make it more difficult to start with a 
perfect plan than in house building ; you can only block out the 
leading features of the character you wish to form, and may even 
then be unable to get the best materials, or to adapt them to your 
peculiar circumstances. But, as in house building you use mate- 
rials brought from many places, so your farmer's character cannot 
be completed without many imported materials. The experiences 
of his native village will never suffice ; they must be thrown aside 
unless they are fit for your purpose. 



, THE FARM. 379 

Lay it down then, as a rule of the club, that no member shall 
relate his personal experience, except to throw light on the question 
under discussion, or to ask for information. Appoint some member 
or members, who are best fitted, to find out what man or nation, is 
acknowledged to succeed best in farming, and use the treatise which 
describes their practice (or his, if you can narrow it down to an in- 
dividual), and the reasons for it as a standard text-book, to which 
all questions are to be referred for decision. 

There is a strong prejudice against book-farming, among farm- 
ers, because they think the statements of books are mere theory. 
Nothing is more common in farming communities, than to sneer at 
some man as a book-farmer. Men who get together and relate 
the traditions of their ancestors, in the peculiar dialect of their na- 
tive district, and conduct their farms in accordance with those tra- 
ditions, often refuse to listen to the same doctrines embodied in a 
book, and expressed in good English ; or, if, having condescended 
to listen, they hear something plainly in accordance with their own 
preconceived ideas, they are confirmed in their self-conceit, and ap- 
prove the book so far as it agrees with them, or condemn it for dis- 
agreeing with the same authority which they set up as final, never 
admitting that there can be a wider experience, or a closer observa- 
tion than that of themselves and their fathers. Whoever knows 
common farmers, knows that this is true ; and yet, there was never 
a more narrow and inconsistent prejudice. The traditions which 
they hold and follow, are the maxims of some man, who in his day, 
got the largest crops, and raised the best stock of his neighborhood 
and was therefore, with reason, consulted and imitated by his 
neighbors ; in other words, became an authority on farming in his 
district. What are books, but the history of the practice of some 
man or people ? and if the practice set forth in them is universally 
successful, producing the most satisfactory results, are they not 
worthy of the most respectful attention ? Should they not be re- 
ceived as authorities, instead of being sheered at, because they are 
printed instead of spoken ? 

There is another reason why book farming is lightly esteemed 
by farmers. They have toiled painfully for years to get the expe- 



880 FEBRUARY. 

rience which is necessary before the traditions aforesaid can be put 
into profitable practice, before they can even be fully understood. 
Somebody inexperienced in farming has read a book, a good book 
perhaps, which pleasantly portrays the pleasures of agriculture, 
comments on the rudeness of the ordinary practice, and describes 
methods of culture by which time and labor may be saved and 
money gained ; and forthwith he knows not only enough to carry 
on a farm, but — to judge by his talk — more than men who have 
farmed from childhood. Practical farmers watch his course, and 
see him wrecked on the shoals which lie in the path of all begin- 
ners, on difficulties which perplexed them long ago, and were long 
ago overcome ; then they grimly smile, and say, " So much for 
book farming ! might have known it." The failure is put down 
altogether to the account of the book, whereas the book had noth- 
ing to do with it ; want of elementary, experimental knowledge, 
was the cause. In the hands of a practical farmer, who had this 
knowledge and was used to hard work, the same book would have 
been of immense value, as the mariner's compass, which would be 
of but little service to a landsman turned adrift in a boat, ignorant 
of its management, is to the experienced sailor comfort, and per* 
haps life. 

A book is, as I have said, the history of some one's practice or 
theory, and the farmer's club having found out, through a com- 
mittee, what nations have been most successful in farming, should 
procure those books on the subject which are considered the best 
authority by those nations. Do not swallow any one of these books 
whole, but either read aloud at the meeting of the club, or appoint 
some member to read it at home and report at the next meeting 
such new ideas as he may have obtained from it Discuss this in- 
formation, see how it agrees with your own experience, and where 
it differs ; find out, if possible, the cause of the disagreement ; ascer- 
tain whether it arises from difference of climate, soil, etc, and hav- 
ing sifted thoroughly the whole matter, throw aside the chaff and 
garner the wheat for use. 

The continuance of this process with one book after another, will 
bring you into contact with a new class of minds, men, and prao 



J 



THE FABM. 881 

tice; will teach you new things about jour special vocation, and will 
increase jour geographical, historical, and scientific knowledge ; in 
short you will have begun to grow. 

This way of passing an evening each week when you are too 
tired to read, will soon awaken your minds to such an interest in 
books and study, that you will be too tired no longer. 

Nor is this the only good to be derived from such clubs and as- 
sociations ; people from different parts of the town, brought to- 
gether to exchange experiences, will feel a mutual interest, and 
will be desirous for the progress of the whole ; sectional and dis- 
trict jealousies will be forgotten, and the spirit of improvement in 
agriculture will gradually extend to ot^er things, till the whole 
community will be raised above its neighbors in knowledge, refine- 
ment, and wealth. No proverb is truer than that Scriptural one, 
"A little leaven leavens the whole lump." If a few men combine 
earnestly for improvement, there will surely cluster around them 
all the good and growing men in the town. They will start and 
support many great movements in town, and state, and national 
government, for mental, moral, and social progress, and the result 
will be that each will find himself at the end of the year better 
and wiser than at its beginning, and will begin to see beauty in 
objects before uninteresting, and to take pleasure in things for a 
value in them not to be measured by money. 

Assuming, then, that you have determined to do all in your 
power to develop a perfect system of farming, and that you have 
inaugurated your farmer's club, and brought it to a flourishing 
condition, I will call your attention to a few improvements in the 
practice of agriculture, which not only are better for mind and 
body than the old methods, but will give fuller barns and store- 
houses, and larger moneyed returns. 

America will eventually become the best farmed country in the 
world* At present England holds, on the whole, the highest rank. 
Belgium and Holland surpass it in some respects ; larger crops are 
raised from a given area, and more expensive improvements are 
undertaken and carried through to a successful result ; but the soil 
and surface of the Low Countries are, as their name imports, un- 



382. FEBRUARY. 

favorable to a varied culture, and many things are never attempted 
there which fill England with wealth and beauty. 

The English farmers are mostly tenants who occupy the cultivated 
portions, and cannot afford, on land not their own, to make the out- 
lay necessary for great improvements, which, though profitable in 
the end, are so only after a term of years. Still, what with the lib- 
erality of the proprietors, the enterprise of the tenants, and the aid 
extended by government, the state of agricultural science and 
practice in England is very far beyond that in this country, and it 
will be long before we shall overtake, and longer before we shall 
surpass it. 

In New England, farms must be comparatively small, and the 
soil is of such a character as to compel us to adopt the most thorough 
system of culture, if we wish to secure that home market which 
gives us the advantage over Western farmers, whose crops must be 
transported to a great distance to find a market, until the cost of 
freight makes them as high priced as ours in the end. This 
home market is sure to continue, for the population of New Eng- 
land will be more and more engaged in manufactures, and trade 
must become denser and denser, and increase the demand for the 
fruits of the earth. 

New England farming must be " high farming " in order to be 
successful, and only as it approaches to the perfection of the Eng- 
lish and Flemish systems, will it secure the best return for outlay 
of labor and money. 

In November, I said that during the winter the farmer should 
lay his plans and arrange his work for the next year. But the work 
of no one year is complete in itself; it springs from the years be- 
fore, and influences the years that come after ; so that in making 
these plans you must have an eye to the long future. 

There are several distinct kinds of farming: stock farming, 
cereal, grass, and root farming, milk growing, fruit culture, mar- 
ket gardening. Which of these an individual will follow Will de- 
pend on such circumstances as the district he lives in, his means, 
his tastes, natural or acquired. It is not probable that he will follow 
either kind exclusively. This is rarely done in any country, cer- 



THE FARM. 883 

« 

tainly not in ours where labor is less subdivided, and pursuits less 
hereditary than in any other. 

Stock farming (if it is of neat stock) necessitates the production 
of milk, cheese, and butter, of some cereals to feed the men and 
animals, of roots for winter consumption. Market gardening is 
generally pursued alone, and is more like horticulture than the 
ordinary work of a farm ; to follow it successfully, a knowledge of 
vegetable physiology, of varieties, of forcing, etc., is necessary, 
things not essential in ordinary farming. It is more often connected 
with milk farming (where the milk is sold in the fluid form) .than 
with the other kinds ; for milk farmers have plenty of manure, and 
are within a short distance of their market (20 or 30 miles is soon 
travelled by railroad). This readiness of access to market is essen- 
tial to the success of both kinds of farming, for both milk and mar- 
ket vegetables are bulky, and the expense of freight eats up the 
profits when they are transported far. 

Stock farming will generally be followed at a distance from cities, 
in districts where land is cheap, and a large surface can be devoted 
to pasturage. So it has been ever since want of pasture has gov- 
erned the movements of the great migratory, pastoral races ; and 
thus has arisen the popular idea that stock farming can only be 
carried on where there are extensive pastures. 

The stock farming of which I propose to treat deals with small 
herds and moderate sized pastures ; it feeds the stock on green 
food during mild weather, but as winter comes on it provides them 
with shelter, and with food, garnered beforehand. The pastures 
will be comparatively large ; will be at a distance from large towns, 
but this does not much increase the market price of the animals, for 
stock has this great advantage over all other farm products : when 
it is marketable it can be made to take itself to market. The far- 
mer, much of whose land is hilly, rocky, or otherwise unfit for til- 
lage, will incline to this kind of farming; which he may follow in 
one of two ways ; either by buying the food necessary to support 
his stock through the winter, perhaps by growing barely forage 
enough to keep them through, or by raising on that portion of his 
land which is fit for tillage, fodder crops in abundance, for both 
rammer and winter use, and for sale, so as to give a source of rev- 



384 FEBRUARY. 

enue in addition to his regular stock sales. Evidently this is the 
best kind of stock farming ; it is complete and independent, and 
only among such farmers can we expect to find perfect breeds of 
animals. 

The cost of fencing extensive pastures is so great as to induce 
some men to neglect their fences and suffer their cattle to roam 
over their neighbors' land as well as their own ; but the model 
farmer never follows a course so slovenly and productive of ill feel- 
ing in a neighborhood ; in his mind, good stock farming implies the 
employment of no more land than can be well and securely fenced, 
and of no more stock than can be well supported on the pasture 
land with the assistance of fodder crops sufficiently abundant to 
leave a surplus for sale, and a guarantee against suffering from 
drought or flood. 

On this basis stock farming may be followed among our hills 
and mountains, where every farm can have some interval and some 
upland, the one for tillage, the other for pasture. Climate, the 
market, the proprietor's tastes, will decide what kind of stock shall 
. be grown. Undoubtedly the time will come when the sides of 
every hill and mountain in New England will whiten with the har- 
vest as much as the valleys and meadows, — not with Wheat, Corn, 
or Rye, but with wool, — and the flocks of sheep will be as count- 
less as the herds of the prairies. Lower on the same hills will be 
cows and oxen, and on the edge of the plains and valleys, horses. 

Our stock farmers may with advantage take lessons in this mat- 
ter from foreign lands. Sheep growers in Scotland, Switzerland, 
and other mountainous countries, use their mountains strictly in 
accordance with climacteric laws. These heights are not abso- 
lutely sterile, though the climate is too cold to allow timber to 
grow ; the higher you ascend, the lower is the temperature, the 
later the spring vegetation, the earlier the winter frost The 
herdsman of the valley drives his flock in the early spring to the 
base of the mountains, where the green herbage is eagerly cropped 
by the winter-weary sheep and lambs; as the weather grows 
warmer, the grass grows green higher up, and by the time the first 
pasture is fed off the next above is ready, and so on to the top of 
the lower mountains. Again, as the frosts of early autumn seize 



THE FARM. 385 

on the summits, the flocks descend with the grass, till winter finds 
them again at the base, ready to snuggle into the warm fold. I do 
not mean that there are definite, precise steps in this process ; when 
we deal with large natural surfaces, we find no exact limits ; all is 
on too large a scale ; but the general statement is true. 

There is no reason why our hill-sides should not roll down a cov- 
ering of wool after the summer's pasturing quite as white as the 
winter blanket of snow, and of a value which will equal or sur- 
pass that of all the present agricultural productions of the North- 
ern States. The same kind of pasture is good for other cattle, and 
hardy oxen and tempting beeves may do as well as sheep, though 
they must be less in number. These larger animals need more 
abundant food, and are better adapted to the more succulent and 
coarse herbage of the lower lands. Horses will never thrive on 
rough hills; the loss by accident would be large. The early 
months of the colt must be passed in pastures that will never twist 
or wrench his tender bones, but will allow him to grow symmetri- 
cally, and after his frame has become firm, he must still be pas- 
tured where his adventurous and frolicsome disposition will not 
subject him to the risk of rolling down steep hill-sides, or of injur- 
ing his wind by racing up the steeps with his companions. Yet 
good horses can only be raised where there is pasture room enough 
to give them constant exercise, and if a pasture is tolerably level 
and free from holes and stumps, its poverty does not unfit it for 
colts (unless it be overstocked), as the necessity of taking a good 
deal of exercise in getting their daily food, tends to make them 
hardy and enduring. 

Under favorable circumstances, stock farming is the pleasantest 
kind ; there is less hand and more head work, and the variety of 
culture, of treatment of animals, gives constant variety and change 
of occupation, and calls out all the faculties. Besides, there are 
two strings to this bow, the crops and the stock, both of which can 
hardly be broken at the same time ; hence the loss can scarcely be 
so great as when all is staked on a single crop. 

I think such farming may be made the most delightful occupa- 
tion in the world. 

It need never be monotonous; the culture of crops and the 

3d 



1 



386 PEBBUABT. 

rearing of stock in summer, their protection in winter, the health 
and joy to be gained from the fields and fresh air in warm weather, 
the long winter evenings for reading, the ready hospitality to be 
extended to friends and strangers attracted to our door by its home- 
like look, thoughts and practices for the welfare and advancement 
of others, — all is full of variety and pleasure, and such a life, 
properly lived, may be a lighthouse for the guidance of others 
along the road of life. 

Stock farming is comparatively simple in its description, and 
it seems as if only a little money and an enthusiasm for the 
work might enable any one to follow it with ease and profit ; but 
it is really the most difficult kind of farming if done in the best 
way. 

First, the farm is to be selected. The land should be near a vil- 
lage or town, for the convenience of the family. There should be 
some level or interval land for profitable culture, easily drained, 
easily irrigated, of good texture, and sheltered from the coldest 
winds. The hill land should be near the house, easy of access, as 
little rocky as possible, well-wooded in parts, and facing the south 
and east, so as to receive the early and late sun. 

Next the house is to be erected ; not a shingle palace, not a cube 
or parallelopiped of boards, not a Gothic cottage, not a show-box of 
any kind ; but a comfortable, roomy house, of two stories, with a 
spacious kitchen, a good cellar, and convenient dairy. The living 
rooms all on the pleasant side of the house ; no best parlor too 
good to live in and only for show. The outside of the house to 
have at least 20 per cent of the whole cost expended upon it, so 
that when it has been inhabited a few years it shall be beautiful to 
the eye of every beholder. Let it express in every window casing ; 
in the verge boards ; in the hospitable entrance ; in the cozy chim- 
ney stack ; in the vines already growing, and ready to wreathe 
their graceful tracery over every point and projection ; in the broken 
gables ; in the blooming flower-beds ; in the protecting branches of 
• the old trees near which it is set; in the shrubs and young trees 
well disposed around it ; in its general effect on the landscape where 
it sits nestling among hills and mountains, or crowning a gentle 
eminence, or giving entrance to some wild lawny meadows, — the 



T AUBURN DALE, t 



ii« ' I'AIiM. 



i . %'j 



>t ■* 



:■•*» '-* : U 



i 



i 



Mil 1 



1>< ,•>' 



'*• The «l «■' ' ( dfx > »j,,t 

-.•I... • 






V iv- SrjijiL — tin: in,]. Mn^i.i^ ; rM u ,,;],,,, .,, ,. . . 
r- t V vr^d and ;., ».r.y.i'iie... ...n. n, ;», h,. : ., u 

v.^in-. hut ^1,1,1, !..;-,, h„ f, 0jll ..- t .,y ;j .. t ... 
i:-'l .:t- n-i.:t*> rli" <•< ..^ a . i( l f : .. :r , v .... ot - :! . ... 
'•"• .'"I j<- folJu <J> ri ,li. K* ^ i-pM.i-jts. hv, • 
'. .•' ■ j.u-s , w r> -....m-vor of tit- . ,. illy ra.h. .■ .. 
i.. ■ :- ;»'I .:n-i n -r^nize, iVu, a'ul •! m U , t : J(> . . .. 
i" e. 

'ii.i- V> « -pi-ii i< no? l!.0T"Milt'ii\u!r I • .,i -,<; 

■ ■ '. )t '," bin" if.:-, ti,o ii,-)t>-«-. • 1 ^. t , : 1S , 

•■i«-i ii« die :fr:iij«rfr rhj.n iv ? l 

V ,:,J !'. m.von. pa!, er, and r > i,-- 
' ■ -.ru \i; V •-, iMur. Ir \> indi.i • 

". ' '- 1 fh li-.rjM- ai/. «-i f ,. ,.' ii \\ .. 
"''" '" "Ji, it i.i-iina 1 < lv u •:». ; 
i ■ " >\ do :■ mi.^., iJ.,« [/) .,..iri , tL, •«, 
•• '4 ! ,:e -p<»U m fin » ♦> ••{' •. 

<•■ t— 'M-i ■ '.» those v'lo him- ; 
,;( ' '«•• a -I u "icii »i .'o in..., , . 

* *' ' ' ; "' , " 'A «t.- f "lil'MnV; 1 j», ,; . 

■ : '* . •Ti. , .f*'<, so that (1 V r»«j. ., 
••' ■ ,M 11. I.'!;e ol.il.Ir n u] i. 
■ i» -W'viv> i. v(> :h"ir Jmim!;/ .r. and rr {«,.•«• -nit Ur, c ) 

- -« ■..'•.■■.ii.in.. > ..lm. »n^kM.. (',. fr iiN ;,,.;,.' l? . . ini . H ull , /: . v (J ; ( . h 
v 'i --i to m: .,,„. pj ,, iv% . ; :!i| . , (| >v< |J% .. f ,, , r ^ y(i . ifd ; t . irsd 

1 ' '■* prune :,».» I-.i.m .;..;m, Ji.xur'.a )• li- ij.». I5ut -.mid nil 

' ■. • .'^ " if. It is rare ij.., ♦;„* -j,'; 1 M su.-h -i J.on ■' is any 'Inri^ 

"i »iii!.-»r'o it: its Ii^lit Minis U» l.hn f»ni»\or; Me ' ar "it •• ii;*> 

■ '■■ d ;.r.: in h-m. and Lis sl-ai- ot (lie Lume. .spirii w:i j |, ve ; u ■. 

• , " < :irv;itV,t ftit ir. a iK w Ldiar- at so.ne tui""i- time. 
IV -10. -K r-irmer. a- 1 K.r sJ.|. i> w.dl ulW to tv.wul a * 

^"> lie m hi sidirct a L'ood ;k-;:k.p for Lis bim. Is .!. 
• 't»ri\cn:'.-ii: d's'ance xrmsj t).. hf>-^e, n-ar, bat i«ut t ■ . . . 



?• o 



11 i." I: •'. 



f 

' 'V.N 
fit 

'II 



iin 



^^- 



THE FARM. 387 

Home Spirit, — that indefinable, intangible atmosphere which can 
never be seized and appropriated, can never be added to an ugly 
and tasteless place, has no money value, cannot be won without 
wooing, but which breathes from every tree and shrub, catches up 
and intensifies the colors and fragrance of the flowers, gives com- 
fort and joy to the simple farm buildings, hallows the whole place, 
and makes every member of the family radiant with a something 
which all can recognize, love, and desire, though they cannot de- 
fine. 

This home spirit is not the result of calculation and carpentry ; it 
cannot be built into the house, and yet it is never more plainly 
shown to the stranger than in the very work of man's hands, of 
carpenter, mason, painter, and gardener. The architect does not 
design it ; he cannot. It is individual, and belongs to those who 
build the house and ornament it. It influences them in the choice 
of a design, it instinctively teaches them how to select aright the 
plan of the house, the location, the externals ; it is the natural re- 
sult of a life spent in the love of nature, of beauty, of religion; it 
comes only to those who humbly seek to be all that the best men 
should be,- and when it comes, they are as unconscious of it as the 
Heliotrope of its fragrance; but it issues out and enfolds a house' 
and its inmates, so that the rudest hind feels it, and every one seeks 
to reproduce it The children who grow up in the house redolent 
with it always love their birthplace, and return to it long years 
after, when perhaps the hand of time has picked out the mortar 
from the chimneys, has broken the trellis from the vines under which 
they used to sit and play, has planted weeds in the flower-beds, and 
neglected to prune the long ago too luxuriant hedge. But amid all 
the change those who love it see their early home, and can easily 
reproduce it It is rare that the child of such a home is any thing 
bat an honor to it ; its light burns to him forever ; he carries the 
sacred fire in him, and his share of the home spirit will live in him 
to be breathed out in a new home at some future time. 

The stock farmer, as I have said, is well able to found a home 
like this. 

Next he must select a good position for his barn. It should be 
at a convenient distance from the house, near, but not too near, and 



388 FEBRUARY. 

towards the centre of the farm, sheltered under some grove or hill- 
side, easy of access for teams coming in with the crops or carrying 
out manure, and in such place that water can be brought to it. 
This farmer, then, must be a good farm architect. 

Now the land must be studied with a view to its division into 

■ 

fields, and to the best crops to be raised ; the rotation of crops must 
be decided upon, and their probable rate of increase. The pasture 
lands must be examined, to find out what stock they are adapted 
for, and how much they will feed. 

Having decided on the kind of stock, the farmer must next learn 
the best breed for his various purposes. In England this question 
is decided by the traditions of each county. The business of stock 
raising has been so long established there, and the various breeds 
so carefully tested as to their capacity and adaptation to different 
localities, that as soon as a man has settled upon his plan in farm- 
ing, he knows at once what stock is best for him, and without dan- 
ger of loss in unsuccessful experiments, he buys the proper cattle 
and goes to work. 

Not so here. The English and European breeds do not present 
precisely the same qualities here as in their native countries. The 
intensity of our heat and cold, and the dryness of our atmosphere, 
affect both the constitution of the animals, and the quality of the 
pasturage to which they are confined. Experiments have been 
tried in various parts of the country by a few earnest individuals, in 
propagating certain kinds of foreign stock, with the hope of decid- 
ing which is best for their locality. In some cases these experiments 
have been very fairly tried, and have elicited valuable information ; 
but too often there has been a flaw in the experiment, owing to the 
prejudice of the experimenter, which has made it unreliable. 

On the other hand, some men have imbibed a prejudice against 
all foreign stock, because it is foreign, and brought hither only by 
the rich, and they pertinaciously deny that it has any practical 
value. They content themselves with picking up the best native 
animals they can find, and often have stocks of cattle in their barns 
better than any blood stock that can be bought But this is the re- 
sult of something very like accident ; viz., a rare individual power 
by which they detect the excellences or defects of a creature at a 



THE FASH. 389 

glance. A man with this power needs no single standard stock, for 
he can choose from an immense range ; but the mass, who lack the 
judgment necessary to successful selection, are subject to frequent 
losses. 

One thing has been settled. by the experience of many genera- 
tions of stock-breeders : that like produces like, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances. Could you have a cow and a bull, both of whose 
parents, 4 cattle, were noted either for their milk-producing quali- 
ties, their tendency to butter, to fat, or as workers, you might feel 
absolutely certain that their offspring would have the same qualities. 
So universally does this hold true, that it is in the power of any 
individual to produce such a breed of cattle as he prefers, if he will 
persevere with care and judgment. Consequently, if there were 
no desirable breeds, it would be possible for our stock-farmer to 
produce a breed exactly fitted to the hills and valleys of New 
England. 

The requisites for this breed are a fair amount of rich milk in 
the cows, a tendency to fatten, — both in the cows when not in 
milk, and in the oxen when at work, — a moderate size, which can 
be readily supported and fattened on our somewhat meagre pastures, 
in summer, and sustained at small cost in our barns during winter, 
and a frame and muscular development which fit the males for 
work. If sheep are the stock, a large fleece, with small bones, and 
delicate meat, and a hardihood of constitution, which enables them 
to defy both heat and cold, and to protect themselves and thrive 
with but little attention from man. 

In establishing this new breed, it is important to cut off as many 
of the preliminary steps as possible. This may be done in part 
by beginning with those breeds of cattle, which, in a country simi- 
lar to our own, possess most of the qualities just enumerated. The 
breeds most in repute in England are Durham, Hereford, Ayrshire, 
Devon, Alderney. Of these there are various grades and crosses, 
and many varieties, assimilating in some respects to either. 

About 60 years were spent in bringing one of these breeds to 
its present state ; and since the type was fixed it has been easy, as 
I said, to keep it so. If we can cut off 30 or 40 years of the ex- 
perimenting, and at the end of the remaining time have a stock 

33* 



890 FEBRUARY. 

just suited to us, it will be a fortune to the successful breeder, and 
an incalculable benefit to the community. 

The popular breeds may be first divided into sizes, as large or 
small. The Durhams and Herefords are large, the Devons, Ayr- 
shire, and Alderney, or Island Cattle, smalL 

The large animal has a large stomach to fill, and an appetite in 
proportion, larger bones, greater amount of offal and waste ; but 
when grown, gives more weight of beef, and a larger quantity of 
milk. To produce these large breeds in perfection, the summer 
pasture and the winter fodder must be rich and abundant Does 
this pay ? is the question. All these peculiarities of size are against 
the hilly country, and in favor of the prairie. These cattle are 
good as food and to work, and often can be fatted to astonishing 
weights, whilst cows of the same breeds are mentioned which have 
given from 20 to 30 quarts of milk, for 4 or 5 months after calv- 
ing, and afterwards fall off to a reasonable yield, until they have 
finally dried up. But to produce such weights and such quantities 
of milk, a large and constant amount of food of extra quality was 
necessary, and the animals were grown under the equable and moist 
climate of England. 

Such great weight it is desirable to attain, as it is better to feed 
one animal, and to have only one to care for, than two, but it can 
never be attained on such a farm as we have been considering, ex- 
cept by stall feeding, and that kind of stock raising is to be pur- 
sued under different circumstances, and will be described hereafter. 
The milk given in such abundance is not rich ; it takes from 10 to 
15 quarts of milk to make a pound of butter, and, although good 
for those who sell milk, is not well adapted to our stock farmer. 

The Island or Alderney cattle are as much below the medium 
size as those that I have described are above it These animals are 
not valued for their working or beef qualities, being inferior to many 
other varieties in these respects, but, as they are small, the cost of 
keeping them would be so also, were it not that the delicacy of 
their constitution requires an extra quality of food ; as milkers, too, 
they are deficient ; the quantity of milk is small, and the quality, 
alter skimming, watery and poor. Their excellence is in the qual- 
ity of their butter. Four quarts of milk often make a pound of but- 



THE PARM. 891 

ter, and butter that is most attractive, too, from its golden yellowness. 
But butter is only one among many things required by the stock 
farmer. So the Alderneys must be rejected. Indeed, as a breed 
they are not valuable to any one. The rich cream, the small size, 
and the peculiar beauty of the young cattle, are urged as its claims 
on the man of wealth, or the man who can keep but one cow. But 
the chief requisite in a cow is good milk ; our children, our pigs, 
and ourselves, to a great extent, depend upon it ; butter can far 
more easily be dispensed with, and is, besides, not a bit better for its 
beautiful yellow color. Moreover, the beauty of the young Alderney 
is more than counterbalanced by the ugliness of the old one, which 
is the ugliest in appearance of all neat cattle. 

The Ayrshire is often called the poor man's cow. It is small, 
hardy, and handsome, is easily supported, makes good, quick work* 
ing cattle, and fattens pretty well. This seems nearer the mark, 
and, at first sight, appears all that is wanted for the foundation of 
qur breed. But the Ayrshire is found to have a tendency to fatten 
in rich pastures, which often gets the better of its milking qualities, 
to the great disappointment of the owner. Besides, the milk is 
poor in quality, ranking only above the Durham in this respect 

I am aware that statements are made of the amount of butter 
made from the milk of Durhams and Ayrshires, which go to prove 
it as valuable as the Alderney, the quantity being greater. But 
these statements must have been made by persons whose herds fed 
in pasture where the clover was up to the top of their horns, and 
when the same animals, or others of a similar breed, were trans- 
ferred to poorer pastures, or less abundant feed, they have shrunk, 
both in the quality and quantity of their milk ; and, however much 
butter may have been made in any case, it cannot be denied that 
the skim milk is a poor and washy article. 

The last breed I come to is the Devon. These, too, are small 
cattle. The males are noted for their docility and enormous work- 
ing powers, as well as for a decided aptitude to fatten, and for the 
superior quality of their beef, it being better than any other. 
They do not ripen, or become fat and fit to kill at so early an age 
as the Durhams, being seldom fit for beef before they are 5 years 
old ; but they can be worked till 4 or 5 years old, and then put up 



392 FEBRUARY 

to fatten. " They need work to develop them, and if kept idle 
will be invariably stinted in their growth, whilst the Durhams, or 
short horns, are impaired for beef if worked. They do not, indeed, 
attain the great weight of some breeds, but in a given time they 
acquire more flesh, and with a less consumption of food, and their 
flesh is beautiful in its kind." 

The milk of the Devon is very rich, instances being given where 
4 quarts have made a pound of butter, and 6 quartd being sufficient 
to do this at any time. It is very rich, too, after being skimmed ; 
no length of standing will free it from all its cream, and the skim 
milk of the Devon is equal in richness to the new milk of the Ayr- 
shire and Short Horn. The quantity is reputed to be small, and 
this is generally set down against them ; but there is a difference 
in the quantities given by different stocks of Devons. Devon cows 
of some breeds have given in America 3,500 quarts in a year, and 
will constantly average 1,600 to 1,800 quarts. They never come 
in with an immense bag, to dwindle down to nothing soon, but are 
constant and steady milkers till within a short time of calving.* 
They are very hardy, — both males and females thriving on pas- 
tures where a Durham would starve, — and the cows have not the 
'tendency to milk diseases so characteristic of the Alderney. Does 
not this stock offer the best foundation for a New England breed, 
good for all parts of the country, high or low ? 

The general virtues of the Devon stock are shown in its already 
wide diffusion over New England, for by either chance or design 
most of the earliest importations were Devon, and their blood is 
now shown in the red cattle found in all parts of the country. 

Our farmer having selected his horned cattle, next turns to 
horses. 

The Morgan is the New England horse, and probably he will 
always maintain his supremacy for general purposes among our 
hills. 

Pigs must be bought, to eat up the skim milk, and their breeds, 

* " And two cows are mentioned in England, of the North Devon breed, 
one of which gave 19 1-2 pounds of bntter in a week, and more than 480 
pounds in a year. The other produced more than 20 pounds in a week."— 
Colman's European Agriculture. 



THE FARM. 393 

of which there are many varieties, must be investigated. At one 
time the Suffolk bid fair to conquer all other breeds, and to drive 
out the "race horse " and "corkscrew" varieties. Undoubtedly 
the Suffolks are valuable ; they fatten readily, and have but little 
waste, but they are tender in constitution, small, and make rather 
too large a proportion of fat pork. Their size is increased, and 
the pork not injured, by crossing with the longer bodied and larger 
framed Middlesex, Essex, Hampshire, and other breeds. Pigs can 
be improved or injured in two years, so that our farmer will soon 
settle the matter by experience ; they are easily raised, and take 
care of themselves. Not so sheep. 

If our farmer has decided on keeping sheep, he has selected a 
path sown with difficulties, although promising great profits. The 
sheep farmer has two harvests, the wool and the mutton ; he must, 
therefore, in selecting his stock, have regard to both. At present 
our people are indifferent to the quality of the mutton they eat, 
and are more governed, as in beef, by the size of the quarter and 
its handsome appearance, than by the quality of the meat .It will 
not always be so ; we are beginning to discriminate, and shall soon 
be willing to pay larger prices for mutton of delicate flavor and 
juicy tenderness, than for the coarse, rank, hard meat, so generally 
bought and sold. Let our stock farmer select his sheep with an 
eye to the quality of the mutton, and he will soon find a taste for 
the meat growing up among his customers, and a corresponding 
willingness to pay for it. 

But it happens that the sheep which give the largest fleece are 
less valuable for meat ; so we are in a dilemma ; unless we can get 
a high price for the carcase, we must try to get the largest fleeces. 
Our aim must be to improve some breed so as to combine both. 
Merino sheep now stand first for fleeces but do not give so choice 
mutton as other breeds. 

Sheep need more attention* than any other stock, and if not well 
attended to at the lambing and tupping seasons, they will surely suf- 
fer ; and' the young lambs need constant care. 

Fowls offer a field for improvement, as there are so many va- 
rieties. 

Having settled all these point*, and made ready the house, 



394 FEBRUARY. 

grounds, kitchen, and flower gardens ; having built the best barn, 
and selected the most suitable stock, and bought some animals, our 
farmer finds that his farming is no child's play, but will need a 
great deal of thought and care, and that a field for study and re- 
search is opened before him as varied and interesting as that offered 
by any other pursuit The best food for the different creatures, 
the improvements to be made in food, in seed, in sowing, cultivat- 
ing, harvesting, and feeding will demand constant care and atten- 
tion, and the exercise of unflagging energy. 

He may be a boor if he chooses, may govern his estate by the 
saws and traditions of his ancestors, may believe in luck and the 
changes of the moon, may be a mere machine, valuable in so far as 
he helps to feed mankind, and pays his taxes ; or, on the other 
hand he may be an agreeable, educated, earnest man of practical 
science. 

I have made no reference to cereal and grass culture, or to his 
fruit or other interests, because they are secondary to his stock. 
The cereals and grass are of great importance and are to be im- 
proved as much as possible, but not more by the stock farmer than 
by others, and the methods followed by those who make these crops 
their principal objects will be imitated by him. 

This stock farmer has something new at all seasons, and some 
profit constantly accruing from the sale of .early lambs, of wool, of 
mutton, of pasture-fed steers and oxen, of butter and cheese, of spare 
fruit, of winter-fed cattle, they are always bringing in a little ready 
money. And what is not spent on the household, should be in- 
vested in improvements, for improving one's farm is, as I have be- 
fore shown, a better investment than mortgages or bank stock. 




CHAPTER XLVL 

GREENHOUSE, CONSERVATORY, AND HOTBEDS. 

ARCH. The work for all these structures has 
been described so minutely and anticipated in 
so many cases, that it is unnecessary to devote 
much time to them now. 

The long days and the high sun of March 
will give so much natural warmth, that fire heat 
may be almost dispensed with; ventilation 
should be free, and constant care be taken to 
keep the moisture of the houses as great as is demanded by plants 
in rapid growth. 

There will now be a larger supply of flowers than hitherto ; 
every plant will be either in blossom or rapidly swelling into buds, 
and the amateur or professional gardener may enjoy fully the pleas- 
ure or profit that he has looked forward to, from the very begin- 
ning of his winter's work. A well-filled greenhouse or conservatory 
in March is always a great satisfaction, and as in November its 
gay beauty consoled us for the decay without, so now its charms 
serve to moderate our eagerness for the coming of spring and to 
while away the tedious weeks of weary waiting for her warm days 
and soft winds and wild flowers. 

It is quite time now to finish our cuttings of the bedding-out 
plants for summer ; if set at this time, they will strike root before 
April, and be quite well grown by the middle of May, which is as 
early as it is generally safe to set them out. 

You will remember that I said the Camelias would be out of 
blossom in the spring, and would either be just making their growth, 
or have already made it. So, too, with other hard-wooded plants 
which blossomed early. They may be pruned into a desirable 
shape as soon as the wood is fairly ripened. 

395 



896 MARCH. 

Azalias will be coming into bloom, and need plenty of water. 

Besides the various methods of propagating plants, already de- 
scribed, is one adapted to hard-wooded plants, called inarching. 
Some of these plants are very difficult to graft, bud, or layer, and 
may be more successfully treated by inarching. 

It differs from grafting in the scion's not being separated from 
the stock, from which it derives the whole, or a part, of its sup- 
port, until the junction is completely effected. 

There are very many methods of performing this operation 5 the 
one generally followed is crown and side inarching. 

The spring is the usual season for out-of-door plants, the sap 
being then in rapid motion, but it may be done in greenhouses at 
any season when plants are growing. 

The plants to be inarched (one of which, at least, must, of course, 
be portable), are to be brought together, and the branches to be 
operated upon should be selected, and crossed, that the best point 
of juncture may be decided. Cut from each branch such a slice 
of the wood and bark, that when the branches are again crossed, 
they will just fit into each other, the sap-wood, cambium, and bark 
of one plant meeting the same parts of the other. Cover the whole 
joint with grafting-wax, to exclude the air. In about a fortnight 
the joint will be made, when cut the scion across the end, thus 
freeing it from its original stock. After another fortnight cut away 
the but-end of the scion, so as to leave none of it not grown to the 
stock, and the operation is completed. 

In all cases the scion and stock must be about the same diam- 
eter, in order to effect a perfect union between them. Sometimes 
scions, which have been cut off the parent plant, are inarched. 
This is done with such scions as are difficult to graft, they needing 
a constant supply of food. 

Inarch as before, but keep the but-end of the scion nearly verti- 
cal ; immerse it in a phial of water, and every few days remove 
the phial, and cut off a thin layer from the end. This will keep 
its vessels open, and enable them to absorb water for its support. 
Some gardeners stick the but-end in a piece of potato, for the same 
purpose. 

Resort must be had to some of these means of increase, with 



GREENHOUSE, ETC. 897 

many of the choice exotics. But few flowers are naturally double, 
or beyond improvement by the gardener's skill ; but when im- 
proved they rarely generate seed which will produce the parent 
plant in all its perfections. Camelias are particularly troublesome 
in this respect. Oranges and Lemons are, if I may be allowed 
the expression, compound plants, and must be budded, grafted, or 
inarched, to produce flowers and fruit at an early age. It is easy 
to grow them from the seed, but only one or two kinds blossom, 
until four or five years from the seed. 

The rich fragrance of the blossoms, the color and character of 
the foliage, and the beauty of the fruit, render Oranges and Lem- 
ons favorite house plants, and they are easily cultivated. 

They like a strong, rich, and -even clayey soil, and during their 
growing and blossoming season, should be watered once or twice a 
week with liquid manure. Their growth never stops, if they are 
properly managed, although it varies in rapidity with the seasons. 
It rarely happens that a collection of Orange trees is without some 
blossoms, and it is very common to see the trees, and even the 
same tree, bearing buds, blossoms, and fruit, at the same time. 

They are readily grown from cuttings, which are to be set, 8 or 
4 inches long, half their depth into sand and loam. Give them gen- 
tle bottom-heat, and moisture, as to other cuttings. In a few weeks 
the cuttings will elongate ; as soon as the roots are well-developed, 
pot and treat like other hard-wooded plants. 

The plants, old and young, need constant, but not superabundant 
moisture. # Too much or prolonged dryness will cause the leaves to 
fall off, which will not be replaced for a year or two. 

The seedling plants may be budded or grafted the fall after they 
are planted ; if you want a standard plant, induce the seedlings to 
grow tall, by removing all side branches, as they appear. The 
Sliaddock and Citron make the best stock for working, as they 
grow strong and rapidly, and make larger plants than others. If 
the plants are set into the shade during the summer, supply mois- 
ture sparingly. 

There are some small Orange-trees, fit only for flowers ; these 
can never be induced to make standards. 

When Oranges become diseased, turn them out of their tubs ; cut 

34 



398 KAKtin. 

out decayed and old roots ; cnt down the branches, or stems, to 
healthy buds ; give new soil and bottom-heat : the plant will soon 
throw out a new and healthy growth. 

These plants need, as they grow, very large pots, in order to sup- 
ply sufficient earth and manure, and this necessity is a serious 
drawback to their successful cultivation. 

This difficulty is obviated 
by the use of such a pot as 
i i is represented in the adjoin- 

ing cut This pot is made of 
slate or of plank. If of plank, 
the inside must be covered 
with pitch, or any paint not 
affected by continued mois- 
ture, to insure durability . The 
sides, a and b, are suspended 
on hinges, with close-fitting 
joints, and are held tight by transverse bars, d, which shut close on 
the opposite sides. 

The roots of plants in such pats can be examined at will, and 
Eoam added or removed. 

Roses, Achimenes, Gloxinias, 'Fuschias, Japan Lilies, Heaths, 
Calceolarias, Carnations, and Pansies should be repotted ; bedding 
plants be started from cuttings. Sow seeds of summer annuals. 
Give Cactuses, Heaths, and Cape Jessamines more water, and air 
well all plants in cold frames. 



CHAPTER XLVII. 

GRAPERY. 

The vines in the forcing-house are now rapidly breaking their 
buds, and must be tied up just as fast as they break evenly along 
the whole cane. 

The first growth is very rapid, and the fruit will show as soon 
as the shoot has grown two or three eyes. Allow them to grow 
until the lower leaves are pretty well expanded, and the flowers 
well formed ; then cut back to one eye beyond the fruit. Never 
in out or in-door culture cut back to the fruit, as is sometimes 
recommended. Remember the analogy between the leaves of the 
vine, the fruit-tree, and Corn, and recall the reasoning applied to 
topping Corn, where it was shown that removing the upper leaves 
from the stalk deprives all below of nourishment ; so with the 
vine. The bud . above the fruit will probably break and grow a 
little way ; stop it at an eye. The leaves thus formed will draw 
sap and elaborate it for the fruit. Leave but one shoot or spur. 

If you have too many spurs, you can cut them out at this sea- 
son without fear of bleeding ; the remaining leaves will consume 
all the sap supplied. Increase the temperature slowly, beginning 
at 60° to 65° by day, and 60° by night ; rising even to 85° with 
the sunshine ; increase towards the last of the month to 70° to 75° 
by day, and 70° by night, allowing the sun to raise it even to 90° ; 
give plenty of air and syringe constantly. 

I hope it will be understood that no more leaves are to be re- 
moved than is necessary to allow the sun a reasonable access to 
the house, and to moderate the growth of the vine. 

Some persons, following the analogy of Corn-topping, assume 

that all the leaves and growth are necessary to perfect the plant 

and its fruit But you know that it is necessary each year to cut 

back the vine, both to make it bear and to keep it within the limits 

399 



400 march. 

of the house. You also know that no plant can grow without 
drawing on the soil for its support ; all that grows and is cut off is 
just so much impoverishment of the soil, and is an unjustifiable 
waste, if it could have been checked by summer pruning and 
pinching. 

Towards the last of the month the buds in the cold grapery 
begin to swell a little ; keep it cool, and do nothing to excite the 
vines into activity, as the next month will be soon enough to wish 
for any start. 

The retarding-house must be kept cool ; cover the glass with 
shades, canvass, etc., in the middle of bright, sunny days, and give 
as much air as you can without chilling the vines. 

In -the forcing-house may be set on the shelves more Strawber- 
ries in pots, and as they ripen they must be attended to. Pots or 
boxes of Cucumber and Melon seeds, also. Renew the Cauli- 
flower plants as they mature, and set them on the shelf or in any 
convenient place. 

The Mushroom beds are now in active growth, and should be 
kept moist. If there is any room, French and Kidney Beans may 
be planted in boxes. 

Use all the spare room for purposes of culture. Broccoli, Cauli- 
flower, boxes and pots of Cardoons, Sea-kale, Lettuce, etc, may 
be set in the cold grapery, ready to be put into the forcing-house 
as they are wanted, but care must be taken that no dead leaves 
or insects are about them, as the injury these would do the vines 
would far exceed the value of the vegetables. These plants will 
all be gone by the time the vines are so grown as to need all the 
room, and exclude the light with their leaves. 

The vines in pots and troughs will be much more advanced than 
those on the rafters ; their berries should have already swelled, 
and be nearly ready for thinning. 

This process cannot be too carefully and thoroughly performed, 
whether in vines or fruit trees ; but in vines, especially, it is essen- 
tial to successful culture and perfect fruit. To thin, provide your- 
self with a pair of long, but narrow and fine-pointed scissors ; go 
over the vines carefully, bunch by bunch, and snip out every im- 
perfect berry, and enough perfect ones to reduce the bunch to a 



GRAPERY. 401 

good and healthy proportion and size. No rule can be given to 
guide in this operation, from the difference in the size of the ber- 
ries, the larger ones needing more thinning than others. The pro- 
cess must be repeated when the Grapes color and swell. 

Be very careful not to touch the berries with the hand, which 
would produce rust ; it is well to wear gloves. Remove the ber- 
ries that you cut off at once, as their decay would injure the atmos- 
phere. 

One great difficulty in Grape culture is shanking or shrivelling, 
that is, the drying up and discoloration of the bunch and footstalk. 

Many reasons have been given for this disease, and many reme- 
dies proposed. It attacks the cold grapery in the early summer 
months, but is less likely to trouble a forcing-house, where heat 
can be regulated, and "where ventilation, light, and moisture, are 
abundant 

Mr. J. F. Allen, the author before quoted, says, that it is u a 
disease peculiar to the Grape in its culture under glass structures, 
caused by a deficiency of nourishment, which deficiency is occa- 
sioned principally by a defective atmosphere in the house, causing 
stagnation in the flow of the sap ; and this difficulty may be in- 
creased, and the spread of the evil promoted, by various causes, 
such as a poor border, general weakness of the vine, overcropping, 
and chiefly by not paying due care to the ventilation of the 

house." 

< 

The last of the month, remove the litter from the border of the 
cold grapery, and cover it with a thick coat of strong horse ma- 

9 

Dure, which, by its fermentation, will begin to heat the border. 

The fruit trees in the forcing-house will soon begin to grow, and 
must be attended to, according to former directions. 

84* 



CHAPTER XLVIH. 



FLO WEB AND KITCHEN 



Beds of Ranunculuses, Daisies, Anemones, etc, should be opened 
as often as it is safe, and on some of them, it will be well to put 
sashes, as, by so doing, we may soon start growth and blossoms. 
But be careful not to let your spring enthusiasm get too much glass 
under way, as it demands a great deal of care and attention. 

Some time in March, if the weather is mild, and the ground 
thaws, the Snowdrops will bloom, and often in sheltered places, 
even before the snow is entirely gone, Crocuses will follow, and 
Pansies will prick up their leaves and venture into blossom ; Eng- 
lish Violets can be induced to bloom by setting movable glasses over 
them. 

A very simple contrivance which may be 

used to facilitate the blooming of such 

plants, is shown in the adjoining cut A 

common square box, without top or bottom. 

On the upper edge is fastened a rebated 

frame, the groove of which receives the 

pane of common glass a. The inclination 

should be such that the rays of the sun will fall perpendicularly 

upon it at some part of the day. Lay around the bottom of the 

box, and over the adjoining ground for a few feet, leaves, or litter, 

to keep* it a Uttle warm. Plants thus enclosed, must receive due 

ventilation, and some water, as in a hotbed. You can get earlier 

Violets, Daisies, Polyanthuses, etc, by this method than by any 

other. 

Keep the roses and other plants which were frozen up in No- 
vember, in the coldest place possible, until into April, or, at least, 
until the ground is permanently thawed. 
Whatever kind of hotbeds you have decided to use, begin to heat 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 408 

them now, and, as soon as they are thoroughly warmed, sow the 
seeds of the earliest vegetables ; there is no hurry, as yet, about 
the seeds of annual or other flowering plants ; the last of the month, 
or the first of April will be time enough. 

Examine the beds in which Cabbage, Cauliflower, and Lettuce 
plants were wintered. If they are in good condition, and promise 
plants enough, no more seeds need be sown ; if not, plant the earliest 
varieties now. Keep the heat of the beds constant, till the young 
plants are well started, with little ventilation. After they have 
made a few leaves, give air cautiously, but enough to harden the 
plants gradually. Follow these sowings with Cucumbers and 
Melons. Those which are to be fruited in the bed, may be planted 
among the Lettuce and other plants, as the vines will not increase 
much before the Salads are all gone. 

If the Melons and Cucumbers are to be afterwards set out in the 
garden, set small, square bits of sod, grass side down, or thumb pots, 
just under the surface ; sow the seeds on the earth over the sods or 
pots, so that when well grown, and when the weather will permit, 
they may be transplanted, sod and all, into the open ground. 

Towards the latter part of the month, we shall sow seeds of To- 
matoes. To get them extra early, sow the seeds the last of Febru- 
ary, or first of. March. Remember what was said about selecting 
the seeds from the earliest ripened fruit of last year ; if our seed 
did not ripen as early as those of our neighbor, we had better buy 
his. 

We shall not sow seeds of Salads, Parsley, Herbs, etc., as they 
will come early enough when planted in the open ground, but, if it 
were desirable, this would be the time to do it 

Fill two frames with the Asparagus roots taken up in the autumn, 
for forcing. If planted according to previous directions, we shall 
have it for the table by the last of the month. 

Sow the seeds of Egg-plant, Broccoli, Endive, Cardoons, and 
prick out into the succession beds, some of the winter-saved Salad, 
Cabbage, or Cauliflower plants, for an early start. 

A market-gardener should begin in February or even in January 
to start his vegetables in hotbeds, for an early market, but the family 
wants, in a country place like ours, do not demand this, The little 



404 MARCH. 

that we need can be grown easily in the forcing-house ; and if we 
had no such convenience, I should not advise you to have many hot- 
beds. They are costly and troublesome,! and the vegetables grown to 
maturity in them never have the flavor which they attain when 
grown in the ordinaiy way. A well-managed kitchen-garden, with 
conservative pits and cold frames, will afford an ample supply of 
vegetables to carry a family fairly through the winter, till the nat- 
ural round begins again. 

There are some crops besides the tropical fruits which can be 
had only by hothouse culture ; and there are others, as Salads and 
Potatoes, that cannot be well preserved through the winter, and the 
use of which is so important, that we wish to have no interval 
without them. For Potatoes, indeed, we need hotbeds only to start 
the sprouts, and even for this they are not essential. 

In a dry, well-sheltered place, raise a bed of horse manure 18 
inches deep, about the middle of March; lay it down and beat it well 
with the fork, making the bed as long as you please, and any width. 
Over the manure lay 2 inches of loam, on which spread evenly 
seed Potatoes, whole if small, cut if large, and cover them with 2 
inches of loam. Box it in with boards like a hotbed, and bank the 
outside with leaves and manure ; but be careful that it does not 
overheat and injure the Potatoes. The Potatoes will sprout, and 
begin to grow, by the time it will do to set them out in April. Wljen 
planted they will require extra care. Plant them in ridges, slightly 
raised above the surface (not more than six inches) by manure, in a 
spot sheltered from the north and west, and well open to the east 
and south. Over the manure throw an inch of earth, on which 
place the potatoes, and cover them with two inches of earth. If 
the sprouts appear before frosts are gone, cover the ridges every 
night with long straw, old hay, or seaweed. This litter may be 
left in the furrows, shaken on with a dung-fork every night, and 
removed in the morning. Potatoes grown with this care will be 
ripe the last of June. 

If started in a hotbed they must be even more carefully watched, 
and as the sprouts appear you may cut them off, with a little bit 
of the tuber, and prick them out in a new bed. They will all 
grow, and produce abundantly. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 405 

No subject has been more discussed by cultivators, than the 
proper method of planting Potatoes ; whether whole or cut, large 
or small. It would seem as if this point might have been decided 
long ago, with regard to a plant so common, and so long known, 
but it is 'still a matter for experiment I have seen Potatoes grown 
from parings, which had found their way, through the swill-pail, to 
the manure-heap, and thence to a hotbed, where they produced 
tubers. The same result has been obtained, when it was not a 
matter of accident. It seems really a simple ^question, and one 
that need not remain undecided, to engage the attention of horti- 
culturists year after year. We know that as in the grapevine, the 
cutting of a single eye, or the budding of a single bud, grows read- 
ily, and produces for years ; so in the Potato, each eye or sprout 
will grow, and produce abundantly, when cut from the tuber, and 
planted separately. The eye, then, is a perfect germ, containing 
in itself all that is necessary to growth. Each tuber has many 
eyes, as a long grapevine cutting has many buds. When these 
eyes start to grow, their rootlets find a little food stored for them 
in the tuber, and when they have exhausted this, they must de- 
pend upon the earth to support them. It is true that the feebler 
rootlets may at first find their most suitable nourishment in the 
tuber, before they are able to select for themselves food in the soil, 
but beyond this the tuber is of no value ; and, as you see, we can 
eat our Potatoes and have them too. Of course the crop will be 
in proportion to the number of eyes planted. 

Whether small or large Potatoes are best, may depend somewhat 
on the variety, but in any case those should be used for seed which 
are the most mature. As in trees, and other plants, the best ripened 
buds, namely, those from the middle of the stem or branch, are 
always found to grow and bear quicker than others, so it is with 
the tubers of the potato. 

The Potatoes that we shall plant for early forcing are, Hill's 
Early, Early White, Chenangoes, and Jackson White. 
* In our climate it is never safe to plant out-of-doors in March, 
any thing that can be injured by frost, but we may reduce the cov- 
ering from about the cold frames and lighten it over the Tulips, 
etc. so as gradually to harden them. 



406 MARCH. 

You will find the Parsnips and Oyster plants which you covered 
over and left in the ground, last autumn, in fine condition for the 
table now, and the Horseradish may also be dug. 

Many kinds of vegetables which are rare in this country, might 
be cultivated to great advantage. The choice of vegetables for 
culture seems to be to a great extent, a matter of locality, some na- 
tions growing a few varieties in abundance, which others care but 
little about. For a notable example, take the Salad tribe ; the 
French depend upon Salads for a relish to every meal ; the Eng- 
lish use them but little, and we still less. In the Netherlands, Ar- 
tichokes, Cardoons, and some other vegetables, are more in favor 
than either in France or England. 

All these vegetables are good food, and especially valuable as 
affording a variety which is wholesome for all classes, and particu- 
larly beneficial to the poor, to whom vegetables afford a large 
amount of cheap and nutritious food. 

A description of the method of cultivating and using a few of them, 
may interest some persons, and to aid in introducing them to gen- 
eral attention, I have condensed the following directions from some 
English treatises : Artichokes are cooked and eaten in various ways ; 
the blossom, bud, or head, just before it expands, is eaten as a Salad, 
and, also pickled. The scales of the calyx, with the fleshy adherent 
portion, are pulled off, dipped in salt, oil, and vinegar, and eaten. 
The button, which is the top of the receptacle which holds the im- 
perfect seed, is sometimes eaten in the same way, sometimes fried 
in butter, sometimes used in fricassee and ragout, and sometimes 
pickled. The head may be quartered, and, after the chaffy down 
and seeds attached are removed, used as a Salad or pickled. 

Some cultivators, as soon as the leaves are well developed, and 
the flower stem beginning to grow, that is, the first of June, cut all 
level with the earth ; a new and vigorous growth of leaves follows, 
which, in the autumn, is held together, and hilled like Celery to 
blanch. It is then covered with a little litter, and in six weeks the 
blanching process will be over, and it may be cooked with drawn' 
butter, or in various other ways, which are described in cookery 
books. In this state it is called Artichoke Chard. 

The Jerusalem Artichoke is another species of plant, is good food 



KITCHEN-GABDEN. 407 

for cattle and hogs, and, if cultivated for this purpose will yield 
large and profitable crops, and some persons think, is superior to 
the common Potato for the table. 

There are several varieties of the Artichokes, some of which, 
produced by French gardeners, have very large heads. The globe 
is the one most used as food in England, andjhe best for a novice in 
culture to try. Others are the oval, or conical, the dwarf, globe, 
etc. 

The seed of the Artichoke seldom ripens in England, but freely 
on the continent of Europe, and on our own, in favorable and warm 
exposures. The bed may be made from seed, or slips, or eyes, or 
from dividing the tubers themselves. 

The suckers, or slips, are taken from the old roots as soon as 
they have formed some roots. The best way to take them, is to 
remove a little of the earth from the old tuber, and thus seeing the 
exact position of the slip, to cut off a small piece of the tuber with 
it. The suckers should be taken when from 12 to 15 inches high, 
with care not to injure the leaves ; plant them in rows 4 feet apart, 
sets 2 feet apart ; water till they are well established. The new 
sets will produce heads the first season, but not so early, or so large 
as the old ones. Keep the ground well stirred, then cutout all the 
suckers that rise in the spring, except the three or four best. Gut 
the crop when matured, as it weakens the plant to allow it to 
flower, and, when the head is cut, remove the stem down to the 
root. 

In the autumn, when the heads are all gone, cover the bed with 
horse manure and tan. Early in the spring dig it in carefully, 
so as not to injure the crowns of the plants, and also dig plenty of 
manure into the alleys. The Artichoke is a gross feeder, and the 
roots run deep, so that the ground should be well enriched before 
making the bed. Salt in large quantities, and wood-ashes are 
found to contribute largely to the growth and development of these 
plants. 

If you wish to save any of the heads for future use, cut off with 
them, 3 or 4 feet of stem ; set them in a dark cellar in damp sand, 
and every day draw them out, and cut off a small bit of the stem; 
they will thus continue to absorb moisture for a long time. 



408 MARCH. 

You may divide the old roots if you choose, instead of taking off 
suckers ; this can be done any time after the buds have fairly be- 
gun to grow. But it is thought by many that such plants never 
thrive as well as the suckers. 

The Jerusalem Artichoke, Helianthus tuberosum, is cut into eyes 
for planting, or set like Potatoes, and planted in well-manured 
ridges, 3 feet apart, and 8 inches between the sets, covered 3 inches 
deep ; cultivated through the season, and dug either in the fall of 
the same year, or the spring of the year ensuing. They are so 
hardy that they would endure our winters with no, or but a slight, 
covering. In digging, only the largest tubers are selected for use, 
the others being returned to the earth for the next year's crop, and 
a field once planted, will keep itself in bearing for several years, 
and will yield as abundantly as Potatoes. Many persons in Europe 
use them for the table constantly and with great relish. 

Cardoons are much prized on the continent of Europe, and 
somewhat used in England. The footstalk, as well as the midrib 
of the leaves, is used for stewing, soups, and even Salads, in au- 
tumn and winter. They require blanching, to make them tender, 
and to remove bitterness. Of course the longer the stems 'the 
better, the more rapidly grown the more tender, and the better 
blanched the more attractive they become. For cooking, the solid 
part of the stem is cut into lengths of 6 inches, and boiled in pure 
fresh water until tender ; then remove the slime and strings which 
will cover the pieces, wash them clean, put in fresh cold water 
until wanted, then eat with white sauce, etc, as Artichokes. 

This plant is a perennial in the south of Europe, but an annual 
elsewhere ; it is sown every year in hotbeds in March, and out of 
doors in May. They would not be sure to do well in our climate, 
unless, like Celery, started in a hotbed. Sow in thumb-pots, or in 
bits of sod. Two ounces of seed will sow a bed of 32 square feet. 
Plants in pots may be set 14 inches apart in the rows, which 
should be 4 or 5 feet apart. The beds must be well manured be- 
fore the plants are set out, which they should be like Celery, when 
18 inches high. Tie them to stakes 3 feet high, to prevent the 
leaves from breaking. Earth up at the same time, and continue 
to earth gradually as the leaves grow. Water should be supplied 



KITCHEN-GARDEN.' 409 

abundantly, and always, if possible, enriched with manure. They 
will be ready for use in the autumn and through the winter, like 
Celery; treat it in the same manner, to protect it from cold 
weather. 

Endive is a salad plant of the Chicory family, like the Lettuce. 
It is sown in July or August, for winter use. Sow the seeds in 
beds, broadcast Stimulate the grotf th of the plants as much as 
possible by liquid manure ; when 2£ inches high, prick out small 
kinds in rich soil, 4 inches apart ; water till they begin to grow. 

An early crop may be* sown in May, and pricked out amongst 
Peas, Cabbage, etc. ; but few should be grown at a time, as the warm- 
weather stimulates the production of flower and seed stems. Large 
kinds are to be planted 10 to 12 inches apart, in rich soil, in rows, 
12 to 15 inches apart As it is to grow late, the bed should slope to 
the south, to get the late sun. The Endive is to be blanched to make 
it perfect As it blanches with some rapidity, do not prepare more 
than 6 or 8 days' supply at a time. Begin at the end of the row, 
and holding the leaves close together ; tie a strand of matting 
around them, at the same time heaping up the earth. When the 
weather is cold, or not favorable for blanching in this way, use a 
blanching-pot Invert a flower-pot over the plant, covering the 
hole in the bottom of the pot with a stone. An Endive pot is 
better. The knob at the top renders it easy 
to handle, and its flare encloses all the leaves. 
When planted late, Endive comes into use 
just before winter, and with care may be 
made a winter Salad. Tie up the leaves, 
raise the plant with a ball of earth, and set iti 
out in a dry and cool place, like the conserv- ^SS 
ative pit. If it is to be depended upon for Salad, a cold pit or 
frame should be constructed on purpose. It bears a good deal of 
cold, and is a valuable adjunct to a winter table. It may be eaten 
boiled, if desired, as may Lettuce also, but must be blanched in 
either case. 

Succory, another plant of the same family, and indeed the type 
of the family, is also very valuable, both as a Salad and for its 

85 




410 MAKCH. 

roots, which are used to adulterate coffee, and for other purposes. 
The seeds of Succory are sowed in June, in rich earth ; when the 
plants come up, thin in the rows 6 inches apart. By the beginning 
of October, the roots will be well grown ; they are then taken up 
and packed away for use. It is a perennial, and, like Carrots and 
Beets, it has stowed away in itself the material for a growth of 
leaves. If the blanched lefves are wanted in the early winter, 
set the roots as thickly as possible in a hotbed frame ; pack sand 
amongst them. A few weeks before they are wanted, lay over 
their crowns 6 or 8 inches of loam, and* a foot of manure. The 
leaves soon shoot into this earth, and become white and crisp, and 
ready for use. They may also be packed horizontally in boxes, 
covered with earth, and set in a warm cellar ; before spring they 
will be found to have grown, and to be beautifully blanched. Or 
a cask of any .kind may be bored with holes l£ inches in diameter, 
and 3- inches apart ; insert roots all round, horizontally ; cover with 
earth, and make a new boring and a new layer of roots ; continue 
till the cask is full. Fill several in the same way, and set them 
in a cold place. When you want the Salad, remove one cask at a 
time into a warm place, and follow in a week or two by another ; 
the temperature to be from 40° to 60°. The leaves are to be cut 
when 7 to 8 inches long, taking a thin slice of the crown. To be 
eaten with oil, vinegar, and salt. Three handfuls will make a good 
Salad. 

Dandelions are grown for our markets ; the seed is sown in May, 
the plants tended till winter, when they are covered up, and they 
start very early in the spring, giving larger and better Salad than 
the wild plants. It is eaten abroad, blanched like Succory. 

Mustard is more generally used for Salad than any other of this 
family of plants. The varieties are numerous, but all are culti- 
vated in the same manner. The plant is used when in the cotyle- 
don state ; the two firBt leaves thrown up by the seed. Sow it 
every three or four days, and set in such places as will insure the 
most rapid growth, 

Some London gardeners have the floors of hothouses covered 
with tan, and sprinkle the seed on every other day, thus keeping a 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 411 

constant supply. The plants are cut when 3 inches high, tied in 
bunches, rinsed, and put on the table. Soaking in water injures all 
Salads of this family. The seed may be sown, for private use, in 
shallow boxes, and set in a warm but shaded place. 

Cresses are various in kind ; the Water and Winter Cress are the 
ordinary kinds. Water Cress may be got by sowing the seed in 
any moderately still running water, or by laying branches of the 
plant on the surface, which will mature and spread their seed. 
They should be gathered young dnd eaten at once. 

Winter Cress is grown* from seed sown in drills, in August ; half 
an ounce of seed will sow 20 feet of drill. As the plants grow, 
pick off the outside leaves for use, cut the flower stems down as 
they appear. A very slight protection will carry through the win* 
ter, the plants being thinned out in the autumn to prevent damp- 
ing ofF. 

Sea-kale is a Salad much used in Europe, and very valuable in 
all scorbutic diseases. The blanched shoots, and the midribs of the 
leaves are the parts eaten, and when ready for food, they are 
cooked like Cardoons. It may be grown from seed or from cut- 
tings of the root Seed should be sown late in April, in drills 2 
inches deep, and 6 or 8 inches apart. Two ounces of seed will 
sow a bed of 32 square feet, broad-cast, or in drills a foot apart 
The seed is very apt to be imperfect, but this may be easily ascer- 
tained by cutting them across ; the good ones will be plump and 
solid. 

When the seed vegetates, keep it clear, and when large enough, 
thin the plants to a foot apart ; the plants removed, may be trans- 
planted ; only one bud should be allowed to grow, although several 
will appear, particularly on plants which come from cuttings of the 
root All summer, and through the fall, the plants are kept well 
hoed ; before winter cut them all over, and cover with straw or 
manure. 

The young plants have very few fibrous roots, and a long tap 
root They are, therefore, easily set with a long wooden dibble, 3£ 
feet long with a handle at the top, and a cross piece as a guage, 
from 9 to 12 inches from its point, but made so as to shift for shorter 



412 



MARCH. 







T roots than this, which is their average length. The lower 
part should be 3£ inches in diameter, tapering to 2 inches 
at an obtuse point The holes should be made by one man, 
guided by a line, and followed by another man with the 
roots, which may be rapidly set in the holes, the soil filled 
in by a pressure of the foot. The young plants left covered 
in the fall, will start to grow very early in the spring, or 
may be forced. Before forcing, remove the leaves and lit- 
ter, then salt the bed well, and syringe, or water with a 
caustic lime-water, to kill slugs, snails, etc Cover the 
crowns of the plants with an inch or two of fine sand ; over the 

tops of the plants, set Sea-kale pots, which 
differ from the Cardoon pots, only in having a 
cover. Cover around the pots enough ferment- 
ing material, as horse manure, to raise the tem- 
perature of the bed to about 60°. In six or 
seven weeks, the pots will be full of the plant 
The covers are necessary to enable us to ex- 
amine the growth and health of the plants. Various other con- 
trivances are resorted to, but none is so good as this. Boxes cov- 
ered with laths, and all similar arrangements admit the gases of the 
manure into the plants and injure them. 

The plants to be forced in the hotbed, are taken up in the au- 
tumn, and kept cool and dry till the time for forcing. Open a hot- 
bed frame, and fill as usual with manure ; then cover with enough 
earth to allow the roots to be set within 2 inches of their depth ; 
cut across the length of the bed, a trench, into which pack the roots 
as thick as possible ; cut another trench 5 inches from the last, 
and so on, until the bed is full. Cover the crowns with six inches 
of straw ; over the beds, nail hoops covered with mats or canvass, 
and cover the whole with straw. In this way an enormous quantity 
may be forced at once. Five well-grown heads are an ample sup- 
ply for a family at one time. The roots may also be forced, as 
directed for Cardoons. 

Whoever has a glass house of any kind, has opportunity to raise 
an unlimited supply of winter vegetables. Mustard may be sown 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 413 

on the floor ; Sea-kale and Cardoons may be forced and blanched 
under tables, and along the flues, and Lettuce and Endive forced 
under the sashes. 

Borecole is another vegetable for winter and spring, much es- 
teemed wherever the winters are moderate. It is a Cabbage-like 
plant, but does not head like a Cabbage, nor blossom like the 
Cauliflower. The crown, or centre of the plant is cut out in 
November, and continues in use through the winter, and if well 
protected by branches and litter, the stump will yield an abundance 
of delicate shoots in the spring. In character and treatment it is 
like the Cabbage. 

Broccoli is the last of these vegetables, not in common use, which 
I shall mention at present It is used in winter and spring, when 
Cauliflower is not easily obtained, and the best varieties can hardly 
be distinguished from Cauliflower by the taste. Broccoli is grown 
from seed. Sow the seed in lines two feet apart, in holes two inches 
apart Drop three seeds in each hole ; when they come up, thin 
out all but the best plant. For early use, sow the first of May ; 
for autumn, last of May ; for winter, last of June. 

Do not transplant unless necessary, as it induces the plant to 
button, i.e., run up prematurely in small flower-stems and buds ; as 
the plants grow, tread the earth hard about their roots. The first 
of November dig a trench through the warmest part of the garden ; 
take up all the plants which are expected to blossom in the early 
spring, and plant them out against the sloping bank of earth above 
the trench ; then cover the roots up to the lower leaves with earth. 
The plants will root in this position, and yet not grow much before 
spring. As winter comes on, cover the tops with litter, not deeply ; 
remove it to give light and air, whenever the weather will permit 
But be sure so to shelter the heads of the plants that the rain and 
snow will be shed off them, as otherwise they will rot. 

The full-grown plants may be set in a cold pit, or preserved, as I 
have hitherto directed, for Celery. It is somewhat doubtful 
whether plants preserved in trenches would always survive the 
weather in this climate, as they would be deprived of light and air 
in the severest season, but in moderate weather their success is 

35* 



414 MARCH. 

certain, and in the Middle or Southern States they would need no 
litter over their heads. 

Cauliflowers may be readily protected and forced, where there is 
a good conservative pit, or a greenhouse. The seed should be 
sown in seedbeds, the middle of August, As soon as well grown, 
prick them out 4 inches apart, in a cold frame ; when well 
started cool and check growth as much as possible. Cover at the 
approach of winter; give light and air when possible, and towards 
spring put on the sashes, and induce growth. When the weather 
allows, transplant to a warm spot, and cover with a bell-glass, like 
the Endive pot, except in its material. 

The cut shows a still better protection. The bottom is a quad- 
rilateral of strong glass, set in an iron 
sash, four panes each side. An iron 
rebated edge is added to the top, into 
■ which a pyramidal cover is fitted of 
T| glass, in an iron frame. This cover 
I' can be removed at pleasure. By partly 
I turning it we may give air, without too 
great exposure. If planted near a 
wall or close fence, they may be protected by mats or covers. For 
late summer use they may be sown in the hotbed this month, and 
in the open ground early in May ; they will blossom in September. 
They are easy to grow, needing only rich soil and good culture ; 
if they button, it is from poor soil or poor seed. The flower is 
often 9 inches in diameter, but this size is no proof of goodness ; 
2 or 3 inches is the best size, and the perfection of a flower 
is shown in its creamy color and smooth texture. When the flower 
has opened enough to look bunchy or warty, much of its value is 
gone. It should be cut just below the flower, and all but the in- 
nermost leaves removed. If an early frost threatens, cut with a 
long stem, and hang up, heads down, in a cool, dark shed or cellar, 
and they may be preserved for some time. 



CHAPTER XLIX. 

ORCHARD. 

Lose no time in finishing pruning, as there will soon be other 
work to occupy the attention of the men. As you prune, be on 
the lookout for the eggs of insects. Caterpillar eggs of various 
kinds will be found glued to the forks of twigs, and canker worms 
to the twigs themselves. If the trees were not well manured in 
the fall, cart out into the orchard now an abundance of manure, 
and leave it in convenient piles about the field for ready use, and 
just as soon as the frost will allow, dig it in. 

It may seem strange to my readers that I have so often directed 
that manure should be left in piles in the open fields, when it is 
one of the principles of good farming that manure should be kept 
under cover, to prevent the evaporation of the gases, and to avoid 
the washing of rain and snow. I have not enlarged on the method 
of making manure, as it is so generally well understood. 

Manure should be mixed daily with meadow mud, sand, loam, 
or any similar material; this absorbs the liquid portions of the 
manure, and the gases, and preserves them for the use of plants. 
I have directed that the manure heap should at times be sprinkled 
with weak sulphuric acid. This acid combines with the volatile 
gas of ammonia, one of the most valuable constituents of the ma- 
nure, and changes it into the sulphate of ammonia, which is not 
a volatile gas, but a salt, in a solid form, and soluble in water. 

Manure which has been well mixed with loam, can be affected 
but little by evaporation in winter, when the cold weather reduces 
any possible fermentation, and in every way discourages evapora- 
tion. 

It cannot be denied that rain will wash the pile, but this wash- 
ing will be less in winter, for then the manure is frozen, and yields 
less to the washing. And if the piles are made large, the loss will 

415 



416 MARCH. 

be slight, as the surface only will be affected, the great mass re- 
maining uninjured, and even this apparent loss is not total, as it 
will fertilize the neighboring grass. 

It is true that it is better whenever it is possible, to keep the 
manure under cover, but generally the room is needed for other 
purposes, and besides, the spring work is often hurried at the last, 
and it is a great saving of time to have it all ready on the spot 
where it is to be used. There is also some land too soft to cart 
upon in an unfrozen state. 

Canker Worms. — Towards the last of this month, if the weather 
is mild, and certainly in April, the canker worms will begin to come 
out of the ground, to ascend the trees, and lay their eggs. Now is 
the time to be after them, and if every farmer will carefully attend 
to his trees, this nuisance can be effectually destroyed, and with a 
combination of farmers for this purpose, the whole race of canker 
worms could be exterminated, and that of caterpillars reduced to a 
small remnant But in every neighborhood there are always some 
slack or careless men, who will never unite with others for any 
good purpose, and their negligence results in injury to themselves 
and their neighbors. 

The canker worm can be destroyed only by care. The male is 
a miller, and flies where he choses, — whilst the female crawls. 
The egg being laid on the twigs of a tree, hatches, and the insect 
eats its fill, and after a time lowers itself into the ground, where it 
is transformed into a male or female worm. As soon as the frost 
is out of the soil in the spring, or during the mild weather in Oc- 
tober and November, they come to the surface, the females crawl, 
and the males fly, to the nearest tree. Up the tree they go, and 
on their passage the females are sought and fertilized by the male. 
Having ascended the tree, they lay their eggs and die. The method 
of their destruction is simple. 

Surround the stem of the tree with some trap into which they 
may fall, or in which they may stick. The simplest plan is to tie 
tight round the but of a tree, a piece of tarred paper. Smear the 
paper with common coal tar, or some of the patent canker worm 
destroyers. They are all liquid, and a combination of tar and 



ORCHABD. 417 

grease, which will remain for a long time soft in the air. The 
females crawl into it,' and stick there. By renewing the prepara- 
tion every few days during the season of their emergence, they 
may all be caught. Some of the eggs may not have hatched, 
either in the tree or on the ground, and will keep over till the next 
season, so that the work must be repeated every fall and spring for 
three years. At the end of that time the worms will be thor- 
oughly exterminated, and it will be many years before another 
horde can arrive at the same place. 

There are various canker worm traps, each of which has its 
merits, and once applied, some of them need no farther care for 
the season ; but I should discountenance all which are bound tight 
round the tree for more than a few months at a time, as they will 
surely prevent its expansion and growth, and do serious harm. 
The cheap plan that I have described is harmless and efficient ; 
more expensive and less unsightly methods may be adopted by 
those who prefer them. 

This protection against the attacks of canker-worms and cater- 
pillars, brings us directly to the general subject of the removal of 
insects and their eggs from the surface of trees. 

The most common practice among gardeners and amateurs is, in 
the spring of each year to go round with a triangular scraper, to 
curry down all the trees in the orchard and ornamental grounds, 
whose rough bark seems to harbor insects. After being scraped as 
smooth and round as possible, the trees are covered with a wash of 
lime, mud, or cement, to cover the torn bark, and farther to eradi- 
cate the insects. This practice is nearly universal, and supported 
by very illogical reasoning. 

You will remember that I have before directed that the trees and 
vines cultivated under glass, should be washed with soft soap, sul- 
phur, etc, before vegetation begins, and also that some of them 
should sometimes be bathed in spirits of tar, to remove the eggs 
and the young of thrips, red spiders, etc. 

This direction was given, because the eggs of all these insects 
are laid upon the outside of the bark, or in its crevices, and may 
be thus destroyed, and because the insects themselves are destruc- 
tive to the trees when under glass, but not when out of doors. 



418 MARCH. 

This sound horticultural practice, together with the strength of a 
certain authority, has led to scraping and washing. 

Those who have the charge of the trees on Boston Common annu- 
ally scrape every Elm, and other rough-barked tree, and then plaster 
them. This treatment of ornamental trees seems to have originated 
in the false reasoning of some Boston theorist, and has spread far and 
wide, from the weight of the great example, among the smaller 
towns. The reasoning seems to be that it would not be done in 
Boston if it were not right ; and that if it is right for Boston, it is 
right for every place. The conclusion would be well enough, if 
the premises were correct ; but it is neither right for Boston trees 
nor any other trees, and it cannot be proved that any tree out of a 
fruithouse was ever benefited by such application. 

This wholesale denial may seem rash to those who advocate 
scraping, but I believe it to be incontrovertible. f ne g°°d 
effects of the practice in the fruithouse, have joined with a 
misapprehension about the meaning of a common natural phe- 
nomenon to encourage the tree-scraping. This phenomenon is 
the abundance of Lichens and Mosses of various kinds on all 
diseased trees, whether in cultivated grounds or not. These para- 
sites being the constant accompaniments of disease in trees, have 
been supposed to be the cause of the disease, when in fact they are 
merely the consequence. It would be as reasonable to assume 
that the hurried pulse, and hot, red skin of scarlet fever are the 
cause of the disease, and to practise for their removal accordingly. 
They are the symptoms and consequences of the fever, which de- 
part with it ; and the same is true of the parasites, of those at 
least which are at all harmful. But let us take up this question 
methodically, and examine separately each of the supposed bene- 
fits of the scraping process. Its advocates claim that it removes 
from trees destructive insects and injurious parasites. 

First, the insects. Many nests of eggs, and sometimes insects 
themselves, may be found in the rough bark of any tree in the 
spring, and scraping and washing would probably kill them. But 
examination of these eggs has proved again and again that they 
are the eggs and larvae of spiders, and other insects, not known to 
be materially injurious to vegetation. The insects which really 



ORCHARD. 419 

make the bark a screen for attacks on the tree are tree-borers and 
wood-wasps, which go through the bark at once into the wood, and 
can only be killed with a wire, as before directed, and another 
borer, which goes under the bark, and cannot be reached till the 
entire thickness of bark is removed. The woolly-aphis and bark- 
• louse lay eggs on the bark, near the roots, and in the forks of the 
branches, but never accumulate in sufficient numbers to harm the 
tree, and certainly need not be scraped for where they do not exist. 
All other insects that really injure trees, such as canker-worms and 
caterpillars, lay their eggs on the twigs, and in the forks of the small 
branches, or on and under the leaves ; in these situations it is, of 
course, impossible to reach them by scraping. 

I do not 'give this more in detail, because I think it foolish to 
write at length about things with regard to which any candid reader 
may satisfy himself by a slight investigation. 

The insects so injurious to trees and vines under glass, almost 
never attack a tree or vine in the open air, unless under some pecu- 
liar circumstances, which would not be affected by scraping and 
washing. 

Lay it down, then, as a rule in your horticultural practice, that 
no tree is to be thus treated for the removal or prevention of in- 
sects. 

Second, parasites. Driven from the untenable ground that 
scraping saves the tree from destructive insects, our opponents fall 
back with confidence on the assertion that no more certain means 
can be contrived to remove parasites. 

The bark of every tree is the home of different Lichens, Mosses, 
Liverworts, which may be included under the name of parasites, 
and, moreover, different trees support different and peculiar specie*, 
which as surely mark the variety of tree as do the fruit and flower. 
Now what is the value of the bark to the tree ? 

We have already settled that the inside bark alone is actively 
engaged in supporting the tree, that the outside bark is dead and 
almost entirely disconnected with the inner and sap-transmitting 
layer; that it grows thicker as the tree grows older, till in some 
trees, 'like the Cork Oak, White Oak, Shell-bark Hickory, it be- 
comes so useless as to be thrown off by the action of the elements, 



420 MARCH. 

in strips and fragments of various sizes. The innumerable para- 
sites which live upon the bark, are all nourished by roots of some 
kind, — whether real roots or a root surface to the under side of 
the frond, — but of all the multitude only a very small number 
ever penetrate — by roots or otherwise — to the inner and living 
sap-bark, and none of these are found to injure healthy trees, on ' 
wjiich they never largely spread. The only parasites which pene- 
trate to the inner bark (like the umea barbata) make their appear- 
ance on trees that have begun to deteriorate, and as the tree grows 
more unhealthy, they increase in number. They are the hasty 
pulse and red skin of the fever patient. Will it cure the sick tree 
to scrape them off? 

The currying process, then, is inefficient as regards the removal 
or prevention of destructive insects, and there is no need of it to 
remove parasites. It does no good. Let us see whether it does 
no harm. 

The outer bark serves a useful purpose to the tree, though it 
carries no sap which the parasite can intercept and appropriate; 
it is a clothing for protection against heat and cold, both to those 
trees on which it grows rough and loose, and to those where it be* 
comes closer, harder, more condensed with each successive season, 
as is the case with the Smooth-barked Hickories, the Maples, and 
Lindens. The rough bark is like the wool of sheep, the smoother, 
denser bark, like the skin of men. If any farther illustration is 
needed, it may be found in the fabrics we select for our winter 
clothing, thick, non-conducting materials. This half-dead, outer 
bark protects the inner bark and wood against heat and cold ; pre- 
vents the early spring sun from overheating them ; protects the 
sap that has begun to stir from the night frost, which would freeze 
it, and so burst the sap vessels ; and is equally and for the same 
reason useful in the fall. 

Now scrape a tree all over, reducing the thickness of the bark 
appreciably, and just so much do you reduce its clothing, nature's 
shield, just so much do you expose the tree to injury. 

Again, this outer bark is a protection against excessive evapora-, 
tion. We have already considered the pores by which leaves ab- 
sorb and exhale moisture. In a similar way young or tender bark 



ORCHARD. 421 

takes in or gives out moisture, the degree differing with local cir- 
cumstances and the habits of the plant The Sunflower, and all 
plants which grow in constantly wet places, evaporate largely 
through their skin and bark, and the microscope shows that they 
do this by means of the breathing pores of which the outer layer 
or epidermis of their skin is full. The Cactus, and other plants 
which grow where there are alternate floods and droughts, have 
very few of these breathing pores in their epidermis ; they evap- 
orate but slowly. To use a common phrase, their outer bark or 
skin is close grained, that of the former class loose grained. 

The same difference is found in the outer bark of the young and 
old plants of any species, to correspond to the activity of evapora- 
tion (as of all other processes) in early life, and its gradual dimi- 
nution, and to the increase of leaves. 

Obviously it is not intended by nature that there should be much 
evaporation from the bark of trees. Their inner bark is of open 
texture, and will evaporate freely if exposed ; so it is covered by 
a layer which evaporates almost nothing. Trees transplanted 
from the deep forest, even if they have an abundance of roots and 
the best care, into the open land, are very liable to die, and the 
few that live are years in getting strength, and making any appre- 
ciable growth. These trees are in all respects like those grown in 
open land, excepting that having been protected by the surround- 
ing forest, they have never needed to acquire that closeness — or 
thickness — and hardness of outer bark which alone can defend a 
tree in the open land against heat and cold, drying wind and sun. 
The forest tree, never visited by searching winds and scorching 
sun, evaporates more of its waste moisture through the bark than 
the tree in the field ; it must, for it needs to perspire more than it 
can do through its somewhat scanty leaves, bathed in the moist 
forest air ; accordingly the pores of its bark are adjusted and used 
for perspiration. When this tree is removed to open land, where 
the air is dry, the sun hot, the wind free, it evaporates too much 
through its bark, and must make a new bark to meet the emer- 
gency. 

A tree whose protecting bark has been scraped off, so that its 
tender inner bark is exposed, will evaporate moisture like the 

36 



422 MARCH. 

transplanted forest tree, and its consequent suffering will be in 
proportion to the extent of the scraping. 

To the scraping succeeds the wash, sometimes of mud, with no 
particular character, and doing no harm except by its disgusting 
unsightliness ; sometimes of alkalies. Dip your hand in a vessel 
of lime or potash water ! Even if you remove it at once it feels 
slippery ; the alkali has eaten away some of it, turned it into 
soap. Keep it there long enough, and it will be reduced to soft 
Hoap. Substitute for your hand a piece of wood ; it will soon be 
rotted. 

The advocates of scraping, not content with cutting off a large 
part of the bark, which nature provides, follow with an alkaline 
wash, to rot more ; they say that this wash is to neutralize the 
acids in the bark, which nourish parasites. What did nature put 
the acid there for ? To be removed by men ? If so, why are not the 
trees in woods and forests, in places unvisited by men, destitute of 
acids, as they cannot be relieved of them, and must, therefore, be 
predestined to ruin ? How foolish such a theory ! As we have 
seen, parasites do no harm, and we have no excuse for robbing 
them of their food. 

Lichens and Moss a Benefit. — So much for the harm done 
to the tree by this process, for the loss which may result to your 
pocket. Another loss is certain to. result, that of the exquisite 
beauty which dwells in the parasites. 

Not even the leaves, or the tracery of the branches, or the 
grand simplicity of the stems contribute more to the beauty of 
the tree, than these parasites, by their color and form. 

Visit the noblest trees you know, and carefully examine them in 
detail, to determine the elements of their beauty, which combined 
give the tree its general effect and charm, form and color ; color 
of leaves, of wood, of bark ; color not merely positive and single, 
the same at all times, but changing, varying, sometimes brilliant, 
sometimes dull, but always harmonious and attractive. When 
flooded with sunlight, the local color of bark and parasites is lost 
in general light and shade. Then the irregular cracks and crevices 
in the bark, the roughness and variety of surface, seem the charm 



;, i_\'.o tlwm-fiv<- 1» U < *.l ;i ; r. \ t • . 

*."»js ."«""i. - ah!'i/<" >'. i' a enl >: ..i . : ; :. 

iv.lKlui l.'(h''ii .-* 1 l)llt il ln/» I 

■ . nip.: '•! ! -» v.* v - »■ v «•. 

.«l< . ; ~ » ■ * ■ * • • ■ > «)J -" : ! « i .» i 

. » in ■ ■ • 

!•!! i. ■» } . • . :. • . . • • 

: i ■ « v i . ■ • i . » 

• >.i « • • 

in -,5j j ■< • s ' 

u » ■ t 



f • 



9 » 



« , * 



* I I | * ' ' » 

} " • ■ : '. 
•: .mV - 

. hi '•-;•■ . ■ • 
.••it v • . '«; \ . 
th. »r . • '• 



,J _ <■ 






ORCHARD. 428 

of the stem, and make themselves felt. On a cloudy day, or after 
a rain, the same stem seems ablaze with a color and beauty of its 
own. The grays of one kind of Lichen are but a background to set 
forth and relieve the purples, yellows, and oranges of others ; the 
variety and subtle shading of color bewitch the eye. It seems in 
one spot, or on one side, as if the sun were shining, or rather as if the 
Lichen were gazing like the moon on the sun, which is veiled from 
us, and reproducing for us his glory. This color is no definite and 
definable thing, which may be seen and appreciated by all alike ; to 
catch its full charm one needs a discerning and cultivated eye, and 
the more that eye is exercised, the finer our sense of color becomes, 
the greater our admiration and love for its exquisite beauty, until 
we are so lost in it as to be in danger of merging the greater in the 
less, worshipping the beauty of color, to the exclusion of the other 
charms of the tree. This love grows with exercise, and new fields 
of pleasure open before it, till those who indulge it really see colors 
in the clouds, the air, the earth, in the Mosses, Lichens, and leaves, 
unseen and unimagined by the common crowd. They never walk 
alone or unoccupied, they have sunlight in the cloudiest day, and 
the common sunlight has for them more than a common glory. 

The forms of this class of vegetation are as varied and bewitch- 
ing as its colors. You may study them best on a rock covered — 
as rocks often are — with Lichens, starred with Liverworts, fringed 
with Mosses, and garlanded with Ferns ; it will give you hours of 
delight, and put you to the blush for having been so long ignorant 
of, or dead to, their value and charms. 

Scrape a tree or a rock (as well one as the other), and you ruth- 
lessly remove all this beauty, and despise and ruin that which the 
Creator delighted to honor, without getting even the poor satisfac- 
tion of a money return. We are the worst of iconoclasts ; we de- 
stroy all this beauty upon the mere suspicion that it is injurious, 
and we rudely trample under our feet that which was provided to 
feed and develop our minds. 

The question then naturally arises, if all natural analogies and 
facts are against this practice, why do men spend time and money 
upon it ? Do no benefits arise ? 



424 

The argument that " what is sauce for the goose, is sauce for the 
gander/' is at the bottom of this mistake, leading to the application 
to ornamental trees, of the processes that have been thought bene- 
ficial to fruit trees, forgetting the fact that the finest specimens of 
ornamental trees are those discovered by explorers in places before 
unvisited, the spontaneous growth of unscraped, unwashed nature. 

But what is the fact with regard to fruit trees ? Has even this 
argument, poor as it is, any ground to start from ? 

I maintain that no diseased tree of any kind, has ever been bet- 
tered by mere scraping and washing. The first thing that a wise 
horticulturist does to such a tree, is to prune it, cutting out care- 
fully, all decayed and worthless wood ; next, he digs about it, and 
manures it. 

The pruning, especially if he cuts off the top of the tree as well 
as the dead branches, will give the remaining wood all the sap that 
before feebly nourished the whole, and, accordingly, the roots be- 
come invigorated, the branches start with a new growth, larger and 
healthy leaves burst out, which in turn, make the sap better, and 
develop new roots, the tree grows and flourishes, and, no longer af- 
fording food to those parasites that fed on its decay, they gradually 
fall away, together with its old, rough bark. The digging and 
manuring hasten this process, and a horticultural victory is achieved. 
And this, without the labor and expense of scraping, and with no 
risk of injury to the delicate inner bark, by exposing it to sun and 
wind and frost 

In conclusion, let me recapitulate : — 

1st, Insects, — No insects which harbor in the outer bark of 
trees, and can be removed by scraping and washing, are really in- 
jurious to the tree. All injurious insects either go below the bark, 
and into the wood, or are hatched from eggs laid on the twigs and 
small branches. 

2d, Parasites, — No parasite, injurious to the tree, will fix upon 
it, unless it has become enfeebled by age or disease, and the tree 
cannot be cured by their violent removal. All other parasites are 
put on the bark by nature, to make it more beautiful, and it is a 
violation of the laws of good taste to remove them. 



OBCHABD. 425 

3d. — No tree has ever been with certainty benefited by scrap- 
ing and washing, and it is an expensive process, and likely to in- 
jure the tree by exposing the delicate inner bark. 

4th. — Any practice in horticulture, or agriculture, which vio- 
lates nature's laws, without undeniable advantage, is bad gardening, 
and bad farming, and a discredit to those who practise it 

The month of March is so near the growing season, that the 
demands of the orchard for the year to come must be well con- 
sidered* We have on our place no new orcharding to plant, no 
trees to replace, as our orchards are all young or in their prime, 
but were we about making a new plantation, too much care and 
attention could hardly be paid, at this season, to a careful selection 
of the beet kinds of trees. If you are planning the cultivation of 
fruit, remember the point continually urged ; it is not so much the 
quantity of fruit that is to be sought, as its quality ; its size, color, 
delicacy of flavor. Grow those fruits which will ripen at such 
times as the market is generally bare of fruit. Every neighbor- 
hood is overstocked with fruit in the late summer and early au- 
tumn, and consequently such fruit is of small value, and much of it 
really does not pay for its raising. 

Winter apples come into the same category ; the large profits of 
the earliest orchards induced the planting of many more, until they 
have become so common, that in good Apple years they are hardly 
profitable. 

I do not mean to discourage the planting of orchards, but only 
to point out the necessity of a judicious selection of fruit. Those 
Apples which keep late will always command better prices than 
others, and of course the same is true of the earliest ones. 

There are other kinds of fruit culture much' more profitable than 
that of Apples. I mean the Peach and the Pear. It is true that 
in New England the Peach-tree has deteriorated very much of late 
years, and it is thought by many that it is not worth while to cul- 
tivate it $ but a little observation, as we have before seen, of the 
causes of their degeneration, may show how it may be prevented. 

In the first place, many cultivators have been too grasping, and 
have grown grass in their Peach-orchards, which has of course 
drawn off nourishment from the trees. 

36» 



426 MARCH. 

Secondly, they have left them unpruned, and allowed them to 
remain unchecked, except by the frost, so that the unripened wood 
has staid on the tree, weakening it the next year, and injuring the 
new wood and the fruit. 

Thirdly, they have let the tree bear as much - fruit as it would, 
and this always renders it small and imperfect 

In the neighborhood of Boston, however, persons who have 
Peach-orchards of well-selected varieties, and well taken care of, 
have for several years past made a profit of several hundred dol- 
lars an acre, without any extra expense. 

Pears, however, offer a more certain return than Peaches, as the 
latter are often injured by late frosts in the spring. There is a 
great variety of Pears, but few kinds are really valuable, and the 
value of these varies very much with latitude and longitude. 

As we have said before, the latest fruit is most certainly remu- 
nerative. Common Iron Pears, which grow abundantly in hedge- 
rows, are as valuable in the spring as the most delicate kinds in 
summer and autumn. • But there are better winter Pears than the 
Iron, as for instance, the Easter Buerre, which is fit for the table 
in March, when it sells for very great prices. 

The great profit from the growth of Pears, arises not only from 
their large price, but from the abundant production of fruit to the 
acre. Alternating two dwarfs with one standard, in the row, the 
trees being 12 feet apart, the standards will be 36 feet from each 
other. Then place the rows 20 feet apart, and set the trees so that 
the standards of the second row will each come opposite the middle 

of the space between the standards 

A fl ri ft 

of the first row, and of course the 

middle of the space between two 

dwarfs, and so on. This arrange- 

. ment will allow 221 trees to the acre, 

<* Q B d d _ 

and of these, one-third will be stand- 
ards. 

These trees ought always to yield, 

S d d S a ^ er we ^ growing, at I 6 * 3 * two dozen 

Pears to the tree, which will never 



OBCHABD. 427 

be worth less than 50 cents a dozen, and often one or two dollars. 
At the lowest price, the fruit will bring $221. This ought to be 
the receipts within four years of their setting out. Apples will 
not bear two barrels per tree, worth $1 net a barrel, for ten or fif- 
teen years. 

But if the trees are planted in the improperly called Quincunx 
manner, as shown on page 107 of Thos. W. Field's Pear Culture, 
and 10 feet apart in the rows, and the rows 10 feet apart, not less 
than 473 trees can be easily, properly and profitably grown to the 
acre ; 8 feet apart as I have said, will suffice in rich land for Pears 
on the Quince stock, and 12 feet is enough for all kinds. Pears 
.demand, as a sine qua non, a deep, friable, rich, well-drained soil, 
and constant care and culture, when they will certainly pay the 
cultivator large profits.. 

Some may doubt whether this culture is as profitable as I say, 
because it is not more general. It is in this as in all new en- 
terprises ; the timidly conservative, the lazy and procrastinating, 
and the self-compiacently shrewd have not embarked ; these last, 
with preternatural sagacity, predict that the thing will be overdone 
and the market overstocked, forgetting as they peer into the mill- 
stone, that population increases quite as fast as fruit But the 
thing has been tried by many, and its success demonstrated, and my 
statement is founded on their experience. 

Pears will often bear much more than this calculation allows, 
and may be much more closely planted, and in the course of 10 or 
15 years the standards will grow two or three bushels of Pears 
apiece, worth from three to twelve dollars a bushel according to the 
fruit. 

The selection of Pears to suit any given soil, is rather a difficult 
matter ; it is a singular kind of fruit, and often a man's land will 
bring but one or two kinds to perfection, in which case he should 
devote himself exclusively to these, and give them a name and 
reputation. 

Other kinds of fruit-culture, as Grapes, Cranberries, etc, might 
be recommended, but I leave the consideration of them to another 
time. 

I wish especially to impress upon the farmer, that the early spring 



428 MARCH. 

is the unoccupied time, when he should decide on the kind of fruit 
that he will cultivate, that when the season for work comes he may 
proceed with judgment and dispatch. 

Towards the last of March begin to graft, and continue through 
April, Scions cut after the buds begin to swell will not do well. 



CHAPTER L. 

THE FARM. 

Few persons can understand the immense importance of the 
farming interest. The dullest mind is impressed with the cost and 
value of manufactories, of ships, and warehouses ; no one goes into 
a large city without wondering at the variety of occupations, the 
number of inhabitants, and asking how they all live ; and yet, in 
comparison with the agricultural interest, all other trades and oc- 
cupations are a drop in the bucket. To the farmers fall the duty 
of feeding the world, and although floods of fine words are poured 
out yearly by the orators of agricultural societies, and by aspiring 
politicians, in praise of this occupation, few persons ever rise to 
the comprehension of its real magnitude. 

The value of the eggs of the domestic fowls of this country 
alone is from $30,000,000 to $40,000,000, and the value of the 
Grass crop is greater than that of any other crop, being worth, in 
the shape of hay, to live and slaughtered animals, $500,000,000. 
Small as may be the contribution of each person, to this aggregate, 
it is a contribution, and would be missed in some way, were it to fail. 
The connection of supply and demand is very plain, and since the 
demand of food to support life is so constant, and great, it is of 
immense importance that no means should be left untried, to 
increase the amount and quality of the crop, without materially 
increasing its cost To illustrate the waste and loss, which may 
result from the want or the neglect of such improvements, take 
the single item of horned cattle. 

Suppose a certain number of farmers in this country, to grow 
yearly, 100,000 cattle for fattening. These cattle are ill-selected 
in some respects ; instead of the small bones, and little offal, of the 
Short-horns, or the Devon stock, they have coarse bones and un- 
necessary-waste portions to the extent of 50 pounds, to put it at a 

429 



430 MARCH. 

figure small enough ; the average value per pound, of the animals' 
carcases, we will call six cents ; then the loss, per animal, is $3, or 
$300,000 on the whole number. We have seen that there is no 
need of this coarseness ; care in selection when breeding would have 
avoided it. But this $300,000 is not the only loss. The coarser 
in nature, structure, bones, an animal, the more food he requires to 
gain a given weight. The greater amount of food necessary to 
fatten these coarse animals, than if they were fine, was not less 
than $2 an animal, or $200,000 more. A common stock farmer 
will have 50 head of cattle at a time, and, for the 100,000 cattle, 
2,000 farmers thus lost $250 dollars apiece, $5 a head on their ani- 
mals. This calculation is much too small, for almost every New 
England stock farmer knows that his cattle have much more than 
50 pounds of unnecessary waste, which does not exist in the choicest 
cattle. But it shows how important small things are to the farmer, 
and also, how exact a science farming is, giving as much opportu- 
nity for head work, as for hand work ; and, when we consider the 
great aggregate of agricultural products, it becomes apparent how 
large gains slip through their hands. 

It may seem of little consequence whether the profits of a man, 
who cultivates his farm with no thought of any thing outside its 
boundaries, are great or small ; but this is a mistake, and is felt to 
be one, where farming is acknowledged as one of the sciences. As 
our agriculture advances, we feel the value of small gains more 
strongly. While our stock roams over large pastures, and our hay 
crop is too large to be consumed, or sold, we care but little about a 
few pounds of waste in any animal, but just as soon as we begin 
to feed our stock on purchased provisions, and to be restricted in 
our range of profit to the difference between the cost of food and 
the market price of the fattened animal, the disadvantage of coarse- 
ness in limb and material is forced upon us, and we seek to avoid it. 

Stall Feeding. — The second kind of stock farming is charac- 
terized by stall feeding the animals to be fattened ; in it, pasturage 
is of little consequence, as the animal is but rarely turned out, and 
only for air and exercise. It is because of the rude state of our 
general agriculture, that stall-feeding is so little practised among us. 



THE FARM. 481 



Among farmers determined to get the largest possible return from 
their land, it will always be practised. I do not mean to say that 
our common farmers have no stall-fed cattle, for almost every one 
of them has some pair of oxen, some old cow, some calf which is 
fed on Roots, Hay, Meal, etc,, through the winter, to increase its 
weight ; but there is no general practise of this sort, it being con- 
sidered unprofitable. 

This second kind of stock farming will prevail most in level, 
alluvial countries, where land is too valuable to be given up to 
pasture. The crops of such a farm will be decided by the kind 
of stock kept. Sheep of all ages may be grown on it, both for 
wool and mutton, as the sheep fats at 18 months to 2 or 3 years 
of age, and the food eaten by the young animal is no loss. But if it 
is to fatten neat cattle, there will be no young creatures ; those 
which have been grown in a pasture country, and have reached 
the best age to fatten, will be bought, and the process hurried for- 
ward as fast as possible. The kind of stock decides the foody the 
food the crop, and thus the whole arrangement of the farm depends 
directly on the stock. 

It seems almost impossible to our country farmers that there can 
be any profit in fattening cattle, unless most of the fat is acquired 
in pastures, thus costing nothing, as they think ; and yet the best 
experience has shown that the profit of fattening falls to the stall- 
feeding farmer much more than to the pasture-feeding farmer. 

Let us take a single animal as our example, and ascertain what 
is the proper treatment for it, and then we may conclusively reason 
for a number. 

Our farmer in the fall buys an ox ; if he be shrewd, he will 
select one in good condition, and growing, because an animal never 
lays fat on the outside, where it shows, till there is some accumula- 
tion within, so that good condition externally is a proof of the 
same internally. But there are other marks which he regards in 
making his selection ; he feels the hide, taking it up in his fingers; 
if it slides easily over the bones, is pliable, he knows that the crea- 
ture is inclined to fat ; he looks at its eyes, for if they are mild 
and gentle, the creature will be quiet and make fat faster. He 
rejects every animal with large bones, coarse hair, general . un- 



432 MARCH. 

wiekliness, as he knows these indicate an internal structure that 
must be supported, but is worth little. Besides these marks, there 
are others which he cannot describe, but knows to be important. 

Having bought his beast, he drives it slowly home. I assume 
that this man is a wise and growing farmer. He begins to feed 
with Hay, like his neighbors, and finding no gain in this, he adds 
some Meal. He calculates the weight and value of the Hay and 
Meal, and the cost of care. He weighs the creature occasionally, 
to see exactly what he gains. Dissatisfied with the experiment, 
which he finds, as his neighbors prophesied, a costly one, he turns 
to the books. They tell him that oil meal, rape-cake, and other 
food, have been found equal to or better than corn meal, for fatten- 
ing, and cheaper; he accordingly tries it, feeds as before, and 
weighs his animal, noting the gain or loss. 

As he reads farther, he finds that Turnips and other Roots are 
excellent aids to meal ; he draws upon his stock of Boots, and 
feeds, noticing the gain as before. Further inquiry informs him 
that the Turnips boiled with the Meal, have been found by some 
more fattening than when raw. Again he tries the experiment, 
continuing to weigh and notice the result, charging as before, the 
cost of Meal, Hay, Turnips, interest on cost of animal and tools, 
wear and tear, labor and fuel. From time to time he compares 
his records with those of others ; he learns that warmth is benefi- 
cial as well in building as in food, and so by degrees he learns the 
best and cheapest food for fattening. Whether the result of his 
experiments is like that of the English and European experiments 
or not, he makes note of it 

When the animal is fattened, he sells it, and then makes up his 
final account of profit and loss. In whatever way the balance 
turns, he knows that his experiments have cost him something, so 
to make quite sure he begins anew. This time he is careful to 
buy animals of small bones and little waste ; he puts them into the 
stall, and feeds by that plan which his experience has decided to 
be the best, and if any prophecy may be founded on the facts of 
universal experience, he will gain a fair profit by the operation, 
and this profit will have arisen from abandoning the exclusive use 
of Hay and Corn, according to the common country practice, and 



THE FABK. 433 

by the use of other kinds of food. And in addition to this pecu- 
niary profit, he gets a great deal of very valuable and highly en- 
riched manure. 

The results of such experiments as this in England have had a 
great influence in revolutionizing agriculture. From the fact that 
animals fattened faster when fed on Turnips and other Boots, in ad- 
dition to Meal and Hay, than when kept on Meal and Hay alone, 
and that the process was hastened still more when the Boots were 
given as the main food, and Meal and Hay in less proportion ; at- 
tention was turned to the general culture of Boots, and they were 
found to yield enormously, in comparison to the amount of land 
occupied, and the cost of production. This crop then furnished 
the greatest amount of food for -stock, which returned a manure 
richer than that resulting from Hay-feeding, to be the food for 
future crops. 

It also appeared that Boot crops made the land better in the 
cheapest way, and their culture soon took the place of the clumsy 
method by which exhausted land had formerly been brought again 
into bearing. 

However fertile land may be, however much it may be improved 
by draining and irrigation, constant cropping will reduce its fer- 
tility, till at last it is not worth cultivating, and no crop does this 
sooner than Grain. But Grain, together with the products of flocks 
and herds, which fed on the natural pasture of the farm, was the 
main reliance of the farmers of the old style ; and of this they 
could take but a few crops before their land was exhausted. To 
restore it, they resorted to what is called a " bare fallow/' that is, 
the field was left uncultivated for awhile, to be slowly fertilized 
by sun, wind, and rain. If during this " bare fallow " the ground 
was kept clear of. weeds and frequently ploughed, it gained enough 

■ 

to grow another Corn, or "white crop," as it is usually called. 
The fallow system was improved by the aid of manuring, which, 
of course, hastened the process of restoring fertility. 

Farmers were early aware that this impoverishment of land, 
where one crop had been grown for successive years, was because 
its supply of the peculiar food of those crops was exhausted, and 
that it could be enrjched again only by cultivating it with some 

37 



434 MARCH. 

other crop, or by the naked fallow. It seems the simplest way, to 
cultivate a crop which would not require the same food as the pre-' 
vious crop, but could thrive on some of the materials still left in 
the soil; and it may seem incredible to us that men should so long 
have groped on the threshold of the discovery of this principle, 
the full application of which has wrought so marvellous a change 
in agriculture ; but the proper practice of the rotation of crops has 
not been introduced into our country, and we are now where the 
farmers of the " bare fallow " period were in England. 

To return : at that time Boots were cultivated only for family 
use or for occasional sale, never for fodder crops ; Grass and Grain 
were the crops of that day. The wastefulness of this course will 
appear more plainly, if we consider for a moment the difference 
between the demand and the return of different crops. The pro- 
duction of seed, is the aim of the life of all plants, and is accom- 
plished either directly, as in the Grain crop, or indirectly, by storing 
partially elaborated material in some convenient place, to be com- 
pleted and ripened as seed in another year, as in the case of Tur- 
nips, etc 

Now the Grain draws on the soil more largely than the Turnip, 
for two reasons : it has less time in which to do its work, for it 
must prepare the ripe seed (which may be regarded as the concen- 
trated extract of the plant) in a single year ; and it has but little 
means of drawing from any source except the soil. Its slender 
6tem and narrow leaves are not adapted to absorb much nourishment 
from the air ; it must be fed through the root, and impoverishes 
the soil proportionately. But the Turnip, which lays up a store in 
the- root, has twice as long to prepare its seed, and can go through 
the slower process of obtaining a large amount of its food from the 
air. Accordingly it is furnished with the means for doing this, as 
may be seen in any Boot plant, or in other plants with a similar plan 
of growth. The surface of leaves exposed to the air is large, com- 
pared with the roots, and experiment has repeatedly demonstrated 
that they draw on the atmosphere much more largely than on the 
earth. 

This difference in the demands of the Boot and Grain crops points 
them out as fit successors to each other, and this grows plainer the 



THE FARM. 435 

more we consider the difference between the food necessary to 
elaborate seed, and that capable of giving the largest bulk of leaves 
and roots. Could farmers ever be induced to consider their crops 
in this abstract way, they would save trouble, time, and expense. 

This great principle of rotation of crops was dimly recognized in 
the substitution of Grass for Grain on the exhausted fields, and in due 
time of a fallow for the Grass ; but in this way there was great loss 
of time mid acreage. So long as farmers believe that Hay and 
Grain alone are sufficient to produce good beef and mutton, so long 
they are indifferent to the difference between the Root and Grain 
crops, for it is wasteful to grow crops for which one has no use, 
merely because the land will produce them. But when it was dis- 
covered that Roots of all kinds were not only good food, but the 
best food for cattle, those farmers who believed in the discovery 
cultivated Roots, and found not only that their value as food was in- 
eontestible, but that with a given expenditure in manure and labor, 
Roots gave a larger return in value than any other crop. This was 
the turning-point, the rising tide-wave of improved agriculture. 
The new crop was an improvement in every respect ; it restored 
fertility better than the fallow, gave "an immense amount of fodder, 
and ensured a corresponding increase in manure, from the greater 
number of cattle which could be fed from the farm. 

Under the old system — the same pursued in* New England at 
the present day — there was a large and a small white crop, one 
large yield of Hay, then smaller and smaller, then good pasture, 
then poor. This rotation gave a change from better to worse. The 
new practice demonstrated that there need be no " worse f it 
showed that a Root crop should fallow the sod, and should be 
followed by Grain ; that again by Grain, or Grass and Clover ; 
that by pasture and Roots. At first it was made a point that a 
white crop should never be taken two years in succession, and after 
going through Roots and Grass, it was found, on returning to the 
white crop, that the ground was so much richer than before, that a 
number of bushels waS taken previously unheard of in the neighbor- 
hood. A succession of rotations had the same result, until the poor- 
est land has become rich ; some land too rich, and it has at last been 
necessary to take two white crops in succession, to check the waste 



486 MARCH. 

power of the soil, which produced so heavy a burden of straw that 
the grain suffered. 

Do not think that the mere introduction of Boots effected this 
wonder of converting worthless into fertile lands. Draining and 
irrigating were used to improve and stimulate ; as the process went 
on, it was found that the stock did not give manure enough to sat- 
isfy the farmer ; other manure was sought and found in guano, and 
in artificial manure. Oil meal, and similar food, before mentioned, 
was resorted to to supply certain elements which were wanting in 
Turnips. Cattle no longer roamed over meagre land, but if pas- 
tured at all, fed on rich Clover or Grass aftermath, and being soon 
filled, lay down to digest in quiet, and so got more nourishment 
from their food. 

The farmer did not care to grow the cattle in their young and 
unprofitable years, but bought them at a fair price from hill pas- 
tures, just as they reached the age for fattening. The pasture 
farmer in his turn studied to increase the size and rapidity of 
growth of his young cattle, that they might the sooner be ready for 
market, and might bring the highest price. And thus a wheel was 
set in motion, which touched all the agricultural interests ; the 
more crops, the more labor ; the more labor the more outlay of 
capital ; and this led to the invention of labor-saving machines, 
which again gave the farmer power to grow greater crops. It is 
not at all necessary to enlarge on these mutual relations and their 
progress ; it is enough to put you in the way to see how largely the 
agriculture of another country has been benefited by the intelli- 
gent introduction of what is called rotation of crops. 

Here I shall be met by the assertion, with which the indifferent 
or obstinate American farmer, answers all arguments drawn from 
the rise and progress of British agriculture ; viz., that the cost of 
labor here, forbids the cultivation of the more troublesome crops. 
Let the cost of labor be what it may, tHere is no truth in this as- 
sertion. The question is not of the cost, but of the net profit; and 
the most costly crop may yet be the most profitable. In truth, it 
is not to the cost, but to the trouble, that these farmers object Crops 
which require much labor and watching, do not suit the happy-go- 
lucky man, whose method of getting a fair crop of grain from 



THE FARM. 437 

unexhausted land is very simple. He cuts off and burns the wood, 
ploughs rudely, and harrows in the seed, leaving the stumps stand- 
ing, the water-courses undrained, the rocks unremoved ; he gives 
the crop no further attention, till it is fit to cut Year after year 
this process is repeated, till the land refuses to yield enough to pay 
for the labor ; then a scanty dressing of manure is given, or per- 
haps some rude attempts at drainage are made, or the plough runs 
deeper, and the land is held a little longer under cultivation. 

Our New England farmers are wont to deride the practice of 
the men who have reduced Virginia, Western New York, and other 
States, from unbounded fertility to sterility, or something scarcely 
better, by bad and exhausting farming ; yet our average forming 
differs from this only in degree, not in kind. 

It is not enough to do a little better than you have done ; if you 
are to be the best farmer, you must entirely remodel and reform 
your practice. To cultivate an acre of ground thoroughly is a 
costly process, and demands a liberal outlay of time and money. 

If it is wet, it must be drained, and poor draining is exceedingly 
foolish. The cost of digging the drain is the same, whether it is to 
be laid with tiles or stones ; and this main expense is out of all 
proportion to any difference between the cost of these two mate- 
rials, and must, besides, be incurred anew whenever any repairs 
are made. A tile drain will last from 60 to 100 years, a covered 
stone drain will last equally long, a blind drain but a few years, a 
brush drain a still shorter time, and an open drain is always out of 
order. Besides the ultimate loss of the cost of the open drain, 
which is to be met when they are remade at the end of about 15 
years, is the loss of land for culture where they are. When properly 
made they occupy about one-eleventh of the acre, so that if the crop 
is Hay, assuming the, net value to be $12 for the growth of 2 tons 
to the acre, they will displace $1.09 worth of hay, which in the 15 
years at interest, with annual loss, would equal $25.18. The cost 
of the drains would be at least $48.20, which with repairs and in- 
terest in 15 years, would be $196.48 per acre, and at that time 
might be reckoned as a loss, as they would have to be remade. 

If, instead of this open drain, you lay a tile drain, it will cost to 
complete the work, about $50 per acre, which in 15 years will 

37* 



1 



438 MARCH. 

amount to $126.24. At the end of 15 years the drains are as good 
as at first, and in comparison with the open drain, there is an 
absolute profit of $126.24 to begin again with. In 15 years more 
this profit, aside from that of culture, will amount to $317.69, and 
if 10 acres are reclaimed instead of 1, this profit in 10 years will 
be $3,176.90, merely by the substitution of the better drain, while 
the profit of the culture is yet to be estimated. « 

This calculation has been based on the largest cost of the drain, 
and the lowest price of Hay. The drain can be well laid for much 
less, and the price of Hay rarely goes down so low in New Eng- 
land. But there are many better crops than Hay, — Corn, "Wheat, 
Rye, or better still, Roots. It would be easy to grow upon land thus 
drained, crops which would not otherwise have grown on it at all, 
and which will pay at least $10 extra profit ; which would be 60 
per cent on the cost of the improvement, or in 15 years with 
interest $936.48. An enormous sum, certainly, as the return from 
a single acre improved ; and this is no romantic theory, but so plain 
a fact in business, that the English Government have established a 
large fund to be loaned at low interest, to land-owners, to enable 
and induce them to make improvements in drainage. Many farm- 
ers borrowed thousands of dollars from this fund, and gained an 
ample return. 

Indeed, one reason why our farmers are so far behind the times 
in these matters, is, that they are without the capital sufficient to 
make these improvements, or, at least, they think, they are ; for 
they cannot spare the few hundreds that they " lay up " in bank 
stock, or mortgage bonds, that give them 6 per cent, and do not see 
that the same money invested in their farms, would pay ten times 
as much, and even more ; for this $50 cost is mostly for labor, 
which may, in many cases, be done by the farmer himself. 

Farmers cannot believe, when they see a drain full of water, that 
a little two inch hole, with or without loose stones, could carry 
that all off. The outlet is the important thing ; give a drain fall 
enough, and 2 inches will discharge an enormous quantity of water 
in a day. And by cutting the drain 3 or 4 feet deep, the springs can be 
cut off, and the subterranean waters stopped and carried off before 
they get to the surface. Such drainage would double the value of 



THE FARM. 439 

thousands of acres in New England, which are now but half culti- 
vated, because they are too wet in spring and fall 

There is an argument against making valuable permanent im- 
provements, which has great weight with farmers, and is even 
quoted by those who have considerable intelligence, as being con- 
clusive ; viz., that for the sum necessary to thoroughly drain an acre, 
one can buy another acre as good as the first So he can, and be 
just one acre poorer than before. 

You farm to grow rich ; by buying more land you grow poor. 
In the case of the two acres, you must pay taxes on both, you must 
manure both ; you must plough and plant, hoe and harvest, two 
acres instead of one. To plough 10 inches deep will cost, per acre, 
$3, beside wear and tear of tools, say 25 cents ($3.25) ; to sow 
with Corn, at least £0 cents ($3.75) ; to hoe twice, $2 ($5.75) ; to 
cultivate, $2 ($7.75) ; to thoroughly manure with barnyard ma- 
nure, $20 per acre ($27.75) ; to harvest, $4 ($31.75), or more 
according to the crop ; making together, an expense of not less 
than $33 per acre. Allowing $20 profit per acre, there would be 
from the two acres, a profit of $40, or $33 less than from the one 
reclaimed acre, which, paying the cost of cultivation, would yield 
$40 profit per acre. It may seem unfair that I should allow $40 
as the profit of a well-drained acre, and only $20 as the profit for 
the unimproved acre purchased. A moment's thought will show 
that it is not unfair ; the very fact of having drained a field well, 
will induce you to cultivate it twice as well, — indeed, it implies 
some accessories of good culture. The stones used to fill in the 
drain ditch, are gathered from the surface of the field, much to its 
improvement ; and, what is a more conclusive argument, if the un- 
improved acre can yield $40 net profit, it cannot be bought for 
$71. Thus there will be the difference between $40 and $7, or 
in 15 years, as before, the sum of $730.81. 

There will be another benefit from thoroughly cultivating what 
we have ; if we apply thorough drainage, etc., to an acre of our un- 
productive pasture, we can put the whole $40 into our pocket, be- 
side raising the value of the property we now have, in place of in- 
creasing our barren acres. The drawback to profit in agriculture 



440 MABCH. 

is the cost of culture, and this is undeniably halved by confining 
ourselves to the one acre. 

The draining lightens and deepens the soil ; the manure from 
above, is met by the accumulated manure from below ; the roots of 
the crop are fed in the warm earth and manure above, during the 
first of the season, and are cooled, fed, and stimulated, by the sub* 
soil in hot, dry summer, and early autumn. Unquestionably, we 
shall need but half the manure necessary for two acres ; we can 
keep fewer men, do the work quicker, be less exposed to the dan- 
ger of early and late frosts, have less care and anxiety. 

But, as I have said, this is but the beginning of good culture. In 
our anxiety to get the most from our one acre, we shall plough 
deep. The value of deep ploughing is almost self-evident ; plants 
accustomed to find their food in six inches of earth, and to live or 
starve, as that food was sufficient, or insufficient, because an im- 
passable barrier met them at that depth, now have twelve inches in 
which to find food, — the accumulated food of ages ; and you 
have thus added another acre of land six inches deep, to your farm, 
and so situated that the plants cannot (ail to get the full benefit 
of it. 

Next comes sowing the seed. Be it what it may, enough is bet- 
ter than too much ; first, it costs less ; second, it is more quickly 
sowed ; third, it needs less thinning when up ; fourth, it is more 
easily kept clean. To sow the seed of Turnips, or other Boots, by 
hand, is a long and tedious process, and wastes much time and seed, 
but with a seed-sower, a man will sow several acres a day. I will 
not, therefore, charge the improved acre with the cost and interest 
on the cost of the seed-sower ; both will be- saved in two crops. 

Suppose that instead of such small seed, you plant Indian 
Corn, or smaller Grain. 

Indian Corn may be rapidly deposited from some of the new 
corn-sowers, at just the same distance from hill to hill, with the 
same number of corns in each hill, and all the rows straight, at a 
large saving of seed and time, more than enough to pay the cost 
of the sower in one season's culture. How long it would be neces- 
sary to talk to New England farmers, to satisfy them that all small 



THE FARM. 441 

Grains are vastly more economically sowed by the use of gram- 
drills, whilst the yield is increased, I do not know ; but in England 
the drill has been used by the most intelligent farmers, who find a 
saving of from 1 to 2 pecks of seed to the acre (50 cents to $1), 
and from 50 to 150 per cent in the cost of sowing. The seed is 
all evenly sowed, and therefore comes up quicker, and loses less 
from birds, that are ready to pick up badly covered grains ; the 
plants grow better from all having the same room ; all the heads 
fill out alike, from abundance of air and light, and a fair share of 
soil ; and lastly, and chiefly, the field can be weeded. How horror- 
stricken would our farmers be, if asked to weed a wheatfield? 

I do not say, that with the price of labor here, we could make 
much money by weeding Wheat by hand, although in England, at 
the cost of 1 to 2 dollars per acre, a gain of 2 to 3 bushels of 
Wheat, has been made; or $4 to $6 by weeding; and when weeded 
by horse-hoes, at a cost of 75 cents to $1 per acre, the same gain is 
made. Weeding has the advantage of removing all the weeds, which 
exhaust the soil in proportion to their number ; it stirs the earth, and 
gives the roots a better chance to push, and induces the Wheat to 
tiller, or produce more stalks, and consequently more heads and more 
straw. And it removes the weeds for all time, helping to bring 
the land to a condition of perfect cleanliness. Under this method 
seed is sown 7 to 9 inches apart, and yet the yield per acre is equal 
to and greater than the yield under the system of sowing broad- 
cast, and covering all the land. So far has this been carried, that 
in special experiments, and in the general practice of some farmers, 
it has been shown that by throwing a field into ridges 3 feet wide, 
and 3 feet apart, and sowing only the alternate ridges, and cultivat- 
ing with care and cleanliness, the yield is as great in the average 
as when drilled 7 to 9 inches apart, or sown broadcast 

But some Western farmer will say : " 'Tis all very well to cul- 
tivate an acre of Wheat this way ; it could not be done in my fields 
of 200 or 300 acres." One English gentleman, whom I propose to 
refer to presently, has 500 acres of Wheat, which are sowed by 
drill and weeded, and he, as I shall show you, has grown rich by 
farming. 

To pass on to the Turnips. Suppose them sowed by a seed-sower, 



If 



442 MARCH. 

they must next be thinned. If they are in rows 2 feet to 30 inches 
apart, they may be cut into gaps of 12 inches, by two blows of a 6 
inch, or three blows of a 4 inch hoe, and thus the single plants left ; 
these, losing their accustomed support, will fall over, but in a day 
or two will recover. Practice will enable the laborer to readily 
single his Turnips, cutting away all but the one he wants left. Be* 
fore singling begins, the rows should be scuffled, or cleaned with the 
horse-hoe or cultivator. Next, as the Turnips begin to grow, hoe 
them. The benefit of hoeing to the crop is enormous ; it increases 
the yield some hundred bushels to the acre, and yet, strange as it 
may seem, it was years before the body of English farmers could 
be induced to grow Turnips at all, and years more before those who 
did grow them could be induced to hoe them. Earnest agricul- 
turists labored till they were heart-sick, to persuade the mass of 
farmers to cultivate their Turnips properly, and one of them tells 
how for years his neighbors came and looked over the wall, and 
sneered at him while thus wasting his time, as they held, hoeing 
Turnips to be. But our farmer must hoe. 

I have rudely blocked out the treatment of the improved acre 
in the common crops. Thus cultivated for successive years, with a 
judicious use of the crops, it will make the farmer rich. The prac- 
tice is the same for many acres as for one, and to perfect success in 
either, a careful system of rotation of crops is necessary. Irriga- 
tion may also be necessary, but it has been sufficiently advocated on 
in a previous month. 

Our model farmer in New England will therefore grow rich if 
he perseveres, for the ratio of profit when the crop is harvested is 
the same, whether here or in England. Farmers who do not like 
to confess their unwillingness to adopt improvements, fall back upon 
the high price of labor, as an excuse for not growing Root crops. 
This is the weakest of reasons. Labor and watchfulness and 
judicious rotation of crops are the things necessary to success in 
all cases ; and in all countries where the same object is sought, the 
means must be similar. If to grow a fat ox be the aim of two 
farmers, with one of whom labor is cheap, with She other dear, 
there is no difference in their desire for profit ; each wishes the 
largest possible. Each wished to feed his ox on the most fattening 



THE FARM. 448 

food ; which has been ascertained to be both Grain and Roots. Now, 
what is the relative cost of producing each of these crops ? In 
view of the ultimate value of each, Grain is the more costly of the 
two ; Turnips give the largest return, whether to the man who pays 
high, or to him who pays low wages. This being the case, it is all 
important that the man who pays the most for labor, should grow 
the best crop. If Corn cost $32 an acre, with $20 profit, and Tur- 
nips cost $42, with $60 profit, it does not matter that the latter cost 
a third more, if they pay three times as well at that cost 

In carrying out these several estimates, I have set a fixed value 
upon the crops we raise, and allowed 90 cents a bushel for Corn, 
and $8 for stover and 50 bushels of Corn to the acre. I have al- 
lowed 20 cents a bushel as the value of Sweeds Turnips, or Man- 
gold Wurzel, to feed out. Some farmer might take exceptions to 
my reasoning in this wise : Turnips are not worth as much as that 
to sell in my town ; there is no market for them. They are worth 
that to feed out, and I propose that you take land which will yield 
l£ tons of Hay to the acre, and cultivate it well in Sweeds or Man- 
gold, they will certainly yield you, one year with another, 20 
to 25 tons, to the acre. Careful experiments, tried very many 
times, have shown that to feed out one part of Hay, is equal 
to five of Turnips. Thus from your land you now get out l£ tons 
of Hay, but for home consumption, to make beef, mutton, wool, or 
milk, by Root culture, that which is equivalent to 5 tons of hay. 
The cost of the l£ tons of hay was about $12 an acre, and the profit 
$10 ; the cost of the Turnips $40, the profit, on the Hay basis, $30, 
and really much more ; the average of 20 estimates by New England 
farmers, of the cost of an acre of Ruta-Bagas, or Mangolds, is $40. 
See Coleman's reports. The profit, relative to cost, is the same, 
but the money in pocket four times as great at the end of the year. 

Besides, I have shown how this difference between the price of 
American and of English labor may be nearly done away, by em- 
ploying machinery to do the bulk of the work. The cost of tile 
draining has nothing to do with this point, remember ; we start 
upon our outlay as fixed capital. Ploughing, harrowing, sowing, 
cultivating, may be done by horse power. 

The Grain may be harvested by horse power ; and by machinery 



444 



MARCH. 



in the barn, we may thresh and sort our Grain, cut our fodder and 
Boots, and feed them out, so that all the labor will be reduced to 
the lowest cost 

Perhaps all this is met by the old objection of want of capital 
to invest Let me once and for all reply : take your farm as you 
find it ; make the best of it, and invest every cent of profit not 
needed • for your family, in improvements ; and be assured, each 
new investment will pay well. The poorer a man is, the less -can 
he afford to farm slovenly. If you are so poor that you must 
carry out your manure in a wheelbarrow, and dig it in with a 
spade, spread it thickly over a small surface, dig 12 instead of 
6 inches deep, cultivate with scrupulous care, and you will find the 
return most satisfactory. Be not deceived by that most specious 
and ruinous of theories, that you make more money by spreading 
the manure of one acre over two, and cultivating two acres in the 
time before allowed for one ; for though the crop of the two acres 
may be double the crop of one of them, each yields but half what 
it should. One acre would have given you as much us both these, 
if it had received all the manure and proper culture, and at a 
much less cost 

Suppose your farm has six fields, and you have decided to begin 
a rotation. If the land is poor, I advise at first a 6 years rotation, 
something as follows : — 









FIELDS. 






Tear. 


No. 1. 
Wheat. 

Turnips 


No. 2. 


No. 8 


No. 4 

Grass 1st 
year. 

Grass 2d year 

or Pasture. 


No. 6. 


No. 6. 


1st 
2d 


Turnips. 

Spring Grain 
and Grass. 


Spring Grain 
and Grass. 

Grass 1st 
year. 


Grass 2d year 
or Pasture. 

Potatoes. 


Potatoes. 
Wheat 


3d 


Spring Grain 
and Gran. 

Grass 1st 
year. 

Grass 2d year 
or Pasture. 

Potatoes. 


Grass 1st 
year. 


Grass 2d year 1 Potatoes, 
or Pasture. I 


Wheat. 


Turnips. 


4th 


Grass 2d year 
or Pasture. 


Potatoes. 1 Wheat. 


Turnips 1 Spring Grain 
1 and Grass. 

Spring Grain] Grass 1st 
and Grass. | year. 


6th 


Potatoes. 


Wheat. 1 Turnips. 


6th 


Wheat. 1 Turnips. 


Spring Grain 
and Grass. 


Grass. 1 Grass 2d year 
1 or Pasture 


1st 


Wheat. 


Turnips. 


Spring Grain 
and Grass. 


Grass. j Pasture. 


Potatoes. 



If your farm is large, and each field contains many acres, you 



THE FARM. 445 

may introduce a variety of crops ; and if your land is strong, you 
may take two white crops in succession. Thus : in place of Pota- 
toes and Pasture, you may have Indian Corn and leave out the 
Pasture ; or you may have half Turnips and half Potatoes ; or 
half Potatoes and half Indian Corn, etc., etc. ; or you may grow 
Flax, Hemp, Tobacco, etc 

By this course you will ensure the largest crops, and will keep 
your weeds well down for each crop. The hoed Potatoes or 
Indian Corn, will hold the land clean for the Wheat, which will 
then need less weeding ; the Turnips will clean it well for the 
spring Grain, and that well cleaned will ensure 3 or 4 tons of Grass 
to the acre the first year, and as much the second, unless you pas- 
ture it, which, in my opinion, is but a slovenly kind of farming. 

As you continue to grow crops to fatten your stall-fed animals, 
you will verify what has already been said about the advantage of 
adding meal to the Turnips and Hay, the economy of buying oil- 
meal rather than growing Corn, the consequent increase of manure 
for the Turnips, which, with Potatoes and Indian Corn, should be 
the dunged crops. You will find that by drilling in some guano or 
other artificial manure with the seed of your Turnips or your 
Grain, you will drive the Boots ahead of the fly, and get a. fine 
early growth, and you will give the Grain an early set, which will 
increase the yield from $5 to $10 an acre. This increase will be 
clear profit, so much more capital to put into other improvements, 
which shall give a like increase, and so on without limit. 

You see that this farmer I am portraying, is no mere Hodge, a 
tiller of the soil, a peasant He is a careful reasoner, a chemist, 
an anatomist ; a merchant who studies the markets of the world, 
to guide him in his purchases of manure and feed, and in his sales 
of crops ; an anatomist in his familiarity with the structure of 
stock, by which his treatment of them is guided ; a practical chem- 
ist, because he must learn the constituent elements of his crops and 
soils, and of the manures with which he feeds the plants ; without 
this he is still a bungler. How great this subject of manures is, 
we shall show in a future month. 

It may seem rather late in the day to advocate the cultivation 

38 



446 MARCH. 

of Turnips, now that they are becoming diseased and are less used 
in England ; but it does not follow that they will deteriorate here ; 
the very opposite result may follow, as the English seed direct has 
never given as much satisfaction here as home-grown seed. And 
besides, there are other Roots : the Mangold Wurzel, the Carrot 
and Parsnip, which are even better than the Turnip, and what I 
have said holds true of them. 

Our farmers feel that in these improvements they are entering 
an unknown country, and they are afraid to hazard their hard-won 
earnings on these new ventures.- They think they get their money 
too hard to waste or risk it ; they know that in the old way they 
can make a living ; may they not lose all by this change ? 

What foolish, cowardly drivelling, to come from a race of men 
famed for their courage and enterprise! men who, for a mere 
chance of bettering their condition, will sell off at a low price, and 
emigrate to a new country, where they can get new land only at 
the price of all the hardships of a pioneer's life. What inconsist- 
ency to risk so much for new land in the West, while they dare 
not risk a dollar for the new land, the new farm, under their feet, 
unworn virgin soil, that only waits to be called upon, to be stimu- 
lated by the caresses of the sun and the soothing of the rain, to 
give crops which. will burst your barns and swell your purse! 
Are you afraid to risk labor in a business in which Englishmen 
have invested thousands of dollars, with a sure profit? Be not 
deceived about the " ratio of labor ! " the proportion of profit is 
the same here as in England ; if you spend less, or invest less, you 
get less ; and more, as you invest more to develop the resources of 
your farm. Remembering this, — remembering that 60 years ago 
the most profitable and fertile farms in England were where yours 
now are, read these statements of the men who have tried the ex- 
periments, and made the money. 

" Mr. Rodwell, in Suffolk, sunk $25,000 in mere marling 820 
acres of land, with a lease of only 28 years, and during the 28 
years of* his occupancy, his produce was $150,000 greater than in 
the 28 years which preceded his improvements." This land was 
hired) and this money Bpent, as an investment of capital Think 
of it, farmers of New England. 



J 



THE FARM. $47 

This practice of marling, applied to clay lands, it is said by Ar- , 
thur Young, a distinguished agricultural writer of the early part 
of the last century, " has turned 300,000 or 400,000 acres of waste 
into gardens, and rents rose from between 10 to 40 cents, to $3 
and $4 per acre. Many of the tenants realized a capital larger 
than the reputed value of the property." 

" A Mr. Mallet made a fortune in 30 years, upon a farm of 
1,500 acres, and bought land of his own, of the value of $8,500 a 
year. A more remarkable example, even, than that of the Scotch 
proprietor mentioned by Dr. Cartwright, who, being compelled to 
sell his estate, hired it on a lease, and- afterwards repurchased it 
with the profits he derived from his tenantry." 

By drainage alone, " hundreds and thousands of acres, formerly 
condemned to remain for pasture, or to grow at long intervals un- 
certain crops of Corn and Beans, have been laid dry, and rendered 
fertile, and brought into regular rotation, in which Roots find their 
place. Sheep stock thrive where previously a few dairy cows 
starved, the produce has been trebled, the rental raised, and the 
demand for labor increased in proportion. In the neighborhood 
of Yorkshire manufactories, moorland, not worth a shilling (25 
cents) an acre, has been converted into dairy farms worth £2 
($10) per acre." 

" A secured public loan of £4,000,000 was granted in 1856, and 
it has been estimated that in the ten previous years upwards of 
£16,000,000 was invested by the nation, and by private companies 
and individuals, in thorough drainage. A Mr. Nelson, one of the 
late Lord Tarborough's tenants, used to say that he did not care 
who knew that he had made £80,000 by employing bones (as a 
manure), before other people knew the use of them." 

" The pecuniary gains of agricultural progress, are not to be es- 
timated by the mere saving in wages, horse labor, seed or manure. 
Thorough draining not only diminishes the cost of ploughing, but 
it renders it possible to grow great crops of Roots, of Mangold 
Wurzel, from 30 to 35 tons to the acre, and of Turnips from 20 to 
25 tons ; ten times more live stock is thus fed on the land, than it 
maintained before ; the Corn crop follows the Roots in due course, 



44$ MARCH. 

without farther manuring, and is made certain in addition, even in 
wet seasons. 

" Under high farming, the manual labor employed is both, in- 
creased and concentrated. A greater number of men are required 
per acre, and a lesser number in proportion to the produce. With 
mechanical assistance, the crops are less dependent on the seasons, 
and each operation is more quickly performed." 

" With improved breeding, the stock is increased in quantity, more 
early matured, and gives better and finer animals. Four-year old 
horned sheep are replaced by muttpn grown in 18 months. The 
aged cows, and worn-out oxen, which form the staple of the con- 
tinental meat market, lose from 15 to 20 per cent more in cook- 
ing, than our well-fattened oxen and heifers, to say nothing of the 
difference in the flesh. At every stage, the farmer who farms 
for money profit — not like the backwoodsman, the metayer, or, 
peasant proprietor, merely to feed his family — loses by rude im- 
plements, ignorant cultivation, and coarse-bred live stock. At 
every stage of progress the modern English farm becomes more 
like a manufactory, producing on a limited surface, enormous quan- 
tities of food for man, turning Peruvian guano into Corn, bones from 
the Pampas into Roots, Russian Oil-cake into Egyptian Beans, and 
Syrian Locust-pods into beef and mutton." 

" The gain to the farmer and the landlord, is, we repeat, the most 
insignificant part of the benefit ; the agriculturist is the manufac- 
turer of food for the nation, and upon his skill, under Providence, 
it depends whether plenty or scarcity prevails in the land." 

" Mr. John Hudson, of Castle-acre, entered upon his now cele- 
brated farm, in 1822. It consists of self-drained, light, Suffolk soil." 
" At that period the only portable manure was rape cake, which 
cost £13 a ton, and did not produce any visible effects for months. 
The whole live stock consisted of 200 sheep, and 40 cattle of the 
old Norfolk breed. He adopted what was then the new, now the 
old, and what is destined to become obsolete, four course Norfolk 
system ; that is to say, 250 acres pasture, 200 Wheat, 300 Barley, 
or in dear years, 600 Wheat, 300 Roots, and 300 seeds, the rest 
being gardens and coverts. On these 1,200 acres he at present 



THE FARM. 449 

maintains 10 dairy cows, 36 cart horses, a flock of 400 breeding 
ewes, and fattens and sells 250 Short-horns, Herefords, Devons, or 
Scots, and 3000 South Down sheep. The crop of Sweeds* (Turnips) 
average from 25 to 30 tons, and of Mangolds 30 to 35 tons per acre. 
His Wheat had in 1855, averaged for the 5 previous years, 48 bush- 
els per acre, and Barley 56 bushels. Of the seeds, the Clover is 
mowed for Hay, the Trefoil and White Clover are fed down by 
sheep, and there are no bare fallows. The purchased food given to 
the cattle in the strawyards and sheds, and to the sheep in the field, 
consisting of Oil-cake, Meal, and Beans, costs £2,000 a year. The 
greater part of the Oil-cake is changed to manure, which it enriches 
in quality, as well as increases in quantity. But the direct ex- 
penditure in artificial manures, guano, nitrate of soda, and super 
phosphate of lime, amounts, in addition, to £1,000 a year ; wages ab- 
sorb £2,500 to £3,000 a year. Seven or eight wagon loads per 
acre, of farmyard manure, are ploughed into the land for Roots, 
besides above 24 shillings per acre of super phosphate of lime, 
drilled in with the Turnip seed, while Wheat has a top dressing 
of 1 cwt guano, £ cwt nitrate soda, and 2 cwt. salt mixed with 
earth and ashes. No weeds are grown. The Turnips are taken up 
in November, and a troop of boys and girls under the charge of an 
experienced man, traverse the ground, forking out, and burning 
every particle, of Twitch (Grass) and Thistle. The same troop is 
called in during the progress of the Root crop, whenever occasion 
requires, and immediately after harvest, they go over the stubbles, 
with their little three-pronged forks, exterminating the slightest ves- 
tige of a weed. The expenses of clearing are kept down to a 
shilling an acre (this is in England ; it would cost at least 80 cents 
here), which proves that by stopping the evil at the source, and 
never allowing the enemy to get ahead, land may be kept wholly 
weeded, more cheaply than half weeded." 

a llie farmer who saw a thief, daily stealing from his dung-heap, 
would soon call in the aid of a policeman. The weeds are an 
army of scattered thieves, and if the pilferings of each are small 
in amount, the aggregate is immense." 

" He who allows himself to be daily robbed of his crops, and the 
community to the same extent of food, and all the while looks 

38* 



450 MARCH. 

helplessly on, is not only a bad farmer, but in effect, though not in 
design, a bad citizen also." 

" At Sedlington, where there is a strong clay to deal with, and 
more good grass land than at Castleacre, it is not necessary to pur- 
chase so much food to feed, to keep live stock for manure. But 
there were about 150 cattle, and 1,000 sheep sold fat, besides a 
choice breeding flock of Devons, the result of 20 years' care. By 
these sheep the light land is consolidated and enriched. If they 
are store sheep, they are allowed to gnaw the Turnips on the 
ground for part of the year. If they are young, and to be fatted 
for market (this would be American practice), they are drawn, 
topped, tailed, and sliced, with a portable . machine. Thus 
feeding by day, and penned successively over every part of the 
field at night, they fertilize and compress, as effectually as any 
roller, the light, blowing sand, and prepare soil which would 
scarcely feed a family of rabbits, for luxuriant Corn crops. 
The cattle, consisting of two-year old Devons, Herefords, and 
Short-horns, or three-year old Scots, or Anglesea runts, pur- 
chased at fairs, according to the supply and market price, in spring 
and summer, are run on the inferior pasture till winter, then taken 
into the yards or stalls, fed with Hay, S weeds, Mangolds, Ground- 
cake, Linseed or Barley meal, and allowed an unlimited supply of 
clean water. When the spring comes, they are put on the best 
Grass, and sent off to market as soon as they become ripe, having 
left behind them a store of manure, which is the capital from 
which every thing else must spring." " Under the old system 
[the same as our New England system], 300 acres were poor 
pasture ; now, under the rotation system, the strong clay feeds 
four times as much live stock as before, and bears Wheat, at least 
twice in four years." 

" According to the latest experience, the most profitable sys- 
tem in its present light condition, would be to devote the farmyard 
dung to growing Clover, to eat down the Clover with folded sheep, 
and then to use the ground fertilized by the roots of the Clover, 
without home-made manure, for cereal crops, assisted by a top- 
dressing of guano, to be followed by Boots, nourished with super- 
phosphate of lime. No land is here lost by unnecessary fences, no 



THE FARM. 451 

force is wasted on ill-bred live stock, no fertility is consumed by 
weeds, no time or labor is thrown away." 

A comparison instituted by Young, between two neighboring 
counties, applies well to this country and England. 

" A lazy desire to creep with sluggish monotony along an estab- 
lished path, and a feeling of impatience at being pushed into a novel 
track, helped to maintain hereditary prejudices, and truants in- 
vented fanciful excuses for not doing what was plainly advantageous 
to be done, because they preferred present sloth to future profit. 

"They were like a man who had lain upon one side, till he 
shrunk from the trouble of turning over to the other, though when 
the process was performed the new posture might be easier than 
the old. But once roused and put in motion, and the inherent re- 
luctance to stir overcome, the gain in interest as well as pocket, 
was felt to be very great." 

No one reading these English experiences, and many more like 
them, can help the burning shame Hushing his face, that our people 
should be still standing on the frontier of the great realm of Agri- 
culture, — should hardly have taken a step into it, while other na- 
tions have marched far in and appropriated enormous wealth. 

Talk as you please about the difference in price of labor, it is 
indisputable, 1st, that if it is profitable to farm at all, to grow any 
crops, to keep any cattle, it is more profitable to grow and keep the 
best, than the mediocre kinds ; 2nd, if but a given return can be 
got from one acre at a given expense, it is better to increase the 
expense double or treble, if, by so doing, the profit can be doubled 
or trebled, even much more if it can be quadrupled or quintupled, 
as it unquestionably can ; and no man not stiff with lying on one 
side will deny it. 

3d, Cattle, whether American or English, are the same in constitu- 
ent elements and conditions, and are nourished alike by the same 
food. Any kind of feeding which is profitable in England, will 
bear a proportionate profit bere, and those crops which grow here 
with a merely nominal profit — say Corn — can hardly be turned 
into beef with much profit, any more than in England, while those 
crops which give enormous profits in both countries (Roots), and 
are of great value as food for stock there, are proportionately so 
here. Yet with all the light shed on Root culture abroad, our agri- 



452 MARCH. 

cultural newspapers contain every season accounts of some man's 
little 'experiment with one-half acre of Boots, and of the wonderful 
profit therefrom ; and to-day any man who has two acres in Boots, 
is a wonder to his neighborhood, and the wiseacres dubiously shake 
their heads, while Englishmen have 300 acres in Boots. 

4th, Reasoning and experience has proved that rotation of crops 
is the life of successful farming, — unless in some special case, as 
Onions, — and yet how many of our so-called good farmers can 
show a creditable and long-continued rotation, or assure you that 
they really believe in such a thing ? A few men have ventured 
into draining, rotation of crops, Boot culture, with the same awkward 
caution with which a boy ventures on skates for the first time, al- 
ways expecting a fall, and probably getting falls, all of which, how- 
ever, instead of being credited to ignorance or carelessness (where 
they belong), are debited to the new system of culture. 

Remember that we must have done with child's play and doubt- 
ing, we who are to be really improved farmers, and that we must 
not be dismayed by a few mishaps. Running and walking, like a 
man, is unquestionably more agreeable and valuable than creeping 
like a child ; but the child learns, slowly and feebly, to walk, and 
so must we. And let us entreat our agricultural editors, instead of 
devoting much time and space to the questions whether large or 
small potatoes are best for seed, whether free martins give milk, 
whether Ethan Allen trotted in 2.40 or 2.39, whether labor in 
England costs one-half or one-fourth as much as labor here, whether 
milk should be measured in a beer or a wine measure, to enter at 
once into the great question behind all these, and to show the 
people how a kindred race, by applying thought and capital to 
farming, have brought sands like those of Plymouth County, in 
Massachusetts, hard clays, like many about Boston, rocky and ster- 
rile lands, like much of New England, which is so impoverished as 
to make a man the poorer the more he has of it, to a fertility fully 
equal to the virgin soil of the West, capable of yielding 40 bushek 
of Wheat to the acre, whitened with countless flocks of sheep, rich 
with herds of fat cattle. 

We must balance our want of cheap labor by the invention and 
adoption of machinery. Already steam has been applied in such 
ways, that for a first cost of $300, with the waste brush of the 



THE FARM. 458 

farm for fuel, much of the work about the farm steading, which 
now occupies the time of many men, may be done by machinery. 
Mowing-machines, horse-rakes, improved tools, and last, and great- 
est, the steam-plough, are now ready to give us aid and strength, 
and to take much drudgery off our hands. 

The same spirit which has thus far in this book set the mental 
benefits of any occupation above all its other benefits, and which 
has urged the charms of nature, and the nobleness of the pursuit, 
as chief inducements to agriculture, encourages all agricultural im- 
provements, which make the life more profitable ; as I well know 
that the better a man's business pays him, the more time and incli- 
nation will he have for self-culture. 

As soon as the frost begins to leave the ground, open the irriga- 
tion drains, and let the water flow evenly over the Grass. After 
the Grass starts, flow for a few days at a time, and then withdraw 
for the same length of time, and again return ; by intermitting the 
flow of water in this way, the yield of Grass is increased, and the 
Grass is sweeter. Cart out the manure, and spread the piles pre- 
viously carted out We shall hire two men for the season, and give 
each his regular work at once ; let one man always drive the horses, 
another the oxen, and do not commit them to either man indifferently, 
for one accustomed to the speed of horses is unfitted for sluggish 
oxen. As before, you, or the farmer and his boy, should do all the 
milking and feeding. Let the work be regularly planned and car- 
ried forward, so that each man cannot fail to know his duty. I do 
not mean that the farmer should make his plans and business known 
to all his men, as that is sure to introduce confusion and cause mis- 
chief; but it is a great advantage that each laborer should know 
his own work in advance, and should be made, if possible, to under- 
stand its importance and relation to the general whole. He thus 
gets a feeling of his own importance as he awakens to a sense of 
personal responsibility. In the plan of our barn, which is described 
on the next page, I have endeavored to arrange every detail for 
convenience and true economy, and although some things preferred 
may at first seem far fetched, and perhaps even cumbersome, I 
think a trial of them will surely prove their merits. 



454 



MARCH. 




F 



— *. 


t 


B. 


m 


«D 


» 


a 


l 






i 



IT 



t 

ft 




• THE FARM. 455 

t 

Description of our Barn. — Oar barn has often been referred to, but 
never yet described. I will give its description now, to enable you better to 
understand some previous directions, and others yet to come. It is on a side- 
hill, which slopes so rapidly that we are enabled to enter all three stories 
with teams. This is very advantageous, as it simplifies and eases work. 

First Story, or Cellar. — The lower story is the cellar. A marks the 
space devoted to manure, and I shows where the muck falls to from above. 
This muck is, of course, mixed with the manure as we please. B is a space 
devoted to the storing of carts, and similar articles. C, hog-pen. D, hen- 
house, for general uses and laying. £, setting-room. F, pens for breeding- 
sows. G, foundation of story above. H, door into cellar. K, where the ma- 
nure comes into the hog-pen from the carriage horses, two stories higher.^ The 
manure and urine of the cattle from the story above, 6hoots into the cellar 
through traps, like Browns patent coal-hole covers, which remove danger of 
cattle getting their legs through them. 

Second Stort. — The second story is entered by teams at 7 7, and may 
be left and entered by animals and men by V 7', also. 1 is the root cellar, al- 
ready described. 2, muck traps. 8, the box through which the manure of 
the carriage horses, in the third story, passes into the cellar. 4, the doors 
which admit carts into the root cellar, 9 feet wide. 5, the railway. This is 
the most convenient thing possible ; the rails are sunk into the floor, so as not 
to interfere with walking, and of course save a great deal of labor. 6, the 
flap which admits the car into the root cellar. 8, horse stalls, 5 / by 9', with 
mangers and water, as befpre shown. 9, boxes to hold the cart harnesses. 10, 
cow stalls. 11, stalls for oxen. 12, cow mangers,, and water-troughs, as de- 
scribed. 13, horse mangers. 14, spring doors, which shut the cattle out of 
the barn floor. 15, ox mangers. 16, mash-tub ; there empties into it cut hay 
from above. 17, water-trough and ball-cock. 18, stairs up to chamber, and 
down to cellar. 19, empty space for carts, wagons, or wheelbarrows. 20, 
swill spouts, leading to cellar. 21, grain and tool room. 22, meal chests. 23, 
work bench. 24, boiler. 25, chimney Windows on all sides, to give abun- 
dant light and air. The floor of the third story, over the heads of the cattle, 
is pierced with holes, which convey air up through the haymows, to the venti- 
lator on the roof, and thus not only cool the hay, but ventilate the second story. 

Third Story. — 26, carriage-room. 27, floor of barn. 28, harness-room. 
29, man's room. 30, hay bays. 31, stalls of carriage horses. 32, mangers, 
and water. 33, manure trap, leads to cellar. 34, meal-chest ; 35, mash-tub. 
36, water and ball-cock. 37, closet. 38, chimney in harness-room. 39, 
stain to second story. 40, ventilators through hay. 41, entrance doors. 42, 
sliding doors to carriage-room. 44, spring doors, to keep horses off the floor. 
45, door of exit for unloaded teams, over a plank bridge, built on posts. 



CHAPTER LL 

GREENHOUSE AMD CONSERVATORY. 

PRIL. Many days in April are so warm as to 
enable us to dispense with fire beat and to de- 
mand that every opening for fresh air should 
be made the most of. 

The plants are in a glorious condition in 

consequence of having been properly attended 

to during the winter, and the fragrance and 

beauty of the flowers, stir the most stolid heart. 

Continue to propagate by cuttings, etc, and also sow in pots 

and pans the seeds of annuals and perennials not yet started. 

Plant any roots of Auriculas and Ranunculuses, which you may 

have in thumb pots, ready to be transferred to the garden as the 

season advances ; set Tuberoses also in pots ; by giving them an 

early start you will get them into blossom in the garden before the 

autumn frosts can harm them. 

Bring the Dahlia roots into the house and lay them under the 
stagings, where the warmth and moisture will stimulate the tubers a 
little and cause the buds to start, so that you may sooner cut them 
to pieces and get them ready either to plant in the open ground or 
to start in the hotbed. 

Tou may remove to the back side of the house and the cold 
frames those plants which are fairly out of blossom, and which you 
do not care to have grow much before next winter. 

Open the cold frames and pits, remove gradually all the dung 
linings and leaves, but retain the shutters. There will hardly be 
weather cold enough to require other protection than sashes and 
shutters. On every fair day let in light and air by removing the 
shutters early in the morning. The gradual admission of sun will 



GREENHOUSE AND CONSERVATORY. 457 

soon start the plants and we may expect by judicious manage- 
ment to get them a little forward for planting out Water oc- 
casionally, as you see cause, and with tepid water ; but be careful 
not to get too much moisture in dark weather, as it may cause 
" damping off." 

Remove the. sashes from the Daisies and Violets all day in mod- 
erate weather; they will give you abundance of flowers throughout 
the month. Beds of Auricula and Ranunculus prepared in the 
fall will need constant attention ; Pansies too, whether in pots, in 
the frames, or in beds by themselves, should be well cared for; 
give air and water ; late in the month they will be in full blossom. 

The manure removed from about the beds should be carted either 
tea pit into which it may be dumped, mixed with some loam, or 
to the barnyard. Having lain exposed to the weather all winter, 
it has lost most of its value ; and although a good fertilizer if dug 
in, it is not nearly so valuable as fresh manure ; but if returned to 
the yard or the cellar to absorb the urine of the cattle, its value 
will be restored ; or if leaves and loam are mixed with it, and the 
whole packed in a pit, by the fall it will have decomposed into a 
compost, fit for almost any purpose. 

Do not be alarmed if in spite of ventilation the sun raises the 
temperature of the houses at mid-day to 90° or 100°; only give 
plenty of moisture to the air by repeated syringings, and by setting 
evaporating pans on the flues. 

Those who are not familiar with the spring and summer bloom 
of the flower-garden and shrubbery, should not delay making them- 
selves acquainted with it, as the season will soon be upon them 
and should not find them unprepared. 

The choicest plants and flowers may be readily grown in the 
garden, if a little care is taken to start them in the greenhouse and 
hotbeds. 

Repot any plants which seem to need it, and gradually remove 
all half-hardy plants out of blossom to the cold frames and pits, 
that Pelargoniums, Azaleas, Cinerarias, Fuchsias, etc, may have 
more room. 

We have occasionally very cold weather, even in April ; be on 
the watch for it, and do not let your houses be caught by it unpro- 

39 



458 APRIL. 

tected. By letting the canvas-cover down over the glass early in 
the afternoon of a warm day, you may enclose a great deal of the 
sun's heat, and save fires. 

It might be supposed that the house itself would afford consider- 
able protection against cold ; but a glasshouse radiates heat very 
rapidly, and the large amount of moisture in the air is in itself 
dangerous. This radiation may, however, be prevented by a very 
slight cover. At a time when in the outer air water will freeze 
hard and in the greenhouse all tender plants will die, a common 
canvas will entirely protect them from danger. 

Do not be tempted by any warm days to remove into the open 
air, for a permanency, any plants which have wintered in the 
houses ; the ground is still cold, and severe frosts are sure to come. 
Keep the plants that were purposely frozen up in the autumn, 
frozen as long as possible. Keep them on the north sides of the 
house, and try to prevent even the tops from thawing, and when 
you find that they are about to thaw, carry them into the shade, 
and do not let the sun shine on them for some days. By burying 
them in the earth, the frost may be gradually removed, and with 
less danger to the plants. 



CHAPTER LIL 



GRAPERY 



Continue the temperature in the forcing-house as last month, at 
60° to 70° at night, 70° to 75° by day, in cloudy weather, 80° to 
90° in sunshine ; admit all the air possible, and supply abundant 
moisture. 

Continue to thin. Before the end of the mohth, all the vines 
should have been thinned the first time, and some the second, and 
even the third time. 

Cut back the laterals above the bunches to one eye, and repeat 
the cutting as they start afresh, and also cut out any shoots which 
make head between the bunches and the main cane, as they only 
abstract the food of the bunches, without corresponding benefit 
The thinning process, after the first time, depends very much upon 
judgment ; the kind of vine, size of berry, earliness of ripening 
must all influence thinning. As the berries swell, the shoulders 
of the bunches should be supported by tying them to the cane 
or branches above. 

The vegetables in the forcing-house should be now fit for use, 
and the Strawberries for picking. The vines will soon cover all 
the glass with their leaves, and exclude the light so much that but 
few vegetables will thrive. The Mushrooms will be producing 
abundantly. Water with tepid water from time to time. JEndive 
and the blanched vegetables do not need direct light, and will con- 
tinue to improve as yet 

The retarding-house must be kept as cold as possible ; cover 
with canvas during sunshine, and let in all the air that is safe. No 
fire heat will be necessary in bright weather, but must be used if 
there should chance to come a very cold and cloudy interval 

The vines in the cold grapery, on the contrary, need all the sun- 
light they can get ; give aeration through the ventilators, and some 

459 



460 APRIL. 

other air during bright weather. Follow the same degrees of tem- 
perature given for the first month of forcing-house. The difficulty 
to be anticipated is that of keeping the temperature as uniform as 
by fire heat The first' of the month, if the manure spread on the 
borders in March was active, the vines will have swollen their buds 
considerably, and by the middle and last of the month will begin 
to break. Follow the forcing-house treatment exactly. The veg- 
etables in the cold grapery will be thriving finely ; the abundant 
light, heat, and moisture will give sufficient stimulation. 

From this time to the end of summer the work of the houses is 
no less pressing, but is to be taken in connection with the outside 
work, an£ there is great danger that it will be neglected. The fas- 
cination of the various out-of-door occupations tends to make the 
gardener forgetful. The houses should be syringed very often, do 
sunshiny days, and the thermometer and hygrometer carefully con- 
sulted, as too great heat and dryness on the tender foliage may do 
almost irreparable mischief. The grapevines outside the house, on 
espaliers, which were wrapped up in straw, should be examined 
towards the last of the month. Loosen their coverings, and fork 
into the border plenty of strong manure, which may give the roots 
an early start ; but take care not to injure the roots of the vines 
with the fork. The figs pn the espaliers also should be examined, 
and receive some manure about the roots. Those which were laid 
down in the earth will not need any attention for the present. The 
espaliered fruit otherwise needs nothing, unless it be to examine 
the fastenings, and if any be found broken by winter, to repair them. 
In your examination, remove any eggs you may see glued to the 
twigs, and note carefully those shoots which seem likely to die the 
coming season, from frost-blight, and cut them out — from the 
Pears, Cherries, and Plums, before the sap gets into active circula- 
tion — from the Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots after the leaves 
have expanded a little. . 



CHAPTER LIH. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

The flower-garden begins again to assert its importance, and 
resumes its place in our interest The Snowdrops are all in blos- 
som, the earliest Crocuses show their heads, and we know that the 
other bulbs will soon follow. Here and there a last year's Pansy 
opens its eyes to the spring sunshine, whilst in sheltered spots in 
the shubbery, the Forsythia will soon be glowing with yellow 
flowers. 

The blossoming time of all plants varies a little with the season, 
but less than is usually supposed, and it is doubtful if the greatest 
variation amounts to ten days. Sanguinaria and Rue anemone 
are the earliest wild flowers, and if planted in any of the beds or 
borders, will be in blossom almost as soon as the Snowdrop. Be- 
fore the month is old, the Snowdrops will be replaced by Crocuses, 
Daffodils, Narcissuses, and in the most favored situations, by the 
earliest Hyacinths. 

' The litter should be carefully removed from all the beds, a little 
at a time, to harden the bulbs. If the garden was left in proper 
condition in the autumn, there will be need of but little spring 
cleaning. Rake up any dead leaves that may have blown in, and 
be ready by the first of May to begin real work. Make all your 
selections of seeds early, and decide how you will plant the beds, 
that when the time for planting comes, you need not be delayed. 
If you mean to employ others to advise and direct your work, see 
to it now, when you can be sure of getting just such persons as you 
prefer, and when they are at liberty to devote ample time to your 
service. 

If your garden is still a grass plot, or a ploughed field, have a 
plan made. Make it yourself if you can, as I have directed for the 
village garden ; if you cannot, employ some one to do it for you. 

39* 461 ' 



462 APRIL. 

Some details with regard to the making of plans, I will give at an- 
other time. 

Overhaul the seeds that you have on hand, and all the garden 
ornaments, tools, etc, that were packed away in the autumn. You 
repaired them then, so now you have only to decide what you will 
add to your stock. 

If you have no greenhouse or hotbed, make a hotbed now. (For 
directions see pages 480.) 

Plant in the bed the seeds of all those annuals which blossom 
late in the summer and fall, and need to be hurried ; also, all those 
which you wish to have in succession. Seeds of annuals should be 
lightly covered with earth, more or less, according to their size. 
Some seeds, like those of the Ipomea, are enclosed in a horny 
shell, which prevents germination for a long time. All such seeds 
should be soaked in scalding water, for several hours, or a day, be- 
fore planting. When you purchase seeds, you can always learn of 
the seller whether any peculiar treatment is necessary. 

Towards the last of the month, set in the hotbeds Dahlias, Ma- 
deria vines, Gladiolus, and all other tubers to be blossomed in the 
garden ; the start thus given will insure a longer and more satis- 
factory bloom. 

Such manuals as Breck's Book of Flowers, Buist's Flower- 
Garden Directory, etc., give minute details on this subject, for 
which there is no room here, and I would rather induce you to seek 
out and read such books, than try to supply their place. 

Every year some new plants and flowers are produced for ad- 
miration, and some gardeners get the largest part of their profits 
from the sale of these novelties. I think it is well to try them as 
far as is consistent with economy, but by no means to the neglect of 
old and deserving favorites. 

It is with flowers as it is with trees, if you would be successful, 
you must have a large stock of patience. There will be innumer- 
able annoyances and disappointments, through the season, but care, 
attention, and patience, will bring a bountiful reward in spite of 
them all. 

As the warm days come on, you will feel your enthusiasm kin- 



#• 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 468 

dling within 700, and your imagination will give you delightful vis- 
ions of vegetables, flowers, and plants, in marvellous abundance, 
crowding every inch of your land. You will lay out magnificent 
plans, and set to work with eagerness, and at first, all will go well. 
It is very charming to get up early, on a bright spring morning, to 
dig and plant in the unwonted light of the dawning day, and with 
the delicious melody of the early birds filling the air ; and you will 
snatch a few minutes each evening from business, for your garden 
work, and as the shades of night shut down, and send you in from 
your employment, you will feel injured, and will wish that the 
fabled " curtain of night," were a real one, of which you had the 
string, which you would certainly keep drawn up. Reluctantly, and 
with many a backward glance at the smooth beds, dotted with 
stakes, so prophetic to your eye of future glories, you return to the 
house, where you descant in glowing terms, to your wife or friends, 
on the topic that absorbs your thoughts. Perhaps, in your ardor, 
you plant several weeks too early, and those seeds that escape death 
from rotting in the ground, meet it from the frosty air. Still you 
are not discouraged, and replant with wonderful perseverance. So 
in spite of ups and downs, you work on through the spring months, 
while the weather is cool, and your whole frame retains the brac- 
ing effect of the winter. But the work thus begun, must be con- 
tinued with unabated zeal, through the heats of June and July, if 
you would not lose all your past labor, and see your hopes choked, 
by the fast growing weeds that lay concealed in the upturned clods, 
that looked so innocent when you planted them with seeds of your 
own choosing, little tliinking of the unwelcome companions that had 
pre-occupied the ground. 

Do not, then, in your first spring enthusiasm, lay out too much 
work. Be contented to do less than you would, now, that you may 
not have to do more thati you can by and by 

In a flower-garden there is a great deal of beauty to be procured 
from grass and shrubs, and such flowers as need but little time and 
care ; and it is wiser to plant the seeds of those flowers which you 
know will grow easily, and cover the ground, to the exclusion of 
weeds, than to try experiments in new and delicate varieties. 

To cover the ground, plant in masses such annuals as Mignon- 



464 APRIL. 

ette, Sweet Alyssum, Gillia, Candytuft, Cacalia, Escholtzia, Core- 
opsis, Portulacca, etc, and among them, in less profusion, set those 
that grow up straight, and occupy but little room, as Aster, Gilly- 
flower, Zinia, Mourning Bride, Antirhinum, etc 

A perfect flower-bed, in full growth, shows nothing but leaves 
and flowers ; from the turf to the top of the group there is an un- 
broken though varying surface, of different forms and colors, so 
harmonized and contrasted as to give constant delight to the eye. 
This result is best obtained by mingling various kinds of annuals 
with the bedding-out plants, which having been started in the 
greenhouse or hotbed, are turned out of their pots and planted in 
the beds, and which constantly increase in blossoms and beauty, till 
cut off by winter frosts. 

Plan your garden, then, with a view to its permanent improve- 
ment and advantage, and if your spring enthusiasm does not exhaust 
itself before the trying time comes to prove it, if your courage, 
prudently husbanded, continues through frosts and gloom, and the 
discouragement of weeds, and droughts, unabated, your spring 
visions will become a rich summer and autumn reality. 

There will be a long time in the spring when the flower-garden 
is dependent on bulbs for its beauty, and even after other flowers 
come forward, these bulbs, and their cousins-german, the tuberous 
rooted plants, continue to hold an important place. 

I will give a brief account of the best bulbs, and their culture. 

The careful and wise gardener always seeks first the best native 
plants, as they are more hardy, reliable, and easy of culture than 
foreigners. Three varieties of tuberous roots, but little cultivated, 
though of great beauty, are Ranunculus, Anemone, and Auricula. 
They are all natives of much milder climates than ours. 

The Auricula is of the same family with the English Cowslip 
and the common Polyanthus ; it is more tedder than the latter, and. 
averse to both heat and cold, especially the former. It should be 
planted in cool, moist situations, away from the drippings from 
trees, shrubs, or buildings. It must be protected during the. 
winter and early spring, but as it starts early in the season, 
the covering must be lightened and removed as soon as possi- 
ble. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 465 

The Ranunculus is an Asiatic, of the Buttercup family ; our 
winters are too cold for it, and our summers too hot To cultivate 
it successfully in the open ground, make a deep, rich bed in the 
autumn, in a place sheltered from severe cold, and yet shaded from 
the midday sun of spring. As early as possible, in the spring, un- 
cover the bed and dig it over ; remove an inch or two of earth, 
and set the claw-like roots over the bed, six' inches apart each way ; 
then cover with half an inch of soil. If the weather continues 
cold, cover with a moderate depth of litter, Pine-branches, or other 
shelter. As the plants grow, be sure they have enough water, but 
do not saturate them. The plant, after flowering, will soon ripen 
its roots, when the leaves will turn yellow. The tubers should be 
taken up, and laid away in a dry place, till the next spring or for 
winter forcing. 

The Anemone is of the same family, and is very beautiful. It 
is not so difficult of culture as the Ranunculus. Plant in rich, 
well-drained beds, in autumn, and cover with a garden-frame and 
litter. In the early spring replace the litter with sashes, and stimu- 
late to an early growth ; blossoms will appear in June. 

Many summer bulbs, not usually cultivated, may be started now 
in hotbeds or pots, set in protected places. The Tiger-flower is sin- 
gularly . gorgeous, and is a very full bloomer. It will do well 
planted in the open ground in May. 

Snowdrops may be successfully moved, immediately after flow- 
ering, before the leaves die ; or as soon after as possible. 

There are many varieties of die Iris, or Flower-de-luce. Some 
of these are so common as to be quite despised ; others are much 
admired. The Iris Susiana blossoms early, and is dwarf; the roots 
need to be taken up in summer, and replanted in the fall. The 
Grand white Iris, large and showy, is I think very handsome, 
and not to be replaced by newer plants. So, too, with many of the 
rich blue and purple varieties. 

The number and variety of Lilies is. very great White Lilies 
are to be planted in the early autumn, or they will not blossom the 
next year. They should be moved just before making their fall 
growth of leaves. 

The common Lilies are all easily grown. The Japan Lily is 



466 APRIL. 

rare and beautiful, and needs as careful treatment as the Hyacinth. 
The bulbs need not be taken into the house in winter. It may be 
started in pots in the spring, and turned into the border in May. 
Two very beautiful Lilies are natives ; L. Superbum, and Cana- 
densis. These throw up tall stalks, surmounted by a crown of 
from three to seven flowers, very beautiful, and much improved by 
cultivation ; they grow abundantly in the woods and fields. 

Peonies are very numerous ; their tubers should be transplanted 
in the autumn or early spring ; nearly all are hardy. The Tree 
Peony needs a little protection. The old red Peony, the ornament 
of every village garden, is very fine, and were it not so common, 
its splendid color would make it a favorite. 

The white, pink, variegated, and fragrant Peonies are the most 
generally cultivated, and if a good variety is selected, will be in 
blossom from May to the last of July, The Tree Peonies often 
grow to a great size, and a large plant full of blossoms is a beauti- 
ful sight. 

Tulips are too well known to need more than a mention ; diree* 
tions for forming beds were given in September. 

The Amaryllis is a beautiful summer-flowering Lily, and its 
crimson flowers should be found in every garden. It is tender, 
and should be started early, to blossom to perfection ; although 
planted in May, it will blossom well and late. 

The Gladiolus family is numerous and beautiful, and blossoms 
for a long time. 

The Solomon's Seal is a beautiful plant, tuberous roofed, and a 
native. It may be taken from the woods, and with a few years 
culture will be much improved. 

The Fall Crocus should be planted in the spring. It blossoms 
with purple flowers in October, and is very pretty and desirable, 
but rare. 

Dahlias are flowers very much admired, and are of various 
colors. New varieties are brought forward every season by their 
enthusiastic admirers. The best plants may be purchased by the 
dozen in the spring at a moderate price. They are tender, and 
must be taken up in the autumn after the frost comes. Directions 
have already been given. 



FLOWEB-GABDEN. 467 

Another almost tuberous rooted plant, which has been a great 
favorite for the last few years, is the Dielytra. It is a native of 
this country, and there are many varieties. D. eximia is the one 
generally grown in gardens. It grows rapidly, blossoms early and 
long ; the flowers are curious in form, beautiful in color, and grace- 
ful in arrangement ; the foliage is no less pleasing than the flowers. 
D. canadensis is a native of the woods, rather rare, easily culti- 
vated and very fragrant. D. cucullata has white and yellow blos- 
soms, is small, and is native, improved by cultivation. 

Another plant of the same family which is very charming, is the 
Corydalis, aurea and glanca ; generally found about rocks, and 
easily grown from seeds. 

Adlumia cirrhosa is a perennnial of the same species. It is a 
very pretty vine, and should have a place in every garden. 

Fumitory, the last of this family of American plants, is an an- 
nual, rather pretty, and grows abundantly from the seeds. 

The Squill, — Scilla esculenta, — has a pretty blossom ; has a 
bulb like the Onion, and is sometimes eaten for it by the Indians. 
Planted in the Fall, it blossoms in May. 

" The Hemerocallis, or Day-Lily, may be planted in the autumn 
or spring, and is propagated by divisions of the roots ; it is a spe- 
cies of Funkia." * 

The White Day-Lily is very beautiful ; it blossoms for about two 
months, and its flowers are very fragrant The blue is a coarser, 
and less desirable flower, not fragrant. There are many other 
varieties. 

I have appended this list to my remarks on the necessity of 
having no more garden than can be well taken care of, that you 
may see the possibility of a great variety of flowers in a small 
space, most of which need but little looking after. These plants 
combined with bedding-out plants, and well-selected annuals, will 
give plenty of flowers from the middle of April to the last of Oc- 
tober. Refer to the flower-garden, August ; see beds L and P. The 
blossoms begin with Crocus and Snowdrops, followed by Hyacinths, 
Tulips, Narcissus, Daffodils, Polyanthus, Iris, Pansies, Squills, 
Dielytras, Lilies, Amaryllis, Gladiolus, Day-Lilies, Tiger Flow- 



468 APRIL. 

ers, Tuberoses, Fall Crocuses, blended with Mignonette and Sweet 
Alyssum on the borders, after June ; with Gillia, Heliotrope, 
Creeping Lantana, Tall Lantana, Globe Amaranth Escholtzia. 
These two beds, well managed, will give at any time a large bunch 
of flowers, and from July to October, you can cut them in abundance. 
In planting d we have kept the tall bulbs at the back, placing the 
smaller ones in front In P, the tall ones are in the middle of 
the large swells, and slope down to smaller on the edge ; and the 
same arrangement is made with the other plants. Mignonette, 
Sweet Alyssum, Gillia, and Creeping Lantana have gone from the 
front of the bed back to the middle, and among the other plants 
next to them and amongst them, are Verbenas ; inside in P, are 
Heliotropes and Lantanas, which are at the back of <L 

Cover the surface of the beds with a good dressing of fine, guano, 
and rake it carefully with a fine-toothed narrow rake, the first of May, 
and then along the edge and as fast as we please, the seeds of the 
annuals are sown broadcast and thin, and then raked in. They 
soon come up and cover the decaying leaves of the bulbs, which 
as the leaves decay, may either be removed altogether, or only lose 
their dead leaves. The middle of May the other plants are care- 
fully set, and by attention the change is prevented from being dis- 
agreeable.' I do not mean that there will be no time without 
flowers, as it is impossible to make the gradation unbroken, but the 
nakedness need not be long apparent 

The seeds of the annuals should be sown early ; the guano will 
stimulate a quick and vigorous growth. When the pot plants are 
set out, remember that they have been accustomed to abundant 
heat and moisture, and that you transplant them to the cold, open 
ground often covered for days together with cold anddark clouds, and 
watered only with cold water. If you want quick growth, put under 
and around each, as far as the ball of earth will allow, a quantity 
of steaming horse manure, and water for some days with quite 
warm water ; but do not manure and neglect to water, as the manure 
will dry up to the great injury of the plant If such care is taken, 
your bed will be a wonder to careless cultivators for the next six 
months. 



r 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



469 



Let me repeat some remarks that I made in September. The 
good gardener will never be in his garden without strings, knife 
and sticks, and will always be ready to cut down dead stalks and 
leaves, and tie up drooping or top heavy plants. 

Patience, neatness, and order are your watchwords, and should 

be inscribed over the entrance to your garden. 

40 



CHAPTER LIV. 



ORCHARD. 



If the ground was not well thawed last month, begin now, as 
soon as it opens, to dig in manure in the orchard, together with the 
proportion of the salt and lime mixture described in the fall. Wood 
ashes, potash, soda, or lime, spread over the surface of the orchard, 
are very beneficial to the trees : they all seem in their caustic state, 
to kill the eggs and larvae of insects, and are also of direct use to 
the trees. No vegetable physiologist has yet determined why it is 
that salts (lime, soda, potash, etc) are of use to vegetation ; they 
(particularly potash and soda) are found in great quantities in all 
vegetable tissues, and seem essential to their development. Land 
destitute of these salts, is sterile, and can be induced to bear crops 
only by application of some of them as manure. At times they are 
most powerful aids to vegetation ; some crops are more dependent 
• on them than others, as for instance, Clover. White Clover may 
be brought up on any land where no White Clover seed has been 
sown, and the plant not seen for years, by dressing it with wood 
ashes, or potash. Red Clover may be grown on land previously 
unable to bear it, by a liberal dressing of sulphate of lime. Leaves 
and bark of trees are full of these salts, and it is from the ashes 
of burned wood and leaves, that the potash and soda are obtained. 
These few facts establish conclusively, their importance to vegeta- 
tion, but how they contribute to its welfare, is a mystery. 

These salts are generally found in the tissues of plants, in a crys- 
talized form, and deposited in the cells as foreign matter, not con- 
tributing at all to the composition of the woody and cellular tissue, 
which is called vegetable matter. Some of them are found in much 
greater excess than others ; fruit trees when burned, give in their 
ash a great amount of potash, less soda, and but little lime. Yet it 
is the application of lime to the soil which stimulates the trees, and 

470 



ORCHARD. 471 

enables them to assimilate the potash and soda they need. I shall 
not enter into chemical details, but simply say that the lime enters 
into combination with the particles of the soil, and, by chemical in- 
terchange, the potash, or soda, is set free, and its' place is taken by a 
corresponding amount of lime. The salts, thus set free, are dis- 
solved by water, absorbed by the plants, and found in their tissues. 
Therefore, you will be almost certain of benefiting your trees by 
giving .them a liberal dressing of lime. 

When the orchard is dug over and pruned, see that the fences 
about it are in good order, that no animal may get in and browse 
the young twigs. 

Though it is spring, and long before the time when baskets, lad- 
ders, and hooks are wanted, use some wet day of leisure to look 
over these implements, and repair damages. By doing this now, 
you will remember all summer what your deficiencies are, and be 
on the watch to repair them. 

By the last of this month, the caterpillars will begin to build 
their nests. The webs will be seen — very small, at first — in the 
forks of the twigs, and smaller branches. Provide yourself with a 
caterpillar brush, or a bit of sponge ; fasten it to a long, light fish- 
ing rod ; get a few pounds of crude potash, and abutter firkin ; nail 
a strip of wood across the top of the firkin, for a handle ; put into 
it a pound of potash to a gallon of water. In the early morning, 
the caterpillars are all in the nests ; they rarely start out for food 
before the sun is a few hours high. Go through the orchard with 
your brush and bucket, and wherever you see any sign of a nest, 
dip the brush, or sponge, into the firkin, and sop it on to the nest, 
rubbing it round the fork of the branch. 

The Wire caterpillar brush is used without potash with the idea 
that the stiff wires will crush and destroy all the worms, but the alkali 
water is more effective ; it will burn up not only the worms, but the 
unhatched eggs. More effectual than either, where the nest is ac- 
cessable, is a more disagreeable, and I might almost say disgusting, 
process ; cover the hand with a stout buckskin glove, and rub the 
nest and its inhabitants into a paste ; you will thus insure the total 
destruction of the insects and eggs. 

This work will consume a deal of time during the last of April, 



472 APRIL. 

and the month of May. There are at least three broods of worms, 
all of which must be cat off, if you would have trees with perfect 
leaves, and a full crop of fruit. The lazy man, who neglects this 
work, or the man who thinks he cannot afford it, are equally fool- 
ish, and will surely find that their neglect not only permanently 
injures the trees, but destroys the fruit for the ensuing year. 
Careful watching, and washing for a few years, will materially 
reduce the number of worms. Some, however, will escape and 
lay their eggs, unless they are removed by another insect destroyer, 
the birds. 

That farmer who allows any one to kill the birds about his place, 
because they eat his Cherries, Strawberries, and Peas, " saves at 
the spigot to lose at the bung." Only a few days ago I read a 
communication, in one of our agricultural papers, favoring the de- 
struction of birds, on the ground that they not only eat fruit when 
ripe, but at other seasons eat the seeds of Red Cedar, Blackberry, 
et&, which are voided afterwards, undigested, about their roosting- 
places, in pastures, etc, where they take root and spring up, to 
choke the pasture, and annoy man and beast. 

Before calculating the benefit, let us look into the mischief done 
by birds. Suppose we had 100 acres of pasture-land (enough to 
ruin us!) entirely free from Cedar, Bramble, and other plants 
whose seeds are food for birds. The birds begin to resort thither, 
and sow the seeds of fruit eaten elsewhere. Suppose that in one 
season they thoroughly sow an acre with troublesome plants, — 
though the supposition is absurd, — they will not germinate till 
the following spring, or become perceptible until the second year. 
In the spring of this year a man with a sharp bush scythe will 
cut over and virtually destroy every plant in a day or two; — cost 
$2 ! But all the birds on the 100 acres will not sow so much. 

What are the benefits ? 

First consider the amount of land nearly or quite worthless for 
pasture, which birds plant, as with Red Cedar, the most valua- 
ble tree in New England for post-and-rail fences, a tree which 
might be cultivated with profit Hedgerows and old stone walls 
are thus sowed with Cedar and Blackberry, and as one rides through 
the country he may see them on all sides, not in the middle of the 



ORCHARD. 478 

fields, bat along the edges, where as they grow large they give 
shade to the cattle, timber to use, fruit to preserve. Were there 
no other benefit from the birds, this would compensate for the cost 
of cutting down brush. For the fruit eaten, the beauty and song 
of birds more than compensates. 

But how immense a balance is left Careful experiments have 
shown that every robin consumes, during the summer, 15 lbs. of 
worms. A robin, fed for experiment, consumed, on an average, 
beside bread-crumbs, bits of beef, gravel, and water, 20 dwts. of 
worms a day. If the birds were wild, the beef and bread-crumbs 
would be replaced by seeds and earthworms, by caterpillars, canker- 
worms, larvae of various kinds. And at liberty, the consumption 
would of course, be greater than in confinement ; but at 20 dwts. 
a day during the six months when robins frequent cultivated land, 
one of them would eat fifteen lbs. (Troy weight) of worms. Think 
of that every farmer and gardener who complains of the robin, or 
of any bird, for all eat in proportion ! The thousand birds which sur- 
round your farm and homestead during the year, welcoming morn- 
ing and evening with their songs, eat 15,000 lbs. of worms. How 
many canker-worms, caterpillars, spiders, etc., would go to make 
up that amount ? It is nothing less than insanity to prevent such 
destruction of vermin, because it involves a little labor with a 
scythe, to mow the bushes or brambles they have sowed, or the loss 
of a few quarts of Cherries. Even the common crow is useful in 
the same way. It is not to be denied that he pulls up a great deal 
of Corn, and gives a great deal of trouble, but he does it not for 
mischief, but in his efforts to assist the farmer. Every one knows 
the injury done to Corn, and other crops, by the wire or cut-worm ; 
many specifics are recommended, all of some service ; it is in the 
pursuit of these grubs that crows and blackbirds pull up the young 
plants, at whose roots instinct teaches them that their prey lies ; 
and it will be found that the fields most haunted by crows, are most 
infested by the worm. I mention this to show the real habits of 
the crow, not to prove that we may not lose more by their hunting 
after the worms, than by the ravages of the worm if left unhurt 

Robins, crows, and blackbirds are not the only consumers of 
worms. A distinguished American naturalist told me that one 

40* 



474 APRIL. 

morning he saw several branches of a favorite tree overrun by 
many hundreds of the coarse, hairy, black and red caterpillars 
often seen on willows. He was on the point of going out to remove 
them, when he saw a male catbird light among and begin to eat 
them, occasionally flying away with some for its young. The bird 
continued this all day. By the same hour on the next day there 
were no caterpillars to be seen on the tree ; the bird had cleared it* 
So of other birds ; and the millions of pounds of worms eaten 
by birds, would, if unconsumed, devour every green thing. So 
long as a country is covered with forest, these insect nuisances are 
rare, and so are birds ; as the land is brought under cultivation the 
insects increase, and the birds with them. So ready is nature to 
provide for the wants of civilized life. You rarely see many birds 
in the deep woods ; they are about the homestead and hedgerows, 
and the murderous guns of idle men and boys do incalculable mis* 
chief to farmers and horticulturists. 

The last work in the orchard for this month is grafting, which 
may be done through all the month of May. 

* Rev. Thos. Hill, Waltham, Mass. 



CHAPTER LV. 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The work of the kitchen-garden begins now in good earnest, 
and from this time till winter will keep the gardener busy. 

The hotbeds and cold frames require constant attention. Dig 
over all the open ground, particularly that which was manured last 
fell with strong manure. You will find it pretty well rotted. Any 
that remains undecomposed must be shaken to pieces, and 
thoroughly mixed with the earth. 

Make beds for Radishes in the warmest exposures. If your gar- 
den is protected by a fence, sow early, otherwise defer sowing till 
late in the month. Among the radishes set Lettuce plants and 
early Cabbages, from the cold frames and hotbeds, as soon as the 
weather permits and the plants are ready for removal. 

Sow Peas in warm exposures very early, as they will not be in* 
jured by frost 

Make ridges for early Potatoes, as described last month. Prick 
out Cabbage plants for the cold frames as soon as you find settled 
weather. Choice heads of Lettuce, Cabbage, and similar vegetables 
may be covered at night with the boxes already described. But 
the great occupation for this month will be with the hotbeds and 
digging the ground. Make out a list of the seeds you want, and the 
quantity of each, the first of the month, and buy early while the 
assortments at the stores are large and various. Melon seeds are 
said to be much improved by age, and by being carried for some 
weeks in a body-pocket, before planting. It has never been stated 
what the advantage of this practice is, but general opinion pro- 
nounces in its favor, and there is, therefore, probably some benefit 
in it Few things puzzle amateurs more than the arrangement of 
good lists of seeds, in kinds and quantity. It is equally trouble- 
some and unprofitable to have too much or too little, and the for- 

475 



476 APBIL. 

mer error is very common for fear of the latter. Some kinds of 
seed each gardener does better to grow for himself, but in most 
cases it is best to buy, if he can be sure of the quality, as by get- 
ting seed grown on different soil from his own, he secures some- 
thing of the benefit of rotation of crops. It is undeniable, that 
seed grown year after year deteriorates, even with the best care 
and selection. Judicious selection has as much to do with the im- 
provement of seed as any thing else. For instance, a Wheat 
grower wishes the earliest kind, the largest head, with the greatest 
number of kernels and mo3t plumpness, and a stiff and not super- 
abundant straw. If his Wheat is such as he likes, he goes through 
his fields in July, and finds some heads, perhaps only one, much 
earlier ripe than the rest ; some superior in plumpness or other 
respects. Perhaps one head unites all these good qualities. He 
marks it, and, when it is ripe, cuts and saves it He will manure 
and dig well a little spot and sow these seeds early, so that the 
plants shall be well grown before winter. The next year he will 
keep these plants well weeded, and will certainly get several heads 
much better, in all respects, than the rest These he will gather 
and sow. The next year be will get not less than 100 heads, 
which will give him 2,500 plants for the fourth year. At the least 
calculation, he will find among these 3,000 perfect heads, bearing, 
many thousand perfect kernels, " allowing 63 pounds to the bushel, 
for wheat, 86 grains will weigh a dram, or, at any rate, 87 ; the 
bushel will then contain 701,568 grains." * 

Our cultivator will have obtained at least one-tenth of a bushel 
of a new and improved variety of seed, and another year's care 
will give him three bushels better still, and of course he may con- 
tinue the improvement as long as he pleases. The same care will 
produce the same result of course with any kind of seed, and 
every cultivator should make a point of improving one or two 
kinds ; not many, as it takes too much time and trouble. How- 
ever, the experiment, as I have stated it, is far more elaborate than 
will be found necessary in practice. Let me quote two accounts. 

"B» King, January 22, 1841, Sussex, England. Planted 3 

* Stephen's Book of the Farm, p. 438. 



r 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



477 



grains of Wheat, 1 grain, the shoots of which were divided from 
each other and transplanted twice, yielded, in 1842, 3 pounds, 12| 
ounces of grain. The third grain was divided three times, and 
yielded 7 pounds 15£ ounces. The number of roots from this 
grain was 173; of earc, 3,272 ; of grains, 97,028. Half an ounce 
contained 382 grains. This, according to the Horsham experi- 
ment, was enough, the second year, to plant two-thirds of an acre/' 

•" Mr. Jones, of Cambridgeshire, in 1838, got from 30 grains of 
Wheat 14 J ounces ; in 1839, 14 J ounces sowed, gave l£ bushels ; 
in 1840, l£ bushels sowed, gave 45 bushels; in 1841, 45 bushels 
sowed, gave 539 bushels." 

In improving seed, only one species of any family should be 
cultivated in the same near neighborhood, because of the tendency 
of plants in the same family to mix seeds. Remember that the 
earliest healthily ripened fruit gives seed which will next year 
produce fruit still earlier ; and a wise gardener, if he depends up- 
on his own seed, will keep his earliest fruit for that purpose rather 
than sell it, even at an extra price. But, as I said, land gets tired 
of growing the same seed, year after year ; so that the farmer often 
fincU it for his advantage to buy seed from a neighbor. 

As it is troublesome to select seed and estimate the quantity re- 
quired, I will give the calculation for a garden of an acre, made by 
a distinguished cultivator. Some plants which we usually grow 
are omitted, and some uncommon sorts added. And it must be 
observed that the amount of seed for an acre is not to be multi- 
plied by 20 to obtain the amount of seed for 20 acres ; because, in 
a small garden, allowance must be made for the inferior plants, 
which are cast aside when seedlings are pricked out ; whereas, in 
cultivation on a larger scale, no such transplanting is done, but 
good plants and poor are allowed to grow together. 

" The list I give is for succession crops, and but one single plant- 
ing for one acre : — 



French or Kidney Beans, 4 quarts. 

Scarlet Runners, 2 " 

Parsnips, 4 ounces. 

Salsify, 9 

Skerrit, 2 



Peas, 


. 36 quarts. 


Beans, 


10 " 


Karly Cabbage, 


8 ounces. 


Savory, 


4 


Brussels Sprouts, 


3 " 



M 



« 



4Y8 




APRIL. 


Cauliflowers, 


4 ounces. 


Endive, 4 ounces. 


Varieties of Broccoli 


8 


<< 


Lettuce, 4 " 


Borecoles, 


4 


u 


Radish, 3 pints. 


Red Cabbage, 


2 


tt 


(if none were forced.) 


Drumheads, 


2 


tt 


Mustard, 1 1-2 quarts. 


Kohl Rabi, 


2 


tt 


Cress, 11-2 " 


Onions, 


12 


M 


(if neither are forced.) 


Carrots, 


8 


tt 


Parsley, 4 ounces, 


White Turnips* 


16 


it 


2 curled, 2 plain. 


Yellow Turnips, 


6 


if 


Early Potatoes, 11-2 bushels. 


Celery, 


2 


tt 


Late " 3 


Spinach, 


8 


quarts. 


Jerusalem Artichokes, 1 peck. 


Red Beets, 


4 ounces. 


Garlic 8 ounces. 


Yellow Beets, 


2 


«< 


Shallots, 2 pounds. 


Leeks, 


4 ounces. 





Add to the above 2 drams of long green Cucumber, 2 drams 
of short, prickly Cucumber, 2 drams of best Muskmelons, 1 ounce 
of Watermelon, 4 drams of best Cantelope melon, 2 drams of 
Summer Squash, 2 ounce of Marrow Squash, 2 ounce of Crook- 
neck, 4 quarts of Stowell's Evergreen Corn, 2 drams of Tomato, 
1 quart of Black Beans, and other seeds in like proportions. Your 
list made out, your seed purchased, you are ready to plant at the 
earliest date, and you must plant early and late in order to have 
succession crops. 

Do not imagine that because the seed is provided in ample quan- 
tities, that thick sowing is advocated ; thin sowing is almost always 
better, in order to give room for the young plants to expand their 
leaves and roots. 

Never buy cheap seeds. The best seeds are worth the best 
price, and no cultivator can afford any other. For if the seed 
is bad, all the expense and labor of ploughing, manuring, sowing 
and cultivating are lost. Cheap seeds are refuse or damaged, or 
else of some worthless variety. 

The importance of absolutely pure seed cannot be over estimated. 
We talk of the number of weed seeds in the soil ; we sow more 
every year, than we imagine. Prof. Buckman, of England, in 
some late investigations, found that " in a pint of Clover seeds there 
were 7,000 weed seeds ; in a pint of Grass seeds 12,600 weed 
seeds ; in a pint of Broad Clover 39,440 weed seeds ; and 2 pints 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 479 

of Scotch Clover yielded severally 25,560 and 70,400." All other 
seeds are similar, and the number of weed seeds in Grass seed, 
Red-top, Herd's Grass, etc., if enumerated, would horrify the most 
slovenly farmer. 

Some seeds are those of parasites, as the Orobanche and Dodder. 
These are exceedingly minute, and adhere to the seeds of the plants 
to which they are parasites, so closely as almost to be invisible to 
the naked eye, and can only be removed by strong pickles. Rust 
and other similar diseases in grain, are parasitical fungi, and adhere 
to the seed. 

Some kinds of seed, to be relied upon, must be fresh when used, 
as Carrots ; others, like Turnips, are better for keeping a year or 
two, particularly if good seed of different years is mixed. Be- 
fore sowing, provide yourself with some guano, or super phos- 
phate of lime, as a top dressing ; these manures raked into the sur- 
face, will stimulate the young plants into very rapid growth, and 
will drive plants of the Cabbage family, out of danger of the fly. 
These plants are very apt to be eaten by a small fly, when in their 
cotyledon state, but are out of danger just as soon as the rough 
leaves are formed, which are the second pair. Squashes and Mel- 

m 

ons also, are very much eaten by bugs and worms, when young ; 
they are aided by guano. 

So also, throughout the season, any plants which are slack in 
growth, or which you are desirous of hastening, may be hurried by 
a top dressing of guano raked in, or by digging it in round the roots, 
or by giving it as a liquid manure. 

The tools absolutely necessary to a kitchen-garden, however 
small, are a spade, shovel, hoe, iron-toothed rake, trowel, lifting and 
manure forks, dibble, wheelbarrow, garden line, watering pot, trans- 
planting tray, or basket. All these tools should have their separate 
places, and be returned thither every night 

The better class of gardens will need in addition, an edging 
knife, wooden rake, long-handled shovel, pruning knife, hand-saw, 
hatchet, long-handled pruner to reach to the topmost boughs of 
trees, some boxes with glass tops to protect the early plants, some 
square frames without bottoms, and with tops covered with mos- 
quito netting, which, set over young Melons, etc, will keep off bugs 



480 APRIL. 

and flies, hotbed frames, cold-pit frames, Sea-kale, Cardoon, and 
Cauliflower pots and glasses, syringe, wheel hoe. 

Provide yourself with a good supply of the best tools, as they 
will be found much the cheapest in use ; and take good care of them, 
which is the surest way of keeping them a long time. Towards 
the last of the month, you will need to look after the early nests of 
caterpillars. 

Hotbeds. — I have not given a day's treatment of the hotbed, 
but will do so now. In the early morning, as soon as the sun 
strikes the beds, remove the mats or shutters, if the day is reason- 
ably mild. 

Visit the beds about 9 a.m. ; if it is bright and the thermometer 
is rising towards or above 80°, raise the sashes a little ; during the 
forenoon give more air as the bed heats. About the middle of the 
afternoon, begin to water; use slightly warmed water. Water 
poured into the beds at this time will soak into them and nourish 
the plants much more than if applied earlier. 

As soon as the watering is over, close the sashes, and when the 
sun gets off the bed, cover for the night Keep the temperature 
of the bed constantly high, but with a moderate degree of moist- 
ure. Hotbed plants should never want moisture, but never be 
surfeited; too much dampness in cloudy weather will produce 
mildew and decay. To be successful with the beds, there, is need 
of great watchfulness ; as the plants increase in size, admit air as 
freely as is consistent with their growth, to harden them. 



CHAPTER LVI. 



THE FARM. 



Farming begins m good earnest in April. Soon the cattle will 
be turned out to pasture ; every day you may let them out into the 
yard, and there will be no harm in occasionally letting the young 
and the dry cattle scamper for an hour or two over the pastures $ 
the fresh air and exercise will be of service. 

You will do well to give each of your men his own tools, a hoe, 
spade, shovel, scythe, rake, etc ; give it him in good order, and 
charge it to him ; if he breaks or loses it, deduct its value from his 
wages, and give him another, but let each man keep and use his 
own tools, and never borrow. Thus much annoyance and dispute 
will be avoided. 

This year's work is pointed out in our rotation. 

Field No. 1, Pasture not so good as last year, and to be ploughed 
up in July, and sowed with Flat Turnips. 

Field No. 2 is to have 1 acre Ruta-Baga Turnips, 1 acre Man- 
gold Wurzel, £ acre Carrots, J acre Parsnips, 2 acres Potatoes, to 
be planted in August with Wheat and White Turnips, sowed in 
drills or broadcast. 

Field No. 3, 2 acres in Winter Wheat and Grass, on which sow 
12 lbs. Red, 4 lbs. White, 4 lbs. Yellow Clover; 300 lbs. of 
plaster, mixed with 150 of guano. Field No. 3 will also have 3 
acres in Spring Rye and Grass, or you may instead grow a fodder 
crop of Sweet Corn or Oats, to be cut in the milk. Sow Millet in 
July. 

No. 4, Grass, to be cut twice, or pastured on aftermath. 

The first orchard, which has been growing 20 years, was planted 

last fall with Rye and Clover. The Rye is to be cut for fodder, 

and the Clover fed down by pigs when it comes up. 

Orchard No. 2, 15 years old, is to be planted with fodder Corn 

41 481 



482 APRIL. 

in succession, in rows well manured, and when cut to be followed 
with flat Turnips, or Rye and Clover, in the same strips for next 
year's fodder. 

So orchard No. 3, 5 years old. 

The Pear and Peach orchard is not to be cropped at all, but to 
be mulched. 

The water of irrigation is not to be applied to any lands which 
are to be tilled, with exceptions already noted, but to grass and 
grain lands, while the crops are in the growing stage. 

If March was too frosty to allow you to spread over the grass 
land the manure which was carted out last fall, spread it now. 
This should be done as soon as the frost leaves the ground, in order 
that the spring rains may wash it into the earth at once. The 
grass land will be too soft to cart over with comfort, and if the 
piles of manure were properly placed last fall, there will be no 
need of any thing but a pair of stout arms and a wheelbarrow. 

Sow at the same time Clover seed over the land laid down to 
grass last fall, at the rate of, at least, 15 lbs. per acre, as just de- 
scribed. It is recommended that this seed be sown on the last 
snow, in order that it may be readily carried down into the soil as 
the snow melts, and thus be evenly distributed. This is a good 
plan when snow comes in April, as is often the case, and the seed 
is probably more equally distributed than by sowing on the sod, 
and leaving it to the rain ; but to sow when the ground is still hard 
frozen, is to waste much seed. 

Now is the time to sow guano and super-phosphate, as a top- 
dressing. 

The amount of Clover seed, per acre, sowed at this season, is 10 
to 20 lbs. The quantity of seed should vary witli the soil, and 
with the other seed sown. I have frequently directed you to sow 
all crops thinly ; but this does not apply to grass seed ; the amount 
of these to the acre should be liberal, as much is eaten by birds 
and insects, some is poor, and when it germinates it is very desira- 
ble that it should come up thick ; the coarse parts are thus ren- 
dered sweeter and more pliable, and the hay is eaten by the stock 
with greater relish. 

When the seed and guano is all sowed, or the manure spread, 



THE FARM. 488 

roll all the grass land and grain fields carefully, to consolidate the 
surface, and press into the ground, out of the way of the scythe or 
mowing-machine, any stones or roots which may have been heaved 
above the surface by frost 

The first farm work will be preparing land for spring Grain. 
Reference to the scheme of our 6 years' rotation will show that 
there is always some spjyng Grain which is sowed with Grass to 
follow Roots. With the exception of early Potatoes, Roots are 
never off the ground in season to allow the sowing of winter Grain ; 
therefore it is always desirable to divide the land for Roots — one 
portion to be planted with early Potatoes, the other with Turnips, etc. 

The spring Grain will vary according to locality. In the West- 
ern States Winter Wheat has been nearly abandoned, because it has 
been so much more severely injured by insects than Spring Wheat. 
Where this is the case, the farmer may grow upon his fallows such 
Roots as he pleases, the land not being wanted for Grain till 
spring. With us in New England, Spring Rye, Oats, and Barley 
are the usual crops. Spring Rye has in some localities been de- 
stroyed by the rust and blight Wherever such diseases prevail, 
Oats or Barley must be sowed. They will thrive on much poorer 
soil than Wheat, and Rye is considered a Grain for poor soils, and 
is grown year after year, upon land which does not yield crop 
enough to fairly pay for the labor. But, in truth, no Grain crop is 
adapted to poor soil ; no poor land should be tolerated ; the kind of 
Grain to be grown in any field should be decided by the nature, 
and not by the quality of the soil. Rye thrives well in loamy 
and dry gravelly soils ; not so well on sandy land, though it will 
yield a fair crop in any fertile soil, but in rich loam it runs to straw. 
Oats are adapted to sandy clay, light loam, and good gravel. Bar- 
ley thrives best in a hazel loam, or on good sandy land, and yields 
good crops on well drained and worked clay, but under any cir- 
cumstances needs a well-drained soil. Wheat should be reserved 
for rich loam or loamy clay ; clay of any kind yields good Wheat, 
if well drained and tilled, but these processes must be thoroughly 
done ; and, indeed, we may say the same of the treatment of the 
soil for any Grain crop. 

Occasionally farmers sow land down to Grass with Indian Com, or 



484 APRIL. 

Squashes. Each of the various methods for getting land into Grass 
has its advocates, and each is best, under certain circumstances. 

The following is the method for sowing land with Spring Wheat, 
to he followed next year by Grass. Plough thoroughly, but not 
before the land is dry enough to break to pieces under the har- 
row; plough at least 9 inches deep, and as much more as is 
possible. As soon as this is done, if the* seed is to be broadcasted, 
*ow 200 lbs. of guano, mixed with 200 lbs. of plaster, and double 
the bulk of good loam, peat, or charcoal to the acre ; harrow care- 
fully, and remove all large stones, stalks, and weeds. Pickle the 
seed, and sow l£ to 2 bushels to the acre. This is much more than 
for fall sowing, as the seed will have no time to tiller, and only 
those stalks will bear seed which vegetate early, and thrive. Fol- 
low the Grain with Grass seed, and then give a single light har- 
rowing, followed by the roller, which will leave the seed pressed 
into the soil, and the soil compact about it A firm and compact 
soil is especially important to the Wheat plant, the light crops which 
it bears on sand and sandy loam being chiefly due to the lightness 
of these soils. The field will need no other care than occasional 
weeding, till harvest. 

The benefit of the guano sown in the spring is manifold. It 
gives the seed an early growth, and drives it forward when rains 
are frequent, and it increases the yield in direct proportion to the 
amount applied. A cwt, of guano will invariably give double or 
treble its cost in extra crop. When Grass seed is to be sowed 
with the Wheat, follow the seed-wheat with at least, Red-top, 1 to 2 
bushels, Herd's Grass, £ bushel, Clover 12 pounds. It is useless and 
slovenly to draw a brush-harrow over the surface when the land is 
friable and in good condition, and the seed evenly spread. Grass 
seeds are much more economically and evenly sowed in the broad- 
cast seed-sower than by hand, and although we do not care to spare 
our seed, having seen the advantage of its being in excess, the 
evenness of distribution is of great consequence to the crop. 

The use of Wheat as a spring grain will be determined by the 
latitude. In some parts of our country Wheat will not ripen its 
seed unless sown in the fall, because it has then this advantage : It 
grows and tillers, (ue. throws out suckers from the root which 



THE PAO. 485 

lake root and send up a seed stem of their own), and covers the 
ground before winter with a thick award. In the spring, before 
the land is fairly thawed, the plants feel the sun and begin to make 
new tools, slowly but surely, as the frost comes out, and before the 
land could be ploughed and sowed the new roots are well formed, 
and the plants ready to grow. 

If yon select Spring Rye or Oats as the grain, the treatment will 
be similar in all respects. Rye is sometimes saved from the rust 
by a pickle. The exact benefit derived from this pickling has 
never been determined, but it is certain that fields have been saved 
by pickling the aeed, while adjoining fields, with unpickled seed, 
have suffered. For both Wheat and Rye various pickles are recom- 
mended. One method is to fill a tub with weak urine, or other 
ammoniacal liquid, pour in the seed and immediately take it out, 
and set it in a sieve to drain ; then mix it with caustic lime, or 
Plaster of Paris, or wood ashes, in sufficient quantity to dry it To 
ensure the seed's being covered, roll the mixture in a barrel, or 
shovel it over repeatedly. In this way the seeds will be prevented 
from sticking together.* I give a drawing of a drill for sowing 
seed. The seed and special manure are put into the boxes, and 
are sowed at the same time, securing a more even deposition of 
both than is possible in hand sowing. Use 1 bushel per acre. The 
saving of seed is con- 
siderable, and at the 
same time you are 
sure that all the seeds ' 
are deposited at a uni- 
form depth, which is 
of very great impor- 
tance. Careful trials 
have shown a consid- 
erable loss or n gun as 
the seeds were sowed 
too deep, too near the surface, or at the proper depth. It has been 

* Other pickles are salt and water, bine vitriol dissolved in water, arsenic, 
bnt thia last is dangerous. In the place of the lime, in which I directed yon 
to roll the seed, powdered charcoal, or any dry, antiseptic duet, may be used. 
41* 



486 APRIL. 

calculated by Stephens, that in a crop of 64 bushels to the acre, 
there is a loss of 33 per cent of the seed when sowed broad- 
cast, of 40 per cent in a crop of 58 bushels to the acre. The 
proper depth is between 1 and 2 inches — not less than 1 and 
not more than 2. Spring Rye sown broadcast demands l£ to 2 
bushels, in the drill £ to 1 bushel, per acre. The straw of Rye is 
very much more valuable than any other, owing to its length and 
stiffness. 

Oats are never sown in the fall, but always in the spring. Sow 
3 to 4 bushels to the acre, broadcast. It is not so often drilled in 
as the other Grains, but gains as much by the process as any other. 
One to two bushels to the acre is enough when a drill is used. The 
peculiar roots of the oat collect the earth on which they grow into 
nodules, and the land needs rather more than usual cultivation to 
reduce it to fine tilth after oats. 

Barley sowed like the preceding, requires 2 or 3 bushels to the 
acre, or 1 in drill. Sow it later than the other grains, but as early 
as the first of May. Do not roll it unless the land be very light. 
It may be pickled to advantage. The use of steeps, or pickles, for 
grain, is asserted to have another value than protection, if the steep 
is well made. A large number of careful and instructive experi- 
ments were tried in this direction by several English and Scotch 
agriculturists. The seed was analyzed a sufficient number of 
times to settle definitely its important constituents, and then these 
constituents were procured in a soluble form, were dissolved in 
water, and the seed soaked in the liquid until enough was absorbed, 
in the judgment of the experimenters, to thoroughly manure a 
given acreage upon which the seed was to be sowed. In the ma- 
jority of cases the seed so prepared, and the field thus manured, 
gave large and satisfactory crops, demonstrating to the experimenters 
the truth of the theory upon which they had acted. But in other 
cases the experiment proved an entire failure, either because the 
theory was incorrect or the experiments badly tried. The inventor 
of this method patented it, and sold preparations for different 
crops. Undoubtedly there is a good deal in the idea, and I recom- 
mend every farmer to try the experiment* All the Grain crops 

* See pp. 155, etc., of Highland Society's Prize Essays for 1845. 



i 

J 



THE FARM. 487 

are much benefited by weeding. Particular, care should be taken 
to ensure that there are no seeds of mustard or other weeds 
among your seed-grain. It should be thoroughly examined, and, 
if need be, winnowed several times before sowing. 

Land is in fine condition for all these Grains, after a crop of 
well-manured Boots, which leave it in the spring light and friable. 
If the field can be ploughed directly after removing the Roots in 
the fall and not harrowed, it will be in still better case, and may 
if necessary, be sowed in the spring without a new ploughing, only 
breaking down the furrows with a heavy harrow or cultivator. 

No Grain should be manured with barnyard manure, as it is too 
coarse and rank to be easily appropriated by the roots of Grain, 
which having to elaborate in a few months a highly concentrated 
seed, needs to find its food in a well-rotted condition in which it is 
easily assimilated. 

It has always been laid down as a principle, that no Grain ex- 
cept Oats should be sown on a lea or old sod. Wheat does best 
after Clover, the sward being broken up in the spring or early sum- 
mer, and summer-fallowed, ploughed once or twice and sowed in 
the fall. The Clover tops and roots thus ploughed in, very soon 
ferment and decay, and give the Wheat just the food it wants. 
Some of our Western farmers prefer a Timothy sward to any other 
preparation for WheaU Whoever uses the Michigan plough may 
sow upon the sod just as readily as on stubble or fallow. This 
plough is shown in the cut. It is double. The front plough cuts 
the sod in a ribbon, and rolls it under where it is covered with 
mould to the depth of two or three . inches by the large plough 
which follows. 

All lea land is more infested with wire and cut worms than fal- 
low or stubble, and is in that way objectionable ; but with this ex- 
ception there is no sort of reason why the sod should not be used 
for winter or spring Grain. By adopting this practice, a different 
rotation may be followed, which is better than the one previously 
laid down under some circumstances. Well-buried sod is excellent 
food for Grain, if it is the sward of well-enriched land, it is easily 
decomposed, and yet firm for the early growth of the plants. Oats 



grasp the earth and consolidate a foothold better than any other 
Grain, all of which need a well-rolled soil. 



Indian Corn ia sometimes used to get land into Grass. It differs 
from all other Grains in being a hoed crop, and is used very often 
in the place of Roots, or to follow them on land which will bear 
two white crops in the rotation. It is sown by the corn-planter or 
by hand in rows. Different distances are prescribed according to 
the size of the Corn, straw, or tops, and the traditions of the district ; 
3 feet 'each way from hill to hill is about right; the seed should be 
set 1£ to 2 inches deep, 4 or 5 grains to the bill, 9 to 12 quarts to 
the acre. For this Grain, either barnyard or special manure may 
be used either broadcast or in the hill ; both methods have their 
warm advocates. On good land I advise broadcasting the manure 
before ploughing, and then sowing with the seed some artificial 
manure in the hill, which is as good as any other manure in the 
hill to give the Com an early start, and will hold out long enough 
to establish the plants so that they can send their roots abroad for 
the other manure. The time for sowing Corn is from the middle 
of May to the middle of June. Different varieties of seed obtain 
in different parts of the country. The Canada Corn may be sowed 
later than any other, as it ripens earlier, needing but 90 days; 
other and larger varieties need more time. It is a question whether 



THE FARM. 489 

the Canada Corn will not yield as many pounds per acre as any 
other ; it is smaller, may be sowed closer in both row and hill, and 
with more grains to the hill. 

I should not speak of this grain now out of season as it is, 
were it not in connection with sowing land to Grass. Cultivate the 
Corn flat. As soon as the Corn is high enough to show the rows 
distinctly, go over the field and shake a teacupful of ashes over 
each hill ; then send a horse-plough through the rows each way, to 
furrow, deepen, and loosen the soil ; follow this with the hoe, and 
carefully cut off, or pull up every weed. Do not content yourself 
with covering them with earth. Such a course is slovenly, and 
short-sighted ; the weeds will soon come up again through the 
earth. After one good hoeing there need be no other general hoe- 
ing. As soon as weeds show again in the rows, send a horse-hoe, or 
cultivator, through each way, once or twice, enough to break up the 
surface soil thoroughly, and kill the young weeds, but never plough 
a second time, as the plough runs deep enough to break the young 
roots of the Corn. Cultivate or horse-hoe as often as is necessary, 
till the Corn becomes too large for the horse to go through the rows. 
If you have been careful and constant in your culture, the weeds 
will be so much subdued that they will not start again, for the Corn- 
stalks will shut out light from the ground, and without light weeds 
will not thrive. 

In July go over the field with the hoe, and cut and remove any 
remaining weeds. Then sow the Grass seed broadcast, which is a 
rather difficult and tedious process, for the sower must stoop lower 
than the Corn leaves, to spread the seed well over the ground. 
After sowing, rake the surface thoroughly with wooden rakes, to 
mix the seed well with the soil. Under the protecting shade of 
the Corn it will germinate rapidly, Cut the Corn in September as 
close to the ground as possible, and remove it at once from the field, 
stooking it along the edges or elsewhere. Immediately after some 
shower, roll the field thoroughly, so as to make it as level as possi- 
ble, and press the Corn roots into the soil, where they will soon de- 
cay ; for the same reasons, roll again before winter, and in the 
spring. 

Prepare land for early Potatoes. The land for this is the pas- 



490 APBEL. 

tare, or sward of last year, which is to be got into condition for 
winter grain. Plough with the Michigan plough, or with the com- 
mon plough followed by a sub-soil. It is in the Boot crop that 
the deep culture and thorough manuring are to be done, as after 
that crop is removed, the land lies in grain or sward for 5 
years. Potatoes are not, therefore, as good as other Roots, as they 
are not benefited by much manure. The best crops of best Pota- 
toes are usually grown upon unmanured but rich land. It has been 
thought by many that manuring has caused the rot, and I am of 
those Who feel that less, rather than more manure should be the 
rule, for the sake of the tuber. Indian Corn may be planted in ro- 
tation in place of Potatoes, if you choose; planting the 90 day Corn 
in the middle of May, it may be stooked by the 20th of August, 
or the 1st of September ; and afterwards there will be time to sow 
winter Grain. Before ploughing, cart on manure ; the amount of 
this per acre, will be determined by the stock on hand, as all of it 
is to be used on this and the other Boots ; no other than special 
manure being needed by the other crops in the rotation. An am- 
ple dressing is 10 cords to the acre of very rich manure ; this is 
equal to 4 ox, or 2 horse, cart loads with the side boards on, well 
trodden and full to the top. Our New England farmers will 
take their first alarm at this, in their eyes, immense dressing. 20 
cords of ordinary compost will be still better ; remember that the 
field is to receive no other than special manure, or top dressing, for 
6 years. 

Having ploughed in the manure, harrow and furrow out Bun 
the furrows across the field 3 feet apart each way ; drop into each 
intersection, your Seed Potatoes ; the number will depend upon 
the kind you use, and the traditions of your district If whole and 
small, 1 to 3, if cut in pieces, 3 to 4 pieces ; lay them in with some 
care ; as the seed is dropped, a man or boy should follow with 
plaster of Paris, and shake a handful over each hill ; another 
should cover the Potatoes, drawing over them not less than one, 
nor more than two, inches of earth ; the seed having been well cov- 
ered, the hoe "should be pressed down on the hill to consolidate the 
earth. 

I mentioned in September, several varieties of good Potatoes ; 






THE FARM. 491 

add to these, for early culture, Hill's Early, ripens in July ; Che* 
nango, in August ; Jackson White, also in August ; State of Maine, 
Gilly Flower, and many other varieties variously esteemed. 

Potatoes can be planted the last of this month, or the first of May. 

Another spring crop, which may be planted upon lea or fallow 
land, manured or not, is Peas. I do not mean Peas for the table 
or market, but Peas as a field crop. Prepare the land as just de- 
scribed, and harrow evenly. Sow the seeds, with a seed-sower, in 
rows 3 to 4 feet apart, using 2 bushels to the acre ; set the seeds 3 
inches deep in the ground. Treat like Indian Corn during the sum- 
mer. They will be ripe in July, when pull up and bind ; stook till 
dry, then thresh. The yield will be about 30 to 50 bushels to the 
acre. Peas are excellent flesh-forming food for cattle or hogs. 
The straw will be readily eaten, or may be used for litter. This 
crop can be sown as early as Oats, although early Peas are more 
open to the attacks of weevil than those sown later. On the 
other hand, the Pea likes much water, and late-sown crops are 
liable to be checked by drought. 

The field Bean is another crop similar to the Pea, but cannot be 
sown till the middle or last of May, through fear of the frost ; and 
as they grow quickly, they need not be sown till the middle of 
June. Plough, harrow, and roll. Sow the Beans in rows 2 feet 
apart, using 1 bushel to the acre ; set the seeds 2 inches apart, and 
2 inches deep. Hoe during the season. As soon as the pods are 
yellow pull them up, tie in bunches, and stack to dry. Thresh 
them as soon. as they are dry. Beans ground are excellent food for 
cattle, with Turnips. The straw is good for fodder or litter. Both 
Peas and Beans should be cracked or ground before feeding, in 
order to render them more digestible. 

During wet days, which come often in March and April, the 
farm hands should be employed in the manure cellar. Let them 
first clear a space, situated conveniently near, and there begin to 
make a pile of manure. The manure accumulated during the win- 
ter, and packed and trodden by the hogs, is very solid. It may be 
rendered more manageable by turning it over, and at the same time 
will become better mixed. After turning, leave it a few days 
before it is used. During the process of turning, it would be 



492 APRIL. 

well occasionally to sprinkle the heap with diluted sulphuric acid, 
or to shake over it Plaster of Paris, charcoal, or peat dust, to 
absorb the gases which would otherwise escape, and to stop heat- 
ing or fermentation. 

Fermentation, or heating in the manure pile, is the progress of 
chemical change, which results in the evolution of carbonate 
of ammonia, evident enough to any one who stands near a pile 
of heating manure. Other gases are formed in the process, and es- 
cape at the same time, but the carb. ammonia predominates, and 
the pile loses most by its escape. When the acid, or other absorb- 
ent, is spread through the heap, these chemical changes are arrested, 
and whatever gas has been generated is immediately absorbed ; no 
more can form, and consequently fermentation stops. 

In the last month (while discussing the rotation of crops) and in 
the present, I have frequently referred to artificial manures as a 
means of fertilizing crops, and some readers may not understand 
why the term " artificial " should be appropriated for any set of 
manures, when all manures are, to a certain extent, manufactured 
articles. The term is particularly applied to guano, super-phosphate 
of lime, poudrette, rape-cake, bone dust, and other fertilizers, 
which are articles of commerce. Different farmers preferring and 
using different kinds of artificial manures. Already many thou- 
sands of tons of them are used in this country, but seldon with care 
or accurate knowledge of their value. The use of artificial manures 
is an indication of the improvement of agriculture, since, gener- 
ally, only those who are desirous of improvement, will spend money 
for manure. And the man who is willing to do so, is generally 
anxious that the land for which he makes the outlay should be in 
the best condition possible, in other words, that he should get the 
best return for his investment Yet there is a class of greedy men, 
eager to get money, who buy and use these manures without inves- 
tigation or discrimination, having only a general perception that 
artificial manure will rapidly increase their crops. Such men will, 
sooner or later, overdo the thing, and suffer from the careless use 
of these stimulants, and then they will pronounce this whole class 
of manures too dangerous to be of any value. 

Every reader of American agricultural literature must have 



THE FABM. 498 

been astonished at the differences of opinion about the value of 
guano. Some men pronounce it the most valuable of manures, 
the regenerator of soils, the mainspring of agriculture, the great 
means by which the farmer may improve his condition. Others 
maintain that it is uncertain in its operation, overstimulating 
land for a time and then leaving it exhausted and barren, at one 
time powerful, at another powerless ; in short, unreliable and val- 
ueless. As with guano, so with all all other manures ; no two 
statements about them are alike. 

Curious and inexplicable as this seems at first, it is owing to 
nothing but greedy haste to get rich by a short cut. Nothing for 
nothing is the rule everywhere in Nature ; and no man grows rich 
in farming by short cuts,, unless it be at the expense of those who 
follow him. I have said that unlimited patience is the stock in 
trade of the successful gardener ; the same is true of the farmer. 
The operations of Nature are slow and sure, and not to be hurried ; 
her laws are immutable. If we would succeed, we must study her 
secrets, and do as she does. Your assertion or mine is of no 
weight unless based on personal experience both wide and minute, 
or on similar experience of other men. To hear the talk of our 
experimental farmers, one would suppose that the round of agri- 
cultural experiments and success began with them, whereas the 
laws which govern agriculture have been discovered by long and 
patient groping and many trials, and are now matters of record. If 
you are inclined to make experiments, which require time and 
money and imperil your crops, endeavor to learn by reading and in- 
quiry, how others have succeeded in similar experiments, and what 
was the cause of their failure or success. Their experience may 
enable you to avoid the rocks, the snags, and the whirlpools, the 
situation of which you must otherwise learn by sad experience. 

I will endeavor to show the principles upon which successful 
manuring is based, and to lay down a plan for future action. To 
arrive at any definite and consistent plan, we must ask and answer 
the questions, u Why manure at all ?" and " What is manure ? " 

To take these questions in order. We know that any plant cul- 
tivated on an acre of land for many successive years without ma- 
nure, finally reduces that acre to sterility. It will bear no more of 

42 



494 APRIL. 

its old crop. The reason for this seems to be, that the constituents 
of which that crop is composed, are withdrawn to such an extent, 
that there is not enough left to support new . plants ; not enough, I 
mean, in a form adapted to the plants. That the necessary con- 
stituents are not wholly exhausted, is proved by the field's being 
able to produce the same crop again after lying fallow for some 
time. A large part of the vegetable constituents of plants is float- 
ing in the air as gas, and rain washes down a portion of them as it 
falls, making thus a considerable contribution to the crops. But the 
air does not contain all the elements of plant life, for lime, potash, 
and soda, technically called u salts," are not volatile, and can 
neither float in the air nor be supplied by it ; yet they are always 
found in greater or less amount in all plants, and are essential to 
their life and growth, though we do not know how ; and they are 
all important to the formation of the flesh, bones and blood, of men 
and animals, who obtain them principally from vegetable fibre 
where Nature has stored them. They may be formed through the 
agency of the atmosphere. For instance, lime exists as a carbon- 
ate in the rocks, and as these crumble into powder under the con- 
stant contact of atmospheric gases, the influence of storms and frosts, 
they spread the Lime over the neighboring soil. But this is a slow 
process, and we are forced to believe that no soil is ever wholly 
exhausted of the available form of these salts, whilst it may be 
wanting in the gases which are necessary to plant life, and in 
whose absence plants cannot appropriate the salts. 

It is not difficult to ascertain the constitution of a soil, and to 
make a table of the constituents. I shall, in the following pages, 
give several such tables ; do not in reading them be misled as to 
the quantity of the various constituents contained in the soils men • 
tioned. In some cases the constituents will be given in pounds, in 
others, in a per centage ; to get the number of pounds, will, in such 
cases, need a little calculation. 

I have not quoted the number of tables or the variety of soils I 
might have, as the number would not strengthen the points to which 
I wish to attract your attention, and in the tables quoted you will 
find ample illustration of the value of earth analyses, and of the 



THE FABM. 



495 



component parts of soils. The soils of your farm may differ from 
these analyses materially, but the principle will be the same. 

CLAT FROM ZUIDER ZEE.* 



Insoluble quartz or 
sand, with alumina 
and silica. 

Soluble silica, 

Alumina, 

Peroxide iron, 

Protoxide of iron, 

Protoxide of manga- 
nese, 

Lime, 

Magnesia, 

Potash, 

8oda, 

Ammonia, 

Phosphoric add, 

Sulphuric acid, 

Carbonic acid, 

Chlorine, 

Humic acid, 

Crenic acid, 

Apocrenic acid, 

Humin, vegetable re- 
mains and water, 
chemically combined, 

Wax and resin, 

Loss, 



1. 


2. 


3. 


57.646 


51.706 


55.372 


2.340 


2.496 


2.286 


1.830 


2.900 


2.888 


9.038 


10 305 


11.864 


.350 


.563 


.200 


.288 


.354 


.284 


4.092 


5.096 


2.480 


.130 


.140 


.128 


1.026 


1.430 


1.521 


1.972 


2.069 


1.937 


.060 


.078 


.075 


.466 


.324 


.478 


.896 


1.104 


.576 


6.085 


6.940 


4.775 


1.240 


1.302 


1.418 


2.798 


3.991 


3.428 


.771 


.731 


.037 


.107 


.160 


.152 


8.324 


7.700 


9.340 


trace. 


trace, i trace. 


.542 


.611 


.753 



145,605 lbs. 




5,404 " 
54,251 " 


Soluble 


81,565 " 
2,907 " 


matter 


17,289 " 
35,007 '" 


to an acre 


229,509 " 





100.00100.00100.00 



The number of pounds is ob- 
tained as follows : tne weight of 
;in acre of good land, 1 foot deep, 
is given as 4,094,640 pounds, or 
94 pounds to the cubic foot. By 
the use of these numbers, you 
may get the weight of the per- 
centages of any tables of analysis 
of top-soils. 



This soil is kiln-dried before making the analysis. These are 
rich soils, and draw their origin from the Rhine country and de- 
cayed rocks. 

IN ONE IMPOVERISHED SOIL.f 



Silica, quartz, sand, and 61.576, 



silicate. 
Alumina, 
Oxides iron, 
Oxide managanese, 
Lime, 
Magnesia. 
Potash and soda, 



= over 2,000 000 pounds. 

.450. 

.524. 
trace. 

.320, = 13,102 pounds. 

.130. 
trace, = many pounds. 



♦Text Book of Agriculture, p. 33. t Text Book of Agriculture, p. 35. 



496 APRIL. 



Phosphoric acid, trace, =» many pounds. 






Jrnospnoric acio 
Sulphuric acid, 
Chlorine, 

Humic acid, 1 1 .470, = about 500,000 pounds. 

Insoluble humus, 26.530, = and is a source of, and converted into car- 

Organic matter, contain- bonic acid, 

ing nitrogen, 00.000. 

Carbonic acid united to 

lime, trace, = many pounds. 

Water, none. 

When kiln-dried, a trace in an analysis of 100 grains, would be 
many pounds in 4,094,640 pounds. 

A BARREN SOIL IN NEW JERSEY.* 



Organic matter, 4.50, = 184.258 pounds. Contain perhaps, a little 

nitrogen ; mostly carbon. 

Silicates, 87.60, = over 3,000,000 pounds. 

Alumina, • 3.65. 

Lime, .45, = 10,425 pounds. 

Magnesia, trace. 

Peroxide iron, 1.39. 

Potash, .01, = 49 pounds. 

Soda, .08, = 3,277 pound*. 

Chlorine, .06, = 2,456 pounds. 

Sulphuric acid, .12, = 4,913 



<< 



Phosphoric acid, with 

iron as phosphate, .03, = 1,228 pounds. 

Carbonic acid, 00 

Moisture, 2.00. 

Loss, .01 . 

100.00 

Kiln-dried, as before. 

These analyses of soils are just as good for my purpose, to show 
what good and poor soils offer to the crops, as though I had a hun- 
dred such. Let us now ascertain what are the constituents of the 
crops themselves. I will take the crops usually cultivated, and give 
in tabular form the number of pounds to the acre, of the various 
constituents which will be removed by these crops. Knowing then, 
what crops require, and the composition of soils, we have next to as- 
certain what the air furnishes ; we shall then see the elements 
wjiich are to be supplied by culture, to facilitate the growth of crops. 

When we look at the vast amounts of the various constituents 

* Text Book of Agriculture, p. 36. 



I 



THE FARM. 497 

of the soil which exist in every fertile acre of land, it seems im- 
possible that they can be exhausted even in a long course of 
cropping, or that the small amount we can return as manure, can 
be of any use. According to Boussingault,* Wheat takes from 
the soil, 



As Wheat, 1,052, 

As Straw, 2,558. 



Dry crop in pounds ( To 1-2 an Eng- 
of the ash. { lish acre. 



8,610. 
This reduced to ashes, gives: — 

Wheat ashes, 2.4 per cent, ) ( 25 pounds. 

Straw ashes 7 per cent, J (179 pounds. 

Constituents In 26 lbs. Wheat ashes. In 179 lbs. Straw ashes 

Phosphoric acid. 12.0 5.0 

Sulphuric acid, 0.8 1.5 

Chlorine, 1.0 

Lime, 0.8 15.0 

Magnesia, 4.0 ■ 9.0 

Potash and soda, 7.0 17.0 

Silica, 0.4 121.0 

Oxide iron, etc., trace. 1.75 

The organic matter of an average crop will take from l£ acres : — 
of carbon, 2,259 lbs.; of hydrogen, 262 lbs.; of oxygen, 1,923 
lbs.; of nitrogen, 52 lbs.; of nitrogen (in the form of ammonia), 
63 lbs. 

Let me say here, before going further, that ammonia is a com- 
pound formed of nitrogen and hydrogen, one equivalent of nitrogen 
to three of hydrogen, represented in chemical formula as N H 3 . 

We see from the table of constituents found in the analysis of 
the ash, that nitrogen enters more largely into the formation of 
plants than any one saline element except silica, of which, as we have 
seen, there is always a preponderance in common soils. As far as 
analysis and experiment have been able to detect, nitrogen is never 
taken up by plants in its pure form, but only as ammonia ; and 
although we may manure crops with various kinds of nitrates, — 
that is to say, preparations in which nitrogen exists not as am- 
monia, — yet before the plants can use it, it is changed into ammo- 
nia. Nothing enters the plant through its roots, except dissolved 
by water ; ammonia is readily dissolved in water, and thus carried 

* Rural Economy, p 366. 
42* 



498 APRIL. 

into the plant. That some nitrogen may be carried into the plant 
from the air, is quite possible, it being a constituent of the atmos- 
phere in connection with hydrogen and oxygen ; but investigation 
does not show that the plant has any power of separating nitrogen 
from the atmosphere, for its own use, and accordingly it is gener- 
ally admitted that ammonia is the source of the nitrogen in plants. 

I dwell upon this question because upon the importance of am- 
monia in the economy of plants, depends the value of the different 
special manures. One class of chemists assert that there is no 
need of supplying ammonia artificially, but that the value of a ma- 
nure depends entirely upon the quantity of salts (lime, potash, and 
soda), together with phosphoric acid in it Another class stren- 
uously maintain that the value of a manure is determined by the 
ammonia which it can yield to plants, and that the salts are of no 
consequence so long as there is a fair amount of phosphoric acid 
with the ammonia. 

Let us examine a few more crops before proceeding further. 

Analysis by Hemming, — A Rye crop abstracted from one half- 
acre (English) in pounds of — carbon, 2,169 ; hydrogen, 245 ; oxy- 
gen, 1,868 ; nitrogen, 34 ; potash, 25 ; soda, 1 ; lime, 10 ; phosphoric 
acid, 14 ; ammonia, 41. 

A Turnip crop took from one half-acre (English) in pounds : 
Nitrogen, 159 ; potash, 166 ; soda, 5 ; lime, 102 ; phosphoric acid, 83. 

A crop of Beans took from one-half acre (English) in pounds : 
Nitrogen, 164; potash, 55; soda, 8 ; lime, 37; phosphoric acid, 29. 

Boussingault ascertained that in a rotation of 5 years, the follow- 
ing crops (per one-half English acre) took in pounds :* — 

Dry Crop. Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. Aaoteor Alh. 

Nitrogen. 

1. Potatoes, 2,828 1,244 164 1,264 42 113 

2. Wheat and Straw, 3,122 1,487 171 1,262 32 270 

3. Clover Hay, 3,693 1,750 185 1,396 78 284 
. ( Wheat and Straw, 8,857 1,836 210 1,559 40 210 
4 ' I Turnips, 2d crop, 3,656 2,832 36 278 11 50 
5. Oats and Straw, 2,151 1,087 125 816 26 99 



19,307 10,236 891 6,575 229 1,026 

Boussingault is an advocate of the free use of ammonia as a ma- 
nure, and values manures in proportion to the amount of ammonia 

* Rural Economy, p. 357. 



THE FARM. ' 499 

in them, and accordingly in his analyses makes no account of the 
ash. 

Prof. Liebig, on the other hand, values his analyses and manures 
upon the saline constituents of the ash, and neglects the organic 
and ammonia-producing qualities. I will give some of the analy- 
ses of the ash, of the above crops, taken from Way, that their con- 
stituents.may be understood. 

I gave Boussingault's analysis of the dry crop. In Way's tables 
the weight of the dry crop is given, and with it the ash ; but Way's 
crops were sometimes taken from twice as much land as Boussin- 
gault's, and are sometimes twice, and often several times greater 
in gross weight than Boussingault's, and consequently the compar- 
ison between the ammonia of the one, and the ash of the other, is 
only approximate. 



Nl 


Itrogen, as shown 
inlast table. 


Bousstagault's 


Way's 




Analysis.* 


Analysis.? 




lbs. 


Crop, lbs. 


Aaq. lbs. 


Crop, lbs 


Ash, lbs. 


Potatoes, 


42 


11,733 


113 


12,750 


423.97 


Clover Hay, 


78 


4,675 


284 


4,000 


213.09 


Wheat and Straw, 


40 


4,977 


210 


9,068 


246.01 


Turnips, 


11 


8,754 


50 


52,000 


600.30 


Oats and Straw, 


26 


2,882 


99 


5,040 


198.90 


way's analysis 


OF THE : 


FOREGOING 


a 






Potatoes. 


Clover Hay. 


Wheat and 
Straw. 


Turnips. 


Oats and 
Straw. 


Silica, 


16.86 


2.11 


150.52 


14.24 


96.80 


Phosphoric acid, 


47.99 




31.54 


60.98 


22.30 


Earthy phosphates, 




51.09 








Sulphuric acid. 


50.21 


1.25 


0.44 


78.82 


5.80 


Lime, 


29.11 


43.21 


8.88 


107.68 


12.00 


Magnesia, 


25.41 


9.75 


12.70 


21.54 


9.10 


Peroxide of iron, 


1.35 




0.56 


6.29 


2.70 


Potash, 


195.07 


64.31 


39.23 


201.68 


36.50 


Soda, 


27.53 


36.79 


2.14 


39.21 


3.60 


Chlorine, 


16.64 


4.58 




38.15 




Salt, 


13.80 






26.69 


6.30 


Chloride of potash, 








2.00 


3.80 



A difference will be observed in the number of pounds of crop 
given in the two quotations of Boussingault's analysis ; — the first 
quotation shows the number of pounds of kiln-dried material, the 
second of the material in its condition when harvested. The 
weight of the crops analyzed for the ash by Way and others, is 
given in its ordinary condition, and to make the table intelligible in 
its comparison, in the second quotation I have given the crop of 

* Rural Economy, p. 357. t Brown's Field Book of Manure, p. 391. 



500 APRIL. 

Boussingault, in its harvested condition. Let me now call your 
attention to the fact that vast as is the amount of soluble minerals 
in fertile land, the insoluble ingredients are in much greater propor- 
tion, being sometimes 60 to 80 per cent. These insoluble materials 
vary with the locality ; they are rocks composed wholly or in part 
of Lime, Potash, Soda, Magnesia, Silex. Silex, or Flint, gives to 
the outer coating of straw its hardness, and is as necessary to 
plants as any other element 

The analyses of " fertile soil " show a considerable and constant 
amount of ammonia, which should increase rather than decrease 
in the hands of the good farmer, and yet we have seen that plants 
annually take from the soil a large quantity of ammonia. Whence 
do thqy get it ? 

Careful analysis of air, of rain and snow-water, shows an appre- 
ciable amount of uncombined ammonia in the air, which is washed 
down by rain and snow and carried into the earth ; but a thorough 
course of experiments just concluded by the best agricultural in- 
vestigators in England, has proved that the amount annually fur- 
nished to the earth in this way is less than the amount taken away 
annually by ordinary crops. Yet the opponents of special ammo- 
niated manure have pointed to the ammonia of the air as sufficient 
to supply all the wants of the crops, and have maintained that any 
other supply of ammonia is unnecessary. i 

One follower of Liebig gives the number of pounds of ammo- 
nia found in the soil of several different acres, varying in amount 
from 3,000 to 8,000 pounds, and then triumphantly inquires what 
farmer would ever cart from his manure-yards 8,000 pounds of 
ammonia to his fields*. 

This is most mistaken reasoning. Our tables have just shown 
that in a single fertile acre, there may be 145,605 pounds of lime, 
54,251 pounds of potash, 17,289 pounds of phosphoric acid — all 
soluble. What farmer would ever think of carting such quantities 
of these salts out of his yards to his land ? 

Again, it is said that the value of barnyard manure is dependent, 
not upon its ammonia, but entirely upon the carbon and salts sup- 
plied by it. But the same great authority who asserts that all the 

■ 

* Prof. Horsford, Cambridge, Mass. 



THE FARM. 501 

ammonia needed in agriculture may be derived from the washings 
of the air, shows that at least 200,000 pounds of carbonic acid 
per acre may be supplied from the same atmospheric reservoir. In 
the eyes of his school then, the value of barnyard manure cannot 
depend on its carbon. The constituents of barnyard manure are, 
about 80 per cent water, 18 carbonaceous matter, 2 of salts and 
ammonia. If then its value lay in its carbon and salts, our farm- 
ers would 'do well to burn their manure and carry out the ash only, 
which would reduce the expense of manuring a field with barn- 
yard manure at least one half. But in fact, this manure, though 
not in any one's opinion perfect — varying as it does in quality, and 
never containing all the elements of plants in due proportion — 
has always been found more generally efficient than any other ma- 
nure. How it may be improved will be stated hereafter. 

To return to the advocates of saline manures. They give a list 
of instances in which the crops on different pieces of land were 
x doubled and trebled by the application of some saline manures, 
lime, gypsum, phosphorate of lime, etc; and from this they 
reason that these salts are the important special elements in ma- 
nures, and that their liberal application will result in unbounded 
crops. 

On the other hand, the advocates of ammonia show equally large 
lists of cases in which the application of that substance produced 
crops as great as those that followed the saline manures ; and from 
this they infer the importance of ammonia, and the uselessness of 
any other so-called fertilizer. 

I could give lists of experiments on both sides, each list equally 
conclusive in favor of the manure employed in the experiments 
set down in it Both cannot be true, and in their precise applica- 
tion neither is true. 

Before defending either side of this argument, we must consider 
to what use vegetation is devoted. With scarcely an exception, to 
support animal life. Animals can thrive only upon food which 
contains nitrogen ; therefore an analysis which deals only with 
ash of a crop, can furnish no argument applicable to animal econ- 
omy, for the food of an animal must contain all the elements neces- 
sary for animal life. To omit from your analysis that portion of 
the crop most essential to the result for which the crop is grown, is 



502 APRIL. 

absurd ; yet this is done in every ash analysis. The heat necessa- 
rily applied to obtain the ash converts nitrogen into volatile ammo- 
nia, and sends it off in (he form of gas. Such an analysis can only 
satisfy those who assume that all the nitrogen needed by plants is 
supplied by the air. This is assuming the whole ground, and if 
admitted cuts off all further argument But I do not admit it, or 
see how any one can admit it. 

Let us take the case of an acre of land, sterile, and destitute of 
various salts, of carbon and ammonia, with nothing but lime in 
abundance. It would be useless to expect a crop if we applied to 
this acre once or -twice the amount of mineral matter that our crop 
would need. Even under the best culture, the land could not be 
so thoroughly worked and exposed to the action of the roots, that 
the crcfp could search through the whole acre (4,094,640 pounds 
of soil) and hit upon just what it wanted. The advocates of the 
saline theory would not expect it, any more than we ; they would 
expect to supply annually for several years, the saline constituents 
of the crop in some excess, and in such form as would enable the 
crops to seize it readily, and would not feel sure of an ample crop 
until the constant accretions amounted to enough to leave a large 
balance on hand, on which the crop could draw in time of need ; 
and they would not consider the condition of the land perfectly 
satisfactory until it was so well stocked with these constituents, 
that the addition of a year's supply would be necessary only to 
keep this balance good. 

Or again ; suppose all the saline constituents to be abundant, ex- 
cept one, and that one an element universally and largely diffused 
through plants, — potash, for instance. Would our theorist rely upon 
the disintegration of the thousands of pounds of solid rock in the 
soil, which might annually crumble enough to supply to an acre of 
land the few pounds of potash needed by its crop ? He would 
have good reasons for not doing so ; he knows that the process of 
disintegration would be slow, and not most active during the grow- 
ing season. He knows that it might be more perfectly and surely 
accomplished in one part of the field than in another, and that ac- 
cidental causes might altogether check it. These reasons would 
decide him to apply potash enough, in an assimilable form, to carry 
one crop, at least, through the season. 



THE FABM. 503 

Let us now put the case of an acre of land abounding in saline 
constituents, but destitute of ammonia, from which several crops are 
to be taken, demanding various amounts of nitrogen. Obviously, 
the only natural source of nitrogen in this case, is the ammonia in 
the air, which will be carried into the soil by the rain and snow. 

* According to Liebig, the largest annual amount that can be cal- 
culated upon from that source is " upwards of 80 lbs. of ammonia, 
or 65 lbs. of nitrogen ; for by the observations of Schubler, the 
annual fall (of rain) must be 2,520,000 lbs. This is much more 
nitrogen than is contained in the form of vegetable albnmen and 
gluten in 2,650 lbs. of wood, 2,500 lbs. of Hay, or 200 cwt. of Beet- 
Boot, which are the yearly produce of such a field. But it is less 
than the straw, roots, and grain of Corn, which might grow on 
the same surface, would contain." The field here calculated con- 
tains 26,910 square feet. To an English acre there would be 158 
lbs. per acre of ammonia. 

In another place he says : " No conclusion can have a better 
foundation than this, that it is the ammonia of the atmosphere that 
furnishes nitrogen to plants." 

The amount of ammonia thus supplied comes in the shape of the 
carbonate, which is the volatile form of ammonia, and when carried 
into the earth is either still retained as a carbonate, and still volatile, 
or is fixed by the free or combined sulphuric acid in the soil, and con- 
verted into sulphate of ammonia, which is soluble in water, but not 
volatile. There can be no doubt that some is thus fixed, and a 
strong argument for the use of gypsum, or sulphate of lime, is that 
it fixes ammonia, the sulphate of lime yielding its sulphuric acid 
to the ammonia, taking, in payment, its carbonic acid, and becoming 
carbonate of lime. How much is thus fixed, of the 158 lbs. to the 
acre, we do not know ; but that which remains as a carbonate is still 
a volatile, and under the warmth of a summer sun undoubtedly re- 
evaporates into the air, as does the same gas from an unfermented 
manure pile ; whilst during the winter it is scarcely absorbed at all, 
as at thatjseason the larger part of the rain and snow-water runs 
off the frozen surface into the natural drainage. 

* 

* Agricultural Chemistry, p. 44. 



504 APRIL. 

Of the whole amount supplied in rain, etc, not more than two- 
thirds (105 pounds) can be absorbed, and there is every reason to 
suppose that a large portion of this is re-evaporated, while of the 
remainder a considerable proportion in most soils would be carried 
by the water with which it fell, or by subsequent washings, into 
the subsoil, where it is below the roots of most annual plants. It 
is a mistake to look upon an acre of cultivated soil as if it were a bed 
of charcoal, chloride of calcium, or sulphate of lime, which would 
filter all water that ran through it Much of the surface of our soil 
is full of perceptible holes left by worms, decayed roots, etc., and 
leading directly to the subsoil, through which a great deal of the 
water that falls runs rapidly into the subsoil, without any filtration 
or purification whatever, carrying with it any ammonia it may 
have. 'And other large quantities of highly ammoniated rain water, 
that of thunder-storms, fall so rapidly and forcibly as to be shed 
from the surface like that which falls in winter. 

In all these ways the ammonia (N H 3 ) supplied from the air is 
wasted (so far as our soil is concerned), till it is evident that but a 
small amount is retained for the crops. 

Again, look at the results obtained by those who use the largest 
quantities of highly nitrogenized manures. Urine — whether of 
men or animals — is the most ammoniacal of manures. The fol- 
lowing table shows the composition of human urine: — * 

Urea, 3.01 

Uric acid, 0.10 

Indeterminate animal matter and lactic acid, and lactate of ammonia, 1.17 

Mucus of the bladder, 0.03 

Sulphate of potash, . . ". 0.37 

Sulphate of soda, 0.32 

Phosphate of soda, 0.20 

Chloride of sodium, 0.45 

Phosphate of ammonia, 0.17 

Chloro hydrate of ammonia, 0.15 

Phosphate of lime and magnesia, 0.10 

Silica, trace. 

Water, 93.30 

Loss, 0.54 

100.00 
♦ Brown's Mack Book, p. 318. 



THE FARM. 505 

In addition to the other >solid ingredients, we have 3 per cent. 

of Urea, which consists of * 

Carbon, 20.0 

Nitrogen, 6.6 

Hydrogen, 46.7 

Oxygen, 26.7 

100.0 
and is accordingly richer in nitrogen than any other organic ma- 
nure. When it begins to ferment, it changes into carbonate of 
ammonia and escapes, giving the pungent smell to fermenting 
urine. This carbonate of ammonia is so very volatile, that every 
possible means must be taken to secure it ; one of which is to mix 
large quantities of water with urine, for although urine is mostly 
water, there must be additions made before the carbonate of am- 
monia is held. By thus diluting it, and then allowing it to stand 
for a time, a given amount compared with an amount of undiluted 
urine, equal to the urine contained in the diluted specimen, and 
allowed to stand for the same time, is found much the richer in 
ammonia. Thus, in cow's urine : f 

lbs. solid matter, lbs. N H*. 
Recent urine contained 900 226 

, ( mixed with water and set by for 6 weeks, 850 200 

Same ^Mnnmixed « « " 550 30 

This excrement, so peculiarly rich in ammonia, is scrupulously 
saved by some nations, particularly by the Flemish and Chinese, 
who use it largely in various fermented and unfermented forms, 
separate, and combined with charcoal, gypsum, etc, and the result- 
ing crops are larger than any which follow the application of any 
other manure, even in dilution. I say even in dilution, because, 
as plants can take their food only in a diluted form, it might be 
said that the great returns from the use of urine were in conse- 
quence of its being in a liquid form. So powerful a manure is 
human urine, that one part of it is equal to 13 parts of horse, and 
16 of cow, manure. 

Other highly nitrogenized manures are guano, rape cake, and 
poudrette, or night-soil. The crops which follow their application 

* Brown, p. 319. t Brown, p. 321. 

43 



506 APBIL. 

to various soils are so enormous, as to excite fears that the soil 
would be exhausted. 

These facts furnish conclusive replies to those who advocate the 
exclusive use of saline manures. 

I have followed both sides of the argument thus far, in orfler to 
show that there is room for thought in farming, especially in the 
matter of manures, and that it is a mistake to follow any theory 
which disregards any of the important elements of vegetable 
tissue. 

We have looked at the constitution of various soils, and at the 
constitution of several crops. Now take the best soil and cultivate 
it without manure. For many years the crops will be undimin- 
ished, but will ultimately decrease. The land is at first in what is 
sailed good heart ; the balance is large, and crops can draw on it 
to any extent without danger of check ; but to ensure a continu- 
ance of this fertility, and to exactly carry out Nature's laws, we 
must return to the soil as much of the constituents of the crops as 
they remove. If we add more of any one thing than is taken 
away, the proportion of that substance in the soil will increase, 
and may be neglected in the next manuring ; and on the other 
hand, I repeat what I have before implied, that it is justifiable to 
pursue a course of cropping and manuring which does not in each 
individual instance restore the elements removed, but which in the 
aggregate keeps the balance equal. 

We have seen that it is the intention of Nature, by crops of 
wood and the annual accretion of leaves, by the weathering of 
rocks, by the deposit of more or less ammonia in rain, to raise land 
to a high state of fertility ; and that if our culture returns only 
one element — organic or inorganic — - it destroys the perfect sym- 
metry and balance, and impoverishes the land surely, even if it be 
slowly. It is necessary to understand this clearly in order to farm 
with the best judgment. 

The foregoing reasoning answers the question, Why manure at 
all ? We see that unless we restore the elements we take from 
the soil in crops, we shall ultimately impoverish it; let us now 
proceed to the farther consideration of the second question. 



THE FARM. 507 

It is quite possible to attempt to keep one's land " in heart " to ill 
advantage, and with a present loss greater than any future gain. 

Some enthusiasts have believed that by analyzing crops, ma- 
nures, and soils, agriculture may be reduced to the method and 
precision of manufacturing, and a large or small crop be secured, 
just as may be desirable ; and this does seem possible when we 
look at the harmony of parts, and the balance which may be main- 
tained between what we add and what we remove from our fields. 
Yet the general practice of farmers is blind and headlong, especially 
in this matter of manuring. 

Proverbial as is the folly of carrying coals to Newcastle, our 
farmers are guilty of it every year ; at a great expense they carry 
manure on to land which needs something quite different. If they 
reasoned and analyzed a little, they would save both money and 
time, and gain in crops. Had I given more lists of soil analyses, 
you would have seen the great difference in soils on the same farm. 

I do not believe that farmers ever will or could profitably have 
the soils of all their fields analyzed, and then proceed to manure 
according to the deficiencies reported and to the proposed crops. 
Farmers who have in mind analyses of ordinary land could not 
persuade themselves to manure at all. Imagine a farmer reading in 
an analysis of his soil that an acre contains 300,000 pounds of Lime, 
50,000 pounds of Potash, 75,050 pounds of Magnesia, 4,000 
pounds of ammonia ; and that the crop he expects from that acre 
will use 100 pounds of lime, 500 pounds of potash, 30 of ammo- 
nia. Could he believe it necessary to add a little more in the way 
of manure ? he would be the most obstinate of sceptics, and would 
never put in a pound of manure ; it would seem as mean and small 
as for a millionaire to save his cheese-parings. And yet with these 
thousands of pounds of rich mineral manure, the little additions of 
the farmer are necessary to any good crop. Why, it would be 
hard to say ; whether because of its being in a form more easily 
assimilable, or because of the necessity of keeping the balance 
good, or as a condition of tenure imposed by nature on landholders, 
it is necessary. 

A great error into which men fail in considering analyses of 
soik, is to suppose that the hundreds of thousands of pounds set 



508 APRIL. 

down there are all in a condition to be used by plants. They are 
perhaps locked in solid rocks which are nearly insoluble by water, 
and from which they can be freed only by the slow work of ages, 
or by the rapid grinding, wasting, and dissolving of the laboratory. 
It is the free and easily assimilable elements of a soil which are 
of value to a crop ; none other are of consequence. Remember 
this when you study an analysis of soil. No fact is better estab- 
lished in geology, than that soils are not necessarily formed from 
the rocks that underlie them, but may be diluvial drift. A soil 
overlying phosphatic limestone, may be wanting in both lime and 
phosphates. 

But while it is not necessary or important to have these analyses 
of our land for our guidance, each man's farming may be much 
improved by his clearly comprehending the principles of analysis, 
and the mutual relations between crops, manures, and soils, the 
general physical character of different fields. He may then apply 
to each soil that kind of manure which is richest in the elements 
in which the soil in question is deficient ; he will not waste it on a 
soil compounded in the same proportions as itself. 

Soils may be generally divided into sandy, clayey, loamy, car- 
bonaceous, and lime soils ; and these again subdivided into coarse 
and fine, close and open ; with a few exceptions we have learned 
from the analyses of soils made by David A. Wells for the State of 
Ohio that all loamy soils, with the exception of river bottoms, are 
nearly identical in their chemical composition. 

The difference in fertility arises mainly from the thickness of 
the strata, and the fineness to which its particles have been reduced 
by the action of the elements ; all diluvial soils are overlaid by a 
stratum of loam, and in its virgin condition, this soil, wherever 
it lays, is equally fertile, and will produce equal crops ; all crops 
take from the soil certain salts as we have seen. If the soil is 
virgin, it will be sufficiently rich in the salts to give a good crop ; 
just in proportion to the cropping it has received without manuring, 
just so much of the various salts will have been withdrawn, and 
must be restored in some shape to restore the soil to fertility. 

To begin with the texture of soils. Some land is hard clay, 
which (even when well drained) retains moisture for a long time, 



THE FARM. 509 

and whether wet or dry is hard and difficult to work. When wet, 
it is slippery and tenacious ; when dry, it is like a brick. The first 
improvement to such a soil is to drain it thoroughly, which lightens 
it, and renders it more pervious to air and warmth ; the second is 
to mix with it such materials as will tend to open it and make it 
light Let us compare it to a dough, which is sticky and tenacious 
when partially mixed. By working into it more flour it becomes 
closer, but yet lighter and more friable, and by a continuation of 
the process is brought to an open texture which allows us to do 
what we please with it So a clay soil is opened by the applica- 
tion of sand, ashes, peat, or carbonaceous manure, all of which are 
opposed to the close character of the clay. They separate its par- 
ticles, and give new channels for the escape of moisture, and the 
access of light and air. 

These clays may abound in or be destitute of lime. A little care, 
and a few simple experiments, will tell which is the case with 
yours. If lime is in excess, they are marls, and are valuable as a 
lime-manure. If lime is absent, or present only in small quanti- 
ties, its application will be of great benefit ; top-dressings of lime, 
gypsum, and ashes, will produce wonderful effects. 

Clays have great power of absorbing ammonia and other gases, 
and are useful to incorporate with manure and with other soils for 
that purpose. 

But suppose that your land is sandy ; all waters and valuable 
manures rapidly run through it, and the land is sterile. By appli- 
cations of clay you may counteract the looseness of soil, bind it 
together, and fertilize it Some other things will have the same 
effect, particularly peat, and carbonaceous manures, so that we find 
these serviceable in two quite different kinds of soil. Peat, how- 
ever, serves in the sand rather as a sponge, to hold gases and food 
for plants, than as a binder to the soil, whilst clay answers both 
purposes. But peat being dark-colored warms ihe soil, during the 
growing season, by absorbing all the sun's rays, while it imparts 
moisture even in dry weather, from its loose texture, which in the 
afternoon and evening rapidly radiate heat, and by thus cooling the 
surrounding air condense moisture. A little investigation will show 
the farmer of what kinds of rocks his sand is composed ; if of 

43* 



J 



510 APRIL. 

those rich in* potash, and destitute of lime and soda, lime and salt 
should be supplied, and vice versa. This investigation, the work 
of a few evenings, will be his first step towards discovering the 
secrets of nature. 

Suppose, now, that the land is gravelly ; gravel is a sort of coarse 
sand, which, however, may be of a clayey nature. It has a coarse 
texture, through which all water or manure may rapidly leach, and 
is apt to be formed in large part of quartz pebbles, and of siliceous 
matter, whilst quite often the stones and sand are cemented together 
by a fine clay. The reasoning already given may be applied to 
this soil, and will teach the farmer haw it may best be drained, be 
bound by clay, or loosened and warmed by sand and peat. 

If the land is loamy, it may be overloaded with carbonaceous 
matter, which becomes inert when too abundant Experiment will 
teach that the application of some alkali, like lime, potash, soda, or 
ammonia, will quicken the inert mass, decompose its carbon, and 
render it exceedingly fertile ; or that an admixture of sand will 
give that openness of texture necessary to enable the roots of plants 
readily to find the food they need. 

Or the land may be peaty, full of carbon and water. Of course 
the water must be removed to let in warmth and air, to sweeten 
and lighten the soil. Carbonaceous matter, such as bits of wood, 
leaves, stems, moss, etc., are the component parts of the soil, and 
are inert, and produce only a spur vegetation, while they form a 
sponge for water that almost defies drainage. A little thought ren- 
ders it apparent that the application and admixture of sand and 
gravel will alter the texture, and open the soil to the free escape 
of water, as well as to the admission of sun and air, and that a 
dressing of caustic lime, or potash, will decay and render available 
the carbonaceous materials. 

This is the mechanical treatment which a very slight examina- 
tion of the texture of soils leads to, and which can be pursued 
without recourse either to purchased manures or to special analyses. 
It is naturally one of the first steps in improving soils, and the 
farmer who has made it, finds another reach of improvement open- 
ing before him. 

Up to this time he has relied solely on barnyard manure, but 



THE FARM. 511 

• 

now he finds flint the sand, clay, or peat, which he mixes with his 
softs doers more than improve their texture, that it has a positive 
value as manure ; and so he is led to look into its chemical compo- 
sition. 

In a former month, while speaking of stock, I said that the value 
of their manure is in proportion to the nature of their food. Hith- 
erto our improving farmer has cared little for the elements in his 
manure ; it has all been dung, and that was all he thought about 
it But now he must consider not only the mechanical texture and 
the chemical composition of his soils, but also the composition of 
his manure heap, and the means of improving it ; a step which 
brings him at once to artificial manures. For with the knowledge 
that without an annual addition of the elements necessary to vege- 
tation, and removed to greater or less extent in every crop, his 
most fertile land will deteriorate, then comes a sense of the im- 
portance of ascertaining whether or not he is " carrying coals to 
Newcastle." He sees the advisability of purchasing a few pounds 
of the needed elements in their concentrated form, and incorpo- 
rating them with his more bulky manure. He understands what 
chemical elements are, and that without them his laud cannot be got 
into good heart, and kept there ; and having finally come to think 
upon the subject, he no longer thinks it ridiculous to spread 5 bush- 
els of salt, or plaster, or lime per acre. It is nothing to him that 
the amount is small ; he only asks whether it is enough. 

Our farmers have gone on for ages using barnyard manure, and 
with success, when they applied it in sufficient quantity, because it 
approaches to the character of a universal manure, in proportion 
to the nature of the food of the animals that make it. But the 
wonder is that men do not grow poor by its use when unimproved. 

Before we enter on the question of barnyard manure, it should 
be premised that it is generally more readily taken up by plants, 
on account of its holding so much water that when fresh it is like 
liquid manure ; and observe that this water of composition is all 
important to its value ; without this the other elements would be 
almost useless, so few and small in amount are they ; yet it is im- 
portant only in dry seasons, and then only for a limited time. As 
soon as the earth becomes dry it evaporates, and the manure loses 



512 APRIL. 

the advantage it possessed. Under a system of irrigation, or in a 
moist climate, or in an ordinarily wet season, it is easy to compound 
manures much more beneficial to the crop, and at no greater expense 
per acre. 

It may be said that in admitting the importance of irrigation, 
etc., to the success of any other than barnyard manure, I admit 
the superiority of that manure ; since we cannot control climate 
and rain, and must therefore depend on the water of composition. 

It is my wish not to deny, but to insist upon, the value of the 
common manure, and to urge farmers to make all they can ; but 
at the same time I propose to show that we can improve it very 
much, use it only in part, or wholly do without it 

The first step towards understanding this matter, is to examine 
an analysis of such manure. Of course, this will vary with the 
kind of stock kept, the number of each kind, and the nature of 
their food. I will therefore give a table of the composition of the 
manure of several species of stock, as well as of the compost. 
This will enable you to see how money is annually wasted, and 
how to reform your farmyard economies. 

Barnyard manure in its unmixed state, is composed of the 

droppings of horses, cows, pigs, sheep, hens, pigeons; generally 

horse, cow, and pig, are the chief makers of manure. To this is 

sometimes added the excrements of the family. On most farms, 

cow manure will largely preponderate in a compost. On farms 

* where there are many sheep, their manure is kept separate. It is 

much richer than that of either horse or cow, one part of it being 

equal to three parts of the best compost The simple excrement 

in a fresh state consists of* 

Water, 68.71 

Arotized matter, 23.16 

Saline matter, 8.13 

100.00 

The 8.13 of saline matter is composed of phosphate of lime, 
magnesia, silicate of potash, common salt, and silex. So powerful 
is this manure, that " it is said that 1,000 sheep, folded on an acre 

* Browne, p. 839. 



THE rABM. 513 

of ground one day, would manure it sufficiently to feed 1,001 sheep, 
if their manure could all be saved ; so that by this process, land 
which can the first year feed only 1,000 sheep, may the next year, 
by their droppings, feed 1,365. Sprengel allows that the manure 
of 1,400 sheep for one day is equal to manuring highly one acre 
of land. In France, it is allowed that one sheep manures about 
10£ square feet of land per night " (when folded on the land). 
* " The manure of the horse is composed of 

Water, 75.31 

Geine, or organic matter, 20.57 

Salts, 4.02 

100.00 

" The geine, or organic matter, is composed of 

Carbon, 9.56 

Hydrogen, 1.26 

Oxygen, 9.31 

Nitrogen, 54 



20.57 



/ 



" The geine (organic matter containing both carbon and nitro- 
gen) is nearly double that in cow manure, and the salts, which are 
mostly phosphates of lime, magnesia, and soda, are about the 
same." But its dryness and preponderance of ammonia cause it 
. to heat with great rapidity, and thus to lose much of its value, un- 
less well secured. As a manure to be used alone, as a top-dress- 
ing, it is worthless ; ploughed in fresh, or made into a careful, com- 
pact compost, with loam, peat, etc, it is of great value. When 
thus composted, the heap should be broad, well trampled, occa- 
sionally watered and sprinkled with plaster of Paris. 

Cow manure, as I have said, is usually the most abundant kind. 
Its composition is 

Geine 15.45 

Salts, 95 

Water 83.60 

100.00 
* Dana's Mack Book, p. 168. 



514 APRIL 

The organic matter of 100 parts cow dung give * 

Nitrogen, 505 

Carbon, 234 

Hydrogen, 824 

Oxygen, 4.818 

6.381 

1 part of nitrogen unites with 3 of hydrogen to form one equiv- 
alent of ammonia. 100 parts fresh cowdung will afford f pounds 
of nearly pure ammonia, or about 2 pounds 2 ounces of carbonate 
of ammonia. 

" Experiments have shown that one cow prepares daily 85.57 
pounds of dung, or about 13 pounds geine, 3 ounces phosphate of 
lime, l£ ounces gypsum, l£ ounces carbonate of lime, or per year, 
4,800 pounds geine, 71 bone dust, 37 plaster, 37 lime, 25 salt, 15 
sulphate potash." t Of the geine, there will be 156 pounds nitro- 
gen, or 189 pounds carbonate of ammonia. 

" Cow dung, for several reasons, its universality, its sameness of 
character, its composition, may be taken as the type of all manures, 
and all may be valued as they approach to, or depart from it" 
"A single cow fed on Hay and Potatoes, will yield 31,025 pounds 
dung, whose composition we have just seen ; this would have lime * 
enough for 140 bushels of Rye and its straw, could it all be evenly 
spread and readily taken up, and also more than enough nitro- 
gen." J I have previously said that it is not known what part 
ammonia or any other alkali plays in the vegetable economy, but 
the action of nitrogen in the compost heap is very powerful. It 
acts upon the geine and renders it soluble ; it does the same to the 
silica, by forming nitric acid with the elements of the air, in con- 
nection with ammonia, and this nitric acid decomposes the silicates 
and produces nitrate of potash. 

Having given the composition of the two principal elements of 
the compost heap, I now give the analysis of a compost of barn- 
yard manure, just before it was applied to the soil. 

* Dana, p. 150. t Dana, p. 161. } Dr. Dana's Mack Manual. 




THE FARM. 



515 



Fnth. Dried at 212° Fahr. 

* Water, 64.96 Carbon, 37.40 

Organic, 24.71 Hydrogen, 5.27 

Inorganic, 10.32 Oxygen, 25.52 

Nitrogen, 1.76 

Ash, 30.05 

Inorganic. Analysis of the ash. 

Soluble in water. Insoluble in water, but soluble 

in muriatio acid. 
Potash, 3.22 Silica, 27.01 

Soda, 2.73 Phosphate of Lime, 7.11 

Lime, .34 " " Magnesia, 2.26 

Magnesia, .26 " " Iron, 4.68 

Sulphuric acid, 3.27 Carbonate of Lime, 9.34 

Chlorine, 3.15 " " Magnesia, 1.63 

Silica, .04 Sand, 30.99 

Carbon, 0.83 

13.01 Alkali and loss, 3.14 

" Thus, 100 pounds well-made barnyard manure gave 65 pounds 
pure water, 25 inert carbon, 10 per cent inorganic, and .006 (J 
pound) nitrogen ; of the 10 per cent ash only 3 per cent are of 
much value ; but the above manure was of extraordinary value, in 
comparison with the ordinary compost heap." ♦ 

I have recommended all along that manure be formed into com- 
post heaps with various materials, — at the head of which stands 
peat ; 2d, clay, old sod, or decayed vegetable matter ; 3d, loam ; 
4th, sand ; 5th, tan, sawdust, etc 

We have already seen how great are the advantages of clay as 
an application to land. I have said that for sand it seems to be 
the specific, but its value is relative, and confined to a few varieties 
of soils, whilst peat can be much more widely applied, and is of 
more general value. Under the general name of peat, are com- 
prised several varieties, of different value, from that which is rich 
in vegetable matter, salts of lime, potash, etc, to those pond muds 
which are little but barren sand. "100 parts of average peat 
contain f 

Water, 85.0 

Salts of lime, 5 

Silicates, 5 

Geine, 14.0 

* Text Book of Agriculture, pp. 321 and 322. t Dana, p. 245. 



516 APBIL. 

"This does not differ much from cow manure, so far as salts, 
geine, and water are concerned. The salts of lime are about the 
same, whilst the alumina, oxide of iron, and magnesia in the sili- 
cates added to the salts of lime, make the total amount of salts in 
round numbers, equal to that of the cow dung. 

" If the bulks are compared, it will be found that at 90 pounds 
per bushel, full measure, and 103 bushels being allowed to a cord, 
each contains and weighs as follows, in pounds : — * 

Weight. Soltx. gdne. Inaol. g. Total, g. Salts of lime. 

Dang, 9,289 128 1,288 1,416 92 

Two < Peat, 9,216 376 673 1,049 91 



u 



kinds.) Peat, 9,216 519 529 1,048 61 

" The salts and geine of a cord of peat are equal to the manure 
of one cow for 3 months. It is certainly, a very curious coinci- 
dence of results, that nature herself should have prepared a sub- 
stance whose agricultural value approaches so near cow dung, the 
type of manures." 

The various analyses submitted, show that the ammonia of ma- 
nures is held in the carbonaceous matter. Peat has its share, but 
has lost the power of forming more. This power, or disposition, 
may be restored by the addition of alkali. " Sufficient alkali to 
give peat the same value with cow manure, is 2 pounds potash, or 
3 pounds soda ash, in 100 pounds. We are now no longer sur- 
prised that peat should be the best component of the compost heap, 
arid it becomes clear why cord for cord, peat mixed with other 
manures, produces a compost, each cord of which is equally valu- 
able with any single cord of the original manure." t 

This fact established enables the farmer not only to double the 
value of his manure heap, by the addition of peat, but to add nearly 
as much more, because of the power which peat possesses of absorb- 
ing gases, holding water, collecting heat, condensing moisture. 

It is worthy of more than a passing mention, that nature should 
have furnished this singular substance with two powers which seem 
almost inconsistent ; the black color of the coarse and stringy fibres 
absorbs heat which is imparted to the soil, while the same coarse- 

*Dana, p.246.t tDr. Dana's Mack Manual. 



) 



THE FABM. 517 

ness of fibre, gives it a power of radiation, whereby it cools much 
more rapidly than the other soil after the sun has gone down, and 
is enabled thereby to condense and collect the dew, so valuable to 
vegetation in hot weather. 

But, at the same time, it is a fact that compost whether composed 
exclusively of manure, or of peat, or compounded from both, is at 
least, 70 per cent water. Therefore of each cord carried on to your 
land, 6,451 pounds are water — more than three tons ! To draw 3 
tons £ of a mile, costs not less than 50 cts ; for 10 cords of manure 
to an acre then, you spend $5 in carting water, which, after all, 
is often of no value ; as when applied to reclaimed meadows, many 
of which are pure peat and are always too wet, particularly at the 
seasons when manure is applied. 

Of the remaining 30 parts of the compost, at least, 20 are car- 
bonaceous matter, which is of no value to the aforesaid peat land, 
or to over-rich loams, where vegetable matter collects to the injury 
of crops, and necessitating the application of alkalies to consume 
the fibres. 

If the compost is to be applied (as it should be) to sandy, calcareous, 
or clay soils, this carbonaceous matter is valuable, both as carbon 
and as sponge ; if to dry soils, where irrigation is impossible, the 
70 per cent of water is valuable so long as it lasts. In short, the 
value of a barnyard composted manure is limited by the crop to 
which it is applied ; for Turnips, Cabbages, and other crops which 
unquestionably derive most of their carbonaceous support from the 
air, it has less value than for quick-growing grain crops. Thus a 
knowledge of the chemical constituents of our compost guides us in 
using it 

We have seen that peat is in itself a manure, though an inert 
one, and that by the application of caustic alkalies to the amount 
of 20 per cent of the whole amount of manure used, we may fer- 
tilize a peaty acre, provided the manure with which the alkali is 
mixed be carefully spread over the surface. 

It may be asked whether this process of converting the muck into 
manure on the field does not eat up the very soil, and so make it 
impossible to keep land in good heart. Suppose that it does ; we 

44 



I 



V 



518 APRIL. 

can obviate the difficulty by withholding only the water of compo- 
sition, and applying the other constituents. Even then the return 
of the 20 per cent of carbonaceous matter would be entirely unnec- 
essary for any other purpose than as an absorbent or to alter the 
texture of the soil, for we know that the air supplies to the soil 
yearly, at least 300,000 pounds carbonic acid per acre, or 1,800,- 

000 for the six years' rotation ; and to add the small amount in our 
compost to a peat meadow already overloaded with carbon in the 
face of such a supply from the air, would be mere waste. Besides 

1 do not pretend to say that the original condition of land is always 
its best condition, and to be kept of the same by annual returns of 
what the crops abstract If in any soil one constituent is largely 
— injuriously — in excess, it should be cropped in such a way as 
to reduce that excess. This is the best kind of farming. It is 
from an excess of carbon that peat meadows seem to lose so much 
of their fertility after a few years' culture ; the ashes of the wood, 
roots, and hassocks burned when they were first cultivated gave the 
proportion of alkali needed by the peat This is exhausted in a 
few years and must be supplied; if by barnyard manure the 
process is slow and clumsy. 

To rich loams the same reasoning will apply ; and for light sand, 
or gravel, or poor clay, I have already said that a composted ma- 
nure is best 

To the loam and the reclaimed meadow therefore, we need apply 
only the salts removed by crops, and nitrogen in the form of am- 
monia. 

The amount of these elements furnished to an acre in our ma-, 
nure, is but a small percentage of the stores already in its soil, but it 
is necessary to prevent its growing poor. Small as the supply 
is, its effect is always perceptible, whether we give it in the solid or 
the fluid form ; and it seems as though plants were endowed with a 
reasoning power which led them to use the annual income from the 
manure or the air before beginning on the accumulated principal. 
Chemical laws may be explained after study, but this law is inex- 
plicable ; that a crop grown on fertile land without manure should 
be good, and yet be perceptibly increased, if there be incorporated 



J 



THE FARM. 519 

with the upper foot of an acre that weighs 4,094,640 pounds, an 
amount of some special salt, not exceeding 100 pounds. 

There is this limitation of the law to he stated ; viz., that for a 
6 years' rotation, the aforesaid small dressing must not he applied 
all at once, but annually ; otherwise it will sink into the subsoil, 
below the easy access of the roots. 

Probably the action of these special manures is much like that 
of the accumulated starch in a seed potato, which feeds the young 
germ before it is old and sturdy enough to struggle with the rough 
earth. So these small doses of concentrated food give the plant 
vigor in its infancy, and carry it rapidly forward to a healthy •matu- 
rity, when it can compel earth and air to yield it food. 

For a 5 years' rotation we must supply 500 pounds of ammonia. 
This can be purchased in l£ tons of Peruvian Guano (containing 17 
per cent of ammonia) at $60 per ton — ($90). Of guano, which 
contains a larger proportion of ammonia we need not purchase so 
much. In this ton and a half there are 704 pounds of phos- 
phates ; our 5 years' rotation will need only 213.80 pounds ; our 
supply both of phosphoric acid and phosphates will therefore be 
ample. We shall need 200 pounds of lime. There is none in the 
guano, but, as I directed, the guano should be mixed with its weight 
or bulk of gypsum, which will give 33 per cent of lime, and 46 
per cent of sulphuric acid ; in one ton of gypsum there are then, 
not less than 660 pounds of lime, and 920 sulphuric acid, at a cost 
of $3. The crops of this rotation will require 136.52 pounds sul- 
phuric acid ; of magnesia they ask 78.50 pounds, which is not to be 
found either in our piano or gypsum ;. therefore we must add 421 
pounds of epsom salts ($14) sulphate of magnesia, and of potash 
536 pounds, either in the form of ashes or potash of commerce 
dissolved ; of commercial potash, it will take 600 pounds ($36), 
or 2 tons of ashes ; 350 pounds of common salt will give all the 
soda and chlorine we will need. 

These should be mixed with their bulk of fine peat, sand, loam, 
or clay, to incorporate them thoroughly together, and to insure the 
proper absorption of the ammonia gas, and an equal distribution 
over the surface. The items are : — 



\ 



520 APRIL. 

11-2 tons Peru, guano, $90 00 

430 pounds epsom salts, 14.78 

1 toil gypsum, 3.00 

600 pounds potash of commerce, 36.00 

350 pounds common salt, 1.25 

$145.03 
Cost of mixing and spreading, 5.00 

$150.00 

If, instead of guano, we buy 1,500 pounds sulphate of ammonia 
(at 5 cts = $75), to furnish our ammonia, and for our 213 pounds 
phosphoric acid, buy 400 pounds phosphatic guano, 80 per cent of 
which is phosphate of lime, we shall get 286 pounds phosphoric acid 
for $8, and shall need no gypsum, the sulphuric acid being con- 
tained in the sulphate of ammonia, the lime, both in that and in the 
400 pounds of phosphatic guano, with these : — 

Epsom salts, 430 pounds, at .06 per pound, $25.80 

Potash, 600 " " " 36.00 

Common salt, 340 " .0125 " 4.25 

$66.05 

Sulphate of ammonia, 75.00 

Phosphatic guano, 8.00 

Cost of mixing and spreading 50 bushels loam, 5.00 

$154.05 

To apply the same amount of salts and ammonia by barnyard 
manure, or compost, would require at least, 12 cords of the very 
best composted manure of which there is an* analysis, and this, 
every farmer knows, would be worth, in the field, spread ready for 
use, not less than $120, at the ordinary estimate, which omits many 
items of expense, that would, if considered, raise the cost far higher. 
Were cow manure used to give the supplies, no less amount than 30 
cords would be needed, to furnish the necessary amount of some of 
the elements. No barnyard preparation, really rich enough to restore 
the elements abstracted by the foregoing five years, would cost less 
than $150. Remember that I have said that for some lands these 
composts are the best manures, though not for all. 

The constituents of the crops of the 5 years' rotation are : — 



r 



THB FARM. 521 



Ammonia, 


500 pounds, 


equal to 


2 cords of pore cow dang. 


Lime, 


213 " 


i€ 


3 " " 

• 


Sulph. acid, 


136 " 






Magnesia, 


78.5 " 






Potash, 


536 " 


tt 


35 


Salt, 


850 " 


It 


18 



Fifteen cords of pure, unfermented horse manure, will furnish 
the necessary constituents, but in both cases the manure must be 
pure and unfermented. To make a manure then, take, — 

3 cords cow-manure (which will give ammonia and phosphate), $30.00 

Buy as before, the other manures, 75.00 

$105.00 

Were we to retain the proportions of salts as abstracted by the 
rotation and tabulated above, it would be absolutely necessary to 
buy many of them, as no composted manure could supply them in 
sufficient abundance, excepting at an enormous cost. 

The effect of liquid manure is wonderful. 400 gallons of the 
ammoniacal water of gas-works, caused an increase of from 3 to 
10 bushels of wheat, above the results of several other powerful 
manures with which it was compared. Under the use of urine, 
there has been even a greater increase than this, but I have no room 
to give examples. 

There is one marked loss in using compost, and a corresponding 
gain with special manures applied as wanted ; viz., some of the ele- 
ments of the compost heap are very volatile, and if the whole 
amount were applied at the beginning of 5 years' rotation, a large 
per centage would necessarily escape by evaporation, before the 
last crop was removed, while, as we have seen, a similar loss would 
result, though by a directly opposite process, if the whole amount 
of salts needc 1 during the rotation, were to be put on at once ; the 
saline elements would wash into the sub-soil, and in a short time 
would be lost to the roots, and the young crop would be deprived 
of its simple food, and its valuable stimulus. 

A supply of these constituents during the five years, drawn from 
dung, would be very uncertain, as they are needed in different pro- 
portions by different crops. When we supply them by artificial 

44* 



\ 



522 APRIL. 

manures, however, we may give the crop each year just what it 
will want,. when it starts to grow, without giving any thing unnec- 
essary. 

Refer to the list of the constituent elements of the crops of the 5 
years' rotation of Boussingault, p. 499. Potatoes and Turnips re- 
ceived large amounts of potash ; the one 195 lbs., the other 201 lbs., 
while Wheat takes but 39 lbs., Oats but 36 lbs ; and on the other 
hand, of ammonia, Turnips require but 32 lbs., Oats, 52 lbs., and 
Wheat 80 lbs. If the potash had been all supplied at the begin- 
ning of the rotation, the Potatoes would have had an abundance, 
but by the time the Turnips came round, their supply would prob- 
ably have been in the sub-soil. 

In making an estimate of the cost of supplying special manures, 
it is difficult to present one lower than the cost of dung ; but if a 
man does not want to keep cattle, he can buy artificial cheaper than 
animal manure. The market price of all these elements is high, 
owing to the limited demand, and to the fact that purchasers are 
not acquainted with the best sources of supply. For instance, 
sulphate of ammonia costs 5 to 8 cents per lb., at the shops ; it 
could be made at gas works, from gas liquors, for very much less* 
The cost of potash is 5 to 8 cents per lb. ; wood ashes could be 
purchased in the country, or be made from refuse wood in the forests, 
so as to bring the price much lower, especially as in the wood ashes, 
are many other things, which we should be obliged to buy. A cord 
of leached wood ashes (or 100 bushels), contains 50 to 60 lbs. of pot- 
ash. In 1 cord of leached ashes, dry weight,* 

Phosphoric acid 117 lbs. 

Silex 146 " 

Oxide of iron 17 " 

Oxide of manganese 51 " 

Magnesia 119 " 

Carbonate of lime 3072 " 

Potash combined with silica 50 " 

Where ashes are bought to make soap, or potash, the refuse is 
generally considered worthless, but we see that its agricultural 
value is very great, especially for Grass lands, and for all legumin- 
ous plants. 

* Dana, p. 144. 



i 



THE FARM. 



528 



When we have a dung heap to work upon, there is a large list 
of materials which may be added to it, I will give a list of some 
of the most valuable and accessible, arranged in the order of their 
value. 



No. l. 

Human excrement, 

" urine, 
Guano ammoniated, 

" phosphatic, 
Sulphate of ammonia/ 
Gas liquor, 
Burnt bones (ground), 

whole, 
Blood, 
Soot, 
Potash of all kinds. 

No. 3. 

Sea mud, 

Pond mud, 

Soaper's waste (Barilla ashes), 

Sea-weed, 

Seeds of all kinds (dead seeds), 

Gypsum, 

Leaves, 

Soap suds, 

Clay, 

Marl, 

Green manures, ploughed in. 



No. 2. 

Bone black. 

Hair, 

Horn shavings, 

Lime, 

Salt (waste or good), 

Oyster shells, 

Peat, 

Ashes of both kinds, 

Seeds of oil cake, 

Native phosphates, 

Soda of all kinds. 

No. 4. 

Loam, 

Starch refuse, liquid and solid, 

Sawdust, 

Wood chips, 

Tan (especially Oak), 

Sea water, » 

Straw or Hay, 

Fern, 

Crushed Granite. 



Large as is this list, it is not complete; almost all matter, organ- 
ganized or unorganized, is at some time or place valuable for this 
purpose. Persons estimate the same kind differently, according to 
their chemical theory. Liebig, the great advocate for saline ma- 
nures, says : " No conclusion can, then, have a better foundation, 
than this : that it is the ammonia of the atmosphere that furnishes 
nitrogen to plants." Another chemical authority, Dr. Dana, a 
friend to ammonia, says : " It may be established as the fourth 
leading principle of agricultural chemistry, that soils contain 
enough of all the mineral elements to grow any crop." In another 
place he says : " The nitrogen, then, in dung, is that organic ele- 



524 APRIL. 

ment to which must be attributed its chief enrichment ; the nitro- 
gen is the basis both of the production of ammonia and of the for- 
mation of nitrates ; hence the quantity of nitrogen in manures will 
form a very good element for the estimation of their value. Ma- 
nures will be found rich in proportion to their quantity of nitrogen, 
or their power of forming nitrates. This is the great and first 
cause of the enriching power of dung." Liebig again says : " When 
we supply to a soil easily penetrable by the roots of plants, as well 
as by air and moisture, in the form of ashes, the constituents that 
are removed in the form of crops, the soil will retain all its original 
favorable state." Of course neither ammonia nor carbonic acid 
can be supplied in the form of ashes, both being volatile. Liebig 
says again: u Practice in agriculture has taught us that the 
amount of vegetable matter on a given surface, increases with the 
supply of certain substances, which were original constituents of 
the same surface of the soil, and had been removed from it by 
means of plants." And again : " In the solid and liquid excre- 
ments of men and animals, we restore to our fields the ashes of the 
plants which served to nourish these animals ; these ashes consist 
of certain soluble and insoluble earths, which a fertile soil must 
yield, for they are indispensable to the growth of cultivated plants ;" 
and farther : " the action of an artificial supply of ammonia, as 
nitrogen, is limited, like that of humus, the source of carbonic acid, 
to a gain in point of time ; in other words, to the acceleration of the 
development in a given time, of our cultivated plants." 

This grants enough to upset the whole of his reasoning. All we 
want of our fields is to yield the crops we cultivate in the growing 
season, and if the ammonia supplied by the atmosphere comes only 
at that season when it cannot be used, it is of little value ; indeed, 
as a source to depend upon for our supply, of none at all. 

Liebig further says : " It is also of importance to know that the 
rule usually adopted in France and Germany, of estimating the 
value of a manure according to the amount of its nitrogen, is quite 
fallacious, and that its value does not stand in proportion to its 
nitrogen." 

We know that the constituents of soils bear a certain relation to 
the constituents of plants, which cannot be neglected without im- 



r 



THE FARM. 525 

mediate loss ; and if one set of investigators prove the value of 
nitrogen or ammonia to crops, and another that of the saline ele- 
ments, it seems to me plain that both are essentia?. 

The weakness of the theorizing of Liebig in this direction is 
summed up by Dr. Dana as follows : — 

u It has been proved by Krocker, that rich and even barren 
soils, at the usual depth of tillage, contain an amount of ammonia 
exceeding per acre that of any fair crop raised by the aid of the 
best farmyard manure on the best soil ; it is not enough that tons 
and tons of ammonia are already existent in soil, if that ammonia 
can only be extracted by chemical processes and human manipu- 
lation ; no matter how much of this element may be in rain, how 
much may exist in the soil aided by the inorganic salts, fair aver- 
age crops may be raised by these natural sources of ammonia. To 
obtain profitable crops, an excess beyond the natural supply is es- 
sential ; to keep up this excess and to retain the largest return for 
the seed sown, nitrogen, in the shape of salts or of readily decom- 
posing organic matter, must be supplied with inorganic salts. The 
nitrogenous principle gives at once an energy to vegetation enabling 
it to unfold early and largely those organs (the roots and leaves) 
by which the earth and air contribute their portion to the growth 
of plants. Nitrogen gives salts power to do more work in the 
same time ; it is a labor-saving machine, enabling the farmer from 
the same ground and with the same time and labor to reap larger 
rewards. Natural vegetation is a low-pressure engine, but it will 
bear any amount of pressure, so beautifully built is it in all its 
parts. Inorganic salts are the water, geine the fire which raises 
the steam to drive this machine, filling the thousand cylinders which 
are distributed throughout plants. Nitrogen is the regulator of 
this engine. Nature has everywhere put the machine into the 
hands of man. She takes man as her apprentice, and her gener- 
ous hand supplied the daily bread, while man was learning the 
construction of valves, the working of pistons, the real power of 
the engine, the sources of the steam. These, even though dimly 
seen, nature demands should be worked up to full pressure, when 
the apprentice sets up for himself, and is determined that the sweat 



526 APRIL. 

of his brow, whilst it feeds his body, shall also purify, enlarge, and a 
strengthen his intellect." 

The soil of any fertile acre is so full of the saline constituents 
that by supplying ammonia and some few salts we may get large 
crops for many years, but we effectually reduce the stock of all 
minerals abstracted and not returned, a reduction which must be 
felt at last. 

There is a principle in the chemistry of plants not yet noticed 
in these pages ; viz., substitution. In the absence of the constit- 
uent which best supplies a plant's wants, the plant contents itself 
with that one of the constituents which represents, or which most 
nearly makes the place good ; so lime is a substitute for potash, 
potash for soda, soda for magnesia. 

Again, an insoluble form of some one alkali predominates in almost 
every soil, as potash in granitic soils, lime in calcareous, and can 
be set free (made soluble) by adding to the soil the alkali which 
is deficient, to the immediate and evident advantage of the crop ; 
and when the alkali is superabundant — as carbon is in peat — 
no large return of it need be made in manure. 

The natural disintegration of the minerals of a soil is slow, and 
the process may be hastened by careful and close culture. The 
more finely the soil is comminuted, the more rapidly the mineral 
elements are set free, and the less need there seems to be for mar 
nure. 

Jethro Tull, in the last century, and the Rev. Mr. Smith, of 
Lois Weedon, in England, at the present time, have maintained 
that by careful and thorough culture, soil can be kept highly pro- 
ductive for years, and crops of undiminished perfection be taken 
without manure. The Rev. Mr. Smith has grown large crops of 
Wheat on the same land for many years without manure, by thor- 
oughly spading the soil and planting in alternate strips a few feet 
wide ; the intermediate strips being in naked fallow, open to the 
free action of air and moisture. By this culture he has been ena- 
bled to get from an acre as large average crops as any in England. 
But his land must inevitably become all the more thoroughly ex- 
hausted in the end ; it is impossible that a prolonged course of 



THE FARM. $27 

subtraction should not reduce the minuend, the stock of minerals, 
etc^ in his soil. Our farmers would do well to improve upon a 
part of his system, instead of adopting it entire. They should 
return the proper amount of manure, and also reduce and pulverize 
the soil so thoroughly that all its wealth may be opened to the crop. 

Nature has drawn a beautiful circle around agriculture, — an 
endless chain, quite independent of man's proceedings; let our 
culture be as various and exhaustive as it may ; let the growth 
and decay of animal life be as great or as small as they may ; 
nothing is added to or taken -from the amount of matter in the uni- 
verse, though it is not always divided in the same proportion be# 
tween the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. All that 
grows supports some other life ; the rejected portion of the food of 
all animals — from the greatest to the least, of each year — is suffi- 
cient in amount, if husbanded and applied, to produce food for the 
year succeeding. 

It rests with us to say how much of this constant quantity shall 
be organized in plants and animals in our neighborhood. We may 
improve or neglect Nature's kind provision for us ; we may get the 
gain or leave it to others more active and enterprising. If we are 
anxious to be the best farmers, we shall improve every opportunity; 
we shall gather up and apply every particle of manure, animal, 
vegetable, and mineral In our thorough tillage we shall break 
the stones, and reduce their mineral manures te a shape more sus- 
ceptible to the action of the gases and acids stored in the soil, and 
ready to convert them into food for our crops ; and in return, the 
generous soil will fill our barns and our purses to bursting. 



CHAPTER LVD. 

GREENHOUSE. 

AY. We are growing tired of the greenhouse, 
full though it may be with flowers, bright and 
fragrant. Every time that we enter it, the 
approach of real, out-of-door spring, the blos- 
soming trees and wild-flowers, have paled its 
beauty; it looks to us too much like a ball- 
room after a party is over, and we really won- 
der how it could have given us so much pleas- 
ure during the winter ; we are all impatience to get the flowers 
out of doors, and look at the thermometer and the sky many times 
a day, to see if the weather is not mild enough. 

All the care that the greenhouse now demands, is the supply of 
sufficient water and air, the cutting of slips and sowing of seeds. 
We shall hardly need a fire unless there should be a long, cold 
storm, or a very cold night Attend constantly to the pots and 
pans of cuttings and seeds, and gradually withdraw water from the 
stock plants, which are now to be allowed 10 fall asleep and to rest 
till the next season ; for dulled as our enthusiasm may be now, it 
will all revive at the approach of cold weather, and as the chills 
of the early frosts make themselves felt through the autumn air. 

No love is more imperishable than the true love of fiowers ; 
it may pass away when we are compelled by sickness or city 
life to forego their culture, even years may intervene between the 
times of making and owning one garden and another, but just as 
soon as the opportunity offers, the true enthusiasm breaks out 
afresh. 

The early days of May are at once the most fascinating and the 
most tiresome of the year. The warm and balmy mornings be- 
witch us, and with their promise of pleasure to come, draw us out 



GREENHOUSE. 529 

to long and pleasant walks, or to the delights of culture ; but soon 
come creeping over the landscape the chills of the east wind and 
the gray mists that so often accompany it, and our enthusiasm and 
self-gratulation are suddenly nipped. 

Fast-day is very frequently, in the eastern part of Massachu- 
setts, the first day on which spring asserts its dominion. Every 
one knows how often it begins with the delicious warmth of spring, 
and how as often its end is cold and chilly. 

The gardening furor of which I spoke last month, will continue 
unabated during this, and culture will soon begin in earnest. 

The time for setting plants into the borders varies very much 
with different seasons. If the progress of the season has been 
regular and uninterrupted, it is decidedly warm by the middle of 
May, and you may set out Verbenas and hardy Geraniums, stock 
Gilly-flowers, Wall-flowers, Roses, Pelargoniums, etc.; but if you 
want them to grow, you must surround their roots with some fer- 
menting manure, and water every few days with warm water ; not 
very freely, or the roots will be likely to decay ; and you may 
save the plants from chills and checks, by sheltering them during 
any long, cold rains. Warm rains and showers are beneficial. 

The last of the month, set out Heliotropes, Salvias, Lantanas, 
Nierembergias, Fuchsias, etc. All the plants with which you pro- 
pose to enrich the garden. 

It will still be necessary to watch against frost, and to cover 
when there is danger of it. A very slight protection, an inverted 
pot, or hay cover, or even a Pine branch laid over a plant, will 
screen it from the spring chills. Transplant into the borders, also, 
all the annuals that are advanced enough to make it worth while, 
and give the others every inducement to grow. Be in no hurry to 
set stock plants out, as a single chill would materially injure them ; 
it will be better to wait till the settled heat of June. Some gar- 
deners recommend giving stock plants a shift now, and adding 
fresh loam to the tops of the pots. I have given my reason for 
making these changes later. Those plants which are to make a 
growth during the summer, such as Euphorbias, Poinsettias, Chrys- 
anthemums, etc, should be pruned and shifted, and be set where 
they will start^but all that are to repot should be left undisturbed. 

45 



580 HAT. 

Make cuttings of Double Primroses, cut back Heaths, Oranges, 
and Azaleas, before they make their new growth. 

Be careful when plants 'are set in the shade for the summer, to 
raise them from the earth by slabs of wood or brick, or by thick 
layers of coal ashes, to keep out earth worms, which would riddle 
the earth of the pots, letting out the water too rapidly, and reduc- 
ing the nutritious qualities of the earth. 

There are two ways of keeping the stock plants; one is 
to set them on the north side of a building or fence, or under a 
canopy of wood with latticed sides, which will keep off the direct 
rays of the sun, and admit the air freely. Evergreens need no 
sun, unless for a short time in the moming, but abundance of 
light ; other plants are uninjured by a moderate amount of sun. 
The other method is to plunge the pots into the earth up to their 
rims. When this is done, a piece of slate should be set under the 
pot to prevent the roots of the plants from getting out into the soil. 
They are very apt to do so, and though they cause the plant to 
grow rapidly, ultimate injury follows ; for when the plant is lifted 
in the fall, these roots have to be cut off, and the old roots are un- 
able to supply the demands of the pew wood. It will be found 
sometimes of advantage to take old, cankered, pot-bound plants 
out of their pots, and plant them in a border, more or less shaded, 
according to the variety, and allow them to grow at will ; if so in- 
dulged, they will often renew their growth and vigor, forming new 
roots and tops. It is impossible to foresee and provide for every 
case which may occur — each must be settled as it comes up, with 
care and judgment. 

The pots of Auriculas should be coming into bloom now, and 
should be placed in conspicuous places. The mealy petals which 
contribute so much to their beauty, must be shaded from sun and 
rain and high, winds, which tend to deface and injure them. 

During the summer there will be but few flowers in the green- 
houses. Fuchsias will be in perfection, and Orchids, and some 
tropical bulbs. Achimenes and Gloxinias, which were planted in 
February, will now be well grown, and will blossom some time in 
June, while those planted later will continue in blossom through 
the summer. 



i 



r 



GREENHOUSE. 531 

All tuberous-rooted plants and bulbs, as Oxalis, Ixias, etc, as 
soon as their leaves have turned yellow, should be removed from 
the soil and laid aside in a warm, dry place, for two or three 
months, according to the time when we wish to start them anew. 

Pot into small pots, small plants of Polyanthus, of Primula si- 
niensis, and Cineraria, and as soon as warm enough, remove the 
pots into borders, where they may get some sun, and grow into 
stocky plants for the autumn. They will need to be shifted once 
or twice before winter, according to the growth made. 

Plant Carnations which have not yet blossomed, in places where 
they will show well ; either among tall-growing plants, or in a bed 
by themselves. 

Carnations for winter may be struck now from cuttings, if this has 
not been done before. Or you may set old plants in rather sterile 
places, and layer all their branches. Be careful not to stimulate 
them so that the layers will blossom before winter. As soon as 
there is any intimation of the approach of cold weather in the fall, 
pot the layers. Full directions for culture will be given in July. 

Set out in somewhat similar soil the Dwarf Chrysanthemums, 
which have been under the stage since they blossomed. As 
they grow, layer the young shoots into small pots ; when they have 
well-rooted, remove from the parent plant, and as soon as they fill 
the pot with roots, shift into larger pots and better soil ; you will in 
this way get good, stocky plants for winter blossom, and rather bet- 
ter than when made from cuttings. 

The greenhouse, even after its principal plants are removed, will 
have some in blossom all summer ; the Orchids, Cape Bulbs, and 
tuberous-rooted plants just mentioned, Passion Flowers, Wax-plants, 
Roses, Fuchsias, etc. Take all the plants from the conservative 
pits as soon as the weather will allow. If you did not start a little 
growth in the plants by sashes, as I directed, give them all the light 
and air you can some time before removal. When you have emp- 
tied the pits, take off the sashes, clean and paint and lay them 
aside. So also the frame-work; give all the wood-work a good 
coat of whitewash or paint, to keep off the hot rays of the sun 
during the summer. 

Frames containing Pansies, Auriculas, Anemones, and Ranun- 



532 MAT. 

culuses will gradually go out of bloom. As the flowers die and 
the leaves wither, remove the roots. The Pausies and Daisies 
may be divided and replanted in the borders, to make a new 
growth. Pansies can be better grown from seeds than from cut- 
tings, but Daisies should be propagated from cuttings. Set them 
in northern aspects, as the summer heats are destructive. The 
frames containing Anemones and Ranunculuses, should have occa- 
sional waterings with tepid water, but should be well protected 
against cold rains which rot the roots, and against high winds which 
destroy the flowers. Set the Cinerarias out of bloom into cold 
frames. Give the Camelias completing their growth abundant 
water and frequent syringings ; by shading the Pelargoniums and 
other flowers their bloom may be saved for a longer time. Fu- 
chsias shifted into large pots and manured with guano water will 
make a great show hereafter. 



J 






CHAPTER LVm. 

9 

CONSERVATORY. 

The Conservatory, like the greenhouse, is getting out of date, 
and we only go through it now to get at the garden. From its 
windows we see the flower-beds gay with bulbs, and we cannot but 
feel the superiority of the out-door beauty ; and yet the conserva- 
tory is by no means bare of flowers. 

If it has been well managed it is as full now as the flower-beds 
were in the autumn, when the early frost came and cut off Helio- 
trope and Salvia, and checked the Geraniums and Verbenas. The 
clusters of rosebuds or La Marque are full and fragrant ; the deli- 
cate blush on the Saffrano and long, greyhound-like buds of the 
Yellow Tea, were never more beautiful ; while overhead the blos- 
soms of the Passion Flower shine like stars in the sky. The 
Geraniums are in full blossom, and the Heliotropes fill the air with 
fragrance ; and yet the sweet English Violets among the litter in 
the garden, the Hyacinths and Tulips of the beds, the Wisteria 
over the windows, greet us together with the song of birds and the 
gentle airs of spring, in so attractive a language that we think them 
more beautiful than the children of the tropics which we have only 
induced to grow and blossom by extra care. Whgt a mysterious 
power is exerted over every mind by the spring. 

The returning birds, the soft breezes, the swelling buds, the 
springing Grass, seem to re-invigorate the dullest minds, and every 
earnest man is braced anew for noble enterprise. In the dreams 
of early morning, in the reveries of evening, we see the days of 
our untarnished youth ; we recall the many games which the re- 
turning warm weather always renewed; we remember the May 
parties, when every one was eager to find the first blossom ; the 
longing looks sent over the greening fields as we dragged our un- 
willing legs up the schoolhouse steps, and wished that we were 

45* 533 



534 MAT. 

dogs or birds, — any thing but schoolboys, — that we might frolic 
in the sunshine all day long. We remember the aspirations of 
our early manhood, how the world all seemed fair and pleasant 
We had grown up in the shelter of our pleasant homes, and all we 
knew of life was its green pastures; and, standing at. the gate of 
our new year, we looked forward to the crops of glory and wealth 
we were to gather ; we trace the footsteps we have made ; some 
through pleasant fields and in gardens rich with all the blossoms of 
worldly success and pleasure ; some through the wintry days of 
sorrow and disappointment, the wintry fields of poverty, whence 
we could with difficulty glean a meagre support We feel how 
much of beauty and promise, of sorrow and ugliness, is covered 
by the pleasant spring -, and whether successful or not in the strug- 
gle hitherto, there is each spring a new start of the blood in our 
veins, a new uprising of determination to reap a full harvest the 
coming summer, and to meet the next winter nobler and better 
men. We look more lovingly on the children we meet, have kinder 
words for friend and stranger, and there is through every part of 
our nature an atmosphere partly our own, partly the influx of the 
external promise, which seems, like the golden hazes around the 
rising and setting sun, to gladden and warm and animate every 
thought and impulse. 



:»' 






■• \ 



.'•1 '. . ■ 

' ; •. • . . I.. 

' 'i ' < :• — ■ .« ' . ■ 
:.il«»i.-. XI » i 



t.. 



■ i 



I' •# f 



•v;i«« . 



1' -I > 



• i <> 



V 






i' . . *L " i 



I.* 



_> \ rji it. ' l< w ' ■ 1*1 r' 

v. V !>< u. , » . v : 



.'"• t* ..' ■> \ i'i • »'♦•' • 






< »> • .i i • * « . i 



i • 



'- .1 . T 



i 



I 



l 



.» 



•1 



!. 









114'". 

'I . 

■• • I- 



l» » . • • ' 



r> 



k 



CHAPTER LIX. 



FORCING-HOUSE. 



The fruit on the earliest vines will ripen from the first to the 
middle of the month, and the Black Hamburghs will begin to color 
by the last. As the fruit colors on the principal vines, remove the 
pans of water from the flues, and give generally less water. Thin 
for the last time, cutting out every defective or imperfect berry. 
Constant care must be taken to keep ventilation good ; the sun will 
often be obscured for some hours by the clouds, and then come out 
with tremendous power. Houses ventilated in the wall, as ours 
are, are not likely to be overheated by these sudden changes, if they 
receive reasonable attention, as the ventilators in the front and back 
will prevent too rapid accretion of heat But houses not so venti- 
lated are very often injured exceedingly, and should, therefore, be 
anxiously watched during variable weather. To manage an ill- 
ventilated house, on a changeable day, taxes the best efforts and as- 
siduity of the gardener, but it can be done. By the middle of June 
the fruit will be, quite ripe, and, after that, the aim will be to keep 
the house cool and dry. 

The treatment of fruit-trees during the summer, in the forcing- 
house, has been already given in the winter months, and also, that 
for pot Grapes. These will be fully ripe by the last of May, or 
first of June. 

When all the fruit of vines and trees is cut, remove the sashes, 
and give but little water till it is time to close again in the autumn. 
During the summer, red spiders may make their appearance. To 
expel them, strew sulphur about the floors, and occasionally dust it 
over the vines. 

As soon as the wood is ripe in the autumn, prune and lay down 

for the winter. Before shutting up in the autumn, strew sulphur 

over the flues and pipes, and make just fire enough to melt, with- 

535 



536 HAT. 

out igniting it The fumes will fill the house and kill the insects. 
After the fumigation, scrub and paint as directed in September. 

Before the middle of May all the vegetables should be removed, 
as they will not thrive, and will injure the ripening fruit 

We here take leave of the forcing-house. I have given direc- 
tions, which, if followed carefully, will insure good and healthy 
vines, and full crops of fruit, but the minute culture of the vine de- 
mands a book by itself. 

I have given a connected description of the culture of fruit and 
pot Grapes, in another place. Farther directions seem super- 
fluous. 

The cold grapery will be during May, in the condition of the 
forcing-house in March, and early in April. The vines will be in 
flower during the month, and some will set their fruit, when they 
must receive their first thinning. 

The danger of shanking and shrivelling from ill-balanced heat 
and moisture, has been already described. 

The fruit will go through all the stages of setting, swelling, and 
thinning during June, will ripen in August, and be in use through 
September and October. 

The treatment of the cold grapery through June, July, and 
August, is like that of the forcing-house in April, May, June, and 
July, and needs no farther description, so we may here bid farewell 
to this branch of our subject. 

The fruit-trees will be treated as before directed. Ripe Cherries 
may be expected in May, Apricots and Nectarines in June and 
July, and Peaches in July and August ; this is the harvest season 
for glass-houses. 

But though the work of these houses is not varied enough to 
need farther description, it has imperative claims on the gardener. 
He must expend a great deal of time and thought upon his houses, 
or his ripe fruit will be destitute of color, size, and beauty, and his 
vines and trees will be ruined for future crops. 

Remember that too much heat, and too much moisture will not 
benefit the crop ; it must be accelerated, not forced, A neglect of 
this fact has ruined many an establishment 



CHAPTER LX. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



Continue the work of April, — digging, preparing borders, and 
clearing up. Just as soon as the ground is ready, you can sow 
seeds of the most hardy flowers, such as Mignonette, Sweet Alys- 
sum, Candytuft, Catch-fly, Flos Adonis, Heart's-ease, Larkspur, Lav- 
atera, Lupin, Sweet Pea, Hawkweed, Annual Snapdragon, Zinnia. 
Sweet Peas should be planted in large masses, at the back of the 
flower beds, or in hedges along the walks of the kitchen-garden, or 
elsewhere. Or they may be sown in circles around a bush or some 
kind of trellis-work, when the size of the other plants warrants it 
Beds G, E, may have such groups. Sow Sweet Peas again in 
June, that they may last till late in the autumn. 

The size which plants usually attain is generally given on the 
outside of the seed-bag, and you may be guided by it in the choice 
of places for planting. Towards 'the middle of the month, almost 
all the flower seeds may be planted, Amaranths, Balsams, Asters, 
Gillyflowers, etc. It will be well at this time, also, to plant the 
seeds of many biennials ; they will thus get well grown this year, 
and blossom better next, than if sown later. 

Among these are Sweet William, Antirrhinum, Canterbury Bell, 
Foxglove, Coreopsis, Dracocephalum, Asclepias, Cassia, Gerardia 
Hedysarum, Hibiscus, Enothera, Penstemon, Lychnis, Rudbeckia, 
Solidago, American Aster, Spigelia, Chelone, Trillium, Veronica, 
Podalyria, Liatris, Ragged Robin, Columbine, Iris, Valerian, Thrift, 
Lily of the Valley, Hollyhock, China Pink, and common Pink, and 
many others are enumerated in all dealers' lists. 

All flower seeds should be planted very shallow. If planted too 
deep, seeds are in danger of decaying ; but if shallow, they receive 
the full benefit of the sun and showers of spring, in their germinat- 
ing season. Dig the bed up thoroughly, either with a spade or 

537 



538 MAT. 

trowel ; then beat it fine with rake or fork ; remove one quarter 
of an inch of the top earth, either by skimming or by pushing it back 
with the rake. Scatter the seed thinly over the surface ; then sift 
back the loam, not more than one-fourth inch deep, over the seeds. 
Or, having prepared the ground as before, with one tine of the 
weeding-fork, or a stick, draw a line in the earth one quarter of an 
inch deep ; scatter the seeds into it, and cover as before. It is 
pretty to plant seeds in circles, stars, or other figures. Concentric 
circles of different flowers have sometimes a charming effect For 
instance, a small circle of purple Candytuft, surrounded with one 
of white, then Escholtzia, and outside of that Portulacca, white, 
red, or yellow. Mignonette and a fringe of Tassel Flower might 
be introduced. 

The disposition of. flowers, with a view to producing a good effect 
when in blossom, is a matter of individual taste, and there is ample 
opportunity for variety. It is difficult, indeed, to produce other 
than a good effect, with such beautiful material, but the general 
rule should be followed of keeping the tallest plants in the back- 
ground. 

Some varieties should be used but sparingly ; Zinnias, Four-o'- 
clock's, and such tall, stiff plants occupy a great deal of room, and 
their flowers are never particularly pleasing. Four-o'-clock opens 
only morning and evening, and has nothing to recommend it at 
other times. 

I recommend the use of only the more delicate annuals ; they 
give a greater abundance of flowers, and of the kinds most desirable 
for bouquets and vases, and they harmonize better with the bedding- 
out plants. It is always well to have some bulbs, some perennials, 
some bedding plants, and some annuals. By such an intermix- 
ture, a great deal of pleasure is secured, without much labor. 

The trouble of cultivating most annuals goes far towards counter- 
• balancing their attractions. It is better to plant a few of their seed 
in many places, than many in one place, with a view to transplant- 
ing them. Some bear transplanting ill, others scarcely notice it 
When all the seed is sown in one place, you have first to prepare 
the ground and plant the seed, then to thin and weed the young 
plants, then transplant as they are wanted ; protect from the sun, 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 539 

and water them, and so you get your plants with a great deal of 
trouble ; and as many of them have but little top, they do not cover 
much ground, and must, therefore, be planted in large numbers to 
produce any effect 

The rules to be observed are : Sow the seed thin, cover but 
slightly, water in dry times, do not let plants stand too near together, ' 
cut down all plants as soon as out of blossom, remove dead leaves, 
tie up to sticks the drooping heads and branches, let all be neat and 
orderly. 

"Where effects of color or form are attempted, by concentric cir- 
cles, irregular, straight, or wavy lines, or otherwise, great care is 
necessary. The outer shoots of the plants should be supported" 
by small branches of Birch, Beach, etc., stuck into the ground, 
deep enough to be firm, and so far under the plants as to be con- 
cealed by their leaves and side shoots. The greatest obstacle to the 
successful culture of annuals, is the too great luxuriance of their 
growth, and rather poor soil is generally better for them, on this 
account, than very rich. Much may be done towards producing 
a perfect bloom, by thinning out side branches, and occasionally 
pinching back leaders. 

I shall give, in a few pages, a list of plants which will grow and 
blossom at different seasons, and the sizes and colors being given, 
any person can easily choose such as will produce the effect he de- 
sires. But to get effects of color, you must plant a large mass of 
the same kind, or color, together, otherwise, only a thin, meagre, 
and spotty result will be obtained. Many treatises devote a large 
space to the analysis of colors, showing how plants may be mixed 
and blended, correctly and pleasantly. Their statements are based 
on some theory of colors, in which I have no faith. I do not be- 
lieve that the exact and minute gradings and blendings of color 
proposed can be produced in an ordinary garden. These treatises 
analyze the colors of the rainbow, and show how its harmony was 
produced, and may be reproduced. But in their reasonings, they 
forget that there is a great difference between the spectrum which 
they study, and the flower-garden. For the colors of the spectrum 
are blended where they meet and merge in each other, in a way 
that is impossible with the distinct lines of color in the flower-bed. 



540 MAT. 

and their connection in the latter case, is still farther effected by the 
green leaves that mingle more or less in every part Besides, if it 
were possible to give this wonderful effect from one point of view, 
it must be lost with a step in either direction, and a flower-bed is 
manifestly made to be seen and enjoyed from many points ; fur- 
ther, plants are constantly growing in height and breadth, and no 
two can be expected to grow just alike. Therefore, elaborate 
plans of coloring in flower-beds must fail ; and yet, in arranging 
flowers, we should always be guided by a regard to the relative po- 
sitions which their colors occupy in most harmonious combinations, 
so that they may, when in perfection, resemble a well-arranged 
bouquet, or dish of flowers. By familiar observation of their colors 
in beds, both the eye and the taste may be cultivated till we learn 
to love and appreciate color, and instinctively, as it were, how to 
combine with the pleasantest effect A bouquet or dish of flowers 
so arranged that all their colors show to the best advantage, is 
seldom seen. Flowers are too often mixed confusedly, so that there 
is no distinct character obtained, and the eye gets no healthy ex- 
citement Arrange your flowers always so that one decided color 
shall predominate in the whole, and also be massed in some partic- 
ular place. Then contrast with the principal mass of color, those 
colors best calculated to relieve and show it to advantage. Do not 
entirely disconnect the main mass from the same color in other parts, 
but, by a single flower of the same, or a similar hue, carry the eye 
along to the other parts where the dominant color is again to be 
seen. Do not put your flowers in blotches, or formal masses, but 
introduce them with graceful irregularity, so that while you are en- 
joying the principal color, your eye may be unwittingly led into 
the other forms and colors that blend and intertwine with it Do 
not fall into the common mistake of making your bouquet of noth- 
ing but flowers ; they should be in abundance, but not so as to con- 
ceal the green leaves, twigs, and berries. To show them to their 
best advantage, mix plenty of green, and in autumn, colored leaves 
and berries with them, which may rest and divert the eye, till it re- 
turns to find the flowers more bright and beautiful than before. I 
believe that very much more beautiful dishes, or bouquets, may be 
made in the autumn, when the flowers are almost gone, than in 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 541 

their midsummer profusion. In the summer, the richness cloys, we 
enjoy them less, because of their quantity, and cannot help feeling 
that what is abundant, is cheap, and yet in this abundance of flowers 
we cannot persuade ourselves to use green enough. 

As in the dish or bouquet, we approach the reds and crimsons 
with the colored leaves of autumn, or the scarlet berries of Holly or - 
Wintergreen, or the hips of the rose, the haws of the Thorns, or 
the jetty black berries of the Privet, we gain an intensity of color 
that the flower could never attain except in such union. If the 
edge of the dish, or outside of the bunch, is bordered with the 
brown greens of the Cedar, Arbor Vitas, and Juniper, the whole 
tone is still more intensified. Try now the effect of laying under 
your Crimson Verbena, or Scarlet Geranium, a bit of cool, gray 
moss, and, a little farther off, a purplish Heliotrope, and still 
farther, a group of White Verbenas, contrasted with the rich 
green of the Geranium leaf, and again toned by some pink flower, 
and you will find a wonderful effect, one that will vibrate as you 
look at it 

The habit of heaping colored flowers one upon another, and put- 
ting nothing else in the dish, arises, I think, partly from the want 
of delicacy of taste, and partly from taking as a standard of color 
the spectrum, or pictures, where other things, as light and shade, 
atmosphere, etc., come in to blend and tone the whole. 

To return to the colors of the garden. As I have said, arrange 
your plants according to a well-digested system of colors, but re- 
member that unity of effect and harmony is almost impossible 
from all points, or for a length of time. My flower-garden, if I 
have in it all the varieties I want, if I work over it for weeks, cul- 
tivating, pruning, tying up, and watching it, during all that time, 
may give me the precise effect I have desired and looked for, yes 
longed for, for months ; but it will probably only be for one day, or 
even for a part of a day, and never again during the year ; and if 
I can get that perfect effect for those few moments, I shall be cer- 
tainly satisfied and repaid, and regardless of comment from those 
too dull to appreciate or too critical to admire. I shall be content 
to work another season, just as long, for the same few moments' 
pleasure. 

46 



542 MAT. 

There are moments in life when the beautiful is recalled to us, 
for which we have waited, watched, and longed, for which we have 
spent money, time, study; moments which others cannot share, 
and may not know, which are gone as soon as come, but which are 
the best reward for all our labor and trouble, and which open 
'glimpses to us of the beauty and nobleness, unseen and unattainable 
here, but which we can thenceforward believe have an existence on 
the other side the grave. 

The artist may see this desire of his heart, in some early morn- 
ing, as the clouds roll away from the rising sun, showing sea, moun* 
tain, and forest, or he may come upon it suddenly, in the glisten of 
drops of rain, or dew, or in the blaze of ice-clad trees and bushes 
under the moonlight, when each twig is a seeming fire of diamonds, 
or it may look up from the depths of the water, which reflect the 
awful beauties of the heavens, stretching unfathomable distances 
beneath his feet ; the musician may hear it in some strain floating 
through his dreams, in the voice of a singer, in the caroling of 
birds, in the tones of the sea, in storm or calm, in the lulling, lilt- 
ing, babbling of the brook ; he may have studied and sought for 
it through a lifetime, and it may come to him as the reward of his 
labor, or in apparent mockery, heard for so short a time, so soon 
gone ; nevertheless, it is something to have lived for, and to die for. 
The poet will get it in that song which is irrepressible, and from 
his heart's depths a wail of unbounded sorrow, or a burst of im« 
measurable gladness. 

Every lover of beauty sees it now and then, it may be, when 
the glorious and beautiful waterfall of Montmorenci leaps before 
him, unexpected and terrible, one moment a hurrying mass of 
water and rapids, a confused outline of hills, river bank, wierd ever- 
greens, rocky ledges ; the next shut into a gorge beneath his feet, 
it leaps in the glad sunshine, spanned with rainbows, 300 feet, a 
torrent of foam, a resplendent veil of mist, a wonder and glory 
forever ; and then, gathering its waters, gently and peacefully glides, 
over stones and sand bar, to the broad St. Lawrence. He may see 
it in his own child, or in the flower-bed before his door. It is never 
the certain reward of labor ; we may work for it a lifetime, and 
never find it while we seek it ; but the seeking will so ennoble and 






r 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 548 

purify the mind, and quicken the powers of appreciation, that when 
a sudden movement unexpectedly brings us upon it, we shall be 
repaid and stimulated, let it vanish as speedily as it may. 

The flower-garden may give this momentary delight, or a dish 
of flowers that we have arranged ; but in whatever form it comes, 
when you receive it, you have lived ; the moment is an epoch, one 
of the milestones on your way ; you will remember it forever, and 
date from it all kindred matters. 

Colors. — You are now in the joyful spring ; you have begun 
the culture of beauty anew. Out of cold earth, rough clods, un- 
controllable elements, mysterious seeds, you may, with love and 
patience, bring out the rarest beauty, capable of administering to 
whatever is best in our natures ; or, in discouragement, you may 
let weeds choke your flowers, and disorder and neglect turn your 
garden to a reproach and a sorrow. 

The following arrangement of colors I have taken out of Mcin- 
tosh's Book of the Garden, and they may be expected, according 
to that treatise, to produce harmonious results : — 

Dark bine, scarlet, white, black, bine,, brown, scarlet, white, black, light 
drab, black, .orange, black, light drab, black, white, black, claret, orange, 
gray, white, scarlet, dark green, crimson, white, dark gray, dark red, black, 
deep crimson, mixed, geranium, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, violet, doll 
red, gray, mulberry. 

The reds need not, and should not, be all of the same shade ; 
and so of other colors. Black, of course, cannot be got ; in its 
place may be substituted the deepest crimson and the darkest pur- 
ple ; why it is introduced, I do not know, unless it be for intensity 
of tone. I shall not give any of the elaborate patterns, geometric 
and irregular, so common in books upon flower-gardens. 

You may get a beautiful effect by a number of small round beds 
along a path, each of which is filled with one kind of flower, sur- 
rounded by slate edgings, and in the Grass. They give great va- 
riety, in spite of their sameness of shape. 

For instance, fill one bed with Carnations ; they will blossom 
all about the same time, and may be full of flowers for some 



544 



HAT. 



weeks ; the next two or three beds may be filled with varied Pi- 
cotes, one red, one yellow, one white, one variegated ; after them 
Carnations again. Or you may fill one with Mignonette, the next 
with white Candytuft, the next with pink Lantana, pegged down, 
then two Verbenas, first purple, then crimson, deep blue Ageratum, 
dark purple Heliotrope, then Horse-shoe Geranium, and down the 
other side with a similar succession. There must be enough of 
each kind of plant to produce a decided spot of color. 

Another bed, as G, in our flower-garden, may begin, 1, Ne- 
mophila, 2, Gilia, 3, Ageratum, 4, Heliotrope, 5, Purple Lantana, 
6, Scarlet Geranium, 7, Yellow Lantana, 8, Scarlet or Purple Sal- 
via. A, in this garden, has in the middle 1 Heliotrope, outside 2 
Mignonette. F has 1, Scarlet Geranium in the middle, 2, Scarlet 
Verbena on the edges. O, 1, is Heliotrope, 2, Gilia and White 
Verbena. B and C are full of bulbs in the spring ; as they go, 
prick out among them such bedding plants as you like. As there 
are shrubs all along here, I shall put in these beds the lowest 
growing plants, Verbena, Gilia, Nemophila. 

In G and E put ft.nnna.la among the perennials, and set out 
among them, like shrubs, 'large plants of Salvia, Heliotrope, Lan- 
tana, Brompton tenweek Stock, Wall-flower, and Carnation. 
The groups of sweet Peas must be so managed as to cover all the 
brush which they trail over. 

The following lists of hardy annuals are taken from the Book 
of the Garden, p. 817. They are the best for general use among 
the many there given:- 



Ageratum, 


cellestinum, 


pale blue, 


18 in. 


seed or cut 


c< 


oderatum, 


lilac, 


18 


t< 


Alyssum, 


calycinum, 


white, 


12 


« 


Anagallis, 


ccerulea, 


blue, 


6 


tt 


a 


carnea, 


flesh colored, 


6 


tt 


it 


indica, 


purple, 


6 


Sow in 


tt 


latifolia, 


blue, 


6 


frames in 


it 


grandiflora, 


red, 


6 


March. 


Asters, 


china and ger- 


many colored, 


12-24 seed or cut 




man, 








Amaranth, 


globe, 


red and white, 


12 


« 


Bartonia, 


aorea, 


yellow, 


18 


M 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



545 



Brachycoma, 


iberidifolia, 


blue and white 


12 


seed or cutting. 


Balsam, 




colors, 


12-24 


a 


Calandrinia, 


ascendens, 


dark crimson, 


6 


n 


it 


glandulosa, 


red, 


12 


a 


a 


grandiflora, 


rose lilac, 


12 


tt 


t*. 


epeciosa, 


maroon, 


18 


a 


Calendula, 


officinalis, fllo. 


pleno, orange, 


15 


seeds 


tt 


stellata, 


yellow, 


24 


n 


Campanula, 


loreyi, 


dark blue, 


9 


tt 


t* 


pentagona, 


bluish purple, 


9 


tt 


tt 


stricta, 


blue, 


9 


u 


Candytuft, 




white and purple, 


9-18 


u 


Cacalia, 




scarlet, 


9-18 


n 


Centaurea, 


cyanus major, 


blue, 


18 


tt 


tt 


depressa, 


bright blue, 


18 


n 


Cientranthus, 


macrosiphon, 


scarlet, 


18 


a 


Chrysanthemum, 


, carinatum, 


white, yellow, pui 


■ 








pie, 


15 


tt 


Cheenostoma, 


fastigiatum, 


pink, 


9 


n 


tt 


polyanthum, 


lilac, 


9 


tt 


u 


yiscosum, 


brown, 


9 


a 


Clarkia, 


pulchella, 


red purple, 


18 


a 


tt 


flora alba, 


white, 


18 


u 


Clintonia, 


pulchella, 


blue and white. 


6 


tt 


Collinsia, 


bicolor, 


purple and white, 


,12 


u 


tt 


grandiflora, 


blue and purple, 


9 


tt 


Collomia, 


coccinea, 


scarlet, 


9 


a , 


<« 


grandiflora, 


buff, 


12 seed and cutting 


Convolvulus, 


tricolor, 


blue and white, 


12 


a 


tt 


atroviolacea, 


dark purple, 


12 


it 


Delphinium, 




various, 


18 


tt 


tt 


consolida, 


n 


18 


tt 


Dianthua, 


siniensis, 


tt 


12 


ti 


Erysimum, 


perowskianum, 


dark orange, 


24 


it 


Escholtzia, 


crocea, 


orange, 


12-18 


ti 


tt 


californica, 


yellow, 


12-18 


it 


Eucharidium, 


grandiflorum, 


dark crimson, 


12 


ti 


n 


concinnum, 


reddish, 


18 


It 


Gilia, 


tricolor, 


lilac and purple, 


18 


tt 


Godetia, 


tenella, 


tt 


18 


ti 


Gramnanthes, 


gentianoides, 


deep orange, 


6 


it 


tt 


flora lntea, 


yellow, 


6 


It 


Gillyflower, 




various, 


12-24 


tt 


Heliophila, 


arabioides, 
46* 


blue, 


9 


« 



546 



MAT. 



Hemineris, 


incisifolia, 


scarlet, 


24 


seed and cutting. 


Hibiscus. 


africanus, 


pale yellow, 


18. 


tt 


Iberis, 


(candytuft,) 






tt 


Isotoma, 


axillaris, 


blue, 


9 


u 


Kaulfussia, 


amelloides, 


tt 


6 


tt 


Lasthenia, 


californica, 


yellow, 


6 


tt 


Leptosiphon, 


densiflorus, 


lilac, 


12 


<c 


<< 


androsaceua, 


rose lilac, 


9 


tt 


Linaria, 


spartea, 


golden yellow, 


12 


it 


<< 


tristis, 


brown, 


12 


u 


Lobelia, 


crinoides, 


blue, 


6 


tt 


a 


heterophylla, 


tt 


15 


tt 


i< 


ramosa, 


tt 


12 


it 


Lotns, 


jacobeus, 


black, 


12 


tt 


Lupinus, 


bicolor, 


deep blue, 


6 


u 


u 


pilosus, 


tt 


24 


tt 


a 


nanus, 


blue and white, 


6 


tt 


Malcomia, 


xnaritima, 


red, 


9 


u 


a 


flora albo, 


white, 


9 


tt 


Mathiola, 


(stocks,) 


various, 


12-18 " 


Mesembryanthe- 


tricolor, 


red, 


8 


tt 


mum, 










u 


pomeridiannm, 


yellow, 


8 




Nemophila, 


insfgnis, 


blue, 


9 


tt 


Nierembergia, 


maculata, 


white and purple, 


6 


tt 


tt 




blue and white, 


6 


tt 


Nasturtium, 




yellow and orange 


', 


vine or cut 


Oxalis, 


rosea, 


rose colored, 


9 


bulbs 


Oxyura, 


chri8anthemoides, 


, yellow and white, 


12 


tt 


Phlox, 


drummondi, 


various, 


12-! 


24 cuttings. 


Petunia, 




a 


12 


tt 


Platystemon, 


californicum, 


pale yellow, 


9 


tt 


Podolepis. 


gracilis, 


pinkish lilac, 


18 


tt 


Portulacca, 


thellusonii, 


orange crimson, 


6 


a 


tt 


grandiflora, 


tt 


6 


tt 


tt 


aurea, 


yellow, 


6 


tt 


u 


alba, 


white, 


6 


tt 


u 


gillesi, 


purplish crimson, 


, 9 


tt 


Reseda, 


odorata, 


(Mignonette,) 


9 


tt 


Rhodanthe, 


manglesi, 


bright rose, 


12 


tt 


Sanvitalia, 


procumbens, 


yellow, 


6 


tt 


Sapojiaria, 


calabrica, 


carmine, 


9 


tt 


tt 


ocymoides, 


red, 


9 


tt 


Schizanthus, 


diffhsns, 


purple and white 


,18 


tt 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



547 



Schizanthus. 


venustus, 


lilac, purple, 


and 








yellow, 


24 


cuttio 


tt 


pinnatus, 


tt 


24 


<< 


Schiziopetalon, 


walkeri, 


white, 


12 


n 


Sedum, 


azureum, 


pale blue, 


6 


tt 


Senecio, 


elegans, 


various when dou- 








ble, 


24 


tt 


Shortea, 


californica, 


yellow, 


6 


tt 


Vesicaria, 


oculata, 


bright rose, 


12 


tt 



It is -very likely that all these flowers cannot be at first obtained 
in this country, and probably all would not be desirable, except in 
a very large garden, where ' very elegant and precise effects are 
wished for, but the sizes and colors being distinctly marked would 
enable a careful horticulturist to produce any result that he had 
planned. The time of bloom is not given, but all blossom about 
the same time, or may be made to do so by starting such as are of 
slow growth, in hotbeds or the greenhouse. 

The practice in the best English gardens is to have what is called 
a reserve-garden, which stands in relation to the flower-garden as 
the hot and green houses do to the conservatory ; in it plants are 
brought into condition for setting in the main garden, into which 
they are removed to supply gaps. Without such a reserve, it would 
be almost impossible to keep a garden in perfection for any time, 
or even to have it so once. 

A real flower-garden is rarely seen in America, and I do not 
know of any one which can be at all compared either in style, keep- 
ing, or size, with the remarkable gardens of England, where 20 
acres have been devoted to the display of annual, perennial, and 
bedding-out flowers. Of course this area includes other ornamental 
features suitable to a flower-garden, as sheets of water, fish- 
ponds, and fountains, arbors, statues, vases, etc. The cost of keeping 
such a place is enormous, and in a country where labor is as costly 
as it is here, would be beyond all bounds ; and certainly, the pleas- 
ure to be derived from it is not in any measure proportionate to the 
cost and trouble expended, for size and quantity do not add beauty 
and pleasure in such a case. Still, such a garden, kept open to the 
public, near some large city, might be of great service to the people ; 
it would expand their minds and cultivate their tastes, and give an 



548 MAT. 

impulse to floriculture throughout the whole country ; but it will be 
long before such a thing exists here ; this generation certainly will 
not live to see it Such a garden would be, too, a fitting and beau- 
tiful feature in the laying out of a great park of several hundred 
acres, where its artificial and cultivated beauty would be an agree- 
able contrast to the wild natural style in which most of the ground 
would be laid out. 

Such a garden is not to be produced merely by having a good 
design to start from ; I could give any number of elaborate designs 
for such a purpose, but even if the ground were carefully staked 
out and planted in accordance with them, they would need to be 
watched and tended by some person who loved the work, and who 
could devote all his time and thought to it. 

Flowers are naturally simple and retiring ; — they rarely intrude 
on the notice of man ; they bend over the brooks, lending and re- 
ceiving beauty by the reflection ; they peep out of the grass, they 
fringe the roadsides, and their masses of bright color contrast with 
the gray stones and dark foliage about them ; but they never insist 
on being noticed ; they are always subordinate to leaves and branches 
and stems, and those that give the best and most enduring pleas- 
ure, combine modesty of appearance with beauty of color and 
delicacy of fragrance. The possessor of a bed of such flowers, 
however simple and familiar, if they are perfect of their kind, and 
well-cared for, need not envy the owner of the widest and most 
expensive flower-gardens of England. 

There will not be much return for the care of the garden during 
this month, unless there is a good collection of bulbs, and they will 
be in their glory before the month is over. 

Choice Hyacinths and Tulips should be shaded from the hot sun 
and severe rains and winds, and early in the month it is well to 
loosen the ^ earth amongst the bulbs with a trowel or fork. The sun 
blends the colors of the Tulips, and destroys the Hyacinths. Drive 
in stakes round the edges of the bed, at moderate intervals, and 
higher ones through the middle at corresponding distances, and 
connect them all together by strips of wood or strong cording, over 
which a canvass or well-oiled cotton cloth can be spread to form a 
roof. The cover should hang down a little over the sides. It will 



♦ 



FLOWEB-GARDEN. 549 

be an efficient screen from the sun, and in case of a storm can be 
lowered on the exposed side, and defend the flowers perfectly from 
the beating of the wind and rain. 

Common bulbs will not need this protection, but the rarer plants 
will not repay us for the time and money we have spent on them, 
unless we take this extra precaution, which will often keep them a 
week or two in perfection. » 

As soon as the leaves decay, remove those bulbs which you wish 
to divide or reset, and pack them in dry sand until it is time to 
plant them in the fall. Common bulbs may be left in the ground 
for three years, but the choice kinds should be removed annually. 
When you take them up remove all the outside skin, to the brown 
under skin. Be careful in taking them up to keep a catalogue of 
kinds and qualities, otherwise you will be unable to plant them 
with judgment in the autumn. 

Before the tops of the bulbs decay, set amongst them the an- 
nuals and bedding plants, by which they are to be replaced, and ' 
give the new plants all the care possible, to stimulate early growth. 
If pains are taken, there need be but a short interval of nakedness. 

During the summer, water occasionally with liquid manure, or 
shake over and rake into the bed dressings of guano, just before 
rain. 

Set in place all trellises and wire baskets, and plant the seeds or 
cuttings which belong to them. The Tropeolum, or Canary-bird 
flower, and the Maurandya and Ipomea, and German Ivy are the 
prettiest summer vines, on a small scale, while Nasturtium, Convol- 
vulus, Maderia, Ipomea learii, are quick growers and beautiful 
coverings of a larger kind. 

In the course of the month make all the plantations of woody 
vines, as Wisteria, Honeysuckle, Rose, Periploca, Aristolochia, 
Clematis, etc. 

The first of June should find you about ready to enjoy and weed. 
If, however, the sowing of flower seeds out of doors is delayed till 
the last week of the month, when the ground is warm, but little 
time will be lost 



CHAPTER LXL 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



The hotbeds are to be watched with care ; the Melons and Cu- 
cumbers will be in blossom, and showing fruit, and all plants are 
in a state of advance. Give air in abundance, to make them hardy. 

Make a dungbed early in the month, just as you would for a 
hotbed, in some' sheltered situation, and cover with 3 inches of 
loam. As soon as the manure begins to ferment, set into this bed 
the Melons and Cucumbers which are in thumb-pots, or on bite of 
sod in the greenhouse. Set 2 Melons or 3 Cucumbers in each 
place ; cover with a hand bell-glass, keeping the glass on all the 
time, unless the weather is decidedly warm, till there is no danger 
of frost, giving air in the middle of sunny days by tilting the glass. 

Prick out into sheltered places the most forward Lettuce, Cab- 
bage, Cauliflower, and Broccoli plants ; make beds in which to sow 
seeds (as directed in the flower-garden) of these plants for later 
summer use ; and carefully forward and harden those which are 
still in the hotbeds. 

' Plant an abundance of early Peas, and continue sowing later 
crops once a week during the month. Sow seeds of Radish in the 
same manner. Radish seed may be mixed, two for one, with Car- 
rots, Beets, and Turnips, when sowed in tne seed-sower ; the Radish 
will germinate early and grow rapidly, and mark the rows so that 
they can be cleaned readily, and they may be pulled long before 
the other vegetables are much grown. 

Asparagus will be fit for the table as soon as it has grown from 
2 to 4 inches. It is better so than larger. Be careful when cut- 
ting it not to injure the buds of the crown- of the roots, and be sure 
always to cut it below the surface. A common knife will answer, 
but it is not so good as one made for the purpose. The objection 
to the common knife is that it makes a smooth, clean cut, in which 

550 




KITCHEN-OABDEN 551 

case the stump of the shoot will bleed considerably, while by cutting 

it with a saw-toothed edge, 

you leave a jagged surface, 

and the sap is not inclined to 

extravasate. 

Lettuce in the hotbeds should be now about ready for the table, 
and in the graperies an abundance of Salads, Strawberries, Cauli- 
flowers, etc 

Sow in beds seeds of small Salads, Mustard, etc, as often as 
once a week, to ensure frequent and tender growth. 

This is the. proper time to make beds of Artichokes, either for 
the table or the field. Sow in beds seeds of Sea-kale, Cardoons, 
Alexanders. Make beds of Horseradish. Sow seeds of Parsley. 
This will remain for some years in the same spot, and should, there- 
fore, be planted in some place whence it need not be moved. Sow 
Spinach, for summer use, several times in the course of the month. 
Plant early table Turnips ; English White are the best 

Procure the roots of Rhubarb, to make new plantations the first 
of the month. The best variety for family use is not that which 
grows the largest, but that which melts most completely in stewing. 
Victoria Rhubard is a very large and rather coarse variety ; the 
Early Prince Imperial is better for family use. Plant it in deep, rich 
soil with plenty of manure. Every autumn cover with a foot of loam 
and manure, and in the spring repeat the process, and dig in around 
the crown. The leaves will push before the middle of the month, 
and it will be ready for the table before its close. Some farmers 
recommend covering heads of Rhubarb with an inverted barrel, for 
the purpose of hastening its growth, at the same time that they 
blanch and make tender the edible portions. The latter purpose is 
accomplished, but not the former, and it is maintained by some that 
the process develops some medicinal and disagreeable qualities. 

The very first of the month plant Strawberry beds ; the earliest 
planted generally make the best beds. Mulch old beds with tan. 

There are many methods of making beds, and many varieties of 
vines, as I have before said. The size and shape of the beds must 
be determined by the amount of room that can be spared them. 
Sometimes Strawberries are planted as an edging to the large 



552 MAT. 

divisions of the vegetable garden. For this purpose set them along 
the edge of the bed, and take care to turn the runners in towards 
the bed as they begin to grow, and thus ensure a thick and well- 
filled edge. 

The more delicate varieties of fruit are by no means the best 
for general culture, as they are with considerable difficulty gath- 
ered and preserved for marketing. But they are, of course, the 
best for the table. Shake some guano amongst the plants in old 
beds, but do not set new beds in newly manured land. 

Set out Raspberry beds now. Set the rows 3 or 4 feet apart, 
and the plants 2 or 3 feet apart in the row. Select for planting the 
best of last year's suckers ; they should be well grown and have 
an abundance of fibrous roots. Cut the cane of the plant back to 
within four or five buds of the roots ; set the root 3 or 4 inches 
deep in the earth, and at the same time set stakes if you are to use 
them, so as not to injure the roots by driving them afterwards. 

The best varieties of Raspberry vary with the latitude and often 
very greatly with a short distance. The advice of a good and 
honest nursery man in the neighborhood is the best guide in selec- 
tion. 

Make the beds for pot herbs as before directed, and be sure 
before planting the seed that you rake the loam on the surface of 
the bed until it is reduced to a fine tilth, and then sow the seed not 
more than one-half inch deep. Set the offsets of roots rather 
deeper, enough so to be well covered. 

Caraways are biennial, and if sown this year will bear seed next; 
they are valuable for medicinal and culinary purposes. 

Plant Onions for seed the first of the month, as directed in Octo- 
ber. The earlier they are planted, the earlier and better crop they 
will bear. Sow the seeds for late onions during the month ; be sure 
to have the loam well pulverized before sowing the seed. 

Plant Beet seed any time this month ; the early-planted often 
grows better and produces less stringy, and more juicy Beets, than 
the later ; this depends, however, much on the character of the 
season, whether wet or dry. To ensure success with Beets or any 
tuberous root, the plant should grow regularly, rapidly, and unin- 
terruptedly, and with sufficient moisture ; the tuber becomes coarse, 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 553 

hard, or stringy, when checked in its growth by drought or any 
other cause. 

The best variety of Beet for home consumption is the long Blood 
Beet ; turnip-rooted Beets grow more rapidly, and are equally well 
liked by many. 

The Beets for field culture will be described hereafter. All the 
roots for early kitchen use can be planted in May, but for winter 
not till June, July, or August. 

In selecting seeds of Celery, remember there are several kinds, 
some of which are ready for the table earlier than others. Make 
a bed for them near the last of the month, in a warm spot, and sow 
them as in a hotbed. 

Plant beside fences, or in other favorable places, Nasturtiums for 
pickles ; the seeds have quite as good flavor . as capers, and the 
brilliant flowers contribute largely to the gaiety and pleasantness of 
the kitchen-garden. The seed vessels are taken for pickling when 
about half ripe. 

Sow in a good place, according to previous directions, Endive for 
salad use in August, also the seed of broad-leaved Sorrel. 

In the middle of the month sow Sweet Corn, and StowelPs Ev- 
ergreen Corn, as mentioned in April. 

About the third week plant the seed of all kinds of Melons. 
Earlier planting than this for out-door crops is rarely successful. 
Do not make the common mistake of putting a shovelful of strong 
manure under each hill. It soon dries, and unless frequently wa- 
tered hinders the growth of the young plants. Make the hills in 
a rich, moist soil, for Cantelope, Musk, and similar melons, 3 feet 
apart; for Watermelons 4 feet; for Squashes 10 feet. Dish the 
earth where you propose to make the hill, and scatter a little guano 
over the earth ; rake it in, and sprinkle the seed four or five in the 
hill, intending when the plants are fairly established to reduce them 
to three. If the land is not rich and moist, dig or plough in over 
the whole area a heavy dressing of rich, well-rotted, barnyard ma- 
nure. 

The best land for vines of all kinds is a newly broken sod. It 
is unnecessary to give any general directions for the selection of 
Melon seeds ; the experience of each locality must decide. The 

47 



554 MAT. 

flavor of the Musk is not so delicate as that of the Cantelope, bat 
the yield is generally larger. The Mountain Sweet Watermelon 
is the most reliable in the neighborhood of Boston, but many culti- 
vators have been very successful with the Black Spanish and other 
varieties. At the South there is a Watermelon called the Ice- 
Cream melon, the rind of which being turned back like that of the 
Banana, shows a perfectly regular and delicious pulp. 

Of the Summer Squashes there are at least two varieties, the 
round or scallop shaped, and the club shaped. The latter is much 
covered with warts and wrinkles, and is gourdlike ; the former is 
the more common Scallop Squash, and rather the better for use. 
There are also several varieties of Winter Squash ; the Crook- 
necked and the Marrow are those most generally cultivated. The 
latter ripens earliest, the former keeps longest; the Hubbard 
Squash is very much liked by many and keeps well. 

There is also a Squash called the Chili or Valparaiso, which is 
not fit for use till the spring after it is planted. 

The treatment of Pumpkins is the same with that of Squashes, 
except that in New England the seeds of the Pumpkins are gen- 
erally planted in the hills of Corn in cornfields. 

Cucumbers vary in kind, and may be planted early in the month 
for table use, but for pickles not before June ; for the latter purpose 
the small varieties are best. 

By the third week in May it is safe to plant Lima and Sieva 
Beans. The seed of the former is sometimes out of the market ; 
they are rarely ripened in our latitude. The Sieva is next to it in 
quality, and is also late in coming into, bearing. However early 
they are planted, they are seldom ready for use till September, and 
may then be used constantly till frost, and if, after severe frosts 
have destroyed the leaves of the vines, they are pulled up, poles 
and all, and stacked and covered at night from the cold, the Bean 
pods will remain uninjured^ and may be used for a long time — in- 
deed till they are all gathered. 

These are pole Beans ; set the hills 4 feet apart, and make the 
hill by setting the pole, and then planting the Beans around it. 
Treat all pole Beans in the same manner. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 555 

Set bushes for the Peas to ran upon as soon as they show the 
rows distinctly. 

It is but little use to plant the seeds of Tomatoes in the open 
ground, as they rarely get sufficiently advanced to bear. The ear- 
liest Tomato plants may be set out and covered with boxes as pre* 
viously directed, the first of this month. 

Red Pepper seeds can be sown in beds the middle of the month, 
to be transplanted in June. 

Scorzonera and Salsify are two plants not in general use, but 
valuable. The latter is better known as the Oyster plant Sow 
the seeds the first of the month, in rows 6 inches 'apart, and covered £ 
inch deep. Thin to 6 inches apart as soon as well developed. They 
may also be propagated by slips from the roots. The roots are fit 
for use as soon as the leaves decay in the autumn, but may be kept 
like Parsnips, till spring. The roots may be sliced and fried, 
boiled, or stewed. If left in the ground till spring, the Salsify 
will early throw up an abundance of young shoots, which are a 
very good substitute for Asparagus. These plants need a good 
deal of moisture, and should be planted in a deep soil. 

Skirret is a plant similar to these ; the edible portion is the root, 
which is composed of a cluster of fleshy tubers, as large as the fin- 
ger, which may be eaten boiled and dressed, or fried in batter, or 
having been boiled, cold with vinegar and salt 

The seed of Skirret, as of the last two plants, may be sown in 
April, if the season is early ; it may also be propagated by taking 
up the old roots in the spring, and cutting off slices, or slips, each 
having an eye, which are to be planted in rows, 6 inches apart each 
way; but by seed is the easiest method. 

Another plant not commonly cultivated in this latitude, is Okra, 
the green capsules of which are very much esteemed in soup, to 
which they communicate both flavor and body. The dry seeds are 
burned and ground like coffee, and are preferred to it by some. 
Sow the seed by the middle, or last of May ; set it in drills 4 feet 
apart ; seed an inch deep, and hills 8 inches apart Put three or 
more seeds in each place, to allow for failure. Weeding, hoeing, 
and occasionally drawing the earth up to their roots, is afterwards 
necessary. 



556 MAT. 

By the last of the month it will do to set out Egg plants, from 
the hotbed, particularly if some slight protection against frost is 
provided ; set them 3 feet apart each way. The purple-fruited is 
the best for culinary purposes. If there are no plants in the hot- 
beds, sow the seed in a sheltered place about the third week, and 
set them ont permanently in June. 

Sweet Potato. — ■" This plant re- 
quires a dry, rather light, deep, well- 
stirred soil, which must be located on 
a dry subsoil, and the whole either 
rich in organic manure, or rendered so 
by manuring. Stiff clay does not suit 
it. Slips or sprouts from the previous 
year's tubers are used for planting, and 
are obtained in the following manner: 
On a bed of earth make a box with 
planks set edgewise, and fill in about a 
foot in depth of good, warm, fresh ma- 
nure ; over which spread two inches of 
fine, rich earth, and on this lay the potatoes, so near as to almost 
touch each other, and cover them from 2 to 2^ inches deep with the 
same earth. If the nights are cold, this bed must be covered with 
straw, or some other warm covering, which is to be removed dur- 
ing the day. There is danger in making the bed too warm, and 
so spoiling the roots ; they must be kept tolerably wet after the 
sprouts appear. When these are 3 inches long they are fit to set 
out a, Sweet Potato sprouted, 6, a sprout ready to plant. 

Plough the ground very deep, and throw the earth into ridges, 
or common Potato hills. Do this immediately before planting, that 
the earth may be moist and fresh. Remove the slips, or sprouts, 
from the Potato, and set 2 in each hill, 2 or 3 inches apart, and 
make the top of the hill sufficiently hollow to hold a pint of water. 
If there is no rain, watering in the evening is requisite forafewdays. 
When planted in ridges, the sets should be 8 or 10 inches apart; 
keep the weeds clean, and hoe earth up about the bottom of the 



KITCHEN-GABDEN. 557 

plants ; when ploughed the last time, about the last of July, hill them." 
Be careful in ploughing not to bruise the vines, or cover them with 
earth ; when covered, the vines will root and produce small Potatoes 
At the South, the crop is increased by covering the vines ; our season 
is too short. " They should be dug as soon as frost kills the vines." 
Store in boxes, tubers packed in dry sand, the temperature of the 
room equal, and above frost 

By the last of May, the Onions planted for seed in the fall will 
have advanced so far as to need to be tied to sticks. 

Tie up the leaves of Cos, or Roman Lettuce, so as to insure 
blanching. 

Thin out all vegetables which are well growing, and hoe up the 
starting weeds. A great deal of time is gained, and labor saved, by 
destroying weeds when young, before they have got firm hold in the 
soil, as later they impoverish the ground, and shade the plants from 
the sun. During the next month the care of removing weeds is a 
serious annoyance ; they should be dug up in the morning on sunny 
days, and will then entirely dry up before night, whereas, if hoed 
in dull weather they are likely to grow again. 

Examine the Strawberry beds occasionally, and remove weeds 
when it can be done without injury to the vines and young fruit 

By the last of May, the early Cabbages, Cauliflowers, Broccoli, 
etc, will be ready for hoeing. 

The kitchen, like the flower-gardener, should never go into the 
garden without knife, strings, and sticks. It is surprising to see 
how much may be done by early attention; in nothing more 
than in the various branches of gardening, is the old proverb ex- 
emplified, that " an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of 
cure." 

By the last of the month the largest Radishes may be thinned, 
and there will be ample supplies of Lettuce in the hotbeds. 

Do not leave any piles of stones or rubbish in the walks of the 
kitchen-garden, but remove them at once to the manure pile and 
waste hole. 

Examine the espaliered fruit trees, and rub off all buds which 
will produce shoots in bad positions ; this saves future pruning. 

47* 



558 MAT. 

Any stocks or branches which were budded in the autumn, must 
be cut back to the bud the first of May, that the buds may start 
with vigor. 

At the same time uncover the Figs, and get them ready for sum- 
mer. For details of culture, see July. 



CHAPTER LXH. 



The pruning is, of course, over, find the hunt for caterpillars 
proceeds with full vigor. The trees will begin to blossom about the 
last of the month. 

This is the best month for grafting all kinds of trees ; the sap is 
in free circulation, and the weather mild, which promotes the rapid 
growth of the scion, and the healing of the wound. 

It will not be necessary to mi- 
nutely describe all the kinds of 
grafting, as but few are ever prac- 
ticed on a large scale. Cleft and 
whip grafting are the common 
kinds, especially the former. The 
method of whip or tongue graft- 
ing is described by Downing as 
follows : — 

" Having chosen the stock, cut 
it off at the point where it appears 

best to fix the graft (see cut) ; if the stock is quite small, it may be 
within 3 or 4 inches of the ground; then with a very sharp knife 
make a smooth cut upwards, about 2 inches in length. Nest make 
a split from the top of this, cut about quarter of the way downwards, 
taking out a thin tongue of wood ; cut the scion 4 or 5 inches long, 
so as to bave 3 buds ; then shape the lower end with a single 
smooth, sloping cut, about the same length as that on the stock, and 
make the tongue upward to lit in the downward slit of the stock ; 
now apply the scion accurately to the stock, making the inner bark 
of the scion fit exactly the inner bark of the stock, at least on one 
side. Without changing their positions tie them carefully together 
with a piece of bass matting or tape, and finally cover the wound 



MAT. 



with well-prepared grafting clay, < 
re than cov* 



i- wax. This ball, if clay, should 
r the union by an inch above 
and below, and should be about an inch thick. 
If grafting-wax be used, it need not be more 
than half an inch thick. About the middle of 
i July, for plants in the open air, after a rainy 
I day, remove the ball of clay, and if the graft is 
I securely united, also the bandage, and the angle 
I left at the top of the stock should now be cut 
oft* smoothly, in order to allow the bark of the 
stock and the scion to heal over the whole wound. 
Though it is little attended to in common prac- 
r will be glad to know that the success of the 
graft is always greatly insured by choosing the parte so that 
a bud is left near the top of the stock, and another near the bot- 
tom of the scion ; these buds attract the rising sap to the portions 
where (hey are placed, from the woody matter, and greatly facili- 
tate the union of the parts near them, the upper part of the stock 




tice, the 



and the lower part of the s 
for want of nourishment." 



a being the portions soonest to perish 



The cut No. 1 here .given shows sad- 
dle grafting, and needs no further expia- 
tion, a is the scion, b the saddle-shaped 
stock, and c the completed graft. 

" Cleft grafting, No. 2, appears to have 
been one of, if not the most primitive 
of all modes, which may be naturally in- 
ferred from its great simplicity- Al- 
though easily performed, it has a clumsy 
appearance, but is yet very useful in 
the case of old trees requiring to be 
cut down from old age, disease, or other causes." 

The figure shows a specimen of cleft grafting. " a the stalk, of 
almost any diameter ; 5, c, scions ; but there may be several, ac- 
ixirding to the size of the stock. The operation is thus performed : 
The head of the stock is first sawed over, and then smoothed with 
a knife ; a cleft is then made in the stock with a hammer and split- 




* ORCHARD. 561 

9 

ting knife, or as often with a carpenter's chisel. The scion is pre- 
pared by cutting it down to a wedge shape, taking care to preserve 
the bark, on the outer edge, pushed into the cleft as 
the knife or chisel is withdrawn, taking care that the 
inside bark of the scion fits the inside bark of the stock. 
When the number of scions desired is inserted, the 
whole is bound round with matting, and clayed in the 
usual manner." 

Instead of using coarse ami unsightly lumps of clay, 
where directed, you may use the grafting-wax and a 
firm cotton cloth. The wax is poured on warm, and runs into 
and over the apertures ; pierce a piece of cloth with holes to 
fit over the scions, and then bind it around the stock, as round 
a sore finger, covering it with a little more wax, to keep it firm 
and in place. The wax will immediately harden, and hold all 
in place, exclude air and rain, and as it is not rigid, will expand as 
the scion grows, and finally fall off. 

Downing further adds, " Apple stocks are grafted in great quan- 
tities in this mode, the stocks being previously taken out of the . 
ground, headed down near the root and cleft-grafted with a single 
scion, sloping off with an oblique cut the side of the stock oppo- 
site that where the graft is placed, and then planted in rows, so as 
to allow only a couple of buds of the scion to appear out of the 
ground. It is not usual with many either to tie or clay the grafts in 
this case, as the wound is placed below the surface ; but when this 
plan is adopted, the grafts must be set, and the trees planted at once,* 
drawing the well-pulverized soil with great care around the graft. 

" Another way of grafting Apple-stocks, in some western nurse- 
ries, consists in tongue • grafting on seedling stocks of very small 
size cut back to the root ; this is performed in the winter by the 
fireside ; the grafts carefully tied, and the roots placed in the cellar 
in sand till the spring, when they are planted, the top of the graft 
just appearing above the ground." 

" Cleft grafting with one scion is in general not a good mode, 
because if the split has been made right through the stock, it is in 
danger of being injured by the weather, before it is covered by the 
wood of the scion. If the cleft is only made on one side the stock, 



562 MAY. 

the evil is mitigated. Another objection arises when only one scion 
is used ; ihe tree becomes as a matter of course, attached, as it were, 
to one side of the root only." 

" Cleft grafting the vine is sometimes done in the following man- 
ner. A spur is cleft commencing the incision exactly above the 
second eye. The scion when chosen is cut in a wedge-shape form 
at its base, commencing the slope of the wedge just below a bud, 
and so that when the scion is inserted into the cleft, tbe bud of the 
latter and that of the stock may be placed opposite each other, 
which is considered the most favorable position for success ; the 
process of tying and claying- goes on in the usual manner, with the 
exception that a small hole is left in the clay opposite the bud of 
the scion, to allow that bud to develop itself freely. 

" When the scion has grown 14 or 15 days it is then headed back 
to one bud, which is left to draw up tbe sap until the union has 
fairly taken place between the stock and the scion. The proper 
season for grafting the vine in this way is when the shoots have 
made four or five leaves. If done sooner there is danger of the 
sap flowing so fast as to prevent a union taking place, by what is 
called bleeding. This process is often adopted in grafting succu- 
lent plants, and some European growers employ it in propagating 
Roses and Camellias. For the latter purpose it is of considerable 
importance, as each individual bud is made to form a plant, the 
scion being so cut that only one bud is attached to each. 

" Orovm grafting is merely a variety of cleft graft- 
ing, and is sometimes called rind grafting. It is 
practised upon old trees either for their total re- 
' moval, or upon large amputated branches, to renew 
by degrees. It is upon the whole better than cleft 
grafting, because the stock if old is not subjected 
i to the chances of being split, the scions in this case 
being placed between the wood and the bark. 
It is performed later in the season than cleft 
grafting, because tbe bark separates more freely 
' from the wood than at an earlier period. In 
i rind or crown grafting, great care must be taken 
that the bark of the stock be not bruised during 



ORCHARD. '563 

the process of opening the bark for the reception of the scion, and 
for this purpose a proper spatula or grafting knife should be used." 

The ivory end of the budding knife is the best instrument for sep- 
arating the bark from the wood, as it is made for a similar use in 
budding. 

" The scion is to be prepared without a tongue, and is placed in 
the stock so that its wood may be in contact with the albumen of 
the stock. Sometimes it is cut with a sort of shoulder at the top 
of the graft, that the graft may rest on the top of the wood, in 
which case this kind of grafting is called shoulder grafting. 

u The scion being prepared in either way, the bark is opened to 
the extent of 2 inches, and the scion is made to pass down between 
the wood and the bark. If the bark of the stock is hard and dry 
and does not yield readily, it may be scored or cut perpendicularly 
downwards, to enable the operator to open it (as in budding) so 
that he may thrust the scion into its place with its cut side next the 
wood ; this being done, tying and claying follow as in other cases.' 1 

Herbaceous grafting a, b, p. 564, is rather a singular kind of graft- 
ing. It consists in attaching the solid parts of herbaceous plants, or 
of woody plants, when in a herbaceous state, to others of the same or 
similar species, while in a similar state. The Tree Peony has 
been successfully grafted on the fleshy roots of the herbaceous 
plants of the same genus. 

In the case of the Tree Peony, the operation may be performed 
at any time from the middle of July to the middle of August. 
The tubers throw out roots in the autumn, and are then taken up 
and potted, and preserved under cover during the winter. .The 
operation is exceedingly simple; it consists in selecting single 
tubers of the plant, in which a triangular notch is cut near its top, 
by to which notch a scion of the tree sort, a, is made to fit, having 
two or three buds upon it 

When placed, it is tied with soft matting, and clayed or waxed 
over in the usual manner. If the plant which supplies the scions 
be scarce, only one bud may be used, instead of three. In select- 
ing tubers for this purpose, barren ones, that is those having no 
visible eyes, are as good as fertile ones, or better. 

By this means, Dahlias may be largely multiplied, as every 



564 MAT. 

tuber is a stock, whilst only the crown of the root produces 

~. When whip grafting is the means used, and 

lfjm a the bud is set high up from the root, it is well 

i7j| to wrap the whole stem with moist moss, to 

I jj keep it in good condition for the union to take 

gf place. 

■ Whip, splice, tongue, and saddle grafting can 

only be effectively used when the stock and 
graft are about the same size, as otherwise the 
proper parts could not be brought together; 
but cleft and crown grafting are possible, no 
matter what disparity there may be. 

There are many refinements upon grafting, 

with which I shall not trouble you, for when you 

have advanced so far as to inquire about the 

refinements of culture, you will no longer need 

such aid as this book offers, 

The other work of the orchard will be very simple — a mere 
repetition of the work of April. 

Keep the caterpillars well rubbed off. No more tar need be put 
on between the last of the month and November, for in that inter- 
val the egg-laying canker worms do not run. You will find it a 
simple way of destroying great numbers of the worms which eat 
the leaves, after they are hatched, to jar the trees by heavy blows. 
The worms feeling the jar, cease eating, and drop to the ground, 
lowering themselves softly by a thread which they spin as they go. 
The thread will be broken directly, and the worm will run for the 
tree to climb back, and be ca\ight in the tar on his way. 

The appearance of these worms is very unlike that of the grub 
which laid the egg, and if there is no sign of perfect, leaf-destroy- 
ing worms, the tar may be omitted early in the month. 

If your orchard is surrounded by stone. walls, or close board 
fences, you will find it advantageous to plough very early and sow 
with any succulent fodder, and to turn in young pigs when it is 
pretty well grown. They eat all the green crops, particularly 
Clover, greedily. A good Clover field is a certain source of fat 



r 



ORCHARD. 565 

and growth for pigs, and in an orchard they will pick up windfalls 
through the summer, thus destroying enormous quantities of worms. 
The great value of pigs, in this way, is not sufficiently appreciated. 
They thoroughly root over a field in which they are turned, and 
eat all the worms and grubs they can find. 

A litter of spring pigs, fed in such an orchard, and supplied be- 
side with skim milk, will thrive wonderfully. 

48 



CHAPTER LXm. 



THE FARM. 



Continue the work of April with regularity and rapidity ; post- 
pone no necessary job, for a loss of time, however small, in the 
spring, can not be made up during the year. On every farm there 
is always far more to do than time in which to do it, and this is es- 
pecially the case on a place like ours, where there are ornamental 
grounds, which offer employment for every leisure moment 

We sowed clover over the Wheat field in No. 3, and also over 
the Rye in orchard No. 1. The pasture in No. 1 will have given 
good feed during the last half of April, if properly irrigated, and 
should now give abundance. 

The Grass lands and Wheat fields may be kept constantly irri- 
gated through May. 

Our Spring Rye should have been sown in April, unless the 
season was late, in which case sow it early in May. Sow one acre 
of Rye, Clover, and Grass, and one acre of Oats, Clover, and Grass, 
to be cut in the milk ; reserve the third acre for fodder, one-half of 
which should be got in as soon as the warm weather has regularly 
begun ; sow 2 to 4 bushels seed to the acre, in a seed-sower ; sow 
very thick, and set the rows within 3 feet of each other ; the Corn 
will come up thick, and will tend to leaves more than butts, and will 
keep the ground well shaded. You may either broadcast your 
Grass seed before sowing the Corn, and trust to hand weeding, or 
sow it at the second hoeing, as I have directed, when the Corn is 
just large enough to cover the ground. No hand hoeing will be 
necessary, if the land has been well attended to heretofore. 

With the Rye and Oats spread 800 lbs. guano, 300 lbs. plaster, 
one cart-body full of fine peat, 100 lbs. potash, mixed, unless you 
gave a generous coat of manure at the beginning of the rotation, 

666 



* THE FARM. 567 

in which case omit the potash. The Grain should be sowed with a 
drill, and the manure spread at the same time. 

Cut the Winter Rye in orchard No. 1 just as soon as there is 
enough for the scythe, and feed it out together with Roots, any 
which are left, and Grain and Hay to the milch cows. The Rye 
will grow very fast now, and may be stimulated as much as you 
please by liquid manure. 

In the orchards to be cultivated there are rather more than 6 
acres, half of which is not to be cultivated; but half is for 
culture, which will not injure but rather stimulate the growth of 
the trees. Two acres should be devoted to Indian Cora, one to 
fodder. Sow the fodder on this land rather later than on No. 3 ; 
one-half as late as the second week in July, and then sow Millet. 

The Sweet Corn fodder will then follow the Rye, the Sugar 
Cane, the Sweet Corn, to be again followed by Sweet Corn and 
Millet. 

During much of the month there will be good feed upon the pas- 
ture in No. 1 ; and after the lower lawn and No. 4 are mowed, 
they may be fed. Remember that the pasture in No. 1 is no com- 
mon New England pasture, needing 3 acres for one cow, but land 
well able to give l£ tons per acre, and must therefore be fed early 
and close, to prevent the grass growing rank. Small as the en- 
closure is (5 acres) you will gain decidedly by setting a hurdle 
fence across half way, and eating down one-half before you turn 
on to the other. 

Before turning out your cattle sell those cows who have proved 
poor milkers during the last year, and be on the lookout through 
the summer to buy better. It is not for your advantage to keep 
many cows during summer, unless for butter. The price of milk is 
higher in winter than in summer, and we know that the manure is 
neither so valuable nor so easily saved in summer. Try to keep 
enough, and no more, of the best kind for dairy purposes, and 
devote yourself to getting large crops to be fed out the next win- 
ter to cattle, sheep, or milch cows, whichever is the best in your ex- 
perience. 

It is well now to start a calendar or account-book with each of 
your animals, as a test of their value. If you begin at the date 



568 MAT. 

of turning out to pasture, charge each with its cost, pasturage per 
week, every item of food and care for the suceeding year ; and 
credit it with its milk and manure. You will then know how you 
stand, and what is profitable and what not. 

The same should be done with each field and each crop, charging 
it with all the expense it makes, with interest, with one-half of the 
manure spread on it, and crediting it with its crops, whereby you 
will soon learn the profit and loss of crops and manures. 

If there come any wet days, when you are short of work, go 
through all the cellars, and thoroughly clean them, cleaning away 
all cobwebs, etc., and then apply a strong lime wash. We are told 
never to apply whitewash except in bright weather, as it will not 
dry white at any other time. I give the statement for the satisfac- 
■ tion of those who believe in it, of whom I am not one. I hare 
-whitewashed the ceiling of good houses during dark and rainy 
weather, and have never seen any inferiority in the final whiteness 
and lustre. But in stables and cellars it is of no consequence 
whether the wash prove white or not ; it is for cleanliness. 

We are to plant 2 acres with Potatoes, in No. 2, and will select 
some variety to test its quality. If you must buy the seed, you * 
will like to know the proper quantity. A large Potato judiciously 
cut into 3 pieces, and all these planted in one hill, yields better than 
it would if planted whole. A medium-sized Potato should be cut 
into 2 pieces ; cut from end to end, and not across. Remember 
that the tuber is like the branch of a tree ; the buds at the ends 
are perfect or not, as it is perfectly or imperfectly ripened ; the 
middle buds, or eyes, are certainly ripe -and perfect. By cutting 
across the middle, you divide the middle eyes, and are liable to put 
all the immature buds into one piece. Were the two ends of the 
Potato to go into the same hill, it would not matter much ; but 
the cut pieces are mixed in the basket from which they are planted, 
and if they are all cut across, there is great chance that some hills 
will be planted wholly with immature eyes. The quantity of seed 
cut as above, which will be needed, is about 8 bushels. It depends 
somewhat on the variety. In a bushel of State of Maine, East- 
port, Chenango, Jackson White, Worcester Red, or other round 
Potatoes of medium size, there are about 400. If the rows are 4 



i 



THE FABM. 569 

feet apart and the hills 3 feet, each hill has 12 square feet = 3,630 
hills. Call it 3,500 hills, the acre will need 8| bushels of seed. In 
any case, 10 bushels to the acre ought to be an abundance. 

Be sure that the rows are perfectly straight, for this saves a deal 
of time and trouble, first and last. 

If you are depending on farmyard manure to keep your land in 
good heart, cart on to the 2 acres 6f Potatoes not less than 20 cords 
of your best compost Now is the time to manure for the whole 
rotation. Had the bed been manured last year for Indian Corn at 
the same rate, there would now be no need of any other manure 
than plaster. Cart on only just in advance of the plough, and spread 
thickly over the surface ; plough as deeply as a stout pair of horses 
can carry a deep-tiller plough, and follow with a one-horse subsoil 
plough. On most land one horse will make but little impression 
with the subsoil plough, but that little every year is all important. 
He will, if the plough is held firmly, deepen the soil one or two 
inches every time he goes over the field. These two inches are 
the top, and, consequently, the hardest part of the subsoil, and being 
loosened and improved, will be seized on by the roots of the crops, 
and mixed with the top-soil when the deep-tiller plough goes through 
again. When you plough the same field in the fall for Rye, or 
Wheat, you will find the first plough gaining much more than 2 
inches on the spring ploughing, and a new subsoiling will show the 
wisdom of the proceeding through the rotation. 

Having ploughed in the manure, draw straight furrows across the 
field both ways, with a one-horse plough. Strike the first furrow 
by what the English ploughman calls feering poles. These poles 
should be a part of the permanent equipment of the farm. They 
are 9 feet long, shod at one end with an iron point ; paint them in 
8 colors, red, white, and blue ; but do not put the paint on the same 
part of all the poles ; vary the arrangement, so that when set up in 
the field it will be the easier to distinguish them from the objects 
around ; graduate them into 3£ feet lengths, so that they may serve 
for measuring. When ready to begin ploughing, measure off from 
B, p. 570, the straight side of the field, a head land, 15 feet, or one 
ridge wide, and set one pole, c, 3£ feet from the fence A ; then go as 

48* 



570 



MAT. 



far as you please along the side A, at a right angle to the headland, 
and measure another 3£ feet, and set another pole, d, and so on to the 



e k 


k 


I 


m 


n o 






_ 


#• 






j» 


J_ 


rf~ 


A 


















— < 


! 

i 


- 


r 


-r 




f 


"T- 


5*" 


- 


f \ 




f' 


-j- 




f 


_L 


f m 


„ __ 


9 '±- 




4 


!* 




u 


•V 


w 



end of the side A. Now start jour horses and plough exactly down 
the line of the poles c, g, keeping them always in line, and allowing 
the cord which connects the horses, or the yoke of the oxen, to 
knock the poles down. As soon as it (rf) is ploughed over, stop 
the team, and take the pole once and a quarter the width of the 
ridge, and at right angles to the line of poles, and there set it firmly 
into the ground at d! ; go back to the beginning of the furrow, and 
take the first pole e, and carry it once and a quarter the width of a 
ridge, and at right angles to the line of poles, and fix it at it; start 
your plough again, and when you plough over the next pole, e, treat 
it like d and c, and set it at e f , and so on. Return on the back of 
this furrow, and continue to plough till you arrive at the end of the 
quarter ridge made on one side by your first furrow and the fence on 
the other. You will thus have ploughed half a ridge. Return to the 
line of feering poles, and plough down from k to s, and back as be- 
fore ; as the poles are ploughed down, reset at the distance of a 
ridge. See diagram. This method leaves an open furrow for sur- 
face drainage, etc., from h to r, from b to t, from ntor. 



l 



THE FARM. 571 

Of coarse this method of ploughing cannot be followed on new, 
stumpy or unbroken land ; it is suited to subdued and open land, 
even to that which is very stony, but not to ledgy land. Ledges 
are as invincible by the plough as stumps. 

A land is that portion of ground marked out by natural limits, 
by the eye of the ploughman, or by stakes, which is to be ploughed 
through before starting afresh. Its width and the method in which 
it is to be ploughed depend on circumstances, but it should not be 
wider than 30 feet. 

It would seem to the uninitiated that the length of the furrow, 
the width of the slice, the area of laid, were of no particular con- 
sequence to team and ploughman ; but these things are of real im- 
portance, and the work must be broken with stopping, turning, etc., 
to insure its being done to the best advantage. Careful experi- 
ments have been made in England and tabulated, to show how the 
amount of land ploughed in a given time by a given force is effected 
by the width of furrow-slice and the length of furrow ; it is upon 
these that the speed of the team, and consequently the amount of 
work accomplished, depends. 



Speed per hour Distance walked In Breadth of furrow- 




Land ploughed in 


in miles. 




8| hours. 




slice in inches. 




8* 


hoars at that 
speed. 




Miles. 




Yards. 


Inches. 


A. 




R. P. 


1 


IS 


and 


1,284 


9 







3 1 




« 


440 


10 







3 14 


1 1-2 


IS 


« 


642 


9 


1 




21 




<< 


220 


10 


1 




34 


2 


4 17 
116 


<i 


808 


9 


1 




2 2 




a 


880 


10 


1 




2 28 


S 


(26 


u 


332 


9 


2 




1 3 




J 24 


tt 


1,320 


10 


2 




1 42 



Note, — The above is taken from " Stevens' Book of the Farm/' vol. 1 , 
p. 167. 

In calculating the time necessary to plough a given area, remem- 
ber that the team cannot be kept constantly at the same rate of 
speed ; apart from the time lost in turning, allowance must be made 
for stops and rests and changing lands. 

The next table shows plainly which length of furrow was found 
the best. 



572 MAY. 



Length of ridge 
In yards. 


Breadth of slice 
in inches. 


Time lost in 
turning 

II. 11. 


Time Hones ? 

ploughing. 

H. M. 


rorke 
H 


78 


10 


5 


11 


4 


49 


10 


149 


ii 


2 


44 


7 


16 


41 


200 


u 


2 


01 


7 


59 


ft 


212 


ii 


1 


56 1-2 


8 


3 1-2 


It 


274 


a 


1 


22 


8 


32 


It 



Note. — Stevens' Book of the Farm, vol. 1, p. 167. 

In ploughing longer ridges a loss of time appeared, though not 
so much as in the short, but the ridge of 274 yards (or a medium 
one of 250 yards) gave the tflst average. Just look at the differ- 
ence ! in one case, out of 10 hours work, 5 hours 11 minutes were 
lost in turning, whilst in the ridge of 274 yards there was a loss of 
but 1 hour 22 minutes in 10 hours work. 

This is of the greatest importance, for you may thus lose or save 
one half the time you have to plough. Under the best circum- 
stances ploughing is a difficult and slow process, needing every 
possible advantage ; yet it is generally done as if it were susceptible 
of no improvement. 

Breadth of slice and kind of land are the next considerations, 
and are decided by the character of soil and crop. 

It should be the work of the best ploughman on the farm to set 
the feering poles and plough down the ridges the first two furrows ; 
the rest of the ridge may be ploughed out by a less expert hand. 
The headland is left a ridge wide and ploughed last. The proper 
width for the ridge, in the opinion of experienced cultivators, is 15 
feet ; from open furrow to open furrow, 30 feet By ploughing thus 
you will make all your furrows lie in the same way on the same 
side of each ridge. 

Such care in laying out lands and ploughing will be ridiculed by 
most of our farmers, and pointed out by some of my readers as an 
evidence of the foolishness of my theories. Nevertheless it is wise ; 
it saves time and labor, and pays well. The extra work, i.e., 
skilled labor, should be done by the head of the farm, and thus 
money be saved ; there is no time lost in turning, no corners un- 
ploughed or half-ploughed, and the land is in the best condition for 
after culture. 



J 



THE FARM. 573 

Certain circumstances decide the best way of ploughing ; for 
instance, on a hill-side all the furrows of each ridge are turned 
down hill ; but the principle of the detailed plan will apply to all 
lands. The calculations of time etc., in the preceeding tables are 
based on ploughing Grass land. 

Many farmers plough stubble land and sod in opposite ways ; but 
it seems to me that their practice should be just reversed. The 
plough they use in stubble land has a somewhat convex mould- 
board, and leaves the furrow-slice on its edge, where it is well ex- 
posed to the air and the harrow ; but the plough they use in sod 
turns it down flat, the idea being that each sod should just fit 'into 
the place of the last, so as to leave no sign of grass, c, p. 574. No 
better method than this last could be devised to consolidate land, and 
it is the best for sandy lands or those where wheat is to grow ; but 
for the general purposes of agriculture it is bad. Where the sod is 
thus inverted, the grass is turned over upon the subsoil, air is shut 
out from it, which can be neither ameliorated nor sweetened, and the 
sod will only decay after a long time, and the roots of the crop get 
nothing from the subsoil till they have penetrated the thick sod. 

Plough such sods with a very concave mould-board, which will 
roll the sod into a pipe, double it on itself, rf, p. 574 or leave it on its 
edge. To most lands it is important that the air should get into the 
sod to feed the roots, to sweeten the soil, to decompose the turf. 

The Michigan plough answers this purpose admirably. It peels 
off a thin sod, which it rolls over on itself like a pipe, and then 
covers it with a quantity of under soil, in which the seed will be 
sown, e, 574. 

On p. 574 are diagrams to show the appearance of the ends of 
these different furrows, where the sods e, are cut narrow and rolled 
upon themselves, whilst they are covered by the loam piled on 
them by the stubble plough, which follows on the same beam. As 
soon as the harrow runs over the field after this plough, it crumbles 
the furrow-slice of subsoil, down over the sod, and leaves plenty of 
fine earth in which to plant ; whilst the sod is so doubled over as to 
be broken at the same time, that it makes a kind of pipe in the soil f 
a good opening for the circulation of air and gases, which gradually 
crumbles and settles under culture. When the ridge is ploughed 



574 



HAT. 



oat, the plough should go down the open furrows and back, to lay a 








--^& 






new small furrow of subsoil upon the bottom edge of the furrow- 
slice, thus : — * 

The furrow slice should be 
about 10 inches wide, and 
from 7 to 12 thick ; but the 
thicker it is, and the deeper 
the plough goes into the soil, 
the more careful we must 
be to turn the slice enough to loosen it from the earth, and thor- 
oughly commingle the parts. Picture to yourself a field well 
ploughed, and you see how thoroughly the manure, which was 
spread before ploughing began, is turned into the subsoil, when all 

* It will be observed that d and e are incorrectly drawn, as they should rep- 
resent the left instead of the right side of the ridge ; and the team would seem 
to be walking towards us. 




J 



THE FARM. 



575 



that is unconsnmed the first season must wash down into it, out of 
the reach of vegetation ; and you can see for yourself how bene- 
ficially artificial manures come in during a rotation, to supply that 
which the crops are in immediate want of, which was in the barn- 
yard manure, but has washed down out of their reach. 

Subsoil ploughing is considered by many as the great discovery 
of modern agriculture. And it is easy to see that ploughing the 
same soil year after year, to the same depth, with heavy plough 
and team, compresses the soil, and makes the subsoil very hard. 
Into this the roots can no more make their way than into a ledge 
of rocks ; they are denied the use of the valuable manure which 
has washed into it for years, and thrive only in proportion to the 
richness of the surface soil. Though the subsoil be a mine of 
manure, they cannot work, and must spread out on its surface. It 
may be full of water, yet can 
only delay vegetation in the 
spring, without nourishing it in 
times of drought. The wealth 
which is shut up there, out of the 
way of air, etc, becomes its in- 
jury ; undecomposed and un com- 
bined, what may be food often 
becomes poison; so that when 
an adventurous ploughman stirs it a little, and brings some of the 
" yellow stuff" to the surface, it hinders, and perhaps even kills 
vegetation. Thought has unlocked the treasures of the subsoil, 
and shows the enterprising farmer that if he can loosen it up, and 
open it to air and moisture, without turning it on top of the good 
surface earth, he can ameliorate it and make it available food for 
his crops. 

The first step is, of course, thorough-drainage ; the next, to put 
in the subsoil plough, invented to break up the hard pan, and open 
and improve the subsoil in just the way I have said is necessary ; 
so that when the stubble plough runs through next year, it brings 
up more earth to the surface, and enriches, without injuring, the 
topsoil. In a word, the subsoil plough runs under ground, like a 
mole, loosening the earth, and leaves the other plough to turn op 




ST« MAT. 

r the earth which it has loosened. In this way the power 



is put into the farmer's hands of doubling or vastly increasing his 
acreage, of giving his crops 12 inches instead of 6 to feed in, and 
the additional 6 inches contain the accumulated food of years ; how 
the roots descend if an opportunity offers, is shown in the cut. 
Some subsoils are the worse for stirring. An open, loose, grav- 
elly, or sandy, leachy subsoil, a 
strainer to the surface soil, car- 
rying off rapidly water, and all 
thing* dissolved in water, should 
be left undisturbed, and rather 
compacted than lessened. Oth- 
ers are overloaded with mineral 
matter, deleterious to vegetation 
until after their combination with 
air and oxygen ; and (bey, like 
that before spoken, should be deepened slowly, and not ploughed up 
to the surface till the atmosphere has had time to do its work. 

To enter farther into these details would be inconsistent with my 
plan ; they may be found elsewhere discussed in full and by more 
competent persons. 

The 3d week in May is quite early enough to plant field crops 
«f Indian Com. Country tradition says, "Plant when the oak 




r 



the farm:. 577 

leaves are as large as a mouse's ear." After this week there is 
rarely a frost severe enough to do harm. The 90 day variety may 
be planted as late as the 3d week in June with a good prospect 
of success. The seed may often be saved from insects by steeping 
it in solutions or pickles of soot, alum, blue vitriol, etc., by rolling 
it in tar and afterwards drying it in ashes. 

Though any crop may be planted in May, I do not recommend 
the planting of Roots before June, or in some cases till July. Their 
place in the rotation must decide how liberally it will pay to ma- 
nure them. I wish to persuade you to adhere rigidly to the rota- 
tion ; by so doing you give your land the best chance with the least 
outlay. Remember that frequent experience says there is a gain 
of 5 bushels of Corn on an acre, where 100 pounds of the best 
guano has been sowed with the seed, and that by the use of such 
manures there is no fear of exhausting the land. 

The benefit of these manures is especially in the early start 
which the plants are enabled to make, when the rains are frequent 
and the plant is young. Nine-tenths of all the accidents which 
happen to crops occur during their infancy, and may be avoided by 
careful stimulus at that time. 

The special manures being in the form of a dry powder, need 
moisture to dissolve them and take them to the roots of the plants, 
and should therefore be applied when the rains are abundant. I 
have seen Grass crops increased from 1 to 2£ tons to the acre, by 
the application of 250 pounds of guano in April, when the ground 
was first thawing and the frequent rains carried it directly to the 
roots of the grass, and I have observed that the increase was not 
nearly so great when the same amount was applied in May, after 
the Grass had started, and the spring rains were mostly over. But 
the person who used it in May, is to this day convinced that guano 
is of no value, " at least on his land," not knowing that the mistake 
he made was in taking the wrong time to apply it. 

Experiments are trials, and the experiments of the agricul- 
turist being more than usually uncertain in their issue, because of 
the uncontrollable nature of the influences with which he has to 
deal, more than common care and thought are required on his part, 
that nothing that he can do may be wanting to his success. He 

• 49 



578 MAT. 

cannot rely upon sun or air or rain, so that he must all the more 
make sure that what he can do is done with exactness, to make up 
as far as may he for the uncertainty of the elements, and yet it is 
in agricultural experiments that, as a general rule, the least care 
is observed. 

To perfect a chemical or mechanical experiment is admitted at 
the outset to be a very nice matter, and all the elements are care- 
rally calculated, and the manipulation is put into the hands of an 
expert. In agriculture, on the contrary, men think any one may 
try an experiment, and go so far as to send a stupid Irishman to 
make the application, and note the results. Nothing is more com- 
mon than to hear farmers say certain things may do for other peo- 
ple, but not for them ; their farms are never benefited by the im- 
proved, or new-fangled notion ; and this because they are too lazy 
to take the necessary pains. I heard not long since, of an old and 
quite successful Maine farmer, who, leaning over the fence, ob- 
served some men 'gathering pickles ; i.e., small Cucumbers. He 
looked on for some time, and then asked how much the crop would 
pay. He was told $200 an acre. He looked some time longer, 
and then said, " that if it paid $500 an acre, he would not bend 
his back all day in picking the ' tarnal ' things." I might give 
numberless instances to prove this point were this the proper 
place. 

Set the hens, geese, and turkeys, whenever you have eggs 
enough, and the fowls show a desire for it For details, see next 
month. 

I quote the following as a guide to experimenters and to give 
some idea of the value and effect of special manures. 

Experiments with Special Manures on Grass. By Mr. 
Alexander Boss, Land-steward to George Granstoun, Esq., of Core- 
house, Lanarkshire. 

"The manures were top-dressed on young Grass for Hay on the 
14th of April ; the Grass was cut on the 3rd of July, and the Hay 
weighed and stacked on the 15th of July. The hay is valued at 
$15 per ton. Nature of the soil light brown loam. Exposure, 
east Elevation about 700 feet above the sea : — " 



THE FARM. 



579 



Grain from 
application. 



co 

eo 



•» fn r+ 



3 8 §33 g s 3 2 g § 

■» .f. «r» w ^, jd w © "*,°.,2 o 



00 w 
09 « 



Ok 



00 



Value of the 
excess of 


• 


CO 

* 


CI 

■ 


CO 
Ok 

• 


3 S 

• • 


© 

• 


© 

• 


8 

• 


S 


8 

• 


O O eo O 

■* ■* 00 CI 

• a « ■ 


8 


Hay. 


• 


eo 

FN 


o 

CI 


CI 

FN 


eo t>. 


co 


V 


CO 


03 


eo 


« « fn eo 


6 



of 

produce in 
Hay. 



* 
v 



fn o 

»0 CO 



o> r* 
f- ci 



« « o 

Ol FN 



CO CO fn 



« O lA M O *• fn *» «-« CO 

oo eo F^ eo oo eo 



IN ^ 00 K> in «^ ■* CO 00 CO 

Ol F- F- 



a 

'A 



Value of the 
Hay crop. 



♦in o> eo 

U CO Ol o» 

• • • 

• tO f* <0 



co co o 

<* CJ Ol 

• • • 

© FN 1ft 

^ eo ») 



x> Q CO CO Q c© fn eo »o to 

fn © 55 CO CO 00 o ^ t* "* 

• • ■ • • ••■ • • 

5 CM © © fn © 00 © CO 

eo eo eo. eo co co W ^t* eo 



Produce of 

Hay per 

acre. 



&"2 



eo 



tj co co eo 
£ eo m co 
o 



»* ^ CM 

M FN 






3 



© f» -* 
CO ^n 



CO CO c^ eo 00 
CO 00 CO 



00 © 3 FN 

lO -* •* * 



5 3 



© Oi + o> 

<«C0 tf) ^< 



Cost per 
acre of the 
special ma- 
nures 
mixed. 



o» en 
<N oo 

CO CO 



o» © »o 

CO © FN 

. __. __. 

CO 09 00 



oo m co © oo ©Q© *o o> 

n 9{ Oj A O) OOO h ^j 

eo ci ci ci ci eo eo eo oo ci 



Cost of do. 
per acre. 



«e>)c0cN*©^c0*oc»c0Md>c0eooo©o~N < * 

»C|FNe>|FNCOl-NFNFNFNC>|FNFNe>|FNFNe0C0C0ClFNCI 



Oi © 0> 

oi - - 

CO 



Cost of do. 
per cwt. 



I 

Mi 



OO 
CI CI 

ci ci 



33 



eo eo co h oo 
r« r» r* <* r« 



oo 



s 






S3? « 
© CO 



© © © 



CI 



Quantity of 
special ma- 
nure. 



(0000000000(000 000000000 

*» fn fn ci fn ci ^*ci ^>ci ci co ci eo i^ ^> ^i o© o» o o © 

CO CO -^ ^ © 



6 



-n eo 




o 

§ 

s 



o o 

5 c 

. a a 
©OOO 

S el OS e3 
£PQPQPQ 

fJ cj at of 

.See 



si 



o 

s . 

S- 



W W V 



-3 

CO 



ol eft ol 



E 

3 



a 

a 



E 

3 



09 

4> 

JS 

09 



«' 3 

Sco 



CO 



<J<J 



C 09 



5**4 **>« r ^ fl ^►^o o s o 3 



« i 

•« "a 
1-1 1-1 



I 






fn ©I CO •* « CO t^ 00 O © fn ci eo ■* tp CO 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

On estates which were thoroughly put in order in the fall and 
winter, the spring work on the ornamental grounds is very small ; 
but whoever is laying out a new place should have begun as early 
as April, if the frost was out of the ground, and should have decided 
before that time all such preliminaries as plans and contracts. 

It is no small matter to lay out a country place, be it large or 
small ; nothing in the range of agriculture, or horticulture, demands 
more refinement and culture, more rare and peculiar qualities ; yet 
there is nothing which every one feels so competent to do. Insin- 
uate that a man does not understand this kind of gardening, and 
you lay yourself open to the same retort as if you hinted that he 
was not to be trusted with a horse, or managed his children ill ; 
viz., that you had better mind your own business. I have known a 
great many persons who wished advice about laying out their 
grounds, but of the whole number, not 10 per cent ever attributed 
their wish to ignorance of the proper method of doing this work. 
It was always a press of business, or a natural disinclination for 
such occupation, which led them to employ a professional person. 
Adroit inquiry will generally show that these persons have bought 
and read all the cheaper books on the subjects, have pumped their 
neighbors, have tried various experiments, and have at last discov- 
ered what was plain to all lookers-on from the first, that they have 
neither the knowledge how to lay out their places with taste, nor 
the necessary qualities of mind to enable them to receive such 
knowledge. 

I will not attempt to say which are the most essential of the 

qualities that go to make up the perfect landscape gardener. The 

man is not to be found who possesses them all. 

The true landscape gardener will scarcely think of worldly suc- 

580 



ORNAMENTAL. 581 

cess, which in this country he can hardly get, but he will be im- 
bued with a love of nature, which compels him to search out and 
develop her beauties ; the occupation will be bread and meat, and 
the money returned for his services will be of value to him only as 
a means of enabling him to continue in the work. He must have 
a large share of innate taste, good taste. 

I will not pretend to dogmatize on the nature of good taste. As I 
understand it, it is the power of perceiving the beautiful wherever 
it exists, the love of it, and the wish to reproduce it. The power 
of reproducing it may be totally wanting in the man of good taste ; 
he may be appreciative only, and in no wise executive. But the 
true landscape gardener must be both a man of taste, and of ex- 
ecutive ability ; otherwise, his works will be weak and worthless 
in their conclusion, however grand they may be in conception. 
I have known the worst blunders to be made by men of acknowl- 
edged taste. 

Beside taste and executive ability, he must have a practical edu- 
cation, which is the basis of judgment. He must be a good botan- 
ist, and must understand not only the species of plants, and the 
localities and circumstances in which they thrive best, but also, how 
they may be planted and grouped so as to display all their beauties. 
He must be a geologist in the general way, understanding the for- 
mation of soils and surface, the stratification of rocks, and the prin- 
cipal features of the various transformations the earth has under- 
gone. He must be something of a chemist, for he will be obliged 
to use many compounds in his varied work, such as limes, cements, 
washes, steeps, etc., the quality of which will depend on their com- 
pounder's knowledge and judgment. Above all, he must have a 
good engineering education, and be earnestly interested in all kin- 
dred studies, and must keep up with all improvements in engineer- 
ing and mechanics. He is to be the pioneer of all agricultural 
improvements ; with him it rests to try all new machines, to sim- 
plify all agricultural processes, to appeal to and stimulate the love of 
agriculture, as a means of developing the beautiful. 

He should have a fair knowledge of architecture ; enough to tell 
him when and how the grounds should be subordinated to the 
house ; as in the case of a fine house in a small area, in city or 



582 HAY. 

town, where architectural ornaments should be so combined with 
gardenesque effects that house and grounds may seem but parts of 
the same whole. So too, in the country, there should be gradation 
in the improvements ; those near the house being more architectural 
in, character, the house being forgotten, and nature borne in mind 
more and more as the distance widens. This cannot be done by 
one who knows nothing of architectural styles and effects. 

And the true landscape gardener must have a genuine sense and 
appreciation of fine pictures, must be an artist in this respect, 
though he be unable to make a picture or drawing which can bear 
criticism. For his aim must be to show pictures both within and 
without the grounds he lays out, to screen or to show objects near 
or remote, by judicious planting, to fix attention to favorite spots 
by single trees, to secure or preserve beautiful reflections in water. 

But though thus much familiarity with engineering, architecture, 
and painting is essential to the landscape gardener, no amount of 
proficiency and excellence in either of these arts will fit a man for 
landscape gardening. Great and glorious though they be, a position 
at the very head of them is no guarantee, but rather the opposite, 
of success in their sister art What Michael Angelo said of one is 
true of all the arts ; they are "jealous mistresses ; no man shall be 
taken into their intimacy and confidence, shall be blessed with their 
smiles and favors, in whose heart they do not reign alone. Each 
must be worshipped and wooed faithfully for a lifetime, or she can 
never be won. Most worthy are they of all the devotion, the genius, 
the patience, study, labor, that have been offered them. These are 
the elder arts. But their younger sister is their Peer, and will not 
smile on their rejected or inconstant lovers. She too demands de- 
votion, life-long devotion. With whomsoevor she is mistress, the 
others will be handmaids, and vice versa." 

When a painter looks at grounds, he looks for a painter's effects, 
and approves or condemns as the picture is good or bad. Were he 
to lay out grounds, his constant thought would be to produce pic- 
tures on the large scale. Had he miles of country to deal with, 
could he move houses, hills, woods, towns, rivers at will, he might 
make pictures to his liking. But this he cannot do. The work 
must be confined to a few acres ; the place is to live in, not to look 



i 



ORNAMENTAL. 583 

at. Were the most admired picture criticised on the score of fit- 
ness for a home, it might prove a failure. If our grounds are not 
well adapted for our use and enjoyment, they are useless to us, 
however beautiful they may be. The tree which is all important 
to shade a favorite seat or walk, may to the painter's eye be just in 
the wrong place, so that he longs to paint it out, and yet in its ab- 
sence the seat, the walk, the lawn would be naked and desolate. 

Still more impossible is it that an engineer should be a first-rate 
landscape gardener ; his watchwords are regularity, order, method, 
precision ; he works' by formulas, he thinks mathematically ; he 
rules nature, cuts down a hill to fill a valley, hollows out the bed of 
a lake, dams a river. He deals in force, and his pride is that the 
forces of nature are under his control. 

Of architectural gardening too much may be found here, and in 
Europe its effects have been much more disastrous. I need not 
enlarge on the artificial and unsatisfactory results which would fol- 
low from the extension of the architectural style, which has been 
spoken of as so important under some circumstances over a large 
estate. 

The education of this artist who works in ground, trees, grass, 
water — all out-of-door things — is never complete, and always ad- 
vancing. The Violet, hidden under its leaves, the tuft of Golden- 
rod, which fringes and rounds a corner, the spot of color among the 
green leaves made by the Wild Rose or Sweetbrier, thrust through 
the branches of a Cedar, or relieved by a Pine, the Columbine 
nodding on the ledge of a rock, the blasted tree, the dash and play 
of a mill-race, the mighty waterfall, the snow-laden tree, bending 
and struggling with its burden, the sublime and the picturesque, the 
ugly, which he is to eschew, the lovely, which he is to reproduce, 
are acting on his mind as regularly as the air upon his lungs. He 
sees a beauty of color which the artist's eye never notices, because 
he must reproduce the near effects, which the other may neglect. 
He watches varieties of form as closely as the sculptor ; he seizes 
improvements in engineering as eagerly as the engineer, for his 
success depends much on his observing the maxim, " Ars est celare 
artera." 

But above all he must be able to appreciate the true home spirit 



584 HAY. 

of the class for whom he may be working. He may as gladly lay 
out the grounds of the village carpenter as the estate of a retired 
merchant ; but his success in either case must depend on his ability 
to enter into and thoroughly appreciate the peculiarities of his em- 
ployer ; he must know them better than the man himself; and whilst 
he neither fawns nor flatters, never yields a point which he knows 
to be right, he must be able to present his views to his employer 
in such a way that he may see them through the artist's eyes, and 
follow the artist's ideas as though they were his own. 

As the sketch-book of the earnest painter is always in his hand, 
so should the mind of the landscape gardener be always open to 
new impressions, and his memory should be as retentive as his eye 
is quick, that he may have the power to recall the effects he would 
reproduce. And finally, he must be a good draughtsman, to show 
his ideas on paper to his employer, before the work is begun. 

If such a man could be found, his advice must be liberally paid 
for. Years of study and observation have contributed to make 
him what he is ; and his occupation can be pursued for a portion 
of the year only. When you employ him, you expect him to be 
a walking dictionary, an encyclopaedia, to which you need only 
mention a subject to receive all the information you want ; and for 
this collection of ideas and learning on legs, you must pay a fair 
price ; enough to support the artist and pay the interest on the out- 
lay with which he bought his knowledge. 

And if you decide to employ a man like this, if he can be found, 
and to pay him fairly, expect him to be an honest man when he comes 
on to your grounds ; do not expect him to be in love with what you 
love. In all matters, acquaintance is needed to develop apprecia- 
tion ; you have lived on a spot and loved it, association gives it 
beauty and value in your eye, and it is well to employ a stranger to 
improve it ; he will see it as it is, and prescribe for its real wants. 
If you have a long, narrow strip of land like a turnpike, he will 
know how to disguise its defects, for he will see them at once ; and 
so in other and more important things. 

But you take alarm at the expense of the advice, and the de- 
signs of such a man. Remember that it is a work of time and 
money to make a beautiful place ; that a good landscape gardener 






ORNAMENTAL. 585 

has laid out many places, has learned all the short cuts in time and 
money, has tried all the new experiments, and is able to set you 
on your legs at once, and save your creeping. In such matters 
time is money, and you save both by employing a skilful person at 
the outset ; the $20 you pay him for advising you how to begin, 
may, and probably will, save you hundreds before you finish. 

And above all, whether your place is large or small, have a plan 
of what you propose to do before you begin, that you may know 
definitely not only what is to be done, but what it will cost, as you 
may within a small per cent, with a good plan and specifications 
before you. But never expect your place to look like the plan. 
Under no circumstances could you see it from the same point of 
view or distance. The resemblance between the completed work 
and the plan must be so great that it will be at once recognized, 
but no more. 

And if you employ an artist, let his work alone after its comple- 
tion long enough — for years — to allow it to show what he in- 
tended. The architect, painter, engineer, leaves his work per- 
fected ; it may be seen at once in its beauty or ugliness. The 
painter does his work on smooth canvas, with pliable brushes and 
easily flowing oils. The landscape gardener works with clods of 
earth, trees, wheelbarrows, shovels, laborers; and when he has 
done his best, he must leave time to finish and smooth his work ; 
eight, ten, or fifteen years may be required to show what he saw 
in his mind when he began. Long* before that time, the caprice 
of the owner may have pulled to pieces and planted, may have 
neglected or altered ; Nature may have refused the sun and rain 
on which the artist relied ; and the most beautiful design may be- 
come a sorrow and a mortification to its originator. 

Bear in mind all these things ; and then before the frost is gone, 
as I have said, get a real landscape gardener to examine your 
place and direct the summer's work. . 

If there are any trees to be planted, plant the deciduous between 
the 1st and 15th of May; the evergreens between May 15th and 
June 6th. Be guided by the new growth ; when this is just be- 



ginning or has just begun, and the buds begin to tassel out, it is 
the best time to plant. 

Prune all trees, evergreens as well as deciduous, but the former 
must be thinned as directed in September. 

Renew seedbeds in the nursery, and clean up ttie rows of 
young trees. Plough through the rows, and tie up to stakes all 
that are bent by snow and wind. Cut back to bud or graft all 
budded or grafted trees and plants. 



CHAPTER LXV. 



GREENHOUSE. 




UNE. The greenhouse in June gives but little 
pleasure and considerable care. During the 
month remove out-of-doors all the movable 
plants that are not to be retained to flower ; 
there is no longer danger of frost, as it but 
rarely occurs in June. Sow seeds of plants 
for winter. Repot Gloxinias, etc., for summer. 
Repot Euphorbias for winter ; prune and repot 

Heaths and Epacris ; tie, prune, and water Stephanotus, and other 

running plants. 

i 

The graperies will be attractive through the summer, with their 
ripening and growing crops of grapes and fruit, and will, if well 
managed, be an honor and pride to the place, while the flowers left 
in the houses, though few, as Orchids, Fuchsias, Cape-bulbs, etc, 
will be interesting from rarity and beauty. 

Withdraw moisture, as far as it is safe, from all the vines and 
permanent plants, while those which are to blossom during the 
summer must be abundantly watered. Many of the Orchids which 
need the greatest amount of heat will blossom now. As soon as 
the flower buds on the Camellias are easily seen, remove them to 
shade, and reduce; water permanently. 

The sashes should be let down, and raised only in case of a long, 
driving storm. Overhaul the houses during the summer, to repair, 
sweeten, and restock with plants. 

This is the proper time to begin such a conservative pit as I have 
described, and also any greenhouse or conservatory. An early be- 
ginning gives time to get a stock of plants started, and to have the 
work thoroughly done. 

Take down and clean out all the pipes, and clean out flues,' etc 

587 



588 june. 

Soot is a very valuable manure, is highly nitrogenous, and should 
be preserved. 

Many of the tools will not be used again for some months ; an 
inventory should be made of them, and they should be cleaned and 
put away. 

Constant work in the garden now occupies the gardener, and he 
should be very careful in attendance on the young stock of plants 
which he is to bring forward in the autumn. They should be set 
in cool and partially shaded places, and on good drainage, and be 
secured against damping off. 

The bulbs which have gone out of flower, and whose leaves are 
yellow or withered, must be removed from the earth, dried and 
wrapped in dry moss, or covered with sand, and laid away in a cool 
but dry place, till they are wanted in the autumn ; do not put them 
where the temperature will fall below the average before given. 

Cuttings may be made at any time during the summer, and seeds 
should be sown early of such annuals as will be wanted in blossom 
in the greenhouse in autumn and early winter. 

Bud the hard-wooded plants whenever the bark slips readily from 
the wood, and the wood from the eye of the bud. 

The treatment of the greenhouses, etc, will be the same through- 
out the summer, and will require no further mention. 

The conservatory being near the house, will be more subject to 
observation than the greenhouse, and will require some care to 
keep it attractive. The front perpendicular sashes may be removed, 
and a canvas cover hung over the top glass in sunny weather will 
convert it into a verandah, or the glass may receive a few coats of 
whitewash. In the place of the plants which are removed, bouquets 
and baskets of flowers from the garden should be set about on the 
shelves, and various floral decorations devised to conceal the bar- 
renness of the place. Indeed, the evergreen plants may as well be 
kept here as elsewhere, if the sashes are removed, and they are 
well shaded. 

I might have entered more in detail into the management of 
these houses, but' I think I have said enough to enable any reader 
to supply, by his mother wit, all that I have omitted. I hope, at 
least, that I have said enough to awaken or strengthen a love for 



GREENHOUSE. 589 

the subject, and perhaps to arouse in some a determination to begin 
at once some house of the kind. I repeat that I know of no kind 
of culture that better rewards the loving patience of him who de- 
votes his time to it; and no one who can afford the expense, which, 
after all, may be very much reduced by judgment and economy, 
does well to forego the enjoyment it affords. 

The great drawback to the full enjoyment of such houses is, gen- 
erally, the employment of an ordinary gardener. Most of the men 
who apply for this situation, if competent men, are either dogmatic, 
and overbearing, angry if the proprietor or family remove a flower or 
plant without permission; or have had but very superficial instruction, 
and are by no means fitted by nature or education for the delicate, 
careful, thoughtful attention that the work requires. So they freeze 
the plants one day, and roast them the next, they drown or they dig 
them up, kill them by kindness or neglect, and the whole history 
of a greenhouse, in the mind of its owner, is often only a series of 
chapters of accidents, resulting from the stupidity or carelessness or 
self-will of a succession of ignorant would-be gardeners. 

More may be learned of a gardener's character and competency 
by previous investigation, than of that of any other servant ; and 
much of the trouble so common may be avoided by careful and dis- 
creet inquiries. But the only way in which the owner can be 
secure of good service, is first to make himself thoroughly master 
of the work to be done. Then he knows exactly what to require, 
and can put his finger at once on any mistake or omission ; and the 
very fact of the master's being so well informed will of itself be 
likely to ensure better service than any other thing. And such a 
master can detect directly a man's incompetency, and decide whether 
he is worth training or not ; if he is, he can train him, if not, dis- 
miss him before he has had time to do much injury by his igno- 
rance. 

Therefore, if you cannot spare the time to take care of the green- 
house yourself, which is the way to get from it its utmost pleasure 
and benefit, be sure you know how it should be taken care of, if 
you would have it well done by others. 

After all, beyond the knowledge of the general principles of culture, 

the chief requisite in a gardener is judgment ; the power to adapt 

50 



590 JUNE. 

himself to emergencies, to decide where the neglect of rules is 
better than their observance. The mere labor of taking care of a 
greenhouse is not great ; many a lady has done the chief part of 
the work, and women might often be employed in them to great 
advantage. 



i 



CHAPTER LXVI. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

The flower-garden in June is more attractive in name than in 
reality. It is in fact more meagre than in the month past, or 
those to come. The bulbs have nearly gone, and the annuals and 
bedding-out plants are not sufficiently advanced to take their place. 
Still, a little skilful management will shorten the interval very 
much, and many gaps can be filled as soon as made. 

Bedding-out plants should be watered for some weeks, every day, 
directly on the ball, unless rain is abundant ; so too, young annuals. 
Remember that it is but little more trouble to enrich the water a 
little, than to give it pure and poor ; and the growth of the plants 
depends, of course, on the care they receive. I refer rather to pot 
plants than annuals. They have been accustomed to find their 
nourishment within the narrow limits of a pot, and do not readily 
push out roots. You will often find, on taking up the pot plants in 
the autumn, that the involved, cork-screw roots which they had In 
the pots, have not opened at all in the ground, but only grown more 
involved and contorted. It is, therefore, important to open out 
the roots before planting, as much as possible, to assist them to 
stretch out for their food. 

If your flower seeds have not all been planted, lose no time ; set 
the Dahlias from the hotbeds, Tuberoses, Amaryllis, Gladiolus, etc 
Transplant from the frames all the annuals whose seeds were sown 
there, and so far as the season's culture is concerned, have no more 
to do with greenhouses and hotbeds. Should the month prove very 
dry, water the flower-garden thoroughly, from time to time. Water 
copiously, and in the late afternoon ; the water will then have time 
to soak in. 

Remove those bulbs which are to be taken up, as fast as the 
leaves dry up. Fall flowering bulbs, Colchicum, Crocus, etc, 

591 



592 june. 

should be taken up, if not already separated and replanted, as 
soon as their leaves are decayed, in order to replant later. 

Attend carefully to the edgings of the beds, and eradicate weeds 
as soon as they make their appearance. Watch the vines on the 
garden or house trellises, every day, and train them frequently, if 
you would have them make their best growth. Vines always grow 
better and faster when constantly trained than when left straggling, 
to be threshed about and broken by the winds. Cut down and tie 
up as previously directed, and make neatness and order rule 
throughout the garden. 

June is the month of roses, and we may now enjoy a profusion 
of the most beautiful flower that nature affords. No cottager in 
the country is so poor as not to have a rose-bush, and in our older 
settled country we often see roses blossoming along the stone walls 
and hedgerows in great abundance, which may be recognized at 
once as former inhabitants of the garden. 

We do not see such large general collections of Roses now, as* a 
few years since, owing, I think, to the rose-bug and green slug, 
more than to any thing else. 

It is very discouraging to see one's Roses when in full luxuriance 
of leaf and flower growing brown and sere, and looking as if they 
had been burned by fire, and still more so to find the centre of our 
Damask and Moss Roses, instead of being the seat of fragrance 
and beauty, full of disgusting bugs ; and yet, we all suffer alike 
from them. If there were no way of restraining them, we might 
abandon the culture of the Rose in despair, for the fleeting beauty 
of the blossoms illy compensates us for the red and withered bushes 
left by the insects after the flowers are gone. 

But we do seem able to check insects if we take care enough. 
Great vigilance is needed to insure success, but success well repays 
all trouble. 

The first insect which attacks the foliage is a green fly, much 
like the vine fretter, and comes about the last of May, or the first 
of June. Its ravages, however, are not alarming, and the fly may 
be driven off by showering the bushes with dry lime and lime-water. 
But the slug of the saw-fly is the great enemy. The egg is laid 
in May, and hatches by the last of the month. They confine them- 



i 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 593 

selves to the under side of the leaves, and eat off the outside, so that 
the circulation is destroyed ; it is this which gives the red and 
burned appearance to. the foliage. 

For a long time these slugs baffled all efforts to destroy them, 
until it was discovered by. Mr. Haggerston, of Watertown, Mass., 
that syringing the bushes thoroughly with weak solutions of whale 
oil soap would destroy the larvae, and drive away the fly. The so- 
lution may be made as strong as can be used without injury to the 
young foliage. . A pound of the soap to 4 gallons of water is a strong 
solution ; to. ascertain how strong it is safe to use it, dip a few half- 
grown, tender leaves into i^ and observe the effect. The stronger 
the solution, within the bounds of safety, the greater the benefit. 

Shower the suds over and under the bushes from a syringe with 
a fine rose, so as to give a powerful and yet well-divided shower. 
After twelve hours, repeat the operation with clear cold water, and 
again with the suds, after an interval of two days. This process 
performed three times, will banish the slugs and save the bushes 
for the season ; and if the practice is followed up for three succes- 
sive years, worms and flies will be driven from the garden, unless 
it is surrounded by other gardens not so protected. 

The showering should begin in May, when the little fly first 
makes its appearance, to discourage the laying of eggs. As the 
smell of the soap is very offensive, it should be applied for the last 
time not less than. a week before the flower-buds expand, that they 
may be untainted when they unfold. Select for putting on the 
soap, a dry time, with promise of fair weather ; if rain follows 
within twelve hours, the benefit of the soap is diminished. 

Whale-oil soap is equally effective with all kinds of slugs, can- 
ker worms, etc., if well applied.' 

The next nuisance is the rose-bug, which appears after the Rose 
is developed, and feeds upon its petals. These bugs are so hard, 
and covered with such horny shells, that showering does not affect 
them. But with care they may be subdued. 

In the first place, use toads ; they eat the rose-bugs with avidity, 
and if the bushes are shaken, a great many bugs will fall off and 
be snapped up at once by their waiting mouths. The proprietor of 

50* 



594 juke. 

a fine garden could well afford to pay $20 a hundred for toads, as 
they are gluttonous consumers of worms and flies of all kinds. 

A more certain method is to take a basin of boiling. water, and 
go over the bushes, picking off every bug and dropping it into the 
water ; this is a good deal of trouble, but it is effectual. 

The later blossoming Roses, and the second blossoms of the per- 
petuals, escape all these nuisances, which are gone by July. 

Showering the bushes with strong decoctions of quassia drives 
away and kills slugs and flies, without any bad smell. Use 1 ounce 
of chips quassia to a quart of water. 1 quart of gas liquor to 10 
of water, showered over the plants in the same way, is effectual 
against aphides and other insects. 

Aphides are but little annoyance out of doors. Smoking has 
been described in the winter months as a remedy against insects. 
Sprinkling with fine Scotch snuff often kills small insects. 

In -confined situations, mildew is very apt to attack the Rose, and 
injure its foliage. Syringing with sulphur and water, or nitre and 
water, is good for prevention or cure ; or flour of sulphur may be 
dusted over the bushes from a sulphureter. 

A species of red fungus sometimes attacks the plants in late 
summer, which may be rubbed off by hand. 

When a Rose thrusts out a bunch of leaves from the middle of 
a bud or blossom, it indicates too much strong manure at the roots, 
and the supplies should be withdrawn for a time. 

It is generally supposed that Roses may be grqwn by any one 
in any soil, and indeed, the poorer kinds do not seem very fastidi- 
ous, but the really fine ones are shy and dainty, and unless well 
cared for never thrive. They will not grow well in poor soil, nor 
on lawns choked up with Grass ; and although all thrive best when 
fed with abundant moisture and liquid manure, most of them are 
particularly averse to wet situations. 

The number of varieties is very great ; some European culti- 
vators having had at one time 30,000 ; but of this vast number but 
very few are worthy general culture. 

There are several large families with well-marked peculiarities, 
needing different culture and giving very different returns for 
kindness. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 595 

The method of propagation to preserve varieties is by layera, 
. cuttings and budding, the latter being the quickest way on a large 
. scale. Seeds have been the original source of nearly all the vari- 
. eties. Cuttings are readHy made to grow, of almost all kinds, par- 
ticularly when taken off with a heel of the old wood. 

. Many varieties of soil and manure have a remarkably powerful 
effect on the Rose. Charred turf from old pastures seems to have 
wonderful virtue, inducing the roots to send out new fibres at once, 
. and consequently producing new and enlarged growth. Guano, as 
a liquid manure, is also very beneficial, while soapsuds from the 
house washings has an excellent effect, especially on the strong- 
growing varieties. 

June Roses are familiar to every one, and having once blos- 
somed they are soon gone. If your means and opportunities con- 
fine you to Roses of this class, have them by all means, but get 
better as soon as you can. By better, I do not mean better blos- 
soms, for what is better than the old Damask, the Red Moss, the 
White, or the Hundred-leaf ? They are unsurpassed in color and 
fragrance. But I mean better varieties, which, though they may 
bear no flowers equal to June Roses in perfection, bear their Own 
several times in the course of the season. 

Before describing the improved Roses, I wish to draw your at- 
tention to our wild Roses, and the Sweetbrier. I do not know 
whether any efforts have been made to improve this class of Roses, 
and doubt veryynuch whether their especial merits could be im- 
proved upon. 

They are single, mostly rather low growing, and with small 
.leaves. But they are perfectly hardy, accommodating themselves 
to all soils, and growing freely among other bushes, or in the 
Grass; are very fragrant, and their blossoms are succeeded by 
red hips, or seed vessels, which contribute much towards the en- 
livenment of the shrubbery during the winter. A bank of these 
Roses has often seemed to me more beautiful than any garden 
collection. 

Garden Roses need careful culture, and should generally be 
grown singly to insure perfection, whilst the effect of the Wild 
Rose is increased by numbers. To fill a bend in a path or road, 



596 june. 

to skirt a plantation or fringe a pond, they are as beautiful as any 
thing. For the latter purpose, the Carolina is the proper variety. 
It is a late and strong growing plant, with large, dark green foliage, 
perfectly hardy, and very fragrant ; it has an abundance of flowers, 
produced in clusters of three, or more, and it continues in blossom 
for several weeks. It will thrive beside a pond, on an island, in a 
brook, or along a springy bank, and I class it in the first rank of 
shrubs. 

The R. blanda, the nitida, and lucida, are lower-growing, blos- 
som very early, do well in poor, sandy, or gravelly, dry soil, and are 
as beautiful in color of flower as the Carolina, but inferior in color 
of foliage and fragrance. 

The Sweetbrier, everybody knows. Its delicate pink and white 
petals, constrasting with its rich, dark -colored and fragrant leaves, 
have long made it a universal favorite. It differs materially from 
the Eglantine, or Sweetbrier Rose of England. 

Our Sweetbrier is second to no other plant or shrub, for its many 
virtues. It is properly a wall, or pillar Rose ; it throws up long 
shoots, often 20 feet in a single season, and soon covers a trellis, 
but, like all other running Roses, dies down in a mysterious and 
rapid manner. It is a capital stock on which to bud other Roses, 
its strong and hardy habit giving increased strength and hardihood 
to the bud. When planted on a trellis it should be trained with 
care, and some of its shoots may be budded to produce variety; 
the same plant may have half a dozen different varieties upon it, 
and some of its own also. It is very much nourished by soapsuds 
or guano water. 

The Michigan, or Prairie Rose, is found wild only at the west, 
but has been extensively introduced here as a climber ; it blossoms 
profusely late in the season, and has an especial value from coming 
in after the other running Roses have gone, but it has no fragrance. 
From its seeds the improved Prairie has been derived. 

The Cherokee Rose, of the south, is the most magnificent of our 
American Wild Roses. It grows strong and flowers profusely. So 
strong, indeed, is its habit of growth, that it is used at the south for 
hedges and fences, for which purpose it is unrivalled, as it cannot 
be penetrated even by a hog. It seems to be too tender for our 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 597 

latitude, although when sufficiently experimented on, I do not doubt 
that some seedlings, or hybrids, will be found which will combine 
all its virtues, and be hardy besides. 

With these Roses, our list of American Roses may close. There 
are some hybrids besides, which are more properly garden Roses. 
In Plymouth County, Mass., there is to be seen along the road 
sides and old walls, a very large, semi-double, crimson Rose, which 
seems almost naturalized, but it undoubtedly escaped from some 
gardens at first, and is not of sufficient value to induce any general 
culture. 

The Cinnamon Rose, R. cinnamomea, has all the qualities of a wild 
Rose ; comes early, grows anywhere, defies Grass, thrives in gravel, 
and, if let alone, will make a thicket full of flowers in June, but 
the flower, apart from its fragrance, has no attractions. 

I would urge strongly the use of these native Roses in the mak- 
ing of new plantations and shubberies, for the reasons already 
given. Our planters and gardeners, hitherto, have been too apt to 
consider all wild flowers as worthless, and have left them to their 
native woods ; but as a better appreciation of these plants prevails, 
they will be sure to receive more attention. The wild Rose has a 
value that the garden Rose cannot have, for the latter can never 
bear neglect. The Rose is as much the queen of flowers in her 
exaction of attention thus, as in every other respect. Neglect kills 
her, and to thrive well she requires to be appreciated, praised, and 
cultivated, and then when duly worshipped, her gracious bounties 
are lavishly bestowed. 

June Roses, so called, are not, in my estimation, equal to our wild 
Roses, which so readily and abundantly hang out their treasures by 
the wayside, for man or nature, as either is ready to enjoy. The 
June Rose blossoms once, and then in perfection only if well cared 
for, and then is gone for a year, while there are Roses which, with 
the same amount of care, will blossom several times in the season, 
or even every month. There is something very fascinating in the 
constant succession of buds and blossoms, always offering some new 
beauty to our admiration. 

The following remarks upon the Rose, and those on the same 
subject in July, are condensed in great measure from Paul's Rose 



598 june. 

Garden, and from Mcintosh's Book of the Garden, but my own ob- 
servations are so interwoven as to make it impossible to use quota- 
tion marks in all cases. 

Besides the Natives, Roses are divided into several classes; the 
Bourbon China, Noisette, Ayreshire, Scotch, Perpetual, or Remon- 
tant, Tea, Banksia, Austrian Brier, Provence, or Cabbage, Ever- 
green, etc. Each of these classes has its own peculiar merits ; 
some individuals of each class are nearly, or quite hardy, and some 
of each are very tender and can be cultivated only under glass. 

The countries in which Roses naturally arrive at the greatest 
perfection, are all warm and dry, as Italy, Turkey, Syria, India, 
and our Southern States ; and in order to attain such perfection in 
our colder regions, we must imitate those climates in houses built 
for the purpose. 

It seems strange that no large collection of Roses under glass has 
been made in America, for the Rose has a large number of admir- 
ers, and is as worthy of a special house as the Orchid or Camellia. 

The full beauty of the Rose can only be understood when many 
individuals are collected together and in blossom, at the same time 
where the effect of each may be heightened by massing and contrast 
Even in out-of-door collections, the gain over the usual practice 
would be very great, if a larger number of bushes were collected 
in one place, the sizes being carefully arranged. 

The Provence or Cabbage Rose has many varieties, and has 
given origin to many beautiful Hybrids. The Unique Provence is 
very beautiful, sometimes white, sometimes striped. These are 
June Roses, may be propagated by seed and cuttings, but make 
few layers, are almost universally hardy, are free growers, but do 
not usually attain a very great size ; they should be pruned in the 
autumn, as the wood is then pretty well ripened, and by pruning 
them the sap is induced to settle into the remaining buds, thus im- 
proving them and inducing a better bloom the next year. 

Disbudding is found as advantageous with the Rose as with fruit 
trees, and is to be practised as much as possible. The Provence 
Roses should be cut down to 3 or 4 eyes, according to their strength, 
after the removal of all malformed and superfluous shoots. 

The Hybrid Provence tend to form dense heads, and should be 



FLOWER-GABDEN. 599 

thinned out to about one-third the number of shoots, and those left 
must be shortened to 6 or 8 eyes. No apprehension need be felt 
that this autumn pruning will start the buds of either the Provence, 
Moss, Damask, or Alba Roses, in case of mild weather in winter ; 
this is only to be feared with the tender or half-hardy varieties. 

The Moss Rose springs probably from the Provence, and has 
many beautiful varieties. The old Red Moss is generally the most 
esteemed for beauty and thickness of flower as well as mossiness. 
They must be treated like the last. The best varieties are the Old 
Red, Crested, Princess Adelaide, White, Unique de Provence, and 
Perpetual. 

They differ very much in constitution, some being very delicate, 
others hardy, some loving a poor, others a rich soil, but like the 
Provence they need high culture to bring out their best powers. 
The Miniature Moss is a pretty and delicate little Rose. 

The French Rose, or Rosa Gallica, is the largest class of summer 
or June Roses ; these are hardy and robust, and afford fine plants for 
standards and for large specimens ; among them are many splendid 
varieties, and if they were not' single bloomers, they would certainly 
stand first in Rose culture. By pruning some of the June Roses 
in October, and leaving others till May, a regular succession of 
blossoms may be obtained. By pruning in this way, from month to 
month, the time of blossoming may be materially altered. 

Some gardeners delay pruning their French Roses until they 
show flower-buds, and then prune severely, by which means they 
not only remove the flowers about to come, but induce the plants 
to throw up new strong shoots, which blossom in the fall. I do not 
altogether believe in this practice; for although it sometimes proves 
successful, it is by no means certain, as the plant often contents 
itself with making a new growth, not accompanied by flowers. It 
is in this class that we find the best variegated Roses. 

Among the Hybrid Provence Roses are many well adapted to 
pole or pillar culture ; they are easy of culture, and require to be 
moderately pruned. 

" The Hybrid China Roses are a cross between the Bourbon, 
China, and tea-scented Noisette, crossed with the French Provence, 
and other summer Roses. This class of Roses illustrates a very 



600 JUNE. 

curious principle ; that impregnating the Bourbon, China, Noisette, 
or Bengal Hoses, all free summer, and autumnal bloomers, upon the 
summer Roses, Provence, or Gallica, takes away all perpetual or 
remontant habit, and leaves them only summer bloomers." 

" The Hybrid China are very vigorous growers, and are often 
used to advantage as pillar Roses. When grown as standards, they 
should be trained down to check luxuriance of foliage, and induce 
flowers. They should, in pruning, have some shoots left long, and 
others entirely cut out. The strongest growers should be cut away 
at least one-third, the weaker, one-half, and be thinned out Such 
Hybrid Chinas as are used for pillars should have three canes left, 
which should be allowed to grow without stopping ; the spurs from 
them will give an abundance of flowers for some years ; when they 
show age or weakness, cut down and replace by new shoots. Dis- 
bud through the summer, and prune in the autumn." 

Most of this class bear our winters without covering, but are 
benefited by pruning down and covering with litter or straw. 

" The Hybrid Bourbons are derived from the Bourbon, and are 
similar to the Hybrid China in vigor of growth and abundance of 
flowers (with more substance in both flower and foliage), but re- 
quire closer pruning ; otherwise they should have much the same 
treatment with the Hybrid China." They are mostly hardy with 
us, but improved by coverings of 6traw and litter. 

The White Rose, as a family, is better known in New England 
than most of the other Roses. They are not all white, some having 
a delicate pink or blush on their petals. I have .seen the most 
superb of White Roses as far north as Norridgewock, Maine, some 
bushes being 10 feet high, and white with flowers. They are all 
distinguished by the glaucous foliage, by being nearly thornless, 
hardy, and for the most part of moderate growth ; they should be 
closely pruned in November, but if pruned in spring will blossom 
rather later in the summer. 

" The Damask Rose is a free grower, does not require close prun- 
ing, is light red in color." It is the Rose from which, in Asia, the 
largest quantity of rose water is made, has always been a favorite, 
and is well adapted for general culture, being quite hardy. Prune 
in November ; blossoms in summer. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 601 

It is from this rose in some of its older varieties, that all the 
favorite Perpetuals have originated. They have thick leathery 
foliage, and thorny shoots ; are propagated by seed, offsets, cut- 
tings, or layers. 

The Scotch Roses are well known, and are always favorites ; 
they grow almost as readily as our wild roses, and may be used 
with excellent effect in the formation of shrubberies. When once 
planted they need little pruning or attention for many years, as they 
sucker freely, and keep themselves ,well replaced. There are a 
great many varieties, although they do not differ much in color, 
being generally some shade of white and pink. The Yellow Har- 
rison is sometimes called Scotch, but is, undoubtedly, derived from 
the Austrian Brier. 

One of the most beautiful rose-beds I have ever seen, was made 
from a large number of Scotch Roses planted in a bed shaped like 
a cross. The Roses and their offsets soon filled the bed, and spread 
od all sides, sloping from the highest old, plants in the middle down 
to the 'grass. The effect when in blossom was a large quatrefoil, 
and could hardly have been excelled in beauty. 

They may be planted with good effect along the sides of an/ 
avenue, in its bends, or on the edge of a plantation of other shrubs 
or Roses. The foliage is not so liable to be destroyed by insects 
as that of other Roses ; the fragrance is exquisite and they are 
perfectly hardy. 

The American Sweetbrier, I have already mentioned. The 
English Sweetbrier, " R. Rubiginosa, is a beautiful Rose in its 
original condition, and there are many improved varieties. The 
Splendid, less fragrant, but with large crimson flowers. The Rose 
Angle, very double, bright rose-colored flowers ; the Celestial, very 
double and fragrant ; the Carmine, .semi-double red flowers." 

The Austrian Brier is the source of many very beautiful hybrids. 
The whole family and its hybrids are very impatient of all smoke 
and foul air, and rarely thrive well in cities or large towns. The 
Persian Yellow is the best hardy Yellow Rose, but is weakly in 
habit These Roses all require rather poor, moist soil, and moder- 
ate pruning. 

51 



602 JUNE. 

" The Sulphur Rose, R. Sulphurea, is of this family, and is a 
magnificent Rose, but is blossomed with the greatest difficulty in the 
open ground, and can be best brought to perfection under glass. It 
should be budded into strong growing stocks like the Dog Rose, R. 
Mannetti, or the American Sweetbrier." 

" The Boursault Rose is well known amongst us, and is the com- 
monest of all our climbers or pillar Roses ; there are several vari- 
eties, varying from red to pink ; one, Elegans, being red with white 
stripes." These Roses are peculiar for their reddish, thorn less 
wood, and dark reddish foliage ; they are very easy to grow, and 
for covering arbors, festooning along chains, climbing walls, are 
second to none. 

I have already mentioned the American Prairie Rose, R. Seti- 
gera. The original Michigan has been hybridized and developed, 
until from being a late-blooming single, it has become an early- 
blooming, very double Rose. The Queen of the Prairie is the 
most double of all the wall Roses. In spite of its profusion of 
very double flowers, and its very rapid growth, I do not like" it so 
well as many other wall Roses. The Baltimore Belle, Milledge- 
ville, Superba, Mrs. Hovey, Eva Corinne, are better in color than 
the Queen of the Prairie, and the King of the Prairie has the su- 
perior merit of being very fragrant 

These Roses should be trained to three shoots and allowed to 
grow their whole length ; the long shoots will throw out spurs well 
filled with flowers. . As the shoots show signs of age, cut down in 
spring, and induce new growth to replace them. Prune in No- 
vember. Mrs. Hovey is rather more tender than the others, and 
should be covered with straw. 

R. multiflora is a very charming family of pillar Roses, but 
tender ; with care, a dry soil, hot manures and protection in the 
winter, it may be blossomed out of doors, but they are more prop- 
erly in this latitude greenhouse Roses. Laura Davoust, R. gre- 
villa, and R. multiflora are the usual representatives of this family ; 
they require but little pruning. 

" Banksia Roses are natives of China, very fast growing, but 
too tender for out-of-door culture ; they are admirable for the 



w 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 603 

walls and pillars of the conservatory. They require a rather dry 
foil, and but moderate pruning ; the short branches bearing the 
flowers. to 

"In our more Southern States, and even in the Northern States, 
if grown on walls and taken down and covered in the winter, these 
Roses might be got into good flower, but could not be much de- 
pended on. They make many strong shoots from the roots which 
are to be removed every autumn unless there is need of new canes 
to replace the old ones." 

The family of Hybrid Climbing Roses vary in their source. 
Laura Davoust and Russelliana are from the Multiflora ; Garland 
and M'me D'arblay are from the Musk ; Sir John Seabright from 
some Italian Rose. 

" The Evergreen Roses are found to thrive well in France, Eng- 
land, and Scotland, and it would seem that they might come into 
general culture in this country, as they will undoubtedly thrive, if 
well protected during the winter, and grow in a dry, warm soil. 
They give clusters of from 10 to 50 blossoms at a time, and from 
their trailing character are used as creeping Roses. The shoots 
should be grown to their full length, and allowed to flower from 
spurs as long as they will, and then be replaced. They should 
be well thinned out at pruning, and some of the shoots should be 
shortened back ; the latter will blossom later in the season than 
the former." 

" The Ayrshire Rose is but little known among us, which is 
much to be regretted ; for although they are not a large family, 
they are very beautiful, and would be a great acquisition for wall 
and pillar culture; they also make good weepers and trailers. 
Their origin is a mystery, but they are supposed to be derived 
from some of the trailing Roses of the wood and are hardy." 

Trailing and weeping Roses are not often enough used in our 
planting. Beautiful effects may be produced by setting in the 
centre of the bed a strong-growing standard Rose, like Pio Nono, 
which will make a good upright growth, and yet is well furnished 
with pendant side branches. Next, to the standard, all round, set 
several pendulous Roses ; round these, again, Hybrid China, or 
Bourbon ; then Moss, and edge with Scotch. Instead of Pio 



604 JUNE* 

Nono, which is a perpetual, while the others are summer Roses, 
may be used some standard, Hybrid Bourbon, or China. 

That the Ayrshire will answer in our latitude with slight pro- 
tection, I am certain ; for I have seen the R. Ruga and Dundee 
Rambler for several years doing well on a north-east exposure, 
•without winter covering, and they were rarely cut down by the 
frost more than two-thirds their length. 

The Roses I have described thus far are all summer Roses, and, 
as I have said, are well deserving of especial attention and culture, 
but are not equal in real value to those which may be properly 
called Remontants, which blossom two or three times a year. 

The China and Bengal Roses are monthlies, but are all tender, 
or not more than half hardy. The latter, as well as the Tea- 
scented, are usually found in greenhouses, and are the main de- 
pendence for flowers in the winter, and are very desirable, but not 
to be compared to the hybrid perpetuals, or summer. They are 
rarely more than semi-double when open, and although delicate in 
color, and of good fragrance, are possessed of Rose qualities'™, but 
a moderate degree. 

Much objection has been made to the so-called perpetuals, be- 
cause they blossom only two or three times, instead of monthly, 
and are rather short lived. The first of these objections seems to 
me to have but little weight, as certainly two blossomings are just 
so much better than only one. The second, that of their short 
lives, may be done away with. They are usually budded into 
other stocks, to get hardihood and size, and to increase the number 
in proportion to the demand. 

A budded Rose may be known on the slightest inspection. The 
lower part of the stem is at a different angle from the middle, and 
at the point where the angle is made a cicatrice is plainly visible, 
'showing the mark of the incision for the bud. 

The Rose is affected by its stock, as a fruit 
tree, only in vigor of growth and hardihood, 
and in the latter respect the influence is not 
very great. 

The Rose stem is full of latent buds down 
to the very roots, and as a little attention wiU 
show, it is inclined to sucker, or throw out sub- 




i 



I . 

! FLOWER-GARDEN. $0& 

i 

I 

terranean branches, which struggle through the earth to a greater 
or less distance, and then come up to the surface, making each A 
new bush. The stock prefers to develop its own buds on these 
suckers rather than to nourish the bud or graft ; and as many of them 
are made under ground, it is quite difficult to detect them ; but if 
the stock does develop any of its own buds or suckers, it will send 
all its sap to them, and the budded Rose must die. To prevent 
this, the plant must be narrowly watched, and every bud cut off as 
soon as it appears; and occasionally the earth must be removed, the 
roots examined, and any detected suckers destroyed. 

This trouble may be qualified in the following manner : Set the 
budded Rose into the earth so deep as to fully cover the junction 
of the bud with the stock, and score the budded portion a little; 
If it is strong enough to allow it, tongue it as for layering, and put 
a stone or piece of wood in to keep the cleft open. In time, the 
budded Rose will send roots out into the earth, and support itself 
quite independently of the stock. Some of the choice varieties, 
however, are very much disinclined to root when budded, and by 
• thus rooting lose any benefit which might have been derived from 
the stock. 

The second source of loss is a difference in hardihood between 
the bud and the stock, the latter being either more or less hardy 
than the former. In either case, a severe winter will sometimes 
kill the one and not the other. 

It generally happens that the stock is the most hardy, and it is 
therefore prudent where there is any room for doubt, to cover the 
plant with straw, etc., below the junction of stock and bud. A 
prudent gardener will protect himself against reverses by having 
cuttings of his budded Roses in case of accident, for although some 
of them may not be as fine on their own roots as when more amply 
supplied with sap, yet the difference is slight, and scarcely percep- 
tible to the uncritical eye, and after all, "a live dog is better than 
a dead lion." 

The Hybrid Perpetuals are more troublesome in another way ; 
they have to be pruned at least twice in the season. All Roses 
blossom from the new growth only, and after blossoming the bush 
must be cut back, to stimulate a new growth. 

51* 



606 JUNE. 

u This, invaluable family has been got by crossing the H. China 
with different varieties of China and Bourbon Roses, until a great 
variety have been obtained. 

" Among this great variety, some . are much more hardy than 
others, and those which are best adapted to different latitudes are to 
be ascertained only by actual trial. Being difficult to root when 
layered, is, no. doubt, one reason for their being so often on other 
stocks than their own ; but on their own stock they thrive better 
on poor soils than when worked." 

I think, on the contrary, that it is useless to hope much from 
Hybrid Perpetuals in poor soils, under any circumstances. 

To insure a good second blooming, the plants must be well wa- 
tered and manured ; but, though needing plenty of water, Roses 
dislike a wet soil, that is, one in which water stagnates. 

Liquid manure is particularly grateful to Roses, and no better 
use can be made of soapsuds than to water them with it 

" Damask Perpetuals are a very beautiful class ; they make thick, 
close heads, their flowers are abundant and fragrant; they are 
equally good for garden, or pot culture. Disbudding and pinching 
off the young growth may be substituted for after pruning to some 
extent." 

" Perpetual Scotch Roses are a hybrid between the Scotch and 
the Damask Perpetual. They come into blossom in June, and con- 
tinue till frost." 

" The Bourbon Roses as a class, are perpetual, and are all worthy 
of cultivation, some more so than others. They seed freely, and 
are, therefore, good for further experiments. They do not form so 
good heads as some qf the other Perpetuals, and, therefore, should 
not be budded high to form standards ; they do well on their own 
stocks, but make rather better plants when budded ; their pro- 
fusion of bloom and long continuance, especially recommend 
them." 

The Perpetual Moss is a small group, and jet, a delicate one ; 
the bud is the charm of the plant, and, if we could have them in 
October or November, they would give as much pleasure as the 
greenhouse in January. Like the common Moss, they require a 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 607 

rich, deep soil, and thorough pruning. Perpetual Maguet is the 
best; Perpetual White and General Davoust are bad growers, and 
uncertain in time of flowering." 

" The Musk Rose is common in all mild climates, but must 
have a mild and humid atmosphere ; it succeeds well as a wall or 
pillar Rose, and is the oldest of the Perpetuals. Its great charm 
is that it blossoms rather late in the Season, and thus comes in be- 
tween the earlier and later Roses. It blossoms in quite large clus- 
ters, and the flowers have a musk fragrance." It should be cov- 
ered in winter, and should have a good deal of attention ; our 
summers are rather hot and dry for it. 

The China and- Tea Roses, as I have said, are the stock green- 
house Roses, blossoming monthly ; they may be removed into the 
garden in the spring, and will blossom all summer profusely, 
when they may be removed to the house, or left where they stand, 
either protected or abandoned. The roots rarely die. if they are 
covered, and although nearly the whole top will winter-kill, the 
roots, if not dead, begin to grow very early in the season, and do 
well all . summer. Cut as freely as you choose when in blossom, as 
this induces a more abundant growth. It will be observed that in 
this class those Roses which, like Safrano and Yellow Tea, are pil- 
lar Roses, and large growers, do not get to be any thing beyond 
shrubs in the open ground. There is not time for them to grow to 
perfection, and yet, when single plants are set out early, they will 
blossom profusely till frozen, and the Safrano will live with slight 
covering through the winter. 

I think the Safrano the queen of Tea Roses. It has not the long, 
greyhound-shaped buds of the Yellow Tea, the brilliancy of the 
Cloth of Gold, the yellow, of the Solfaterre, nor the strongest tea 
fragrance, but its rich-colored wood and ruddy foliage, its splendid 
color, comparable only to the orange tints of the most glowing sun- 
set, and its profuse bloom, ought to make it indispensable in every 
collection, however small. When budded on a strong stock, like 
the Sweetbrier, it gets a much stronger habit of growth, and both 
buds and Roses increase verv much in size. I have often seen 
them as large as the Cloth of Gold. 

" The Macartney is from China, and does well under glass, or 



608 JUKK 

during the summer in the border. It may be trained as a wait 
Rose in the greenhouse. The old Macartney is not equal to the 
Maria Leonida." 

u The Minature Rose (It. Lawreneiana) seems to be a small Va- 
riety of the China, and is best adapted to pot or border culture. 
They prefer a light, dry soil, and a warm situation." 

" The Noisette Roses are in some respects, the finest of this class; 
they are nearly all for the wall and pillar, and are generally too 
tender to do well out of doors, but are the main reliance for thd 
conservatory and greenhouse. The original Noisette is an Ameri- 
can, and seems to be a hybrid of the Musk and China." 

The originals were quite hardy, although needing in our lati- 
tude, some slight protection during the winter ; but th& more nearly 
they have approached the China parent, and the more richly they 
are perfumed with the tea fragrance, the more tender they have be- 
come, and the less of the Noisette appears in the clustering buds 
and blossoms. 

The pruning of this class differs with the individual ; some being 
of a long and straggling growth, others short and compact They 
are free bloomers, and mature seed readily. All flowers should be 
removed from those inclining to fruit, as soon as withered, as a 
single bunch of seed weakens the plant more than many blossoms. 

Such of the Noisettes as are of compact and dwarf habit, may, 
like other half-hardy kinds, be cut down in the autumn, and cov- 
ered with litter for the winter. 

We have now gone through the list of the Rose families, making 
but little reference to the varieties, which will be considered again 
before leaving the subject. 

I have endeavored to inform you with regard to the specific dif- 
ferences, and the sources of varieties, in order to enable you to 
decide upon the treatment to be adopted towards such plants as you 
possess. It would only be confusion, if I were, in October and 
November, to run over a list of names, and tell you to cover this, 
cut down that, and neglect others. I have here explained what 
kinds must be covered, what may ' be, and what need not be, and 
when the time comes you will act accordingly. 

These general divisions of species will be a great assistance also 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 609 

in buying; bearing them in mind, you can pass steadily and with- 
out distraction through the bewildering lists of names, put into 
your hands to choose from at the nursery or at the trade-sale. 

One general fact in the treatment of Roses you have plainly in- 
ferred from these directions ; vie., that they should be collected in 
family groups, which should be kept separate as far as possible ; 
not only for convenience in giving them similar treatment, expos- 
ure, soil, pruning, etc., bat in comparing individuals, and retaining 
or rejecting them, according to their merits. It would be beautiful 
to have a Rose garden arranged with a bed for each family, the 
size of each bed corresponding to that of the family. Such a 
garden would be a source of great advantage and satisfaction. I will 
hereafter give a few designs for such gardens. 

The variety of forms that Roses assume when grown according 
to their nature and inclination, is very great, and it is not easy to de- 
scribe or conceive their beauty when allowed to grow in that way. 
We are accustomed to think of them as 
shrubs, or, at the most, low standards ; but 
when we have such plants as those, we are 
lost in astonishment and delight.' The pillar 
Rose is grown, as will be hereafter described, 
around a cedar post ; these posts may stand 
in the open lawn, or along the sides of the 
walks in the Rosary, or they may be used at 
the corners of the house, or wherever fancy 
may dictate ; they cannot be out of place, 
and they are beautiful in any position. Quite 
tender Roses may be grown thus, as they can 
be taken down in the fall and covered. By 
pillar Roses are meant the strong-growing, 
vigorous kinds. 

Climbing Rout are of a Strong but pendu- 
lous growth, and are used very effectively for walls, arbors, and 
chains. The hitter method is rarely used in America, but if once 
introduced, could not fail to be admired and imitated. The Roses 
are grown up to a series of posts, enclosing the garden. Two or 
three shoots, not more, are allowed to grow to the top of the posts. 



'610 JUNE. 

When the post is well furnished in the spring, chains are stretched 
from post to post, and allowed to take their 
natural curve, and the next season shoots are 
trained along the chains. By a judicious 
j, course of disbudding and cutting back, the 
* chains in a single season become entirely en- 
£ wrapt. The next season they form festoons of 
I flowers from post to post. 
E? In attempting to give lists of those Roses 
' best adapted to our climate and purposes, I 
find myself met by various difficulties. In the 
first place we are sadly in want of reliable 
data, as to what varieties will flourish best 
Stonrfo/rf b™. ^ ere > different towns and localities suit Roses 
very differently, and when the most careful precautions are taken, 
each person must try for himself, -and must expect many dis- 
appointments. Yet every one complains of such lists as those I am 
about to give, that Ihey are too general and indefinite, and do not 
give sufficiently minute directions to enable the reader to decide 
beyond a doubt as to a proper choice. 

But even if it were possible, which it is not, to give such a list 
and such directions as should infallibly meet the wants of each 
reader, another difficulty arises the moment he presents himself, list 
in hand, at a nursery or at a trade-sale. The nursery man is very 
sorry, but though your names are all down on his printed cata- 
logue, he unfortunately has not just now all that you require. He 
is just out, or has ordered, or will order, or those that he has not, 
are, he is sure, too tender or too shy to answer your purpose ; here 
are others that would be a great deal better. 

At a trade-sale you are even worse off, for if you find what you 
want, the chance is, ten to one, that it is in a bundle with half a dozen 
things that you do not want, and you must either lose the one or 
take the whole. I have myself seen at such sales a bundle made 
up of Pio Nono, La Reine, La Marque, and Souvenir de la Mal- 
raaison, the first two hardy, the last tender, and the third so delicate 
that it will live in a garden only by great care and attention during 
cold weather. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 61 1 

I shall, however; give you several lists of Roses, the best of their 
kind, describing the families and degree of hardihood, and their 
peculiarities, as far as my space will allow. 

The first are Downing's lists ; the second, those of Mcintosh 
given for Scotland ; and though our climate is more severe than 
that of Scotland, they will thrive with us with such limitations as 1 
have added. 

HALF A DOZEN BOURBON B08B8. 

* Souvenir de Malmaison, pale flesh color. 

Paul Joseph, purplish crimson. 

Hermosa, deep rose. 

Queen, delicate fawn color. 

Dupetit Thouars, changeable carmine. 

Acidalie, white. 

HALF A DOZEN RE MONT ANT 8 OR PERPBTUALS. 

La Reine, deep rose color, very large. 

Duchess of Sutherland, pale rose. 

Crimson Perpetual, light crimson. 

Aubernon, brilliant crimson. 

Lady Alice Peel, fine deep pink. 

Madam Dameme, dark crimson. 

These would most of them stand our winters, but would he none 
the worse for a light covering. 

HALF A DOZEN CHINA ROSES. 

Mrs. Bosanquet, pale flesh color. 

M'me Breon, rose. 

Engine Beauharnais, bright crimson. 

Clara Sylvaine, pure white.. 

Cramoisie Superieure, orilliant crimson. v 

Virginalc, blush. 

All half-hardy. If covered in the fall the roots will start anew 
in the spring, but they rarely live uncovered. 

HALF A DOZEN TEA ROSES. 

Safrano, buds, rich deep fawn. Already 

described. 

Souvenir de mon ami, salmon shaded with rose. 

Goubault, bright rose, large and fragrant. 

Devoniensis, creamy white. 

Bougilre, glossy bronze. 

Josephine Malton, shaded white. 

All tender ; the roots will live through the winter if covered. 

HALF A DOZEN XOI8BTTES. 

Solfaterre, bright sulphur, large ; will not blos- 

som out of a greenhouse. 

• Needs protection in winter. 



612 JUNE. 

Jaime Desprez, - •• large bright fawn, greenhouse. 
Cloth of Gold, pure yellow, " 

Aimee Vibret. dwarf in the border very tender. 

Fellenberg, brilliant crimson, " " 

Joan of Arc, white, " 

These Boses should never have been given without the com- 
ments here appended. 

half a dozen HYBRIDS ; need little protection. 

Chenedole, Village Maid, Fulgens, 

George IV., Great Western, Blanchefleur, 

Old red Moss, Crested Moss, Gen. Dubonrg. 
Persian Yellow, 

Three best, Souvenir de Malmaison, Old Red Moss, Gen. Du- 
bourg. 

FOB WALLS IN NORTHERN OARDBN8. 

Queen of Prairie, Baltimore Belle. 

FOR SOUTHERN QARDEN8- 

Ruga Ayrshire, Laure Davoust, Greville. 

The following lists are taken from Mcintosh. One word first, 
to those about purchasing Roses. Go to the dealer and 'buy what 
he has of those on your list, and no more ; the next year of the 
same, and so on till you have them all. Nursery-men, like 
store keepers, wish to suit their customers, and if you insist on 
what you want, you will have it in time, but if you can be per- 
suaded out of it, you will have put upon you instead, whatever has 
been grown with the. least trouble, and can be sold at the largest 
profit 

Winter Roses in bloom in November and December, under glass. 





HYBRID 


perpetual; hardy. 


Comted'Eu, 




Gloire de Bosamene 

NOISETTE. 


Fellenberg, 




Vittellina. 




tea-scbntrd (Perpetual). 


Bride of Abydos, 

Nitida, 

Fragrans, 

Goubault, 

Nina, 




Laura, 
Mondor, 
La Svlphide, 
Caroline. 




0BIM8ON 


china (Perpetual}. 


Alba, 
Bardon, 




Fabvier, 

Belle de Florence. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



618 



bourbon ; hardy in America. 

Amarantine, Celimlne, 

Cornice do Seine et Maine, Splendens, 

Hermosa, Queen. 
Justine, 

Weeping Roses, which, when wrought on stems from 6 to 9 feet 
high, are trained in a pendulous direction to a framework of wood 
or iron. Such Roses are difficult to manage, from the constant 
tendency of the stock to throw out its own buds and suckers, and 
from that of both stock and bud to die. 

Noisette Da Luxembourg, tender ; Hybrid Noisette, Adolph, tender ; well 
covered in winter ; Evergreen, Fclicite perpetual, warm, moist atmosphere, 
potted in winter ; Boursault, Amadis, hardy ; Hybrid China, Belle Fleurette ; 
hardy, bat improved by litter in winter. Ayrshire, Splendens, half hardy; 
Multiflora Laura Davoast, hardy in summer but needs great care in winter. 
Bourbon, Pierre de St. Cyr, hardy. Musk, Princess de Nassau, needs moist, 
warm atmosphere. 



Mrs. Elliot, 

Decandolle, 
Vingtneuf, 

Mad. Hardy, 



Berenice, 
Fulgens, 
Vulcan, 



Emperor, 
Princess Adelaide, 



Madame Plantier, 



Henri Barbet, 
Victor Hugo, 
Great Western, 



Bouquet de Flore, 
Acidalie, 

Madame Desprez, 
Pierre de St. Cyr, 



PILLAR OR POLE ROSES. 

hybrid perpetual ; a little covering. 

Louis Bonaparte. 

BTBBID china ; a little covering. 

Petit Pierre. 

damask; hardy. 

La ville de Broxelles. 

hybrid china; cover a little. 

Chene'dole, 

Richelieu, 

Juillet 

moss ; hardy. 

Princess RoyaL 

hybrid noisette; tender. 

Madeliene. 

hybrid bourbon; hardy. 

Charles Duval, 
Paul Perras. 

bourbon; hardy. 

Amenaide, 
Iraperatrice, 



Josephine, 
Mada 



am Aude. 



52 



614 



JUNE. 



EXHIBITION ROSES, WITH LARGE, FULL FLOWERS. 

Felicite Parmentier, Alba (hardy), 

Eugeine Beauharnais, Crimson China (tender). 

tea-scented BOURBON ; tender or half-hardy. 

Comte de Paris, Souvenir d'ane Amie, 

Triomphe de Luxembourg, Josephine, 

Bougere, Malton, 

Moiret, Silene, 

Devoniensis, La Renomme'e. 

china ; tender or half-hardy. 
» Clara Sylvain. 

bourbon ; hardy, if slightly covered. 
Souvenir de Malmaison, Mad. Soucher, 



Madam Brecon, 



La Camee, 
Acidalia, 
Mad. Ne'rard, 



Baronne Prevost, 
La Heine, 
Dr. Marx, 
Count Egmont, 
Reine de Fleurs, 



Mad. Hardy, 
Mad. Soetman's. 



Coupe de HeT)e*, 
Victor Hugo, 
Legouve, 
Comte Boubert, 



Cristata, 

Adrienne de Cardoville, 



Le Florifere, 

Lichas, 

Dupetit Thouars. 

hybrid perpetual-; cover a little. 

Duchess of Sutherland, 

William Jesse, 

Mad. Laffay, 

Robin Hood, 

Austrian and hardy Persian Yellow. 

damask; hardy. 

Triumphe de Rouen. 

hybrid bourbon; hardy. 

Paul Perras, 
Charles Duval, 
Tippoo Saib, 
Sylvain. 

provence; hardy. 

Laura. 



Laneii. 
White Bath, 
Louise Colet, 
Comtesse de Noe, 



BrennuB, 
Galien, 

Comtess Plater, 
Lady Stuart, 



moss; hardy. 
(I have indicated the best moss before.) 

Etna, 

Alice Leroi, 
Blush. 



hybrid china; cover. 

Che'ne'dole, 
Marjolin, 
Belle Marie. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



615 



Dubois Dessauzais, 
Pauline Garcia, 



Adele Prevost, 

Berenice, 

Col. Coombs, 

Guillaume Tell, 

La ville de Gand, 

Leo X., 

Ne plus ultra, 

Surpasse tout, 

Sophie Duval, 

Randolph, 

Omphale, 

La ville de Londres, 



hybrid fbbnch ; hard 7. 

La Yestalle. 
Alette. 

French; hardy. 



Ohl, 

Belle Rosine, 

Cambronne, 

Celestine, 

Due de Trevise, 

Eclat de Roses, 

Couronne d'Amour, 

Due de Trevise, 

Due de Valmy, 

Franklin, 

Gloire des Amateurs, 

Jeanne de Laval. 



Roses for grouping, to produce contrasted colors : — 

bourbon ; hardy, slightly covered. 



Armosa, 

Mrs. Bosanquet, 

Queen, , 



Princess Clemantine, 
Paul Joseph. 



Beauty of Billiard, 



Miss Glegg, 



hybrid china; tender. 

Belle Thurette. 
hybrid perpetual; cover. 
Mad. Laffay. 
noisette ; tender, but may be kept if covered. 

77 La Pactole. 
damask; hardy. 
Deesseflore. 
crimson china; tender. 
Belle Emilie. 



Fabvier, 

Belle de Florence, 

hybrid noisette. 

Mad. Plantier. 

CLIMBING ROSES. 

(Those marked 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12 are of very rapid growth. 

2, 4, 6, 7, 10 are adapted for a shady wall or a northern aspect) 

boubsault; hardy. 

' 1. Amadis, Drummond's Thornless, 

Elegans, 2. Red. 

Inermi8, 



616 



JUNE. 



3 Ruga. 
Splendens, 
Countess of Leven, 



Ayrshire; cover. 

4. Queen of the Belgians, 
Dundee Rambler. 



evergreen ; tender, but will live if covered. 



5. Felicite Perpetuelle, 
Princess Louise, 

6. Banksise Flora, 
Carnea Grandiflora. 



7. Russelliana, 

8. Graulhie, 



9. Mme. d'Arblay, 



10. Grandiflora, 
Du Luxembourg, 



Carea Spectabilis, 
Leopoldine d 'Orleans, 
Rampant, 
Princess Marie. 

multiflora; half hardy. 

De la Grifferaie. 

hybrid ; hardy, if covered. 
Garland. 
noisette; tender. 

Belle d'Esquermes. 



rubifolia. 
II. Beauty of the Prairie. 
musk ; moist climate, half hardy. 
12. Princess de Nassau, Eponine. 

ROSE8 FOR COVERING ROCKS AND ROUGH BANKS. 
These are, as I have said, only possible with careful treatment ; 
they may be covered with earth like Raspberries. 

ATRSHINE AND EVERGREEN. 



Thoresbyana, 
Rampante, 
Countess of Leven. 



Leopoldine d'Orleans. 
Alice Gray, 
Lovely Rambler, 
Felicite' Perpetuelle. 

VERY SWEET SCENTED ROSES. 

Minerva, Goubault, 

Riego Aubernon, Louis. Puget, 

Adam (tea-scented), Fulgoric, 

Hamon, " Rachel, 

Belle Allcmande (tea-scented), Gen. Dubois [a rather single, but very 

Belle Fabert, fragrant ana valuable Bourbon). 

Clementine Seringe (H. P.), 

YELLOW ROSES. 



Clara Wendell, 
Solfaterre, 



Harrisonii, 



noisette; tender. 
Pactolus. 

Austrian; hardy. 

Persian Yellow. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



617 



tea-boentrd ; tender, but may be covered. 

Eliza Sauvage, Vicomtesse de Cazes, 

Safrano, Princess Adelaide, 

Devon ien sis, Pellonia. 
Diana Vernon, 

Rosa bulphurea ; covered in winter, soil rather rich, and an open and dry 

exposure. 

ROSES WITH MOTTLED OR STRIKED FLOWERS; hardy ; summer 

bloomers. 



Perle dee Panachees, 

Rosa Mundi, 

Village Maid, 

New French, 

Mad. Campan (rosa alba), 

Panache pleine (moss), 

Due d' Orleans (French), 

Donna Sol, 

Aramis (French; hardy), 

Due de Bassano, 



white, striped with rose. 

white and carnation. 

white, striped with rose and purple ; pendulous. 

chocolate and slate, with red, spotted centre. 

vivid rose, mottled with dove. 

white, striped with rose. 

cherry rose, with white spots, 

purplish rose, spotted with white ; pendulous. 

white, stripped with rose. 

crimson and violet marbled. 
• Comte de Maurinais (hardy), slate with blush, and chocolate spotted. 
Omphale, " * rosy pink, and spotted with white. 

Superb Marbled, vivid crimson marbled with purple (Gen. Daner- 

moor.) 

The following is a select list of much esteemed varieties, ar- 
ranged alphabetically ; those marked P. are strong growers, and 
good for pyramids, poles, or pillars, and it includes most of the finest 
Roses in cultivation. 



Adam Paul, 



rose colored, 
white, 



hardy, 



<< 



crimson, 

rose, 

bright red, 



« 



pink, 
light pink, 



P. Acidalie, 
Aimee Vibert, 
Aristobule, 
Antenor, 
Alexandrine Bachme- 

teff, 
Angeline Granger, 
Auguste Mee, 
P.Augustine Monchelet 
Aramis, striped, 

Archiduc Charles, rose, 

Abricote', apricot, 

Adam, blush, 

Adelaide d'Orleans, creamy, 

Beaute Lyonnaise, rose and white, 
Blanche Lafitte, white and flesh, 
P. Boquetde Flore, light carmine, 
Blanche de Beau- 
lieu, 
Blanche de Porte- 



«< 



tender, 
hardy, 



mer, 
Bernard, 



white and rose, 
pale blush, 



salmon, 
52* 



hardy, 

hardy, 
tender, 

hardy if covered, 

u 
II 
II 

hardy. 



ii 



« 



Hyb. Perp. and 

Provence. 

Bourbon. 

Noisette. 

Moss. 

French. 

Hyb. Perp. 
<« 

¥* 
if 

French. 

China. 

Tea-scented. 

Evergreen. 
Bourbon Perp. 

u 
«c 

Hyb. Perp. 
ii 



Damask Perp. 



618 



JUNE. 



Banksias Flora, white, tender, 

Bernard Palissy, deep rose striped 

with purple, hardy if covered, 



Beauty of Billiard, vivid scarlet, 
P. Blairii, bright rose tinged 

with lake, 



hardy, 



« 



P. Brennus, 
Bizarre Marbree, 
Boulade Nanteuil, 
Blanche fleur, 
Baronne Heckeren, 
Baronne Prevost, 
Beranger, 
Catherine de 

Wirtemberg, 
Celina, 

Comte Plater, 
Comtesse de Segur, 
Che'ne'dole, 



brilliant crimson, 

marbled, 

crimson purple, 

white, 

rosy pink, 

pale rose, 

light crimson, 

rose, 

rich carmine, 

creamy white, 

clear flesh, 

brilliant light car- 



half hardy, 
hardy, 



Banksia. 

Hyb. Bourbon. 
Hyb. China. 

*t 
tt 

French. 



mine, 
Comtesse Lacepide, violet purple, 
Charles Duval, bright rose, 

P. Coupe d'He'be', delicate bright rose, 



tt 
tt 
t* 
tt 

u 
u 
tt 
tt 

tt 



n 



Hyb. 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Prov. 
Perp. 



tt 



Moss. 



a 



Hybrid French, 
if tt 



tt 



hardy if covered, 
hardy, 



P. Grivelii, 
Crimson Superb, 
Caroline de San sal, 
Charles Boissiere, 
Chateaubriand, 
Chereau, 
Colonel Lorry, 
Cymedor, 



bright red, 
deep crimson, - 
blush, 
crimson, 
glossy pink, 

cherry, 
brilliant red, 
dark red, peculiar, 



tender, 

half hardy if cov'd, 

hardy, 

hardy if covered, 

hardy, 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Bourbon, 
Hybrid China. 
" Bourbon. 

Multiflora. 

China. 

Hyb. Perpetual. 

Bourbon, 
Hyb. Perpetual. 



a 



Comte de Nanteuil, deep crimson, 
Comte M on tali vet, dark violet, 

Comtesse Duchatel, bright crimson, 
Comtesse Batthi- 



hardy if covered, 
u 

hardy, 



Damask Perpetual 
Hyb. 

Bourbon. 
Hyb. Perpetual. 



am, 
Ceres, 

Cerise pourpre, 
Cezarine Souchet, 
Charles Souchet, 
Comte de'Bobrin- 

isky, 
Comte de Paris, 
Cloth of Gold, 
Devoniensis, 
Dupetit Thouars, 
D'Assas, 
Diodore, 



flesh, 

glossy rose, 

purplish crimson, 

blush and rose, 

crimson purple, 



tt 



«t 



a 



hardy if covered, 

tender, 
hardy if covered, 



tt 



a 



a 



u 



tender, 



rose lilac, 

yellow, 

straw and buff, 

brilliant crimson, hardy if covered, 

dark violet spotted, hardy, 

red to pink, 



a 



tt 



bright rose, hardy if covered, Hybrid 

lalinaM kaha tt tt 



Bourbon. 

Tea-scented. 

Bourbon. 
a 

Bourbon Dwarf. 

Hyb. Perpetual. 

Noisette. 

Tea-scented. 

Bourbon. 

French. 

Moss Perpetual. 



a 



a 



Dr. Arnal, 

Duchess de Mont- delicato rose, 

pensier, 

Duch. d'Orleans, blush and pink, " Hybrid Provence. 

" of Sutherland, bright rose mottled, " " Perpetual 

Due d'Aumale, rose, hardy if protected, Bourbon. 

Dometille Becar, rosy blush, hardy, Provence. 

Due de Trevise, velvet crimson, " French. 



J 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



619 



P. Devigne, 
De la Grifferie, 
Eugene Napoleon, 
Eblouissante de la 

guerre, 
Engine Sue, 
Edward Defosse, 
Enfant d'Ajaccio, 

Eliza Sauvage, 
Eugenie Desgaches, 
Earl Talbot, 
Fairy Queen, 
Ferdinand Deppe, 
P. Frederick II., 
Fulgens, 
Felicity Parmen- 

tier, 
Fringed Provence 

or Crested Moss, 
Gen. Foy, 

" Bertrand, 

" Changarnier, 

" Bernard, 
Jacqueminot, 
Negrier, 
Cavaignac, 

" Bedean, 

" Casteliane, 

" Drouet, 
Gloire de France, 

" de Colmar, 

" de Coulines, 
Garabaldi, 
Gracilis, 

Geant de Bataille, 
Graziella, 
George Cavier, 



pink Mash, 
rose to blush, 
rosy crimson, 
dark velvety crim- 
son, 
red rose, 
fresh pink, 
bright cherry, 



hardy, 
tender, 
hardy, 



Hybrid French. 

Multiflora. 

French. 



it 



«< 



tt 



Hybrid Perpetual 
hardy if covered, Bourbon, 

tender or half hardy 

if covered, Indica. 

tender, Tea-scented. 



<i 



hardy 



tt 



tt 



Hybrid Perpetual. 



salmon yellow, 

bright rose, 

rose and lilac, 

glossy lilac 

rose color, 

deep purple crim., hardy if protected, Hybrid Bourbon, 
crimson velvet, " " China. 

rosy blush, 



<< 



tt 



tt 
tt 



hardy, 
hardy, 



Alba. 



u 
u 
tt 



rose pink, 

purple, 

white striped lilac, 

violet purple, hardy if protected, Hybrid Perpetual. 



tt 



tt 



Provence. 
French. 



dove centre, crim., 
deep purple, 
rosy blush, 
rosy pink, 
bright red, 
brilliant crimson, 
crimson and purple, 
deep rose, 
crimson, 
carmine, 
. bright crimson, 
bright pink, 
crimson, 



hardy, 



tt 



tt 



tt 
tt 



hardy, 



tt 
a 
it 

tt 
tt 



China. 



tt 



Perpetual. 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 
tt 
u 
tt 



u 



China. 

French 
tt 



hardy if covered, 
hardy, 



tt 
tt 



hardy if protected, 



brilliant pink, 

rosy cherry, 
Georges de France, salmon and yellow, tender 

George IV., deep velvety crim., hardy, 

Henry Lecoque, deep carmine, hardy if protected, 

Herman Kegel, 

Harmonii, yellow, 

Hermosa, pale rose, 

Je me maintiendrai, rosy pink, 
Jupiter ponctue, bright velvety crim., 



Hybrid China. 
" Bourbon. 
Boursault. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



tt 



tt 



hardy, 



a 



tt 



a 



Juno, 
Jaun&tre, 



a 



Inormis, 
tt 



Isocrate, 
Jacques Lafitte, 
James Veitch, 
Jeanne d'Any 
Joseph De Caisne, 



pale rose, 

primrose, 

fawn colored, 

deep rose, 

brignt red, 

rose, 
bright rose, 

rose, 

pale blush, 

satin-like rose, 



tender, 



tt 



hardy, 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Bourbon. 
Tea. 
Hybrid China. 
Bourbon. 

Austrian. 

Bourbon. 

French. 
<t 

Hybrid China. 

Banksia. 

Evergreen. 

Hybrid Perpetual. 

Boursault. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



tt 
tt 
u 



tt 



n 



tt 



it 



620 



JUNE. 



Julia, 

Laurii, 

La ville de Londres, 

La ville de Brux- 

elles, 
Lucrece, 

La ville de Gand, 
Letitia, 
L'attrayante, 
Las Casaa, 
Laura Davoust, 
La Reine, 
Lady Stuart, 



crimson, 

rosy crimson, 

rose, 

bright rose, 

pale rose, 

brilliant rose, 

deep rose, veined, 

nankin, 

rose pink, 

rose, 

rose, 

delicate rose, 



half hardy if cov'd, 
hardy, 



h 

it 
tt 
it 
it 
it 



hardy if protected, 
tender, 
hardy, 



Lion de Combat, crimson and purple, 



<« 



tf 



Noisette. 

Moss. 

Hybrid Provence, 

Damask. 

Alba. 

French. 

Hybrid China. 
Hybrid Bourbon. 

Musk. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



<< 



a 



it 



tt 



Louise Odier, 
Louise Peronne, 
Leonore d'Este, 
La favorite, 
La Sylphide, 
La Pactole, 
La Marque, 

Melanie Willermoz, 

Mad. Ogier, 

D^Arblay, 

Sylvester, 

Breon, 

Bosanquet, 

Angelina, 

Souchet, 

Tripet, 

Campan, 

Andry, 

Fremion, 

Hiliare, 

P. Trudeaux, 

Legras, 

Hardy, 

Zoutman, 

Lamorissiere, 

Alboni, 

P. Audot, 

Menoux, 

Matthew Mole, 

Mrs. Elliot, 

Mrs. Rivers, 

Marianne, 

Napoleon, 

Nephetos, 

Narcisse, 

Ohl, 

Oeillet parfait, 



it 

it 
it 
it 
it 
it 
it 
it 
n 
tt 
it 
tt 
tt 
it 
it 
it 
it 



bright rose, 
bright silver pink, 

flesh, 
deep rose, 

blush, 

Jrellow, 
. e yellow, 

white, 
flesh, 

white,yellow centre, 

rose, 

flesh, 

white and fawn, 

rose carmine, 

dark rose, 

bright rose, spotted, 

dark rosy crimson, 

light carmine, 

rosy blush, 

bright rose, 

pure white, 

white, 

delicate flesh, 

light rose, 

blush, 

rosy lilac, 

crimson, 

rosy crimson, 

bright " 

pale flesh, 
rich bright rose, 



hardy if covered, 



hardy, 

hardy if covered, 

tender, 

very tender, 

tender unless well 

protected, 

hardy, 



Bourb. Perpetual. 
Hybrid Perpetual 



Bourbon. 

Tea-scented. 

Noisette. 



tt 



tt 



tender, 

half hardy, 

hardy if protected, 



tt 



tt 



tt 



hardy, 



« 
tt 
a 
a 
a 
a 
it 
a 
a 



Hybrid Provence. 
Hybrid Perpetual 

Tea-scented. 

China. 

Bourbon. 
n 

n 

u 

Alba. 
Hybrid Perpetual 



tt 
tt 
tt 



a 

a 



Alba. 
Damask. 



tt 



hardy if protected, 



it 
it 



hardy, 



P. Princess Ade- 
laide, 



w , hard v if protected, 

blush, mot. with pink, half hardy if cov'd, 
pure white, tender, 

pale yellow, " 

violet purple, hardy, 

variegated white, 
striped with crim., " 

yellow, tender, 



Hybrid Perpetual 

Moss. 

Bourbon. 

Hybrid Climb. 

French. 

Hybrid Perpetual. 

Hybrid Provence. 

Bourbon. 

China. 

Tea-scented. 



tt 



French. 



u 



Tea-scented. 



J 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



621 



Adelaide, pale glossy rose, 

flowers in clusters, 
Princess Clemen- 
tine, deep rosy purple, hardy if protected, 



a 



pure white, 
Princess Royal, 

" Lamballe, pure white, 
" Marie, coppery white, 

" De Nassau, yellowish straw, 



hardy, 



«< 



tender, 
tender unless 
well protected, 



Most. 

Bourbon. 
Provence. 

Alba. 
Tea-scented. 



Musk. 
French. 



<f <« 

Austrian. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



Pierre Jaussens, scarlet, shaded with 

crimson, hardy, 

Perle des Pana- white, striped with 

chees, rose, " 

Paul Perras, brilliant rose, hardy if protected, Hybrid Bourbon 

Paul Ricaut, rosy crimson, " " *' 

P. President Mole, pale rose, " 

Persian Yellow, yellow, hardy, 

P. Pius IX., purplish red, 

Paul Dupuy, bright velvety crimson, 
Prince Leon Kots- 

choubay (extra), bright crimson, 
Reveil, cherry red, shaded 

with violet, 
Robin Hovel, brilliant, 

Rosine, clear rose, tender, 

Reine des Fleurs, pale lilac, hardy, 

Reine blanche, i 

Rose du Roi, 



it 

tt 

tt 
tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Bourbon. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 

Musk. 
Hydrid Perpetual. 



tt 
«< 
tt 



French. 



it 



Damask. 



tt 



tt 
tt 



tt 



tt 

it 



Bourbon. 



Reine d'Angleterre, rosy blush, 

Rose Aimable, rosy pink, 

Semiramis, fawn in centre to pink, 

Sylvain, bright crimson, hardy if protected, Bourbon. 

Souvenir de la reine 
des Beiges, red and carmine, hardy, Hybrid Perpetual. 

Standard do Mar- 
engo, brilliant crimson, " 

Souvenir de Leve- 
son Gower, dark red to ruby, " 

8alvator Rosa, very red, " 

Souchet, deep crimson, hardy if protected, 

Souvenir de Mai- 
maison, white, 

Souvenir de l'Ex- 
position, dark crimson, 

8afrano, copper yellow, 

Souvenir dun ami, salmon and rose, 

Solfaterre, cream white, 

Triumphe de bol- 
rollyer, cream, 

Triumphe du Lux- 
embourg, buff rose, 

Triumphe de Paris, dark velv. crimson, 
'• de Jaus- 
sens, vivid rosy crimson, 



tt 



it 



ti 



tt 



half hardy, 
tt •• 

tender, 



Tea-scented. 



«< 



Noisette. 



tt 



tt 



half hardy, 
hardy, 



<« 



Tea-scented. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 

French. 



622 



JUNE. 



Unique Panache, white, striped with 





pink, 


hardy, 


Provence. 


Unique de Provence, 


pure white, 


ti 


Moss. 


William Jesse, 


light crimson, 


€< 


Hybrid Perpetual. 


White Bath, 


pure white, 


<< 


Moss. 


William Griffiths, 




<« 




William IV., 


lively red, 


f« 


French. 


Vesta, 


scarlet, 


it 


c« 


Vieillard, 


delicate rose, 


it 


Moss. 


Vicomte Cussy, 


cherry, 


hardy if protected, 


Bourbon. 


Vicomtesse de 








Cazes, 


yellow rich, 
vivid crimson, 


t 


Tea-scented. 


P. Vivid (Paul's), 


it 


Hybrid Bourbon. 



It will be observed on comparing these lists, that the same name 
is often repeated, but' it is always in different connections, and to il- 
lustrate different peculiarities in the Rose. The last list is general, 
and gives a very perfect collection. 

Many of those which are marked tender, it may be well to try 
out of doors, after you have gained experience by the culture of 
those whose hardihood you are sure of, for sometimes a slight ad- 
vantage of exposure, a little careful protection will enable a ten- 
der Rose to thrive ; and by some care in getting varieties from 
seed, in budding, etc., the constitution of the most tender may be 
hardened. 

The limits of the careful gardener's powers, have not yet been 
discovered, and the field of improvement extends farther, and 
promises more in Roses than in any other flower. 



j 



CHAPTER LXVH. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



June ends all spring planting in the kitchen-garden. We no 
longer talk about early planting ; all seeds planted now are for suc- 
cession and late crops. 

After the first of this month, nature is in a hurry, and by the 
15th, whether the season has been early or late, things are in about 
the same state of advance, year after year. 

In the hotbeds there should be, by the second week, abundance 
"of Cucumbers, and good-sized Melons ; the vines as they grow 
over the frames, should be pinched off, to check the sap ; hurry the 
fruit and keep the vines within bounds. Every kind of crop may 
be removed from the hotbeds. The Tomato plants will be very 
large, if the secondary frame was set over the first, as directed in 
the notice of hotbeds. 

Make beds of Cardoons, setting the plant9 4 feet apart each 
way ; take the plants from the seedbeds and frames, with great 
care, and by no means nip off the end, or mutilate the leaves. 
Shade the plants when set out, with an inclined shingle, so as to 
break the sun's rays ; it is on its leaves that the plant is to depend 
for attaining full size. If its roots are well developed, and it is 
well planted, shaded and watered, it will be able to maintain the 
leaves, and will thrive accordingly. 

All the plants before enumerated, which were sown in the seedbeds, 
may be now transplanted for the last time. It will be well to shade all 
the large plants if possible, particularly Tomatoes, and also to water 
them in the evening for a few days; they will soon establish them- 
selves. 

Cabbages, Cauliflowers, and similar plants, should be set out be- 
fore a rain. 

The final transplanting of the young herbs will take place 

623 



624 june. 

towards the last of the month. The more shrubby varieties, like 
Sage, Lavender and others, may be used to make an edging to the 
walks, or division lines for the beds. Cuttings of the old plants 
can be struck in any shady, moist place. Some of the herbs will 
be fit for cutting the last of the month. Cut just as they are in full 
flower ; they are then richest 

The early-planted Cabbages, Lettuces, Cauliflowers, etc., must 
be hoed and hilled a little. Lettuce plants will head much better 
for several transplantings, and also for hoeing ; so too, with Cab* 
bages. The earliest Cabbages will be fit to use next mouth ; Let- 
tuce will be in fine condition for the table all this month. 

As soon as the Asparagus begins to get spindling and stringy, 
cease to cut it. It is very poor economy to cut it too long, the 
permanent yield is impaired by so doing. 

Hoe the Corn as soon as it is well out of the ground. The first hoe- 
ing you may draw a very little earth round it, but never afterwards. 

All the vegetables are benefited by occasional hoeings, even when 
the weeds do not demand it Breaking the surface of the earth 
lets in the air and rain, induces the earth to absorb gases freely, 
and promotes early and large condensations of dew. 

The earliest Peas will soon be in blossom, and the latest should 
be sown. You will not get a large yield from any Peas sown this 
month, as they do not get into blossom till the weather is too hot 
for them to thrive. 

About the third week in June, plant pickle crops of Cucumbers, 
Mangoes, etc. The plants of Bed Pepper and Martinyia, should 
be transplanted from the hotbeds, the first of the- month. Make in 
a good place, out of doors, a Mushroom bed. The weather will now 
be warm enough to insure, with frequent waterings, large returns. 
Hoeing the Sweet Potatoes increases the crop very much. 

Hoe and clean the Irish Potatoes. Two or three times each 
week, examine the Melons, Cucumbers, and Squashes, for bugs. 
The troublesome ones are very small, striped black and yellow. 
They perceive the approach of a man long before he reaches them, 
by the jarring of the earth, and will either drop to the ground, or 
crawl under the leaf; turn the leaf and pick them off. When the 
vines are fairly freed, dust the plants with plaster of Paris ; renew 



/ 



KITCHEN-feARDEN. 625 

the examination and application as often as twice a week, until the 
vines are grown beyond danger of injury. The large squash-bugs 
come later, and are to be removed in the same way. 

Any work directed last month, and not completed, should be fin- 
ished as soon as possible. As you use up small Salads, sow more. 

The early Radishes will be gone, and you will now draw those 
sown with the Carrots and Parsnips. As soon as the Carrots are 
well developed, thin to 6 inches, and Parsnips to 9 inches, long 
Blood Beets 9 inches, Turnip Beets 6 inches. As the Artichokes 
grow, remove all small side heads and suckers, that the principal 
heads may be more perfect The perfection will be shown by the 
gradual opening of the scales, and the heads should be picked 
before the flower shows in the centre. As soon as the principal 
heads are grown, cut the stems down to the earth. 

Sow Cabbage seed for the late crops. Sow seeds of Drum- 
head, Savoy, and Bed Cabbage. Spinach will be fit to gather dur- 
ing the month. 

Such plants as have been set out for seed, Radishes, Carrots, 
Onions, etc., will new have thrown up the seed stem, and are about 
ready to flower. Tie each stem to a stick, or set a stake at each 
end of the row, and connect the stakes with a rod, to which the 
heads can be tied. It is said that when the young Onions do not 
swell, but grow too much to tops, they may be induced to swell by 
bending the tops down. 

Celery may be set out for the earliest crop. The latest must be 
set in July. By no means plant in trenches, but set it in rich, 
deep soil, fiat, as you would a tree. Then let it, and all similar 
plants, grow freely without hilling, until it has long, well-developed 
leaves ; then hold the leaves up and hill it. This must be done in 
dry weather, after the dew is off, or the Celery will rust When 
set in trenches, the roots are too far below the sun in the autumn, 
and when hilled before the leaves are pretty large, they are choked, 
and, however long they grow, never get large, thick buts. 

As the Tomatoes advance, do not put straw under them, or tie 
them up to sticks, but let the branches extend out over the ground. 
As the plants grow large and commence to ripen, in August, it 

53 



626 junk. 

is very well to work straw in under the fruit and about the 
branches. 

Weeds are now a fertile source of discomfort ; the earlier and 
younger you take them, the easier it is to destroy them, and the 
better for the plants. Every weed is a thief, who ought to be ap- 
prehended before his rascality is accomplished. 

If June is dry, all the young plants will be benefited by occa- 
sional, copious waterings, and particularly if the water is somewhat 
enriched with guano or other manure. 

As the Strawberries ripen, gather ; and do not be troubled if the 
.robins get a few. 

The Cherries will ripen about the first of July. It is difficult 
to get thorough protection against birds, unless the trees are cov- 
ered with nets ; but some advantage may be gained . by the use of 
scarecrows. Those made of old clothes, etc., to represent men 
and women, are no protection against small birds ; they are quite 
useful in Corn fields to drive away crows, who are over sagacious 
and deceive themselves, but little birds do not mind them ; but set 
light poles, inclined at a considerable angle, in the tree, and tie 
them firmly to a branch. They must be long enough to project 
well beyond the tree ; suspend to the loose end some strings, to 
which are tied pieces of tin, hung so that they may sometimes 
strike against each other. The noise frightens the birds, and still 
more, the light reflected from the dancing tin ; on bright days this 
expedient is very effective ; in bad weather only the noise is of 
any service. 

Shooting does no good ; you may kill a few birds, each of whom 
would have eaten 10 or 15 pounds of worms before winter, but 
their places will be soon supplied by others. As I have said, the 
effective guard is a net Common mosquito netting is rather 
fragile and troublesome ; a net made of packthread, which would 
entirely cover the tree, and could be drawn in tightly about the 
trunk, would admit light and air, and keep off the birds, and if 
well dried after using, and then laid away, the same net would last 
for many years. This is easily done with espaliered trees. 

Apricots should be thinned this month ; thin as directed in the 
grapery. 



i 



r 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 627 

Watch the espaliered trees ; pinch off all bad shoots, such as 
have been already described, and disbud where buds are formed, 
which would be ill-placed next year. Tie down the shoots as they 
grow, that they may not get too rigid and stiff. 

Thin the Peaches and Nectarines ; they are not good for pies, 
as the Apricots are ; but the value, and indeed quantity of the 
crop, will be increased by wise thinning. 

Watch the Plum-trees narrowly. This is the month for t^e cur- 
culio. Mosquito netting will protect the fruit ; and all that which 
drops should be carefully removed. 

Thin the Pears ; all these fruits should be thinned from one-half, 
to two-thirds of the fruit which sets, and the culls should be re- 
moved, not left on the ground to decay. 

The first of the month you will find a marked benefit if you 
surround all your fruit-trees from 3 to 4 inches deep, and as wide 
as the circle of the branches, with a mulch ; use old tan, wood 
chips, straw, or hay. 



CHAPTER LXVIH. 



ORCHARD. 



The orchard is but little trouble in June. Thinning the Peaches, 
Apricots, Nectarines, and Pears, should be carefully done ; the 
Cherry-trees must be watched, and the fruit gathered and mar- 
keted. 

The Apples would in many cases be benefited by thinning, but 
the size of the tree and the quantity of the crop prevent very 
careful thinning, as it would take more time and expense than the 
advantage to the fruit would warrant 

As soon as the fodder crop sown in the orchard is sufficiently 
advanced to admit of it, turn in the old sow and her litter of pigs 
to fatten. Previously, hints for mulching were given. 

If the orchard is under a fodder crop, you cannot mulch, but if 
uncultivated, mulch by all means. Cover the whole surface with 
hay or straw, if possible. Salt hay is the best ; rain washes the 
salt into the earth : the hay or straw packs closely over the earth, 
and shields it from the sun's rays ; evaporation can take place but 
slowly, and no matter how dry the season, land so protected, will 
be cool and moist. 

• A thick mulch of old chips and river waste was found by Mr. 
H. W. S. Cleveland, formerly a large Pear grower in New Jersey, 
a preventive against cracks in the fruit, to which it also imparted 
superior flavor, at the same time that it increased the smoothness 
of the bark. 

He found, too, that native Grapes, previously much injured by 

rot and mildew, were saved from such diseases by the mulch. It 

should be, when settled, 5 or 6 inches thick, and if it is, straw or 

hay must be put on at first double that thickness. In the fall it 

should be drawn back from the trunks of the trees, to prevent mice 

from harboring in the straw, and under its cover feeding on the 

628 



ORCHARD. 629 

trees in winter. I have known men who thought themselves good 
farmers, spread straw under the trees towards the time of the 
ripening of the fruit, to prevent its getting bruised by falling on 
the ground. If they had spread it in the spring, they would have 
done better. 

If you cannot afford to mulch the whole area of the orchard, 
mulch around each tree, as far as the branches extend. If the 
orchard is set, where no orchard should be, in a wet, undr/rined 
place, a mulch would be injurious, as it would keep the earth too 
wet ; and in springy land, well drained, it would be less valuable, 
as the springs will give water enough, and the sun's rays are de- 
sirable, to warm the earth. 

58* 



CHAPTER LXIX. 



THE FARM. 



Every farmer is now in full tide of work. Those who grow 
sheep, in addition to their other work, must shear early in the 
month. The sheep must he driven home, taken to the washing 
place or trough, washed, assorted, sheared, clipped, marked, then 
turned out to their lambs. The wool is rolled up, weighed, packed 
and stored for market The whole process fully exercises the care 
and patience of the farmer and all his men, and it is to be the 
principal source of revenue for the year. The careless farmer 
turns his sheep, when shorn, out to the lambs, and then sends both 
off to pasture, where the poor creatures must take their chance of 
weather till the new wool has started sufficiently to protect His 
sheep naturally take cold and contract diseases, which are the cause 
of loss to him sooner or later ; a danger which may be mostly 
avoided by housing them after shearing, and on the approach of 
storms, and rubbing their bodies with refuse lard. 

This interlude coming at the heel of planting hurries the farmer 
very much, and materially deranges his economies if the season 
has been late, but on this very account, it is only the better test of 
excellence in farming, and a proof of the smoothness with which 
the affairs of the good farmer run. 

We have no sheep to care for ; those which we had in the win- 
ter being sold as soon as they were fattened. Our only live stock 
which need constant attention, are the cows and calves. 

The summer cows have been calving through May, some of them 
in June even. Examine each calf as it arrives ; if a heifer, see 
how it is marked and formed. If your eye has been trained, you 
will not easily be deceived, even in a new-born animal, at least you 
can decide on its merits before it is three days old. If you are not 
practised in judging of stock, buy Guenon's Treatise on the Marks 

630 



THE FARM. 631 

of Cattle. Though often sneered at by " practical men," and not in- 
fallible, it gives principles to guide jour selection which are of great 
value, and will prove correct in the vast majority of cases. In ex- 
amining a great many cows, I have not found one exception to his 
rules. Flint's Dairy Book will also be an aid to the farmer in the 
selection and treatment of cattle. All our calves will be Devon 
(direct, or crossed with stock we like), and as we wish to increase 
our stock, and have served our cows carefully, we shall raise every 
promising calf. Any which do not promise well, we shall either fat 
for veal, or kill when 3 days o}d. At that time the skin is valuable, 
and each day's delay in killing those which are unprofitable to raise 
or convert into veal, is a dead loss. 

The male calves, if full blooded, are to be still more carefully 
examined ; indeed, we should not decide how to dispose of them 
till they are some weeks old. Meantime feed them as well as you 
can. If we, or any of our neighbors, will want a new bull next 
year, or the year after that, select the one which is the best blooded 
in all respects, has the best ancestors (much depends on the milk- 
ing qualities of the female ancestry), and promises best for breed- 
ing. The rest are to be killed for veal when fat, or grown for 
beef and work, if fit for such purposes. You remember that I said 
when speaking of Devon beef, that it is the better for having done 
some work. 

Every farmer finds a difficulty in raising calves economically, 
and this arises, I think, from the general greediness for gain. The 
calves are grudged the milk which they take from sale of butter, 
and, consequently, all kinds of devices are resorted to to grow 
calves at a small cost Now one thing is settled: nothing for 
nothing ; a calf fed on weak, poor food, will make a coarse, poor 
animal, and the few cents saved in its infancy will cause a loss of 
many dollars in its maturity. 

If you want fine cows or oxen, feed them abundantly and well 
during their earliest months. This will strengthen their constitu- 
tions, and they will? afterwards thrive on poor pastures and less 
food. But stint them in their youth, and if they live, they will be 
no better than Pharaoh's lean kine. 

In Scotland, and many parts of England, calves are raised as fol- 



632 JUNE. 

low9 : as soon as some cow selected for the purpose brings a calf, 
another calf of the same age is bought, and one is tied on each 
6ide of the stall where the cow is, so that it can barely reach her 
bag. For a day or two she shows dislike of the new comer, but 
soon becomes wonted. The two calves suck the cow dry in a short 
time, and are then removed till time for the next meal. As they 
grow they are also fed on cut Potatoes, Hay, etc. In 8 or 10 weeks 
these calves are removed, and two others take their place, and are 
treated in the same way. It depends on the time at which the cow 
calved, whether she can bring up more than two sets ; if she has 
still milk, though it be only enough for one calf, let her fatten it. • 
In this way calves get great size and early maturity at a cost 
which is really small. The expense of the cow for the time is not 
more than $1 per week, and in 10 weeks, or for $10, she will have 
brought two calves into a fine, healthy condition, so that they can 
feed themselves. If you do not like to use your choice cows for the 
purpose, buy a more ordinary animal. 

C. F. Heard writes to the Country Gentleman, that he takes his 
calves away from the cow when three days old, and teaches them 
to drink by putting his fingers into their mouths, and then lowering 
his hand into the pail. After they have learned to drink, he gives 
them 4 quarts of milk, morning and night ; new milk for 4 weeks ; £ 
new, \ skim, with a little meal, for the next 2 weeks ; then all 
skim and more meal, for some time longer. He gives Barley, Rye, 
or bolted Oatmeal, but not Indian, as that makes them scour. At 
the end of about 8 weeks, he gives sour* milk from the cheese-press, 
or churn, and continues this as long as he has it, with some Meal, 
some Hay, and what Grass they will eat In the fall he houses 
them to keep them warm, gives soft Hay, cut Turnips, wind-fall 
Apples, etc. ; during the winter he gives Hay and Turnips. His 
calves weigh 600 to 800 pounds the first year, and on good feed, 
900 to 1,000 pounds at 2 years old ; at 3 years old, 1,200 to 1,400 
pounds, and, when matured, 2,000 pounds and upwards. 

• I think either of these methods will produce the desired result. 
The first gives the least trouble, although it will not succeed unless 
the calves are in the charge of a competent and careful man, and I 
do not doubt that is the cheapest 



THE FARM. 633 

Butter. — During this and the next two months, we must make 
our butter and cheese for the season. I do not mean that none is 
to be made at any other season, but the butter made off good, fresh 
feed, keeps better, and is higher flavored than that of any other 
season. 

Our milkroom is near the farm-house, which stands near the 
farm barn (see the general plan). The building is small, at a 
little distance from the back of the farm-house, faces the north, is 
well ventilated and shaded ; its windows are covered with wire 
gauze to shut out flies. The shelves are of slate slabs, f of an 
inch thick and 18 inches wide ; of course they can easily be kept 
clean and sweet, which is very important. The floor is also made 
of slate slabs, and the rooms are in addition kept sweet and clean 
by whitewash. The temperature wilfrrange throughout the sum- 
mer between 60° and 65°. In the centre is a well of constant 
cold water. 

Morning and night, during summer, the milk is carried directly 
to the milkroom or dairy, where it is strained into pans and at 
once set on the shelves, in charge of the dairy-woman. It is kept 
cool for at least 12 hours, and skimmed before it begins to sour; 
the cream put into jugs, till enough is collected to begin churning. 
No doubt sour curded cream will make butter, but the best butter 
comes from cream which is but slightly acid. 

The dairy-woman selects such a churn as suits her — one of the 
rotary kinds. 

" The churn is not soaked over night ; but in the morning put 
in a quart of boiling water, churn it 1 minute, then put in a pail- 
ful of cold water to remain in the churn 5 minutes, and the churn 
is ready for use. As soon as you have done with it, wash it well, 
dry it, and put it in a dry place. Churning should be done in the 
morning, while it is cool. Rapid churning is not the best ; but if 
the cream is acid and of the right temperature, it will require less 
than half an hour. The temperature of the cream to churn best 
should be 62°. If the cream is not acid, put it in a warm place 
for a short time to make it so. Never scald the milk or cream ; it 
gives a peculiar flavor, and is useless labor. I use tin pans to set 
my milk, because they are light to handle and are easily kept 



634 June. 

sweet and clean. The first cream that rises is best both in flavor 
and color." 

"The milk should not be set more than 24 hours, and it is 
better if skimmed in 12 hours, as what little might be' lost in 
quantity would be gained in quality/' 

" The cream should be kept in stone or glass jars, or well-glazed 
or enammelled ware, as the acid corrodes common coarse glazing, 
and it imparts poison to the cream." 

" The cream should not be covered, except by a gauze which 
will not exclude air. I put an ounce of salt into a 3 gallon jar, 
when I begin to fill it with cream, and stir the cream well morn- 
ing and night. It should not be kept more than a week. 

" As soon as the butter has come, I draw off the buttermilk, and 
remove the butter into a lodg wooden tray. Then I press out the 
buttermilk with hard-wood clappers (it would be better to use the 
table and roller shown in Flint's Dairy Book), and mix in by 
weight 1£ ounces of salt to the pound. I then work it over thor- 
oughly (but not long enough to heat it or make it like a salve), 
and mix in 2 ounces of white sugar to 10 pounds of butter. If it 
is for present use, I make it into balls and stamp it. But if it is 
to be kept for winter, I put it down solid into stone jars, sprinkling 
a very little salt on the surface, and covering it with a thick, fine 
cloth, put on the lid, and place the jar in a dry, cool place. It is 
better to fill the jar with one churning ; but if not able to do so, 
pack in each churning solid, and exclude the air till you get the 
jar full. 

" If it is to be kept a long time, or sent to sea, pour a little 
melted butter over the top of the jar before you put on the cloth. 

" It is very important to have good salt to use, as some salt gives 
the butter an unpleasant taste, and prevents it from Jteeping well." 
- 1 do not wash my butter, nor allow any water, hot or cold, to be 
put with the cream, to lower or raise the temperature when I churn, 
as it is very injurious to it. It washes out the flavor and sweet- 
ness from it, makes it insipid, and soon turns it rancid. The water 
which remains in it injures it more than buttermilk. I do not be- 
lieve it is possible to keep butter for any length of time thai has 
been washed. Some one should superintend the dairy to see that 



THE FARM. 635 

all is done as it should be." [Prize Essay, by Mrs. Winchester, 
of Brewer, Maine, read before the Maine State Agricultural So- 
ciety, at Bangor, 1857.] Tnere . are as many methods of making 
butter as people who make it The method given will insure a 
good result The same is true of 

Cheese. — We shall make some cheese for our own use ; and 
were the process more common, no farmer need buy cheese in 
order to get the best quality. One method is as follows : " Take a 
gallon and a half of water, and throw into it l£ pints of common 
salt Boil and skim it, and add 3 or 4 ounces of Rose leaves. 
After it is sufficiently steeped, let it cool, and put in 1 ounce of 
saltpetre and 4 rennets (calves' stomachs, properly prepared). 

" A great spoonful of this preparation is enough to turn 15 gal- 
lons of milk. When the curd is made, dip it out carefully and put 
it into a cloth that sets in a vessel with its bottom perforated with 
holes." 

" Let a person on each side take hold of the corners, and raise 
the curd carefully, and turn it from one side to the other of the 
cloth, in order to the better draining off of the whey. Then lay 
it as before in a vessel perforated With holes, and thus turn it once 
in fifteen or twenty minutes, and in the interval place a follower 
upon it with a stone above (a ' follower ' is a cover made to just fit 
into the vessel when lying on the curd, and which holds up a stone 
or heavy weight ; as the moisture presses out of the cheese or 
curd, and it shrinks, the board and weight follow the shrinkage), 
cutting the curd through each time." 

" When the whey is out, season it with salt to suit your palate, 
while cutting it up in small pieces with a knife ; then put it up for 
pressing. Let it stand under 30 or 40 pounds' weight for 24 hours, 
and then turn it and let it stand under the same for 24 hours more. 
A severe pressure, which is sometimes given, spoils a rich cheese 
entirely." A following weight, in this case, is better than a screw 
press. With a screw press, you may indeed tighten to any extent, 
but when the pressure has forced the whey out, and the cheese 
shrinks, the screw no longer exerts any pressure. 

44 Set your cheeses in closets made for the purpose, in which flies 



686 juke. 

cannot enter, and turn them every day. By using the patent 
cheese shelf, you can turn a large number at once." 

" The outside should be scraped clean, then be rubbed with a 
mixture of butter and Spanish Brown, which answers very well ; 
but other mixtures answer equally well." 

" A small quantity of Anatto (which imparts a yellow color), 
say the size of a kernel of Rye, sewed up in a cloth, may be put 
in each curd." 

" Never wash out your cheese-cloth in soap, but rinse it out in 
whey." 

The cheese-room may be in the dairy-house, but should be sepa- 
rated from the butter department, as the peculiar acids of the cheese 
tend to affect the sweetness and flavor of the butter. 

The careful making of butter and cheese is both important and 
profitable. Really choice butter commands a very high price. In 
the summer the prices which milkmen pay for milk are ruinously 
low, and it is much more profitable to work up your milk yourself. 
Buttermilk and whey are the very best food for young pigs, partic- 
ularly when they are at Grass. 

The method of making cheese differs materially with each 
county, I might say town, in the United States, and England. The 
method I have quoted may not be the best of all, but it will un- 
questionably produce a good article, and if your dairy-woman is 
good she will improve. 

Fowls. — By the last of May, or the first of June, all the fowls 
will have hatched, or be on the point of hatching. 

I mentioned in May that nests should be prepared. I will now 
briefly describe the proper management of fowls. 

All fowls show great eagerness to lay in bushes, tufts of Grass, 
etc, and cannot be relied on to furnish eggs unless regularly con- 
fined to their house. Undoubtedly fowls which are allowed to 
stroll and lay where they please, are more certain to bring up broods 
of young, but their eggs are lost and they form bad habits. If their 
house is warm, they will, after once becoming habituated to 'it, lay 
and set there. The setting or hatching-house should be apart from 
the laying-house, as all fowls, and particularly hens, are annoyed by 



THE FARM. 637 

the presence of others duping incubation. Eleven eggs are enough 
to put under any fowl, as many as she can well take care of ; the 
size of the egg being proportioned to the size of the fowl. Ducks 
set so badly that it is best to hatch their eggs under hens. 

Make the nests in roomy boxes, or baskets, raised a little above 
the floor. For geese they should be particularly low, as they find 
difficulty in climbing. Hay or Straw should be stuffed into the 
corners to keep the eggs in place. There should be room enough 
for the bird without its tail being bent up, or turned to one side, 
which pains the bird, and often interrupts her setting. 

Set hens 3 weeks, ducks 4 weeks, turkeys 4 weeks, geese a cal- 
endar month. The hen is the least reliable setter of the three, and 
is very fastidious. Select a large, well-feathered hen, of a mild 
and gentle disposition ; so soon as you find that she wishes to set, 
which may be known by her setting resolutely in a box or on the 
floor, remove her at night, just about roosting time, to the nest pre- 
pared, and put a couple of old eggs under her. She may dislike 
the place ; change her quarters till she is suited. If she is removed 
in the daytime and covered from the light, she will be frightened, 
and will desert her eggs and lose her desire to set. After she has 
covered the 2 eggs for a day, remove them at night and put in 
the 11 eggs which she is to hatch ; put near her plenty of water 
and food, and a box of ashes, in which she may roll when she 
comes off the nest to drive out lice, etc., and let her come off the 
nest to look for food when she pleases ; if she is well selected and 
a £ood mother, if the food and water are near, she will eat and 
return immediately ; and if she refuses to do so it is useless to try 
to force her ; either set another hen on the same eggs, try to hatch 
them in an oven, or abandon them. 

Never try to release the chicks when nearly hatched, by break- 
ing the shell or removing pieces ; the proceeding will hurt or kill 
them. After they are all out, set near them a plate with crumbled 
bread and meal, and some water, and give the hen food. If the day is 
fair, put the nest into a portable hutch, and remove hen and chicks 
and food, to some open gravelled space. The chicks will run about in 
the sun, and get food and strength ; if rain threatens, put them 
under cover. In a few days they will be strong enough to take care 

54 



638 june. 

of themselves. Feed them every 3 hours for the first few days, 
and afterwards 3 times a day, if you wish them to grow fast 
Boiled Potatoes, Indian meal, crumbs of bread, etc., are fit food. 

If it is ducks that are hatched, keep them in the house for a 
few days, away from the water, and feed on bread soaked in water, 
Barley meal porridge, boiled Potato, and olher laxative food, and 
continue this fare after they go out As soon as they are fit to go 
out, take them to a shallow pond in some retired place,- where 
they will not get frightened or drowned by larger birds. In a week 
they will be strong and able to take care of themselves. 

Turkeys are rather shy and difficult to raise. Contrary to the 
law in all . other fowls, a single impregnation fertilizes the whole 
contents of the ovarium. The turkey lays her egg, if possible, in 
secluded places. Keep her in the house every day till she has 
laid ; remove the egg at once to a dry place, and turn it carefully 
every day. When she shows a desire to set, set her at night 
Once set she is very constant: Place food near her and keep her 
nest cleared of dung and loose feathers ; when the poults are all 
out, be very careful of them for a few days. Some persons rec- 
ommend that a pepper-corn be thrust down their throats directly ; 
and as turkeys are fond of stimulating food, the pepper may warm 
their stomachs and give an appetite. 

The old bird should be well fed with coarse meal, etc, but the 
poults will eat nothing for 24 hours ; after that time their appetite 
comes. 

The first danger is from a continued purging, which soon kills the 
young bird ; feed with finely chopped, boiled egg every 3 hours, for 
a fortnight After the young birds have eaten, remove the food 
they leave, out of the mother's way ; at the same time give water 
in a shallow vessel. 

After two days, if the weather is fine, set the turkey in a coop 
on the gravel or short grass, during the bright part of the day, 
feeding her with coarse porridge, boiled Potatoes, and water, and 
the poults with the chopped egg. Confine them to the house if 
foul weather threatens. A week of fine weather will make them 
strong enough to follow the mother, and she can then have her lib- 
erty ; the poults will begin to pick up insects, and will thrive and 



THE FARM. 639 

grow astonishingly. The turkey is a very careful protector of her 
young, and you need have no hesitation in trusting them to her as 
soon as they are able to run about. 

The goose is more difficult to manage. Not only must she be* 
impregnated for each egg, but impregnation can only be effected in 
the water ; and when she shows signs of laying, she must be caught 
every morning before she leaves the house, and felt, to" learn if the 
egg is hard and ready to come away. If it is, confine her till she 
lays, then let her go ; remove the egg to a dry place and turn it 
carefully every day. When she is ready to set make a low nest 
for her, and manage like a hen or turkey. 

In all these cases, when the eggs are hatched, one side of the 
nest should be opened and sloped down, in order to allow the chicks 
easy passage to and fro. 

Let the goose go off when she pleases, but keep food near, dry 
boiled Potato, Barley porridge, and Oats, for she easily becomes 
constipated. If she run for the water when she comes off, do not 
be alarmed ; her feathers will not soak water, or chill the eggs, and 
wrapped up in the down with which she has surrounded them, the 
eggs will not cool, even though her absence be long. 

If there are ganders enough, one pairs with each goose ; and if 
there be but one gander, although he will serve each goose, he se- 
lects one for a mate, stays by her nest, and protects her against all 
intruders. 

So soon as the goslings are out of the shell, even before they are 
dry, if it is fair weather, take them in a basket, and the goose by 
the wings, and carry them to a warm, dry spot in a Grass field, and 
leave them there so long as it is clear and warm ; if rain threatens, 
remove at once, as the goslings must not get their backs wet for the 
first 2 or 3 days ; if this happens they will grow weak in the 
legs and die or become worthless. In wet weather, cut a good sod 
and put it near the nest ; they need to peck young Grass. Set near 
them a shallow plate of water, blocked up so that it cannot tip over 
on to the goslings, who will certainly walk into it. 

In a few days they, grow strong, but for a week still need watch- 
ing, for if one of them fall into a rut in a cart track, or is caught 
in a tuft of Grass and turned upon its back, it cannot right itself, 



640 JUNE. 

and the mother marches off and leaves it to die. After three days 
of sunny weather the goslings may be allowed to go to the pond. 
At the week's end they will be out of danger, and if well fed will 
•grow rapidly. 

If these directions for rearing fowls are followed, they will give 
good broods. Hasty as they are, they must suffice. For accounts 
of fancy breeds and their management, you must consult special 
treatises. 

The early broods of chickens often hatch in April, and then the 
hen rears another brood in the fall. It is the earliest and latest 
broods which are most valuable ; of course they are also the most 
troublesome. The very early chicks will often lay in the succeedr 
ing winter. 

The important things in a henhouse are warmth, good ventila- 
tion, and light ; and without plenty of good care you cannot have 
plenty of eggs. The demand for poultry is enormous. Thousands 
of tons are consumed in our large cities every winter, and for that 
which is well grown and well prepared for the market, very remu- 
nerative prices may be got. 

But very few persons understand how to prepare poultry for 
market, and, as a consequence, it comes in a bruised and uninviting 
condition, and commands but a low price. 

The proper method is to hang the fowl up by the legs, open a 
vein in the throat, and allow it to bleed to death. As soon as it is 
dead, plunge it in boiling water for a few minutes, long enough to 
heat the fat just under the skin, lay it under a thick covering to 
steam and loosen the feathers ; then withdraw, pick carefully, again 
plunge in hot water, immediately withdraw ; the skin will then 
have a rich oily appearance ; dry and cool. Never draw fowls ; 
they do not keep as well, or sell for as much as the undrawn. 

Pack in roomy boxes ; put under each layer a little soft Straw, 
or wrap each bird in paper, which is better ; fill the box tight with 
birds and paper ; then screw on the cover, and send to market. 
Your poultry will command several cents per pound more than if 
put up in the common way. 

Summer Culture op Root Crops. — To return to the farm. 
Press forward the planting as rapidly as possible. By the middle 



TUB FAHlf. 641 

of the month the Com will be tit for the first hoeing ; if it is very 
weedy and heavy, send the horse-plough through the rows each way, 
turning the soil from the Corn. Then, if the soil is not well pulver- 
ized, send the cultivator through in the same way, which will 
spread the earth out level again. If the land is in fair condition, 
and not stony, send the cultivator first, or better still, the horse-hoe. 
This is the best tool which can be used in common land, not too 



When the team comes out, let the men go in with hoes, and cut 
away all the weeds from about the Com. Cut out or pull up all 
but four stalks, and then draw up the loose earth about the young 
stalks. If the land is in good condition, this can be done rapidly 
and easily. 

Never hill the Cora. If the land is wet, and you think to drain 
it by hilling, you will be disappointed ; the land must be drained. 
The only result of hilling will be to loosen the hold which the Corn 
has on the soil. Corn sends out aerial rootlets as it grows. If it 
is hilled, these roots go into the loose earth of the hill and get no 
firm hold ; if there is no hill, they descend to the firm earth and 
strengthen the plant. Some of the roots of Com spread near the 
surface ; if it is hilled, these go into the hill and get no hold. 

Treat Potatoes in the same way, only drawing earth enough 
about their roots to secure a covering for the tubers as they grow, 
for any that are exposed to the sun become worthless. But even 
Potatoes should not be hilled much. 



642 june. 

The only difference in managing other crops is, that for most ot 
them the horse-hoe and the cultivator should be used, instead of 
the plough. These two tools will leave little to be done by the 
hand-hoe, in land which has been well tilled ; the hoer need only 
go over the field, and clear away the few weeds which escaped the 
machines. The cost of cultivating by horse power is small, — 
$1.00 to $1.50 per acre. 

In cultivating the Root crop, the Radishes will mark the row* 
and guide the boy who leads the horse. As soon as the cultivator 
or horse-hoe has opened the rows, the men should follow with hoes, 
and thin the Roots to the proper distance : 8 inches for Carrots ; 
9 for Parsnips; 10 to 12 for Ruta Bagas; 12 to 14 for Mangold 
Wurzel. Leave wider gaps, rather than smaller than these. 

The " singling " or thinning may be done rapidly and surely by 
hoes, with a little practice ; any man who can chop wood well, 
striking surely where he aims, can thin Roots. He must walk 
down the row sicjewise, facing the row to be thinned. If his hoe 
is 4 inches wide, two blows will thin the plants to 8 inches, three 
blows to 1 2 inches. The remaining plants will fall over when de- 
prived of the accustomed support from their neighbors, but will 
soon revive if the hoe has not touched them. Another man should 
follow the singler, and cut away any weeds which remain, and 
draw with the hoe a very little earth about the plants that are to 
6tand. By the next day all these will revive. 

The horse-hoe should go through the rows again as soon as the 
weeds show, and if many weeds have started among the plants 
they must be hoed by hand ; after which the roots will outgrow 
and smother all weeds, and cover the ground too closely to allow 
any new ones to start. 

If there is any market for the Radishes, or if the stock will eat 
them, they may be drawn after the horse-hoe has marked the rows, 
and before the Roots are singled. If there is a market near, Rad- 
ishes will generally pay more than the expense of their seed, and 
the trouble of drawing, washing, and tying in bundles. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beets, may be sowed early in the month, 
Ruta Bagas and Mangold Wurzel from the 20th June to the 20th 
July. 



THE FARM. 648 

For Mangold Wurzel and Ruta Bagas, well-ploughed, inverted 
foA will answer very well, particularly if ploughed with the Mich- 
igan plough. Parsnips and Carrots thrive on a sod well turned 
with the Michigan plough, where the subsoil plough is also used. 
But for all these crops stubble land is best, as their roots penetrate 
very deep, and unless the sod is so placed as to rot rapidly, they 
will not thrive, and a deep soil, as shown by the cut, is a tine iju/i 
mm for successful Root culture. 



I do not recommend for any of these crops that the land be cul- 
tivated in ridges. It is a practice brought from England, where 
rains are frequent, and the water must be hastened in its flow 
from the surface ; we rarely have too much water, and wet land 
should not be devoted to this crop. 



644 june. 

The rows of Carrots and Parsnips should be 20 inches apart, 
those of Ruta Bagas and Beets, 27 inches to 32 inches apart 

As these crops are not to be sowed till late, the ground on which 
they are to grow, whether stubble or sod, should be ploughed in 
the fall, or very early in the spring. Plough as early as possible, 
and leave it in the furrow. In June, there will be a good crop of 
weeds; cross plough and harrow thoroughly. Be sure that all 
your rows are perfectly straight. If you do not use a drill which 
will sow the seed and the artificial manure together, sow for Car- 
rots, Parsnips, and Mangold Wurzel, 200 pounds guano or super- 
phosphate to the acre ; for Ruta Bagas, and other Turnips, 400 
pounds bones, or 200 pounds guano or superphosphate, and then 
harrow. If the seed and manure are sown together from a drill, 
harrow first. When the manure is sowed broadcast, the seed 
should be sowed from a seed sower, which should be set for the 
kind of seed used. Secure a stick at right angles to the line of 
draught, and hang from its end a piece of heavy chain, which 
will mark on the soft earth a line parallel to the first row sowed 
by the sower or drill. Let the machine be drawn straight through 
the field in the line of the feering-poles, and return in the line 
marked by the chain. 

The seed of Mangold Wurzel, if good, need not be sowed nearer 
than 6 inches ; 4 inches' is proper for good Ruta Baga. Carrot 
seed being generally poor, may be sowed 2 inches apart ; Parsnips 
the same. To sow an acre, you need 3J pounds of Carrot seed, 
4 of Parsnips, 2^ to 3 of Ruta Bagas, 3 to 6 of Mangold Wurzel. 
For the latter, sow 500 to 1,000 pounds salt, broadcast. • This crop 
has not been grown so extensively in this country as the others. 
The English plan of throwing the land into ridges, which has been 
found unnecessary for the other Roots, after trial, will undoubtedly 
be rejected in the case of Mangold, though it is recommended for it 
now. 

The English farmers, whose Roots are in drills, find it a good 
plan to go over the rows and draw the earth from the roots, that it 
may not cramp them, as they get most of their size above the sur- 
face. Should it be found that they are thus cramped when sown 



THE FARM. 645 

flat, the plough could be run through the rows at the time of sec- 
ond hoeing, leaving the share close to the row, throwing the earth 
out a little into the middle ; but it is doubtful whether the gain 
would pay for the trouble. 

With sowing the Boot crops the June planting ends, unless 
Millet is planted for fodder, which may be done as late as 1st 
July. 

The Grass of the lawn should be cut with the lawn mowing 
machine at least twice in June, and may be fed green to the cows, 
or made into Hay. Other Grass will not be cut till July, as in a 
well-managed rotation there is no June Grass. 

You may begin to cut Corn fodder as soon as the Rye is gone, 
if the Corn is large enough ; if not, the lawn Grass will supply its 
place for awhile. 

If you have any leisure, draw muck and other waste material 
to the yard, for compost It would be a good plan never to return 
to the barn at noon or night without a load of some such material ; 
in this way a large accumulation may be made at no expense. 

Tie up the cows every night in the stable, and open all the win- 
dows and the ugper half of the doors, for ventilation. The cows 
will be just as cool as if in the yard, and the manure will be 
saved. 

Remember to keep the fowls close, else they will do much mis- 
chief. 



CHAPTER LXX. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



I shall not enter into details with regard to making a proper plan 
for the improvement of your place, for as I have said, this is prop- 
erly the work of the landscape gardener. Justice cannot be done 
to the subject in the limits of this book, and were it to be written 
out with all possible minuteness, there would be left unsaid much 
that can only be learned from experience. 

Before making a plan, the landscape gardener will require a 
careful topographical survey of your place, which shall show ex- 
actly the boundaries, the situation of the buildings, of all prom- 
inent single trees, of all groups of trees, hills, valleys and the 
general changes of surface, the water-courses, springs, and ponds; 
and which shall give the levels of so much of the land as it may 
be necessary to operate on. And before this is made, he should 
himself walk over the place with you, and say what he thinks it 
well to do ; and if he does not make his own survey, should care- 
rally point out to the surveyor what he wants included in the 
survey. An accurate survey and- a large amount of levelling are 
as important to the value of your plan, as for the plan of a railroad. 

If your house is standing on your place, your adviser should^ go in 
and acquaint himself with the views from the windows, in order to 
know what objects it is desirable to show and what to conceal. 

This preliminary survey will be expensive, but yet the cheapest 
thing for which you spend money in beautifying your place. On 
the plan, or a copy of it, the artist will lay down the improvements 
proposed ; the plan of improvements will be made to a scale, and 
when carried into effect, the plan will fit the grounds, and mean 
what it appears to mean on paper. 

The important features in your improvements are : — 

646 



i 



ORNAMENTAL. 647 

1st The point of entrance and the management of the ap- 
proach. 

2nd. The location and treatment of water, artificial or natural 
and the proper amount of drainage. 

3rd. The location of flower-beds or flower-gardens. 

4th. The location of kitchen-garden. 

5th. The location of greenhouse, conservatory, grapery, and 
garden structures. 

6th. The drive or walk. 

By this name I designate a road or path which may carry one 
naturally and easily about the whole place in such a way as to dis- 
play its beauty and open that of the surrounding country. If the 
place is large enough I should always make this path at least 12 
feet wide, and 15 is better, to allow the passage of a large carriage. 
But if the limits do not allow of a carriage road, carry a footpath 
about so much of the place as it is desirable to visit, taking care 
not to cut up the surface more than is necessary, but to leave the 
land in as large masses as possible. Never curve or distort it 
merely to gain lengthy never curve it where it would be better 
straight, and never make it straight where a curve would have more 
beauty, or would display the surface to better advantage. But I 
have already said enough about paths and avenues. 

The situations of the various comforts and ornaments mentioned 
will depend on circumstances, which cannot be readily foreseen. 
In our selection of sites we must be guided by the general princi- 
ples already laid down. 

# 

Lawns. — In the fall I spoke of the necessity of thorough culti- 
vation to a good lawn ; but I do not consider that it is necessary to 
cultivate a lawn for a year or two in a hoed crop in order to reduce 
the soil to the fine condition best appreciated by grass. A beau- 
tiful and permanently satisfactory lawn may be made in a single 
season and economically, however rough the surface. 

If you wish for a lawn this summer it will be necessary to grub 
and trench the surface, carefully throwing out all roots and stones, 
and mixing the manure as described in September. I think it un- 
questionable that a lawn well made and manured from the rough 



648 june. 

sod, from a bushy pasture or a forest, if well drained would be bet- 
ter than when first cultivated, for the crop we take off generally re- 
moves quite as much as it adds, if not more, whilst the after cul- 
ture is the same in both cases. 

Suppose a beginning to be made With a rough bush pasture, a 

« 

piece of forest or a grass field. If you wish to kill the trees and 
bushes before you remove them, it is best to cut them •in June or 
August, and burn them. Open a trench as before, and as you 
trench leave on the surface every rock and root By trenching 
deep you can get under and around the roots, and take them out 
more easily. Before this or at the same time, cut the proper drains. 
If you begin with a good force of men as soon as the frost is out 
of the ground, the work may be done by the middle of May. . 

Cart the manure on to the field as the work goes on, and pile it, 
so that you can spread and dig it into the trenches. When the 
land is all ready, harrow or rake in a couple of hundred pounds of 
super-phosphate or guano and gypsum, with the Grass seed, and 
either three-fourths of a bushel of Spring Rye, a bushel of Oats, or 
three-fourths of a bushel of Barley to the acre. If the land is light, 
roll it The Grain will be very thinly spread, and will germinate 
about the same time as the grass. When it is 2 inches high, as it 
will be in a fortnight, the whole lawn will be a rich green color. In 
a month it will be a foot high, and the young Grass among it fairly 
green. Send a mower over it, and cut the Grain rather high above 
the surface, say 2 to 3 inches. It will then start again, and although 
it will not grow so fast as before, in another month it will be fit to 
cut again. And though it is then July, the Grass will be strong 
and green, and in August or September the whole may be cut a 
third time. 

Or, instead of sowing Grass when you plant Grain, sow the Grain 
more thickly (2 to 3 bushels per acre), and let it grow till it is 2 to 
3 feet high ; then roll it down and plough it well under with a deep 
tiller plough. The ground will then have been green from within 
a week of the sowing till the time of ploughing under. In either 
case, after rolling, and before ploughing, spread 20 bushels of lime 
to the acre on argillaceous, loamy, or sandy land, which will both 
enrich the land and hasten the decay of the green crop ; harrow 



ORNAMENTAL. 649 

the land immediately, and either sow the Grass seed alone, or with 
Millet, 10 to 15 quarts to the acre ; the Millet will be up in a 
week, and make the field green again ; cut it for fodder as soon as 
it is high enough, or leave it for Hay. It will not cure properly 
unless cut by the middle of August or the very first of September, 
on account of its great succulence. Very few fodder crops give as 
good return as Millet It may be sowed as late as the middle of 
July, and will throw up a fodder crop in August or September, of 
3 or 4 tons of dry Hay. But remember that if you take this crop, 
you exhaust the land in proportion. 

In either of these ways you may have a green lawn during the 
whole season, with the exception of an interval of two or three 
weeks, and I think either of them better than the Corn and Potato 
system. 

When land is poor, and good manure is scarce, a different system 
should prevail. Dig and trench thoroughly as soon as the frost is 
gone, and sow Spring Grain of any kind very thickly. As soon as 
the Grain is in blossom, dig or plough it in together with lime (5 
to 150 bushels lime to the acre ; the larger amount if the land 
needs it, and has had none for years ; oyster-shell lime is best) ; 
sow Grain again, Buckwheat, Oats, or Millet, and when that is 
well grown and presents a fair sward, plough it in ; and manure 
each time with 300 to 500 lbs. guano to the acre ; after the second 
time sow for a permanent lawn; 

These methods of making a lawn are more expensive than Corn 
and Potatoes, but quicker and thorough ; you are not laying down 
a Grass field ; and remember always that no permanent evergreen, 
summer, and satisfactory lawn can be made unless the work is 
done thoroughly and deeply, and with a liberal expenditure. Made 
in this complete manner, a lawn will defy all ordinary vicissitudes 
for 10 or 15 years. It should be top-dressed spring and fall, with 
well-rotted stable manure, guano, ground bones, super-phosphate, or 
wood ashes. 

• 

Two divisions of the ornamental treatment of our place have 

been untouched, or barely referred to : Water and Plantations. 
They will be spoken of in the two months which yet remain. 

55 



1 



650 JUNE. 

During June our grounds will need some attention. All the per- 
manent lawn should be mowed once or twice during the month. 
The walks must be constantly examined, to free them from weeds, 
and repair the damages from storms. 

Watch the growth of the vines on the arbors and trellises, and 
train every shoot before it gets the wrong direction, or is too long 
to be bent. It is not too late to set out Madeira vines and Mauran- 
dya, which have been started in hotbeds, to cover naked spots. 

4 

Much variety may be produced in prominent situations, by setting 
down wire baskets on to the turf, cutting out the sward inside the 
basket, and planting there greenhouse or bedding plants, Roses, etc. 
In the same way portable trellises of wire, of low dwarf, fantastic 
shapes, may be set about in appropriate spots, for Madeira, Mau- 
randia, Ipomea, and the other vines which have been started before. 

When these vines are used in wire baskets they both screen and 
ornament them by twining in and out. 

June is the month for the purest delight in nature, and, busy as 
the farmer is, he may have ample time for enjoyment. No month 
is so rich in Nature's bounties. The fields are so yellow with But- 
tercups, that they seem to reflect the sun, whilst the air is vocal 
with the song of birds ; now the days are at their longest, as 
though it were intended that there should be time for all men 
to do their fair share of work, and yet enjoy the beauty about 
them. Whoever is deaf to June, insensible to her promises 
and delights, is to be pitied, and it is in vain to appeal to him 
to become either the best farmer, or the best man. The generous 
promises and opportunities of this beautiful month are more 
worthily expressed in the following lines, by James Russell 
Lowell, in the " Vision of Sir Lanufal," than in any other words 
in verse or prose : — 

" There is no price set on the lavish summer, 
And June may be had by the poorest comer 

" And what w so rare as a day in June? 
Then, if ever, come perfect days ; 
Then Heaven tries the earth if it be in tune, 
And over it softly, her warm ear lays ; 



J 



ORNAMENTAL. 651 

Whether wo look, or whether we listen, 
We hear life murmur, or see it glisten ; 
Every clod feels a stir of might, 

An instinct within it, that reaches and towers, 
And, grasping blindly above it for light, 

Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers ; 
The flash of life may well be seen 

Thrilling back over hills and valleys ; 
The Cowslip startles in meadows green, 

The Buttercup catches the sun in its chalice, 
And there's never a leaf or a blade too mean 

To be some happy creature's palace ; 
The little bird sits at his door in the sun, 
. Atilt like a blossom among the leaves, 
And lets his illumined being o'errun 

With the deluge of summer it receives ; 
His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings, 
And the heart in her dumb breast, flutters and sings ; 
Ho sings to the wide world, and she to her nest, — 
In the nice ear of Nature, which song is the best ? 
Now is the high-tide of the year, 

And whatever of life hath ebbed away, 
Comes flooding back, with a ripply cheer, 

Into every bare inlet, and creek, and bay ; 
Now the heart is so full that a drop overfills it, 
We are happy now, because God so wills it ; 
No matter how barren the past may have been, 
'Tis enough for us now that the leaves are green. 
We sit in the warm shade and feel right well ; 
How the sap creeps up, and the blossoms swell ; 
We may shut our eyes, but we cannot help knowing, 
That skies are clear, and grass is growing ; 
The breeze comes whispering in our /ear, 
That Dandelions are blossoming near, 

That, maize has sprouted, that streams are flowing, 
That the river is bluer than the sky, 
That the robin is plastering his house hard by ; 
And if the breeze kept the good news back, 
For other couriers we should not lack ; 

We could guess it all by yon heifer's lowing, — 
And hark ! how clear bold chanticleer. 
Warmed with the new wind of the year, 

Tells all in his lusty crowing. 



652 june. 



u 



Joy comes, grief goes, we know not how ; 
Every thing is happy now, — 

Every thing is upward striving ; 
'Tis as easy now for the heart to be true, 
As for grass to be green, or skies to be blue, 

'Tis the natural way of living." 



CHAPTER LXXL 

CONSERVATORY, ETC. 

ULT. — The cuttings, layers, etc, for the fall 
stock of plants, must receive constant attention; 
some will be well rooted for repotting, others 
' must continue in the frames and seedbeds. 
The sleep of the plants still continues, or 
£ rather, is now at its depth ; to pursue the nat- 
& ural analogy, it is now midwinter for them. 
Pelargoniums are now out of blossom ; cut back, make cuttings, 
and repot as directed before. Towards the last of the month, be- 
gin to repot the plants which need it, and whose growth has recom- 
menced, and re-adjust plants, giving fresh earth when needed. 

Examine the buds on the Oranges and other budded plants, and 
when they have well taken, cut them down. 

Pot Roses and plunge them in the earth, or set in cold frames 
till fall. Make cuttings, and repot Neapolitan Violets ; make cut- 
tings of Azalea. 

Continue to give abundant water to the plants and bulbs in flower 
in the greenhouse and conservatory, and pay strict attention to fruit 
in the graperies. 

The retarding-house will be in its vigorous young growth now, 
and must not be neglected. Continue to propagate for the fall, 
sowing seeds of Mignonette, etc. 

The Polyanthus, Primrose, and other seeds which were sown 
last fall, are now to be potted off for fall flowers. 

Give occasional waterings when necessary, to layers of Pinks, 
etc Well-rooted Chrysanthemums will need potting ; sow seeds 
of Cineraria. 



CHAPTER LXXIL 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



Work and enjoyment share this month in the flower-garden. 

Remove all weeds as soon as visible ; take up the bulbs as soon 
as ripe enough ; pick off decaying leaves from Auriculas, Ranun- 
culuses, etc, as they injure the plants if left ; assort, dry, and lay 
aside the seedling Ranunculuses and Anemones. 

The rosary will be in splendid condition the first of the month. 
As the plants go out of blossom, cut off the hips, and cutback Per- 
petuate for a new growth. 

Verbenas will have begun to run in the beds, and should be 
pinned so as to fill out any shapes you please. 

Geraniums will grow strong and rapidly. They must be fol- 
lowed daily and trained gradually ; if carefully managed,, they can 
be made to cover their beds entirely, and will be a mass of brilliant 
flowers in August. 

Heliotropes may be trained and pinned down, but do not need it 
as much as Geraniums; they make more pliable shoots, which 
naturally incline to weep and cover the earth. 

Salvias are easily trained so as to cover the beds. In July most 
of this work must be done, as the bending should begin with their 
growth and be concurrent with it For the smaller plants, old 
rusty or imperfect hair-pins are excellent for fastening the shoots to 
the earth ; they can be bought very cheap by the hundred. The 
stronger plants, like Salvia and Geranium, need long forked sticks, 
such as for layering. 

Many annuals, like Cacalia, Mignonette, and others, weep readily 
and cover the ground, but others must be trained. 

The reserve garden must be carefully cultivated in July, to give 
succession plants for August 

Carnations and Picotees will be in blossom now, and if there is a 

654 



FLO WEB-GARDEN. 655 

good collection, they will give a brilliancy to their section .of the 
garden, second only to that of the Roses. 

The variety of Carnations is very great, and as I have before 
said, the common kinds are .beautiful and desirable, and by sowing 
the seeds, charming collections may be made, though only of com- 
mon kinds. The choice varieties, which are the result of long and 
careful culture, you can hardly expect to get once in a hundred 
times. They are increased in numbers from pipings and layers. 

" Carnations are divided into three classes : Flakes, Bizarres, and 
Picotees. Flakes have but two colors, and the stripes are large, 
going quite through the petals. Bizarres are variegated in irreg- 
ular spots and stripes, and with not less than three colors. Pico- 
tees have a white ground, spotted or pounced with scarlet, red, 
purple, and other colors. These are again divided into Pink Flake, 
Purple Flake, etc., Scarlet Bizarre, Crimson Bizarre, etc., Purple 
Picotee, Yellow Picotee, etc." 

These varieties are best grown from layers. Begin to layer the 
last of July or first of August, or when just in flower, that they 
may get well rooted before winter. Lay them in the ground, to 
be afterwards potted ; if left too long, the wood does not strike so 
readily. Before layering, water the plants well ; then take the 
shoot to be layered in band ; cut off all the lower leaves, leaving 
a few on the upper part; with a sharp knife cut into the stem be- 
low a convenient joint, and up through a joint ; then .bend down 
and treat like other layers. It is well to cut off the 'tongue of the 
layer, back to the joint, as it has to decay before the joint will cal- 
lus or emit roots. The layers should be covered with about two 
inches of good compost Do not water for a day or two, as the 
tongue should dry a little. 

If there is more grass (technical term for young shoots) than 
can be conveniently layered, make cuttings or pipings of them. 

Cuttings will take most certainly if set into a dungbed of mod- 
erate heat, and if any cuttings upon potting have callused and not 
rooted, if removed to a fresh hotbed, with a stronger heat, they 
will strike. 

The best soil for them is well-rotted turf from an old pasture. 
A soil recommended by Hogg, is, " Two barrows light loam, one 



656 july. 

of leaf mould, one of old frame dung, half a barrow of old cow 
dung, and a quarter of a barrow of river sand" 

When they are to be blossomed in pots, they are potted for the 
last time in March, in 1 1 inch pots. Let the soil be dry for a few 
days before shifting ; set them into a dry and somewhat shaded 
place, and water moderately at first through the rose of the water- 
ing-pot. Tie the flower shoots up neatly to small green rods, or 
to stiff copper wire. 

As the buds appear, cut out some, to insure the perfect develop- 
ment of the remainder. As they approach blooming, care must 
be taken that they do not break the calyx irregularly. All Pinks 
are very apt to split one side of the calyx, when the petals burst 
through the opening, and this spoils the beauty of the flower. To 
prevent this, when the petals first show, tie a thread, or better, slip 
an India rubber band round the top of the calyx ; then with a 
sharp knife cut slightly the notches between its divisions. The 
edge of this notch is hard, and it is the difficulty of breaking it 
regularly that causes the flower to split one side. If cut a little, 
there will be no trouble. 

Great care must be taken that wire worms do not get into the 
pots or around the young layers. If the plants are of weak-grow- 
ing kinds, two may be potted for flowering into the same pot ; but 
only one of the stronger varieties should be allowed. 

Carnations and Picotees naturally blossom in June,and July ; it 
is difficult to force them, though the ever-blooming or tree varieties 
may be forced for winter and spring. For this purpose, a year's 
previous culture is necessary. After layering, induce growth, and 
as the shoots lengthen, pinch them back occasionally to render the 
plants stocky, and pick off buds. Treat like other plants, shifting 
occasionally as they grow. They will begin the second winter full 
of sap and buds, and will blossom very profusely. They will 
blossom the winter and spring after layering, if not prevented. 

When Picotees are approaching maturity, if they are to be ex- 
hibited, the beauty of the flower is shown to advantage by cutting 
a broad ring of paper, and slipping it under the petals ; the con- 
trast brings out both color and form. When the petals do not lay 
over regularly, they may be drawn into place with delicate ivory 



I 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 657 

pincers, all which will not reflex smoothly, being turned . into the 
centre. 

" A perfect Carnation is round ; the outer or guard petals should 
rise perpendicularly inside the calyx, about £ inch above it ; should 
then turn out at right angles and lie over it $ should be thick and 
uniform; from these the other petals should retreat in regular, 
symmetrical circles to the centre, which should be well filled with 
them. Each petal should be flat, with only slight undulations in it, 
and its edge should be smooth, not fringed and rounded, without 
notch or indentation. This is the most apparent distinction be- 
tween Carnations and other Pinks. The border of the Picotee 
petals, however, are minutely serrated. The colors should always 
be pure and clearly defined." 

" When the layers are well rooted, they should be potted, if not 
layered into pots, and set aside in a cool place till winter, when 
they should be kept in a cold pit till towards spring (see March). 

The varieties of common Pinks are Grass Pinks, well known, 
and often used for borders, Pheasant Eyes, and Cob Pinks. The 
last are the largest, and are supposed to be a cross between the 
Grass Pink and the Carnation. The early Red Pinks are prob- 
ably a cross between these and the Dianthus Deltoides or Ar- 
meria. 

They may be propagated by pipings and layers, like Carna- 
tions ; layer rather late, (middle of August), that the plants may 
not get too strong. Set the new plants in a bed, if you wish to 
show a collection, raised 6 or 8 inches above the general surface of 
the garden ; make it of rich loamy soil 2 feet deep ; set the young 
plants one foot apart each way. As the winter comes on, cover 
with litter ; in May, open out As they show flower stalks, either 
set a stick to each, or set stout sticks round the edge of the bed, 
and connect them with wire, and tie the flower stems to the wire. 
When set among other plants, they must be covered with litter in 
the fall, and staked singly in the blossoming season. If not tied 
up they get top heavy, and often bend and break. The same care 
must be taken with the calyx as with that of the Carnation. 

The Grass Pinks used for borders may be propagated most 



6p8 JULY. 

readily by slips or pipings, and if cut early in the season as May, 
and set out in the border, will strike and grow readily and blossom 
profusely the next year ; some few even the same year. It is nec- 
essary in making such cuttings to remove some of the lower leaves, 
but in no case, whether Carnation or Grass Pinks, cut off or mu- 
tilate the ends of the upper leaves of the cutting or pip. 

Towards the last of the month, repot the Auriculas which are to 
be repotted. During this process the roots may be divided to in- 
crease the stock. 

" For full-sized plants in repotting, use pots 6x7 inches ; for 
smaller ones, seedlings and offsets, 3x5. In repotting, the crown 
of the roots should be carefully examined, any rotten parts cut out, 
and the wounds dressed with powdered wood charcoal. When 
slips are taken, the cut portion of both parent and slip should be 
dressed with the charcoal." 

. Some cultivators do not think it necessary to shake the earth 
out of the roots oftener than once in three years ; at other times 
they shave the ball down somewhat But as often as once in three 
years, the earth should be shaken out and the roots carefully ex- 
amined. 

'Oyster shells mixed with the drainage improve the plants. When 
repotted, set into a cool place, and keep cool till toward spring, and 
give them plenty of fresh air, but do not let them freeze. In Feb- 
ruary remove an inch of the top soil and replace with rather rich 
compost ; bring near the light and heat ; by March, flower-buds 
will begin to show. 

Sow seeds in March for new varieties ; the old plants will ripen 
seeds in June and July ; as soon as the leaves decay, sort out the 
roots and lay tliem in a warm, light, and dry place, till well ripened 
and dried ; then keep till March. 

The following is an excellent compost for Auriculas : 

" Two barrows of cow dung at least two years old, a barrow of 
leaf mould, ,one of pure light loam from an old pasture ; mix 
thoroughly and add silver sand enough to keep the compost open 
and drainable. Before using it should be thoroughly frozen to kill 
vermin." 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 659 

Hogg gives for compost : " 1 barrow sound staple loam, I barrow 
dried night-soil, 2 barrows dung of sheep, cows, and poultry, one- 
fourth barrow sea sand. Leave for two years before using." 

During July the earliest forced Dahlias will come into blossom ; 
tie up to sticks carefully ; liquid manure liberally applied just as 
the flowers begin to form will improve them wonderfully. 

Remove all the buds which are inside the branches, and will not 
show to advantage, or from their position will be deprived of light. 
The other blossoms will fare all the belter. 

Prepare early in the month, beds of Pansies for autumn bloom. 
The plants used are those which were struck from cuttings early 
in the season, or were grown from seed. With care, they will 
blossom till winter, and if covered with litter will begin again early 
in the spring. 

The natural enemies to the Pansy are the wire worm and grub, 
earwigs and slugs, which may be caught in traps of hollow stems 
of alder and artichoke, etc. " 

Should you want a few extra fine blossoms for any particular 
purpose, pinch off all the blossoms before they expand, for several 
days ; the next will be the finer. 

The best soil for Pansies is one-half bushel leaf mould, one-half 
bushel cow dung, well rotted, 2 bushels decomposed turfy mould, 
well sifted together and freed from worms. If the mixture is stiff, 
lighten with river sand. Flowers may be cut to advantage as fast 
as they appear. Plants which are kept for flowers should always 
have their flowers cut off as soon as they fade ; otherwise they go 
to seed, and the strength of the plant is diverted. 

When healthy plants, in a well-managed garden, begin their 
bloom, it is wonderful to see what a quantity of flowers they pro- 
duce in a given time. A collection of Bengal or China Roses may 
have every blossom and half-opened bud cut at 4 p.m., and by the next 
morning at 8 there will be a large number of fresh buds. The same 
is true of all other flowers. Verbenas and Heliotropes planted in 
beds may be cut continually as long as any blossoms appear, and 
cutting only increases the tendency of the plant to flower. All our 
common plants blossom, as I have often said, from the new wood, 



660 JULY. 

and by catting off the shoot which bears the flower we drive out 
others at its base. 

I have said but little about the forms of beds in the flower-garden* 
It is a subject that has been so often treated, that it seems hardly 
worth while to enter upon it Flowers are in themselves so beauti- 
ful that they always appear well ; yet some attention to the forms 
of beds will add to their effect. 

In small places the flowers, of various kinds and sizes, should be 
grouped together, for the sake of variety. There is not room 
enough to devote a large space to each kind, color, or size. In 
places where the flower-garden is extensive, the same desire for 
variety dictates that beds of particular colors and kinds should be 
contrasted with others of mixed character. 

The shape of the small beds should be simple, and that of the 
larger ones marked with distinct indentations and curves, that the 
plants may readily fill them out To cover acute angles with plants, 
and* exclude Grass, is a very difficult matter.. 

The simpler the forms of the beds, the easier it is to give char- 
acter and distinctness to the colors. I have already recommended 
the circle, either of a single color or of concentric rings. If the 
centre is large, and filled with a light colored or white flower, with 
a narrow ring of darker flowers outside, the bed will seem to rise 
out of the ground from the edge to the centre, while the opposite 
arrangement, that is making the outer ring the widest and lightest, 
will make the bed seem hollow. 

It is a poor plan to put too many flowers together in a bed. A 
few, if properly managed, may be trusted to cover the ground well ; 
and if many are planted, they are sure, as they grow, to crowd each 
other and spindle up and lose their natural proportion and sym- 
metry. 

For Pansies especially, simple beds should be made, as it is de- 
sirable to see the character of the flowers, and their being varie- 
gated forbids any clear effects of color. Verbenas being clear 
colored, may be placed in a bed of intricate shape, as the purity 
of their color will preserve and define its limits. 

Scarlet Geraniums give color to any shape as soon as they are 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 661 

well grown. Heliotropes have a particularly good effect in large 
masses. It is hardly an effect of color, but rather of coolness; 
Their blue is very cool, and has a delightful effect to the eye, even 
in a hot summer's day. 

Salvias are generally too large to be used for color alone. They 
should be set in mixed beds, where size is an aid to color, and yet 
their intense brilliancy makes them very effective, and in a large 
bed, with well rounded and decided indentations, a group of them 
is very fine. So, too, set at the point or edge of any group of 
shrubbery to which we wish to give character, they are superior to 
any other plant. The difficulty with Salvias (particularly with the 
Mexican Sage, the best one for out-of-door culture), is the lateness 
of the period at which they begin to blossom, generally not before 
the middle or last of August, and they do not attain full perfection 
before the danger of frost. In towns and cities, or in any place 
well protected from frost, the Salvia is a sine qua non. Its color 
grows more brilliant as the cold weather comes on, and when Octo- 
ber is in its glory, the Salvia rivals the trees. 

The difference of temperature between towns or cities and the 
country is very decided, and hardly credible, even when we make 
allowance for the increase of heat caused by the collection of men 
and animals, and by the fire heat from house chimneys and manu- 
factories. Most of the tender pillar Roses could be grown to per- 
fection in the sunny court-yards of city houses, while they would 
never grow to be more than shrubs in out-of-town gardens, and I 
have often seen groups of tender exotics, in the front areas in cities, 
in November, in full bloom, when in the country they have been 
gone for a month. 

The Heliotrope is as susceptible to frosts as the Salvia, but it 
blossoms so much earlier that they do not interfere with it ma- 
terially. 

A very beautiful annual bedding plant is the Gilia-tricoloK 

Plant the seeds in May, and it will grow with rapidity, blossoming 

bat little until the last of August; it will then flower profusely, and 

the colder the weather, until the ground freezes up, the larger and 

more fragrant the flowers ; whilst a bunch of Gilia in November 

56 



662 jult. 

will fill a room with its delicate and spicy odor. During warm 
weather the fragrance is hardly perceptible. 

The Lobelia is a very pretty bedding plant I mean the blue 
and purple kinds. The L. Cardinalis is a tall growing, splendid 
crimson flower, and should be planted among other flowers, but the 
other Lobelias may be set to fill beds by themselves, or be used to 
fringe taller plants. They are sufficiently different in color from 
the Heliotrope to contrast well with it, and they, too, last till very 
cold weather. 

Nemophila is well known and much praised as an annual bed- 
ding plant It needs a moist, rich soil, and must be carefully 
nursed to yield a large supply of flowers. It is better as a pot 
than a garden plant 

Nierembergia is recommended for bedding out I do not like it 
for that purpose, but find it capital to plant among stones and rocks 
and to use as a hanging plant 

Candytuft may be used for bedding out in a succession-bed very 
well. The yellow grows tall, and has a curious, orange blossom, 
larger than that of any of the others. The white, purple, and 
crimson, planted in concentric circles produce a very rich effect 
The plants must not be crowded, but set from 4 to 6 inches apart 
each way. The seed vessels must be cut off before they grow. 
A Candytuft; bed does not remain in full bloom more than three 
weeks. It is a good plant to set in a bed as the bulbs are pass- 
ing away, where the bulbs are to be reset in September, when the 
glory of the Candytuft is gone. 

Do not neglect Petunias. They are such strong and coarse grow- 
ing plants that we might at first doubt the possibility of getting 
much color from them, but they may be relied upon for that pur- 
pose, and for a long time. Do not get mixed seed, except for 
planting in a mixed bed. They are not good for small beds, and 
attain their full beauty only in the mixed bed, where they may be 
allowed to fringe some plants, and hang their blossoms over the 
edging, on the grass. They gain fragrance as the weather grows 
cold, particularly the white, and give it off freely on the cool 
nights of September, when they may be perceived at a great distance. 

Calceolarias are very good bedding plants for the mixed bed, as 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 663 

they are inclined to be tall, but few of them will bear the heat of 
our suns and the dry summers ; the common yellow is a very good 
variety ; the flowers are small, but have a fine color. 

Ageratum may be planted from seed each year, or started in the 
greenhouse and hotbed ; it may be pinned down in a separate bed, 
or be grown in the mixed bed, where it properly belongs. It is in 
full blossom towards the last of the season, and continues so till 
hard frost. 

Anagallis is a pretty flower and may be used like Lobelia ; get 
it from seed in the hotbed. 

Cuphea is much used for bedding ; more for the color of its 
leaves, which are a dark, reddish green, than for its flowers, which 
though red, are insignificant. 

Cinerarias are not as good for the garden as for the greenhouse, 
but they may be used in beds by themselves, and allowed to grow 
as high as 18 inches. Their shape and colors would allow of very 
brilliant effects. They are however averse to the dry heat of our 
summers and require a great deal of nursing. 

Lantanas are excellent bedding plants. L. Sellowii is light pink, 
low growing and excellent for covering the ground with flowers. 
The orange, pink, and yellow Lantana is a large and coarser 
growing plant, and unless carefully pinned down should be set in 
the mixed bed. 

The Maurandyas, purple and white, are vines, and very grace- 
ful over low wire trellises and screens. The flowers and foliage 
are both fine, and they begin to blossom as soon as they grow. 

Several varieties of Mimulus are excellent for the mixed beds 
and for separate beds, when allowed to grow up 18 inches. M. 
atroroseus, dark rose ; M. lanigii, salmon rose ; M. lateritus, buff 
orange ; M. pictus, rich crimson. If well managed they remain 
in blossom for a long time. 

The varieties of Nasturtium hardly need to be described ; their 
colors range from light yellow to deep crimson. The Tropeolum is 
of this family, its flowers are small and abundant. 

Antirrhinums are not enough known or appreciated ; they grow 
from 18 inches to 2 feet high, are hardy, and seed should be planted 
in August for the next year. Cover for the winter. Their colors 



1 



664 JULY. 

are varied, some pure, some mottled and striped. Planted in 
masses they look well. The best varieties are propagated by cut- 
tings as well as seeds, and it is only in this way that we can be 
6ure of their color. They should be potted before winter sets in, 
and kept over in cold pits ; give light and air in spring, and start a 
moderate growth under the sashes before setting out They con- 
tinue in blossom for a long time ; there are catalogues containing 
the names of a great number of varieties valuable for form or 
color. 

An admirable mode of planting these flowers is in a round bed 
set about 1 foot apart in alternate rows, in concentric circles, either 
darkest in the centre and shading to a white edge, or the reverse, 
producing the effect I have before mentioned. The illusion could be 
increased by having the darkest plants the lowest, and gradually 
increasing the height through the different shades. When in flower 
the green leaves are below, and the bright colors of the blossoms 
alone show on the surface. 

In selecting Geraniums, be careful to get those which are sun- 
hardy. All the Tom Thumbs and Horseshoes will bear the sun, 
also the Rose Geranium ; one or two of the variegated-leaved spe- 
cies are hardy, but their value is not in the bed, but as shrubs or 
among shrubbery where their green and white leaves are relieved 
against other foliage. The lemon-scented Geranium is of value as 
a green, for its fragrance. The oak-leaved, sage, and nutmeg, and 
others with fragrant leaves endure the sun very well, but all the 
choice fancy kinds are too tender. 

The question may be asked what difference in planting there 
should be between the single and the mixed beds. 

In the single beds all the plants should be of the same height 
and shade of color. When a house is elevated on a broad espla- 
nade, which gives room for flower-beds, they should be of this char- 
acter. Directions for making them in the lawn or garden have 
already been given. 

The mixed bed demands a mixture of colors and a variety of 
sizes, and permits the mingling of different plants of the same 
color or size, in the same mass. Thus to get a mass or band of 
crimson or red, we may mix together, Geranium, Antirrhinum, 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 665 

Salvia, Candytuft, Lobelia cardinalis, etc For bine or purple, 
Heliotrope, Candytuft, Lobelia, Antirrhinum, Ageratum, etc For 
orange, Candytuft ; for yellow, Antirrhinum, Calceolaria, Yellow 
Flax; for white, Candytuft, Petunia, Sweet Alyssum, Antir- 
rhinum. 

Mixed beds are generally more desirable than single ones, as the 
latter are difficult to keep in perfection for any length of time, and 
in our flower-garden I have therefore made use of them. 

It is not unusual for those laying out flower-gardens to copy de- 
signs from books, forgetting that such designs, if ever good for any 
thing, were intended originally to suit certain peculiar localities, and 
that they cannot properly be transferred to different ones. Unless 
you not only make your bed the same shape with the original one, 
and plant it with exactly the same plants, but also make its surface 
and surroundings the same, and the point of view from which it is 
seen, you cannot expect to attain the intended result. 

Sometimes designs are made up with directions for staking, 
planting, etc At one time a man made a large sale about Boston 
of separate patterns of this kind. Such plans are nearly worthless, 
not only for the reasons above stated, but because they are gener- 
ally too intricate to be used to any advantage in ordinary gardens. 
They are copied from the geometrical plans of European gardens, 
which were made up without regard to cost, and very probably, 
also, with little regard to taste, intended merely as accessories, to 
some extensive place, and wholly subordinate to some grand archi- 
tectural design. Probably much of the, plan was worked out with 
colored stones and gravel. Then, too, such elaborate designs re- 
quire perfectly level ground, while generally the beauty of a 
flower-garden is much increased by unevenness and irregular- 
ities of surface. 

So that a design which looks very pretty on paper, and may 
have been well enough and harmonious in its original position, will 
be often stiff, awkward, and bad when transferred to another, and 
would be condemned even by its designer. 

It seems a simple thing to design a group of beds, and so perhaps 
it is, but it is not so easy to adapt such a group to any particular 
spot 

56* 



«66 JOLT. 

Designs for Rose-gardens, or rosariums, stand in rather a differ- 
ent position from those for other flower-beds, and I shall give some, 
as I promised in June. In these the exhibition of the single plants 
with their peculiarities, and of the full beauty of their blossoms, is 
the great object ; accordingly the general effects of form and color 
in the mass, are of secondary importance. Roses in themselves 
are eminently graceful, even when elevated on standards, yet 
often the most formal groupings are necessary to show them to 
the best advantage ; the combination or group varying with the 
especial effect to be produced, 



-,££-•' 



'hf r ~KC> . - 



% 



T 



In a general collection of shrubs we seek for a tout .ensemble to 
which color, form, variety of foliage all conduce ; but in a col- 
lection of Roses intended to do justice to individuals particular 
care must be taken to bring together only those plants which are 
especially able by color or habit of growth to develop the pecul- 
iar excellencies of the other members of the group. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



667 



The most remarkable Rose-garden in the world, considering its 
size and publicity, and the number of specimens, is the Jardin du 
Luxembourg, at Paris. It is depressed below the public promenade, 
so that it lies beneath the eye of the visitor, and the flowers are 
massed with a view to this fact. The Roses are planted in long 
parallel beds, edged with Box, 7 feet wide, containing two rows of 
plants, dwarfs and standards alternating, and the dwarf of one row 




No. 2. 



corresponding in position to the standard of the other. In this gar- 
den there are 1,800 specimens. 

The ground plan, No. 1, taken from Paul's " Rose Garden," 
shows one of the Luxembourg gardens. 

No. 2 is a design made for W. Paul by two distinguished Eng- 
lish landscape gardeners. 

No. 8 is another, made by the same persons, for Mr. Paul 




No. 8. 

They say : " In the designs for rosariums we have arranged the 
whole of the beds and standard Roses as near each other as they 
should *be placed, even in the most limited situations ; but in situa- 
tions where a little more space of lawn can be allowed, it will be 
better to keep them more apart." 

" The arcades a b, in No. 2, a a, in No. S, are for the purpose of 
exhibiting climbing Roses, which, we need not say, will produce a 
very imposing effect." b, in No. 8, an aviary ; e c, covered seats ; 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 669 

d d d d, Weeping Roses, the outside of both surrounded with 
shrubs. " In order to make the rosarium as interesting as possible, 
the beds might be planted with bulbs to precede, and annuals to 
succeed, the Roses." 

Nos. 4 and 5 are ground plan and elevation of a Rose-garden of 
John Warner, Esq., at Hoddesdon. 

" The earth in the fonr 
beds which compose the 
inner circle is raised about 
4 feet above the level of 
that which surrounds it, and 
upon this is built a tt 
pie, the frame-work being 
formed with iron rods. It 
is covered with Climbing 1 
Roses of various kinds. 
There are eight plants in 
each bed. The temple is 
shown when the Roses 
have been pruned, but is 
quite covered with them in summer. The diameter of the first 
circle is 26 feet, of the whoje 48 feet A hedge of Scotch Roses 




surrounds the whole, over which we look upon an extensive lawn, 
with various plants showing in the distance." 

This is not a large garden, the whole number of Roses not ex- 
ceeding 800, though I should think this number would hardly do jus- 
tice to all the families. Our amateurs, who think of the prices they 



670 JULY. 

have to pay at nurseries for plants, may at first be discouraged by 
this number, but by ordering such plants as they want from Eng- 
lish or French ^nurseries, they may reduce the cost very much. 
$20 a hundred would cover the whole expense. 

I cannot say that either of the designs I have selected from Mr. 
Paul's book suits me, or would, in my opinion, answer for our lim- 
ited gardens. The two designs I give are very different in char- 
acter. A, represents part of a plan of several acres, two of which are 
devoted to house, shrubbery, rosary, and flower-garden ; the latter 
is formal, and in its centre is a fountain. The flower-garden is 
about 3 feet lower than the house ; the walk leading to it is covered 
with a wire trellis, to form an arcade, and is covered with Running 
Roses. On either side of the garden the walk is guarded by posts and 
chains for Weeping Roses ; the index shows how the other Roses are 
managed. Some, as shown in the single specimens, are planted for 
general effect, without regard to families ; others are arranged in 
families, which are grouped together somewhat according to their 
general character and resemblances. Outside the Roses are groups 
of shrubs and trees. B represents a small place, whose whole area 
is but one acre ; it is managed upon much the same principle with 
the last, and the index shows how it is planted. 

The treatment of the rosary has already been extended beyond 
its proper length, in justice to other subjects, but I cannot yet leave 
it. No class of plants deserves and demands more attention. 

Each year new Roses are offered for sale of various degrees of 
excellence ; most of them originated by French growers. The 
English do something in this way, but not so much, and Americans 
still less. Amateurs, accordingly, may find exercise for their time 
and energy in this direction. Our nurserymen are too much occu- 
pied in forming a general collection to devote the requisite time to 
improving the Rose. It is a long process ; often several years from 
the sowing of the seed to the attainment of the perfect flowers, and 
during all the time constant care and attention is necessary. 

The most promising field for effort is the production of Perpet- 
uals. The list of these is large, but many of the specimens are of 
but little value ; and we are especially poor in choice wall and pillar 
Roses. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 






rfVT^A Ornamental Treei. E Hybrid Perpetual. 

^^Tl„ ■ «l . FTeaScented. ' 

-It-lftt Roses in Chams. fl CUm. 

~ Rosea on House. .ffBoarbon. 



WWW Rosea in Arcade. 



7 Hybrid Bourbon. 



o o Rosea in Combination. K Hjbrid ChiDft . 

gp Roses in Families. £ Datnask. 

A Provence Hose. M Alba. 

B French Rose. iV Evergreen. 

C Mom Rose. Noisette. 

D Scotch Rose, and Ana- P Ayrshire. 













•3JL 1 








****** 




I 






[ 










■ ■: 


1 

i B - 

[ 


;( 








i 

'9 


[ 

[ 
| 










Si 

9k 


I . ■■ 




a--«**a -— — _. 




:-P *-*s. 


~ v ■-' 1 



; -*«U>* 



Ornamental Treea 
-ffc-ffc-lt Roses in Chains. ■ 
— ■" — Hose* on Bouse. 
WW/V Roses in Arcade, 
o o o o Roses in Combination. 
4*JQO Roees in Families. 

Espaliers. 

J* = Pears. 

P- "■ Peaches. 

c «.... Currant*. 
g * Gooseberries. 

■:^^r^r Straw berries 



A Provence Roee. 

B French Rose. 

CMosb Rose. 

D Scotch Rose, and Austrian. 

E Hybrid Perpetual. 

F Tea Scented. 

G China. 

H Bourbon. 

I Hybrid Bourbon. 

K Hybrid China. 

L Damask, 

if Alba. 

ATEvergreea. 

Noisette. 

P Ayrshire. 



FL OVER-GARDEN. 678 

Before beginning the work of producing new varieties, the ama- 
teur must have clearly before him the object he wishes to attain. 
I will quote again from Mr. Paul, what are the points of excellence 
to be sought. 

" Habit of the trees. Form of the Sowers ; color, scent Free- 
dom, constancy, and duration of flowering. 

"Habit The growth of a tree should be free. It is immaterial 
whether pendulous, branching or erect, as all are desirable ; hand- 
some foliage is important The offspring of tender Roses may be 
rendered more hardy by intermixture with hardier sorts. 

" Form. A Rose may be equally good whether cupped (t), glob- 
ular (2), compact (3), or expanded (4). But of whichever form 
it may be, the petals should be thick and smooth, and the outline 
circular. 



" Color. This, of whatever shade or color, should be clear and 
full The thick petalled Roses usually 
present us with the richest tints; such are 
therefore desirable for this reason, as well as 
on account of holding their flowers perfect 
a longer time than others. Vary the col- 
ors as much as possible. 

"Scent All Roses should be sweet; there 
are indeed but few kinds that are scentless, though the degree 
of fragrance varies much. 

" Freedom, constancy, and duration of flowering. Some Roses 
are most profuse bloomers,, presenting a splendid effect on the 
tree, but separate are poor and flimsy. Others produce a less quan- 
tity of flowers at one time, but a regular succession from which a 



674 jult. 

good Rose may be gathered at almost any time during the season 
of flowering." 

Then the flowers of some are very transient, lasting but a day, 
others will retain their form and color for a week. These proper- 
ties are inherent, for all kinds are not influenced alike by the state 
of the weather. 

We should seek to combine the varieties which possess the 
above named qualities in an eminent degree. 

The next question which arises is ; do certain properties proceed 
more from one parent than another ? if so, which, and what are 
they ? It is the opinion of some vegetable physiologists that the 
offspring assumes the habit and foliage of the male,* while the flow- 
ers are influenced more by the female parent. 

This, however, is not proved, and all such questions are to be 
met and settled by each person for himself. One thing is certain, 
that some varieties produce seed more freely and certainly than 
others, and therefore in beginning to improve you must plant in 
light, deep, well-drained soil, in separate localities, the plants of 
different varieties most inclined to produce seed. These do not re- 
quire the same amount of cultivation as those which we grow for flow- 
ers ; indeed they incline more to seed if not vigorously pruned. 
As flower buds show, remove most of them, so as to give those 
that remain a larger supply of sap, in order to ensure more per- 
fectly developed seeds. When the bud expands, hybridize as pre- 
viously directed. After this operation shelter the impregnated 
Rose from the wind and rain for a few hours ; the pistil being fer- 
tilized, the Rose will soon lose its petals, and the seed vessel will 
continue to grow. Give it all the care it needs for the rest of the 
season, watering if there should be a drought. When the hips are 
ripe, and have turned from red to black, cut them off, put them into 
a glass vessel, and set it in the sun, or hang them up in paper bags 
in a dry place, till they are perfectly dry. Keep dry till used. 
The best wav is to start the seeds in frames, but if we do not have 
room to spare, the hardy varieties should be sown in the autumn, 
that the hard shell may be affected by the frost ; the rest should be 
saved till the last of April. Then select a place warm and shel- 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 675 

tered, but open, well drained and airy ; prepare a seed bed by 
thorough spading ; lay the earth into narrow beds that the middle 
may be easily reached from either side. Sow the seed in drills 1 
foot apart, and cover with about an inch of soil. Beat the earth 
compact, and water the bed a little ; strew over the bed lime or 
soot to keep away slugs. Rose seeds germinate with difficulty, 
some not appearing till the second year. Their germination may 
be hastened by soaking in hot water, or by exposure to frost in the 
bed. . I should have mentioned that before sowing, the seeds must 
be taken from the hips, which are often very hard and hold the 
seed tenaciously, and must be broken in pieces by hand, or soaked 
till they are soft enough to allow the seed to be taken out. When 
the plants get above the surface, protect against birds and worms. 
Watch the bed carefully, weed the rows, loosen the earth about 
the young plants with a sharp, fine pointed stick, being careful not 
to start the hold of their roots. Forward the growth of the seed- 
lings in fcvery possible way, by weeding, hoeing, and liquid ma- 
nure. They will soon grow rapidly, and the foliage of each will 
assume its peculiar shape, which will enable you to decide to some 
extent to what family it belongs, though the flower may sometimes 
contradict the leaf. 

As they grow through the season, the Remontants will be very 
likely to throw out flower buds. If the plant is strong, and it is 
not too early in the season, let the bud develop ; it will show the 
color and character of the flower, though not its perfection, which 
can only come after culture. But if the plant is weakly, or the 
season late, pinch off the bud. The summer Roses will not show 
buds for a year or two. 

When the plants are well grown, by the last of summer, care- 
fully transplant into new beds, still keeping the different varieties 
separate. Transplant with care, in order not to disturb such seeds 
as have not germinated. On the approach of winter, cover the 
seedlings with leaves or straw, not too thickly, but enough to pro- 
ject them from the sun and frost 

The next year prune somewhat, guided by the growth of the pre- 
ceding year. The Remontants will be likely to blossom in June. 
If so, mark those which show most promise, and when their buds 



676 jult. 

are well established, bud into strong stocks, as the Dog Rose, or 
Sweetbrier. This will bring the Rose to perfection much sooner 
than (he parent plant. 

You see this will be a work of several years, and after all, you 
may not get any improved kinds. But you must not decide against 
the seedlings until the most promising have been well manured and 
cultivated for as many years as those which have been named, and 
have taken high rank, as the after culture of seedlings often pro- 
duces marked changes in their character. 

To succeed well, the cultivator should each year plant some seed, 
that there may be something coming on each year, and that there 
need be no awkward gaps. Should you succeed and get a first-rate 
new Rose, you not only will have the satisfaction of success, but 
you may have the profit of a large pecuniary reward, for they 
command high prices. 

Remember always that you cannot have perfect Roses without 
great care and attention. You must study varieties, and cultivate 
and prune accordingly. One kind will be killed by the very treat- 
ment that will perfect another. One Rose may be forced into blos- 
som by vigorous pruning : another would be driven by the same, 
from flowers to leaves. In my first analysis of Roses, I gave some 
directions for pruning the dif- 
ferent families; I will now 
show you how Mr. Paul 
prunes, premising that I have 
no room to specify the vari- 
eties to which the different 
kinds of pruning are beat 
adapted; that must be de- 
cided by each person when 
he has his Rose before him. 

If you buy a Rose, give it 
a good situation and good cul- 
ture, and when it makes its 
growth you can see how to 
treat it. 

Weeping Roses, like the 



r 



677 

accompanying cut, are bo beautiful that it is hard to decide be- 
tween their claims and those of the Pillar Roses, of which we had 
a specimen in June ; and we turn from them to such standards as 
our next cut presents, bewildered at the sight of this new compet- 
itor for the palm ; and for my own part, I give the preference to the 
dwarf over the standard at least, and I especially wish to see nat- 
uralized the Evergreen and the Trailing Roses, which trail over 
rocks and creep up tree stems as freely as Woodbine, or Celastrus 
scandens. Why should they not be grown here as well as in Eng- 
land? 



The Wall Roses which we ordinarily cultivate, the Prairies and 
Boursaults, are not equal to Noisette, 
Ayrshire, Multiflora, and Evergreen, for 
beauty and variety. 

The following directions for pruning, 
and plates are chiefly taken from Paul's 
" Rose, Garden." 

Long pruning is the treatment mostly 
applied to the Hybrid Chinese, and the 
vigorous varieties among the Moss, Dam- 
ask, Noisette, and Perpetuals, which form large heads of rather 
loose, but not ungraceful, growth. 

Suppose that we have a standard Rose with two buds, and it is 
in the spring, after the buds have made their first growth. " We 
shorten the shoots that remain at the termination of the dark shadow- 



678 



JULY. 




No. 1. 



ing, a, No. 1. Seven shoots is the greatest number that should be 

suffered to remain on the young plant, and 
generally even a smaller number is prefer- 
able. One or two should rise perpendicu- 
larly from the tree, and around this or 
these, all others should be regularly dis- 
posed, and the more equal and greater 
distance that can be contrived from shoot 
to shoot, the better. The shoots, whenever 
they arise, should have a tendency to grow 
from the centre, for if they grow towards 
it, they will eventually cross each other, 
forming a confused and crowded head, No. 1." 

" When shortening in, the lowest shoots should, where practi- 
cable, be left the longest, and others may be shortened in closer 
and closer, as we rise towards the summit of the tree. The 
centre branch will, from its position, command a fine supply of 
sap ; it is likely that it will maintain its ascendency. Now the 
shoots shortened closest will (other things being equal) produce 
the strongest growth, with the greatest tendency to arise perpen- 
dicularly, and thus the head is formed as desired. In shortening 
the shoot, we should insert the knife at b, on the opposite side of 
the shoot to that on which the bud next below is placed, and we 
should cut in a direction slanting upward, about one-eighth of an 
inch above the bud." 

"No. 2 represents the tree after its 
second summer's growth. To prune 
properly, you must not only* look at the 
tree, but through it, and from many 
points." 

" It will be observed that the shoots 
are left of greater length than the pre- 
vious year's pruning. 1st, the plant be- 
ing established, will have a greater com- 
mand of food from the soiL 2d, having 
been put in the right course for forma- 
tion last year, in this pruning we have an eye for flowers. The 




FLO WEB-G A.RD EN. 



679 



centre shoot, left last year, is shortened, 
in order to keep the head compact No. 
3 is a fair illustration of a full-grown tree 
to which long pruning has been applied. 

"The Damask Perpetual, the Chinese, 
the Tea-scented, the moderate-growing 
French and Bourbon Roses, are to be 
close pruned. No. 4 represents a plant 
of this description. 

" Here we have a crowded head the first 
rear. * The shoots are of less length than 

before, but more numerous. Thin as before, but less severely. The 
shoots may stand closer to each other here, because those they give 
birth to. will be less robust, and will produce 






smaller foliage. The shoots left after thinning, are shortened in 
closer than in No. 2. If a summer 
Rose, it will not bloom the first year, 
bnt if an autumnal, it will assuredly 
bloom the first autumn, and probably 
during the summer. No. 5 represents 
this tree taken from another point of 
view, as it appears the next year. We 
thin out in autumn, the shoots shown by 
the single lines, and shorten where shaded, 
in spring, as before. This we do, on the 
' supposition that it is an excitable kind ; if 
not, we complete the operation at once, by 



680 



JULY. 



shortening in the autumn." " Most persons prefer plants budded 
in two places ; we have therefore given examples of such ; for my 
own part, I like a plant with a single bud best .It is enough for 
every purpose, and the head is more easily fashioned." 

" No. 6 represents a perfect tree, which has been close pruned 
for several years." It would seem that a modification of long and 
close pruning would be necessary for some varieties, and so it is ; 
but practice alone can inform us correctly which they are. The 
plan of pruning must be regulated in some measure by the object 
sought. There are particular forms which Roses are capable of 

taking, and they can be led into these by prun- 
ing and training. No. 7 is a pillar Rose, with 
five shoots. It had only three when planted, 
and these were soon cut close to the ground, 
to induce a vigorous growth. We now cut 
the three shoots shown by the single lines, and 
shorten the others to/, as indicated by the shadow- 
ing. After pruning, the branches should lie 
at full length on the ground, and be fastened 
down with little pegs, to prevent them from blow- 
ing about. Owing to the recumbent position, the 
buds will break regularly the whole length, and 
by the end of April they may be tied up to the 
pole, either in an erect position, or twined about 
it. A good stake answers every purpose for the 
first two or three years, when the pole may be 
set (Red Cedar), with the branches cut off at irregular distances 
from the stem." 

" No. 8 shows the same plant the next year. We begin to 
prune at the bottom of the pillar, by thinning out the vigorous 
shoots. This must be our aim, for it is easy enough at any time 
to extend the growth, and thus increase the height We ascend 
the pillar, thinning more thoroughly as we approach the top. 
There we select one or two of the best shoots, to continue the as- 
cent, and tie them up. The small laterals are now cut back to 3 
or 4 eyes. If any spot is thin, we cut back to 1 or 2 eyes, and thus 
get strong shoots to fill the vacancy the next season. By the 




FLOWER-GAUD EN. 661 

third spring we find (hem of considerable height, and in every con- 
dition to produce an abundant bloom." 

„ " We continue this treatment till the pillar is 

covered ; it should not be more than 12 feet 
high. Pillar Roses send up strong shoots from 
their roots each autumn ; these 
should be Cut out ; but one or 
two may be left to replace old 
shoots, now losing their vigor. 
The old branches will not main- 
tain their vigor for many years, 
and must be replaced. Keep 
the poles sound. No. 9 repre- 
sents a perfect pillar Rose ; its 
main branches hare not been 
twined about the pole, but the 
practice is a good one." 

Climbing Roses require 

about the same treatment as the pillar Roses, 

with rather less pruning. Close pruning is not 

desimble for either kind, after the plants are well 

established, if we want masses of bloom. 

No. 10 gives a fair specimen of a Weeping Rose one year after 

budding. Cut the shoots in close the first time, to induce vigor ; we 

remove the upper bud entirely cutting the stem across at a. Having 

removed the upper bud, we thin out the two 

shoots marked by single lines, and shorten the 

others to the dark shading. The new shoots ~ 

will push from them vigorously, and soon 

reach the ground. No. 11 represents the tree 

the second year. Continue the operation as 

before, but shorten less. Single flowers will 

be occasionally produced, and the following 

year these short, bloom-bearing branches may 

be spurred to about two eyes. After this there 

is little difficulty in bringing he tree to per- 
fection. About the second or third year it is necessary to attach a 





hoop to the head of the Weeping Rose, 
to keep the branches from injury by the 
action of the wind, and to assist in man' 
aging them properly." No. 12. 

"After a Rose-tree of any kind is trained 
to the shape desired, if it is healthy and 
vigorous we prune, so as to increase the 
size each year. This must be done with 
vigorous kinds, or they are over-pruned- 
It should be done with the moderate 
growers, for as the roots extend their 
growth, and the stem increases in size, the plant is capable of sup- 
porting a larger head, and perfecting a 
greater number of flowers. This increase 
of size must be accomplished by thinning ; 
thin out well, having shoots at the farthest 
:. limit of the plant, that it consistent with 
' its being well jifledfrom base to summit. 
In pruning Roses that have attained some 
age, it may be necessary to remove a 
) branch or two occasionally, to keep the 
head from becoming straggling and mis- 
shapen. A saw, sharp, fine-pointed, and 
close set, will be found useful here, as well as in removing small 
shoots, which from this position it may be difficult to remove with 
thfe pruning-knife, and also for cutting away dead branches. After 
using the saw, dress the wound smoothly with 
a knife." 

" No. 13 shows an old plant whose head 
is dying. To recover such plants, cut back 
as shown. To remodel the tree, the main 
lower branches must be cut well back ; the 
lower part of the branches will show no ap- 
parent buds, but they exist latent, and by 
cutting back they will be forced into activity." 
Trees that have become weakly, are much 
improved by close pruning ; so are those 




FLOWER-GARDEN. 



683 



small growing kinds, which flower so constantly that it is rare to 
see a shoot that is not terminated with flowers. 

To do justice to autumnal Roses, they should be pruned a second 
time in summer, just after flowering ; or, if the summer flowers are 
not much valued, just before flowering ; by this practice their vigor 
and beauty will be much increased. 

But while thinning and shortening are all important, disbudding 
is a yet more effective agent for producing flowers in the finest 
possible condition, for keeping the plant in full health and vigor, 
and for bringing it to its highest point It is evident that the more 
vigorous in habit a plant is, the greater the space to be left clear 
from bud to bud, to allow shoots room to develop. 

Young plants, judiciously disbudded, become more finely formed 
than by thinning and shortening alone. 

No. 14 shows a variety of Rose which 
is very thickly furnished with buds. It is 
apparent that all these buds cannot be de- 
veloped. To decide which to remove, re- 
member that the tendency of all buds should 
be outward; and the farther apart they 
are, with in just limits, the better. Should 
two buds threaten to cross or crown 
each other, the one taking the least fa- 
vorable course of growth should be re- 
moved. 

" The summer kinds, disbudded or thinned in summer, usually 
continue to elongate from the ends of their shoots ; the autumn 
push forth the entire length of the shoots when the second flower- 
ing is complete ; the trees are improved in both cases, for the shoots 
grown at this season of the year will produce the finest flowers the 
next year." 




CHAPTER LXXTTT. 

• KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

Hoe the advancing crops, to kill the weeds and stir the soil. 
Watch weeds narrowly, for each day one grows your land is so 
much the poorer. 

Plant out the last Celery, and if the first planted is well grown, 
hoe it a little. 

Gather the Peas and Beans as they are fit for table. String 
Beans will be fit for the table by the middle of the month. As 
the early Lettuce goes out, other Salads will gradually take its 
place. 

Thin the Gooseberries the first of the month, and use the berries 
you remove for cooking. Those that are left will grow the better. 
If you wish to increase the size of any particular Currants, pinch 
off the end of the shoots an inch or two beyond the berries ; this 
will throw the sap more abundantly into the fruit, and increase it 
very much. The Currants will be red and nearly ripe by the mid- 
dle of the month, but very sour ; the longer they hang on the bushes 
the sweeter they become. The white varieties will be found 
sweeter than the red, at the same stage of maturity. 

As soon as the Strawberries are entirely gone, weed the bed 
thoroughly, and you can have a new bed with but little trouble. 
If the bed is large, mark out through its length by the garden line, 
sections from 2 to 3 feet wide, and 18 inches apart. On. these sec- 
tions wheel a little old manure, lime, and ashes ; dig the whole in. 
vines and all, very deeply ; trenching will pay. The plants left in 
the rows will immediately throw out suckers into the new earth 
from both sides, and will before autumn entirely fill it. When it is 
full, that part of the bed that was at first left, may be dug up and 
kept open for the next two years. 

Covering the bed with a mulch of tan in the autumn or early 

- 684 



KITCHEN-QABDEN. 685 

spring, is thought to conduce to the welfare of vines and fruit ; it 
will he dug in at the present tune, if a new bed is made as di- 
rected. 

The Raspberries have been growing with rapidity ; it is the new 
wood, or the spurs which have branched out from last year's canes, 
which will bear fruit, but it is the new canes which have grown 
this year which will bear fruit next These canes should be tie<f 
up as they grow, and before laying down in the fall all that are not 
wanted for next year must be taken up. Those taken up can be 
planted in trenches in the cellar, or buried in the open ground, to 
be planted out anew in the spring. As soon as out of bearing, cut 
out the old wood which bore the fruit 

Thimbleberries will ripen a little later than Raspberries. They 
send up new canes for next year's growth, early in the summer. 
But unlike those of the Raspberry, these canes continue to grow till 
they reach over to the ground. The extremities will then, if al- 
lowed, send out roots, and thus make new plants, and this is the 
natural mode of increase. If we prevent this by tying up the 
long shoots to espaliers, we only injure ourselves. 

Cultivated Blackberries will ripen the very last of the month. 
The long shoots should be trained as they grow, horizontally to 
trellises, and after a good growth has been made, the extreme end 
may be pinched. It will bear fruit from new spurs, which will 
start next year from the canes of this, and by training the shoots 
down this year the sap is made to settle more into the eyes, and 
makes fruit buds of them. This berry is very much inclined to 
run to wood, unless checked by this kind of training. 

Sow Peas the last of this month, if you wish to have them in 
the autumn, but you must not expect a large crop. The earlier 
varieties are the proper kinds to plant. 

The general crops heretofore mentioned must be carefully 
watched and hoed. Vines of all kinds are benefited by hoeing, 
but care must be taken not to bruise them in the process. 

Pickle crops may still be planted early in the month. 

Artichokes will be getting fit for eating now, and must be used 
at once. Some Okra will be fit to use the very last of the month. 

Early Potatoes, planted in the open ground, will be ready to dig 

58 



686 jult. 

the third week in July, if not earlier, and after that you may rely 
on them for the table. 

Summer Squashes should be used as soon as they are as large as 
your two fists. They must be taken young to be delicate, and if 
left till old are not acceptable even to hogs. 

The latest Cauliflowers, those which are to be taken into the 
bouse for winter, must be set out now, before the end of the month. 

The early Onions, both those planted from pips, and those in 
beds carried through the winter, will be fit to pull the middle and 
last of the month. 

Early Cabbages should not be pulled up, but cut off the stump, 
which, if left, will give new growth for greens till late in the autumn. 

Sow some Spinach for autumn use. Transplant Endive, and 
sow small Salads from time to time ; the last of the month sow 
Endive for winter. 

Hoe Sweet Potatoes when they want it; weed and hoe the 
Root crops for the last time ; after this they will cover the ground 
and kill all the weeds themselves. 

Attend carefully to the espaliered fruit During the month the 
Cherries, both standard and espaliered, will be ripe and gathered, 
and the other fruit on the espaliers will mature rapidly. Thin as 
necessary from time to time, and disbud. Remember that disbud- 
ding and pinching off will save much other pruning. 

The Pears, etc., in the orchard, both standards and dwarfs, must 
be watched with care ; thin much and often. You may rely on 
gathering from one to six dozen from each tree, and some large 
standards may bear several bushels. But you should leave only 
fruit buds enough to produce fine fruit 

July is a month for doing odd jobs about the kitchen-garden, 
and care should be taken to keep it all neat and tidy. 

Next month will be time enough to plant seeds for autumn and 
winter vegetables. In July, if the bark will slip freely from the 
wood, Cherries, and other stone fruits, as well as Pears and Apples, 
may be budded, but August is likely to be a better time. I will 
then give directions in detail. 

. I have deferred till now, a description of the growth, propaga- 
tion, and pruning of the Currant and Gooseberry. This is not a 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 687 

difficult or intricate business ; but upon its being well done, depends 
in a great measure the success of these plants. 

Figs can never be cultivated in this latitude upon a large scale, 
for our winters are too severe, but as curiosities they are desirable, 
and in a good location, with great care, a few specimens may be 
made to thrive and to ripen fruit. 

Gooseberries are not so often cultivated as they ought to be. t 

The difficulties in the culture of the Gooseberry are mildew and 
uncertainty of crop. 

The mildew, which seems almost enough to condemn them, is 
peculiar to some varieties ; others are nearly exempt, but all are 
liable to it when in too wet or too shaded places, and when not well 
pruned. 

The want of sufficient pruning is also the cause of the uncer^ 
tainty of the fruit. 

Most of the choice varieties come from Yorkshire, England, 
which is famous for Gooseberries. By buying the best Yorkshire 
varieties, which are said to be exempt from mildew, and planting 
in well-drained, deep, rich soil in an open, airy situation, and prun- 
ing well, you secure a good crop. 

They must be pruned once or twice in the fall, winter or very 
early spring, and in summer. At the first pruning cut out at least 
one-half the bush, removing old wood rather than new when you 
can. By pinching back and thinning out in June, the size and 
flavor of the fruit is increased. To secure the finest desert fruit, 
the berries should be well thinned when about half grown ; these 
" thinnings " are excellent for sauce and pies. It is a peculiarity 
of this berry that the same bush rarely produces the largest fruit 
two years in succession. Do not expect fine fruit unless you give 
plenty of manure. 

If it were better known it would be a favorite ; and undoubtedly, 
by hybridizing the English with our native varieties, some might 
be produced which would bear abundantly and be free from mil- 
dew. We have two native Gooseberries which are very palatable ; 
one, Ribes' hirtellum, is small, berries not more than half an inch in 
diameter, very sweet, of a dark red color, and each bush bears 
enormously ; I have gathered two quarts from one wild bush in a 



688 jult. 

hedgerow; the other, Ribes' cynosbati, is a much stronger and 
coarser variety, berries £ to J inch in diameter, covered with long, 
strong prickles, a good flavor, rather lighter red than Hirtellum, 
excellent for sauce, etc., and the bush large-growing. 

The Gooseberry may be increased by seeds, cuttings, and suck- 
ers, but the latter never make good plants, while the first mature 
• slower and often differ from the parent. 

Cuttings should be taken from the wood of the current year with 
a heel of older wood in October or March ; if in October, keep 
them till spring in a cool place not too dry ; then plant in a border, 
moderately shaded, light, deep, and rich ; but first cut off all buds 
which will be betow the surface after the cutting is in place, other- 
wise they will come up as suckers some time or other. The me- 
dium-sized fruits are generally higher flavored than the larger. 

In short, if you want good Gooseberries you must make yet an- 
other draft on your patience, and probably by this time you agree 
with me, that this same patience is an essential quality in a gar- 
dener. 

Currants. — The Currant needs less care than the Gooseberry, 
and yet it demands great care and attention to bring its fruit to 
perfection. It is always unwise to plant the suckers of Currants, 
as they continue to sucker and bear but little and poor fruit The 
argument in favor of using suckers ; viz., that they are the plants' 
natural means of increase, is of no weight, as Currants can be prop- 
agated about as easily as Potatoes. Make cuttings of the last 
.year's wood in the spring, or of the current year in October or No- 
vember. Make the cuttings 4 to 8 inches long ; cut off all buds 
which would come below the surface when the cutting is set, and 
set them 2 or 3 inches deep in a garden border, moderately shaded, 
light, deep, and rich. They will be well-rooted plants in the fall, 
and may be permanently planted out then, or in the next spring. 

Currants are much benefited by thorough, but not severe pruning. 
Cut out about one-third of the old wood each year, and in June or 
July pinch back the new shoots a little ; this increases the size and 
flavor of the fruit. The old Dutch Currant was formerly the favo- 
rite, but is now gradually giving way to new varieties ; one of 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 689 

which, which promises to supplant all others, is the Cherry Cur- 
rant, whose fruit is as large as a Mazzard Cherry and yields enor- 
mously. 

No more profitable fruit can can be grown than improved Cur- 
rants. As a table fruit they always sell well, and the demand for 
Currant jelly would be great could it be sold low enough to come 
within the reach of people of moderate means. I know that the 
fruit is not the most costly ingredient in the jelly, but its price must 
be counted as an important addition in the cost of the whole. 

It is never wise to continue to cultivate the same bushes more 
than 8 or 10 years ; more fruit can be got from younger plants. 
Mulching improves the fruit and enablesthe bushes to hold their 
leaves later in the fall. They are very grateful for generous dress- 
ing of manure well dug in. 

58* 



CHAPTER LXXIV. 



THS FARM. 



Hot weather has come, and with it the hurry and chief harvest of 
the year, on all farms which have a large acreage of Grass or Grain. 

Haying has more admirers, and is more dreaded than any other 
farm work. Some persons enjoy it, others detest it I do not 
think it very hard work, on the whole. Coming in hot weather, it 
does, indeed, demand much endurance, and hand mowing is very 
tiresome except to those who are really adepts in it ; in fact it is an 
art which can only be learned in youth ; it requires a peculiar and 
elastic motion, best acquired by growing boys, and it rarely happens 
that one who makes his first attempt in his manhood gains any 
skill in mowing. But it is to be hoped that the days of hand mow- 
ing are on the wane, though the time can never come when it will be 
quite abandoned. The bulk of the work, however, can and should 
be done by machines. 

But there is much other work to be done before we come to 
mowing, and while we are about it, and We will consider this first 

All the crops should be hoed a second time before haying is 
begun. 

Corn is high enough to cover and shade the ground, and the 
Root crops have advanced to the third leaf, unless it be the later 
sown kinds, like Ruta Bagas. The Roots sown early this month, 
or late in June, should now be cleaned and thinned. If guano was 
sown with the young Turnips, the plants will soon hurry by the 
danger of the fly, and get their rough leaves. 

It is because the Root crop demands care during haying, that 
New England farmers are so much prejudiced against it The 
practice of good farmers has been to finish all their other work be- 
fore they began haying, that there might be no interruption in get- 
ting that important crop ; any work which cannot be so disposed 

690 



THE FARM. 691 

of is very annoying to them, and they are not willing to entertain 
the idea of a crop, the most difficult work of which comes just in 
the heat of haying. 

It is the custom to hoe the weedy crops on dark days, bad hay 
days, but it is a gain only in appearance, for weeds cut in such 
weather are sure to start again. 

Haying should be over by the end of the first fortnight in July, 
the time for cutting varying a little with the variety of Grass. 
The bulk of experiments unite in setting the flowering season as 
the best time for cutting, as the Grass then contains the largest 
amount of un transformed sugar, starch, and gluten, and makes the 
most succulent and nutritious Hay. The weight, however, after 
drying, is less in comparison with the bulk, than when it is cut after 
the seed is nearly or quite mature. 

We do not cultivate the Grasses for -seed, but for straw, and 
should try to get the forage in its best condition for feeding out. 
Were we cutting the Hay to sell, on the rule " caveat emptor," it 
would be wise to let it ripen before cutting, as it would then be 
heavier and more profitable. It is a question whether farmers are 
bound to sacrifice their own interest to the supposed interest of 
others. If the over-scrupulous farmer were to carry to market a 
load of Hay cut at what he knows to be the best period, and con- 
sequently of light weight compared with its bulk, the purchaser 
would pay no more per ton than for Hay cut when the seed was ripe, 
and consequently weighing more than the other, and he would laugh 
at the farmer if he asked more than the market price of the latter 
for his superior Hay. It is much to be regretted that some standard 
cannot be fixed to regulate the sale of Hay, and enable both buyer 
and seller to get their dues. 

The application of my remark that haying should be over in a 
fortnight, depends a little on the weather ; but, with modern im- 
provements, a very little. To begin with, Hay should be cut with 
a mowing-machine. These machines have been brought to such 
perfection that it is easy, with a pair of horses, to cut at least an 
acre per hour ; some teams do much more. Therefore the farmer 
need not begin his hay-day blindly; he can afford to wait till 



i 



692 july. 

the sun has fairly risen, dispelled clouds and fogs, and dried the 
dew. The dew being thoroughly dried off expedites the making 
of Hay very much. When a swarth is cut wet and laid in the 
sun, the upper side dries, but the lower remains wet, and must be 
turned before it can feel the sun ; and until it is dry the other side 
cures but slowly, the evaporation of its juices being prevented by 
the steam which rises from the under side. But when the dew is 
off and the ground dry, the swarth laid over begins to evaporate 
its juices at once. Do not suppose that standing grass is as long 
in drying as mowed grass, for it admits air freely among its stalks. 

Many days in haying-time begin with clouds and fogs, which 
puzzle the inost weather-wise farmer ; it is impossible to know 
whether they will break up or thicken. Now the scythe cannot be 
withheld till this is decided ; its work must begin at 4 a.m. 

The mowing-machine, however, cannot be used everywhere. 
Many mowing fields are too rough for it ; but this is the mult of 
bad farming, — slovenly, ordinary New England farming, which 
neglects to drain and clear, and is careless about manuring. The 
farmer who condemns a mowing-machine because it fails in his has- 
socky, rough, stony field, condemns himself and his farming ; and 
were he candid he would confess it. A field so cultivated as to 
admit of the use of a machine, pays for the extra labor by the in- 
creased crop, at least one-half ton per acre. Had I time I could 
prove that the space occupied in a rough field of loose surface 
stones, pieces of wood, and hassocks, is more than enough to shut 
out this amount of grass. 

But supposing our land prepared for the machine ; we send it 
into the field at 9 a.m. We have no enormous gang of haymak- 
ers to be fed, treated, lunched, coaxed, and driven. One man or 
boy drives the machine, which cuts and spreads the grass evenly. 
Two others are removing the hay-covers from the hay cut yester- 
day. By the time an acre is cut, one or two other men begin to 
open the hay that has been uncovered. In two or three hours the 
machine cuts as much as we can manage to-morrow. If we have 
a hay-tedder or spreader, we put one or two horses into it, and 
drive over the field, turning the hay ten times as fast and well as if 



THE FABM. 693 

done by hand, and at one-tenth the cost It can be easily turned 
before dinner. The men who turned the hay may load some that 
is well dried, or may be employed in weeding. 

After dinner the horse-rakes go to work, one or more, according 
to the amount of hay down. They first rake the dry grass into 
winnows, while the tedder is turning the grass cut in the morning. 
As soon as this is done, the horses are put into the hay wagons, and 
we load them with the winnowed hay which was perhaps cut yes* 
terday, and at farthest the day before. 

By 3 p.m., the horse-rake is again at work on the morning's 
cutting, while it is still hot. There are many varieties of horse- 
rake ; which is best must be decided by the purchaser. On a clean 
farm the spring-toothed is most convenient, and costs no more than 
the others, but it needs two persons to manage it ; Delano's " inde- 
pendent-toothed " is a good rake, and one man can- manage it ; but 
I prefer the " improved spring-toothed," also managed by one man, 
who rides, and elevates the teeth with a lever. 

When the hay is raked, cock it and cover with hay-caps. The 
great gain made by using them is not half understood. Everybody 
knows that hay heats somewhat when cocked up, and would cure 
were it not that the night air and dew cool it When covered it is 
neither cooled nor damped, yet its own steam or vapor passes off 
rapidly ; consequently it makes nearly as fast by night as by day 
and is not injured by showers. Many reliable instances are given 
where Hay, cut and covered as here described, was left out in 
two or three days' severe rain, and found perfectly cured in the 
cock when the storm was over. 

In all cases it is well to invert the cock in the sun for an hour 
or two before getting it in, that the. bottom Hay may have a chance 
to evaporate any moisture it may have taken from the ground ; but 
repeated and careful trials show that Hay put in cocks which would 
make 50 pounds of dry Hay the same day on which it was cut, cov- 
ered and left to dry without being opened for two or more days, 
will cure into the J)est quality of Hay, — better in all respects than 
that made in the ordinary way. For the bleaching and scorching 
of the sun removes many of the -essential oils which give the Hay 
its peculiar fragrance and sweetness ; while repeated turning 



694 jutY. 

breaks off all the delicate leaves and flowers, leaving only the 
coarser and harder parts, which are not easily broken and are 
much less nutritious. Rain, too, injures Hay that is not covered, 
very much ; it changes its color, washes away the wax, which is 
very valuable, dissolves much of its essential oil, sugar and starch. 
The injury is in proportion to the extent of wetting. 

Obviously, the process of making Hay is hastened if there is no 
dew to be dried off it ; and if it is cocked up when heated by the 
sun, and covered so that it cannot cool fast, evaporation must con- 
tinue, and when it is re-opened to the sun its drying does not begitiy 
but is hastened. 

Clover hay is most injured by repeated turning, its leaves and 
flower being so tender as to be broken by the least movement. 

Hay made in the cock is nearly as green when fed out in winter 
as Rowen, or even as when cut ; and Clover made in the cock does 
not lose the color of its blossom. In midwinter I have seen 
Clover-heads in Hay thus made, which at first sight seemed just 
picked from the field. 

Those old-fashioned farmers who were accustomed to spend just 
so many days in making their Hay, who left it two days at least 
after cutting, and expected it to " look dry " when carted to the 
barn, would be frightened at the appearance of a barnful of well- 
made Hay. It would be so green that they would think it must 
have heated. 

Well-dried Hay does not need much salt . 2 quarts to the load, 
or 4 to the ton is plenty ; some salt is desirable to increase its relish, 
but it is very easy to put in too much. Hay should never go to 
the mow till it is dry enough to keep well without the help of salt 
If it must be got in green, pains should be taken to ventilate it ; 
and in large, deep mows and bays it is an excellent plan to build a 
chimney of Straw or other material in the middle, as in our plan 
of the barn. 

To do this, bore through the floor in the middle of the space for 
the bay or mow many 3 inch augur holes within a circle of 3 feet 
diameter ; set several bundles of Straw on their buts over these 
holes ; pack Hay closely round these bundles, and when it is level 
with their tops set other bundles above them, but down ; or you may 



THE FARM. 695 

draw up the first bundles a little after the Hay has been filled in 
hard around them, continuing the process till the mow is full, 
when the Straw may be left at the top or removed. The hole may 
be gradually narrowed as the mow rises. The cool air of the cellar 
will rise though the holes in the floor, as the escape of heated air 
from the Hay makes a draught through the chimney, and will ven- 
tilate and cool the mow. Do the same when you make a stack. 
After some months a cover may be put under the holes in the floor 
to exclude air. 

A better way is- to hoop a headless barrel on its inside, remove the 
outer hoops with the exception of those at the top and bottom, se- 
cure to the inside some ropes or straps, by which to haul the barrel 
up as the stack or mow rises, and use it as you would the straw 
bundles, it will last for years. A make-shift way is to set several 
poles on end in the middle of the stack, fastening their tops and 
spreading their lower ends. In our barn a permanent lattice-work 
chimney is built from floor to roof. 

It does not hurt Hay to heat a little just enough to warm the 
mass, but if it becomes smoky it loses both in value and weight 
though some farmers say that smoky Hay is just as good to feed 
out, though it does not sell well ; they tell too much for their own ' 
argument ; if smoky Hay wont sell, it is because it is not so good. 
Milch cows seem to yield as much milk when fed on it, but it does 
not fatten cattle, and it hurts the wind of horses. 

There are many kinds of hay-covers ; some of plaited rushes 
(imported from China), some of tarpaulin, some of duck, some of 
cotton cloth soaked in oil and beeswax. The best are the cheap- 
est, and are made at some cotton mills for the purpose. They are 
of strong, closely woven, unbleached cotton ; about 4 feet 6 inches 
square is the medium size. The largest covers are best — large 
enough to cover a 50 pound cock of dry Hay. The cloth should 
be chemically prepared to prevent its mildewing, and is then better 
than if oiled, for oil tends to decay the fibres. Into each comer tie 
a stout piece of tarred twine, in the loose end of which put a loop. 

The easiest way to fasten the twine is to take the corner in the 
left-hand so that a few inches of it project over the cloth by the 
string ; now double the end back into the hand over the string ; 



lake the looped end of the string and tie it round tfae doubled end 
of the rover, in a noose or slip knot, and draw it tight. It will 
bold the corner more securely than any string you can sew on, and 
is quite as good as eyelets set into the corner (into which a string 
must be fastened afterward), and much cheaper. Have ready some 
stout, well-seasoned forked sticks of hard wood at least 6 inches 
long ; hook the stick into the loop and drive the sharp end into the 
ground, when the cover is to be pinned to the ground. Iron pins 
permanently fastened to the loop are better but more costly. The 
wooden pins may be permanently fastened also. When you are 
about to use the covers, remember that a little care saves much 
trouble, and have ready a pile of them in the barn-door. They 
may be bought fitted for nse at 75 cents and needing only the 
strings and pegs for from 40 to 60 cents apiece according to qual- 
ity. When ready for use they should be folded compactly. When 
wanted in the field pile them evenly into a wagon, hand-cart, or 
wheelbarrow and leave one to each cock ; as the Hay is cocked up, 
some one should go over the field, spread the cover over the cocks, 
and pin the corners firmly to 
the ground. If this is well 
done they will, as I have said, 
« bear a three days' rain ; they 
shrink under rain and shed it 
like a roof. When the cock 
is uncovered, a man or boy should go round and refold the covers, 
a work which will not take one-half a minute for each. If this is 
done the pins are all secure, and the covers in a portable form. If 
a shower comes up it is a short job to send a horse and cart or 
men with a hand barrow round to collect and take them quickly 
where they are needed, and when unfolded there is no confusion, 
entangling of strings, or loss of pegs to prevent putting them on 
rapidly. If not well pinned down they are liable to be blown off, 
or cannot be drawn out tight enough to turn rain well. 

Their use is not confined to the hayfield; for Rowen, stooks of 
Grain, shocks of Peas and Beans, Corn stover, piles of Apples, 
they are equally good, and when once introduced on a farm they 
are in as frequent demand as the shovel or wheelbarrow, and could 



THE FARM. 697 

be as ill dispensed with. I think they more than save their cost in 
a single season. If you cannot afford lo buy a hundred, get a Ten 
at a time, and as you learn their value you will buy more. In 
winter dry them well, fold and store in a dry place. 

With the aid of mowing machines, hay-tedders, horse-rakes and 
hay-covers, the uncertainty and difficulty of the Hay harvest is 
removed, and it may be undertaken and carried forward with speed 
and security. 

No good haymaking or "tedding" machine of American in- 
vention has yet been offered for sale ; the English machine although 
efficient is costly and very heavy. It is the only apparatus con- 
nected with haymaking that remains to be highly improved. The 
time spent in turning Hay, shaking out swartbs, etc-, is a very con- 
siderable draught on the busy hours of haying. 

A large fork, much like a dirt-scoop, has been invented, which 
can be shoved into and under the load, and then attached to a rope 
and pulley, so that the whole load is taken up and placed on the 
loft at one movement. Such an apparatus can hardly come into 
general use on small farms, as it involves considerable prepara- 
tion ; but some arrangement of grapnels might be devised for 
raising large masses of Hay at once. 

With us the practice of securing Hay in stacks is not at all 
common where barns are available, — not so common as it might 
be, with advantage, I think. They are quickly and easily made, 
and Hay well secured in them keeps sweet and fragrant till spring. 

As a preparation for the stack, ttathelt (short piles) should be 
driven into the ground, or a low trestlework erected, strong enough 
to bear the weight, and high enough to protect the bottom of the 
slack from weL When you determine to make 
a stack, endeavor to have ready the amount of 
Hay which will make it, or else he provided 
with a tarpaulin or sailcloth large enough to 
cover the slack, when suspended above it. Pitch 
the Hay from the loads to a man standing on 
the stathels or stack buts. With a fork he lays 
it round regularly, if the stack is to be round, 
along, if it is not, treading it well as he lays it, spreading it a little 



as it rises, so as to make a round stack, egg shaped, a long stack 
something like the bottom of a ship, or the sides of a good home- 
made loaf, and contracting it again with an opposite slope for a top 
or roof to sbed rain. 

When the stack is finished, 
leave it for a few days to set- 
tle and shrink ; then trim it 
well, and if straw can be had, 
thatch it ; if not, take Ferns, 
Rushes, meadow Hay, or any 
long Hay, and beginning at the 
eaves, lay It quite round the stack in parcels, like shingles, rising 
tier by tier, and binding each tier as you go. Crown it with long 
straw doubled over the ridge. This, if well laid and secured, will 
shed rain. 

To secure the whole, make a Hay rope, which is done by twist- 
ing long Hay together, one handful into and over another, twisting 
thoroughly. This method is very rude, and a rope much stronger 
may be made by the aid of throw crooks. Various forms of these 
i use. " A is a home-made crook of stout ash wood, 
3£ feet long, the bent part of 




A 



^O 



which is thinned off till able 
to be bent to a curve, and is 
there retained by the iron 
stay a, the part 6 being left 



beyond the stay as a point of attachment for the 
rope. The end e, is furnished with a ferule and 
swivel ring, by which it is either attached to the 
person by a cord round the waist, or held in the 
hand. B is a better form of the crook, where the 
strain of the straw rope is in a straight line from 
the hook a along the spindle t to the handle 
d: the lefl hand holds the swivel ring c, and 
the right hand causes the part e b d to revolve 
round the line a e dbj means of the handle b, 
which is covered with a loose hollow cylinder of 
wood, the rest of the instrument being made of iron." 



When the rope is made, drive a pin firmly into some sheltered 
part of the stack, to fasten the rope to, and finally bind and tie the 
whole together. 

The cute show different methods of roping the roof of a stack. 

When you wish to use the 
Hay, begin on one side, and with 
a Hay knife cut off large slices 
at once, and haul them into the 
barn. By cutting large slices 
quite down to the ground, you 
will prevent the rain getting 
in, and will preserve the 
soundness of the stack. 

The important points to be 
remembered in stack-making 
are to tramp and lay the Hay 
well Salt as for Hay in the 
barn. 

I think it would often be 
better economy to stack Hay than to enlarge our barns. But if 
you stack, remember to cut 
off the Hay and carry it into 
the bam, and not turn the cat- 
tle out lo feed and shiver in 
the cold stackyard. 

Some European farmers 
dig large pits and pack Grass 
into them as compactly as pos- 
sible, salting freely, and cov- 
ering over so as to shut out 
air when filled. The Grass 
keeps greener, and they think 
sweeter than under the com- -. 
mon methods ; but the amount 
of salt must be injurious. Hay 
or fodder too much salted acta MMH , n«nj, m inms, rot nut mm 



700 JOLT. 

on annuals as a cathartic, purging tliem violently, and awakening 
an inordinate and unwholesome thirst. 

Grain may be stacked like Hay, but greater care is necessary in 
laying it in order, to secure it from rain. Hay may be packed uni- 
formly, but there is danger that open spaces will be left between the 
bundles of Grain. "The stack should be built in this way: set up 
a couple of sheaves against each other in the centre of the stathel, and 
another couple against their sides. Pile other sheaves against these 
in rows around the centre, with a slope downwards, towards the cir- 
cumference of the stathel, each row being placed half the length of 
the sheaf beyond the inner one, till the circumference is completed, 
when it should be examined, and where any sheaf presses too hard 
upon another, it should be relieved, and where a slackness is found 
a sheaf should be introduced. Continue the stack around, laying 
each sheaf over the inter- 
stices of the two below close 
to the last one, pressing it in 
' with the knees, as is repre- 

sented at A. When the out- 
sHe row is thus laid, an in- 

* side one is made with sheaves, 
'; whose but ends rest on the 
s. bands of the outside row, 
| thereby securing the outside 
\. sheaves in their places, and 
| at the same time filling up 
I the body of the stack firm- 

• ly with sheaves. A few 
more sheaves may be re- 
quired as an inmost row, 

to make the heart of the stack the highest part. It is an immense 
benefit to a stack to have its centre well filled with sheaves, as it is 
the heart sheaves which retain the outside ones in their places in 
the circle, with an inclination downward from the centre to the cir- 
cumference, and it is this inclined position of the outside sheaves 
that prevents the rain finding a passage along the straw to the 
very heart of the stack, where it would soon spoil the groin.'' " As 



the vabsj. 701 

the stack goes up the pitcher should preserve its shape, by shoving 
in the but of any sheaf which projects too far, or by pulling out 
any which are too far in." " The eave of the stack is formed ac- 
cording to the mode in which it is thatched. If the ropes are to 
be placed lozenge-shaped, as shown, the eave-row of sheaves is 
placed just within the topmost row. If the thatching-ropes are to 
run from the crown of the stack to the eaves, the cave-sheaves are 
made to project two or three inches beyond the topmost row of 
sheaves." 

To fasten a rape, draw out a handful of straw from a sheaf, and 
wind the rope around it, and then push the end of the rope between 
it and the stack, or make a tie to the rope itself. Should a stack 
lean, prop it with stout stakes. 

In commending mowing-machines, I said some hand mowing 
must be done ; there will be corners out of the reach of the ma- 
chine, headlands, etc., which must be cut by the scythe, so that it is 
necessary to hire at least one good mower. 



702 JULY. 

If a farmer cannot afford to buy a mowing-machine, he can com- 
bine with several others to do so. The same machine, horses, and 
driver can easily cut the grass of three or four farmers, by a little 
management. I know an instance of three farmers, living nearly 
two miles apart, owning a machine together, with which they have 
done all their mowing during the past three years, with speed, 
economy, and comfort ; and between them they saved nearly its 
cost the first year. Such a partnership between obliging, neigh- 
borly people may often supply the want of individual capital. 

As soon as the Hay is out of the fields, turn the water of irriga- 
tion on to them, and allow it to stand for a few days at a time ; its 
use now will give a second crop nearly as large as the first. 

The management of irrigation must be decided by experience* 
Some persons recommend letting on the water as soon as the Hay 
is off; others advise leaving the grass to make a start. I should 
use it as soon as a field was cut, first dressing with one or two hun- 
dred weight of guano or super-phosphate of lime. 

If you have liquid manure carry it out on to the grass, and yon 
will receive an enormous return. 

Farmers who have tried a liberal top-dressing of compost just 
after cutting their grass, affirm that they get better returns from 
it then than at any other time. I confess I do not see how this is 
possible, for it seems to me the dry, hot weather must reduce the 
value of the manure to that of so much mulching. 

So soon as the grass is gone, and even before, you must begin 
on the grain. Do not leave it till frilly ripe ; the straw should be 
yellow at the bottom, but not all along the stem. Try the grain ; 
squeeze a kernel between the thumb and finger ; if its contents 
squeeze out in a dry and mealy condition, it is fit to cut ; if quite 
milky, it should stand longer. There is a great loss in leaving it 
till fully ripe, from birds, and from the amount which shakes out 
of the ear while harvesting. And besides, careful experiments are 
detailed in Stevens' Book of the Farm, and elsewhere, which show 
that grain cut from 5 to 10 days before it was fully ripe, proved 
of much better quality than a portion of the same crop, in the same 
field, which was left till fully ripe ; so that even if the whole of a 



THE FARM. 703 

u dead ripe" grain crop could be saved, its greater bulk would not 
atone for the loss in quantity and quality of the flour and meal 
made from it 

The winter-sown grain is the first to ripen ; the earliest summer- 
sown is next 

Barley and Oats may be allowed to stand later thfCn Wheat and 
Bye, because they ripen more slowly and are less valuable. But 
Oats cut a week or two before they are ripe, dried as Hay, and fed 
out in the Straw in winter, are often found to make superior Hay 
and Grain for horses. 

Grain should never be reaped where it is possible to use a cradle 
or scythe, and large fields should be harvested with a reaping-ma- 
eirine. It is said that reaping saves more of the straw, but it does 
so at a cost generally of double or treble its value in labor. When 
grain is badly lodged it must be reaped, for neither the cradle nor 
scythe can go through it ; but all grain in good condition can be 
mowed evenly, and laid ready for binding, with the common 
scythe, and, after a little practice, at much less cost than with any 
other hand implement Mowers, cradlers, and reapers follow the 
same method ; viz., cut the grain and leave it, the two former in 
regular swathes, the latter in bunches or bundles. Leave it thus 
till noon ; then turn it, and leave again till 3 p.m., when all hands 
should be sent in to bind it into sheaves. 

To do this rapidly, let one or more men precede the binders, and 
with hay-rakes draw together enough grain to form a good-sized 
sheaf (the size must be determined by the length of the straw 
which is to bind it). The binder takes in his right hand a handful 
of the larger straw, then gathering up the grain into his arms he 
passes the straw round behind it, and brings the ends together in 
front, where he crosses them upon the grain with some pressure. 
Then laying the bundle upon the ground, he presses it close with 
his knee, and tightly twistilfg the ends of the binding strand round 
once or twice, he finishes by tucking them under the band. If 
tightly held and twisted the band will hold well-; and by it the 
sheaf is now to be managed. 

Other men should follow the binders, and gather the sheaves into 



704 JULY. 

stooks. The stook is made by leaning several sheaves against each 
other, and others against them ; over their tops lay 2 or 3 sheaves; lay 
them firmly and well balanced, so that they will shed rain. Another 
way of protecting the stook (which must then be made rather 
small), is to set over it a large sheaf, head downward, and opened 
out so that it will embrace the whole top of the stook. Or they 
may be protected with Hay-covers, which is the best plan. Leave 
them to dry thoroughly for a day or two in fine weather, longer if 
necessary ; but the longer they stand the more liability to injury 
by rain, and to loss from plundering birds, and from loosened and 
fallen kernels. The grain may be removed at once to the barn, if 
you have a place there for it where there is free air. The best 
place is above the barn floor overhead ; lay poles or timbers across 
the beams, with such an interval between as will just support the 
sheaves. Thus stored, the grain is sure to be well aired and dried 
and the method is therefore good for grain too green to be mowed 
or stacked. 

All grain — even Oats — should be thus carefully harvested ; 
it then brings a price high enough to more than pay for extra 
labor ; the straw is not soiled or broken, and both spends and sells 
better. 

When the hurry of harvest is over, thresh ; the sooner the 
better. To thresh by hand, sweep out the threshing-floor clean, 
pitch down into it as many bundles as its width will accommodate ; 
lay them in two rows, buts out The best place is the floor of the 
Hay barn, where large doors can be opened at each end and allow 
a free circulation, of air to remove dust and cool the workmen. 
Lay the sheaves with the knots uppermost, as there are heads in 
them which must be threshed. When the grain has been well 
threshed, the bundles should be untied, and turned over so that the 
flail may do thorough work. This over, tie the bundles up again, 
and fork them away into the loft to b& sold or used ; sweep the 
Grain to one side, and clear the floor. If let out, it should be by 
the bushel, and the straw be well inspected afterwards to insure 
thoroughness. 

I need not describe the winnowing machine. There are thresh- 
ing machines worked by horse and steam, which can be used to 



THE FARM. 705 

immense advantage on large jobs, and farmers may find it well to 
have one in partnership. 

Grass for seed is to be treated like that for Hay, till nearly ripe, 
when it should be cradled or mowed, and otherwise treated like 
grain. 

No grass should be cut for seed unless free from all weeds 
and bad grasses. You have had an instance of the number of 
weed seeds in two pints*' of Dutch clover, the seed of which 
is pretty large, — 25,560 and 70,400 to the pint, or an aver- 
age of 50,000. In Herds grass there is undoubtedly as large 
a proportion of weed seeds as the Dutch clover ; and therefore, 
when we sow one-half bushel (32 pints) of Herds grass (to an 
acre), we sow the seeds of about 1,000,000 weeds. In (a bushel 
of) Redtop my experience would show a still larger proportion, 
and I do not doubt that in general we sow 4,000,000 weed seeds to 
the acre. What wonder that we have trouble with weeds in after 
fallows. 

Any land which you wish to sow with Millet may be sown as 
late as the middle of this month, with the certainty of a good crop 
of fodder grain of 3 to 5 tons per acre, in September. Grass 
seed sown at this season with Millet, does well. Sow with them 
l£ pounds common purple topped or fiat Turnips to the acre. 
They will make their growth in the young grass after the Millet 
is removed, and will yield 200 to 400 bushels to the acre, not, 
however, without drawing their support from the land ; every crop 
we grow reduces the fertility of the soil, but I assume that we cul- 
tivate so well that we wish to get all the crops we can, and that 
the Turnips are manured for, and will make manure in return. 
If we get a poor crop of grass, it will be because we have not 
manured well, or because the land is in bad heart, — which is our 
fault and bad farming. 

During the dry weather that follows haying, there is time to re- 
pair ditches and to begin or continue underdraining. On most 
farms there is a lull of work at that time, the breathing space be- 
tween two harvests. 



CHAPTER LXXV. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



The care of finished grounds during summer is light work. 
Our time is occupied either in devising new improvements or in 
enjoying the results of our labors. 

Although I have at different times referred to nurseries, seed- 
beds, varieties of trees and groups, only general principles and 
hints have been given, and there is need of more detailed direc- 
tions before we close our year. 

Seed-beds and nurseries are of course to be made in the fall and 
spring, — in the fall, for all plants having a hard, bony seed- It 
is not well to plant at first in the place where they are to stand for 
several years, for most plants incline to a few long roots, often to a 
single taproot ; those with hairy or fibrous roots are the excep- 
tions. All the skill of the nurseryman is to be directed to check- 
ing this tendency, and inducing the plant to make fibrous roots. 

Evidently a plant with but few roots, and those not fibrous, is 
not likely to flourish when transplanted. Some of its roots are 
broken, and in its new quarters, however much food there may be, 
it has but few mouths to eat with. 

Walnuts, many kinds of Oak, Beeches, Chestnuts ; among fruit- 
trees, Pears and Cherries have hard-shelled seed, and few, or tap- 
roots. 

A germinating seed sends a little root, the radicle, into the earth, 
and a little stem, the pumule, into the air. The root like the stem 
grows from the end ; but not by successive buds formed one year 
to be expanded the next, but by successive elongations. This 
elongation takes place only in obedience to the demands of the 
plant for food, and the natural tendency is to go straight down like 
a carrot, when there is food enough ; side roots are sent abroad 
only when the taproot meets with a check or scarcity of food. 

706 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 707 

Consequently when we try to remove such a tree, we find the 
central root running down, sometimes 5 feet into the earth with 
scarcely a side root. To transplant the tree is plainly an impossi- 
bility. We cannot dig up the deep roots, and if we could, we 
could not plant them again properly. 

This is the main cause of the general failure in transplanting 
such trees from the forests or fields where they have grown from 
infancy. The thing is nearly impossible, no matter how much 
care is taken. This being the natural growth of the tree, it has 
been reasoned that any attempt to prevent its forming a taproot 
would result in checking its growth, it being a plain violation of 
nature's law. It is true that if we change the habit of the tree's 
roots we injure the tree, unless we so conform other circumstances 
to it as to make good what we take away. For instance, a tree 
whose roots go down 5 feet into the soil, only throwing out a few 
fibrous side roots, draws all its support from the soil contained in the 
inverted cone covered by its branches, through which the roots 
choose to extend, multiplied by 5 feet Suppose its branches to ex- 
tend 50 feet in diameter ; the superficial area is about 1,900 whieh 
multiplied by 5 gives 9,500 cubic feet But this is the amount of 
earth contained in the solid entire cube, and which abstractly con- 
sidered it is necessary to allow to support it in full vigor. If now 
you divert the taproot, cut it off or bend it so that surface roots 
shall take its place, which do not dip more than 2 feet down, the 
diameter through or over which they can be allowed to range must 
be increased ; a circle with a diameter of 50 feet will no longer 
unquestionably feed the tree ; it must be enlarged three-fifths. Or 
to change the form of statement the trees could be within 25 feet 
of each other while they had taproots, but after the change the 
distance between them must be at least 40 feet to insure the same 
amount of food. I do not give these as the proper distances, but 
as illustrative of the relative needs of taprooted and fibrous rooted 
trees. And I do not mean to say that no trees should be planted 
nearer than they will bear to be when well grown, nor in the first 
case will the roots ramify through the 9,500 cubic feet ; there may 
be as good reasons for planting close as for planting wide. But 
this may be stated without modification ; viz., if a given number of 






708 JULY. 

feet of good soil are necessary to the perfection of an average 
specimen of any class of trees, all other trees of the same species 
to attain perfection need the same amount of the same quality of 
soil, — or more if it be poorer, less if it be richer. For the sake 
of shade, fine groups, timber, or screens, we may plant closer, and 
in that case manure will do much to supply the want of room. 

To return now to the seed-beds. Make them for all kinds of trees, 
so that you may Jiave an abundance of such as you wish after all 
the losses of growing, etc. Make the beds from 3 to 5 feet wide 
and as long as you please ; dig them deep and manure well ; rake 
fine. With a dibber make holes for all largish nuts, acorns, 
etc., one inch deep and as many inches apart as their size indicates ; 
drop one nut or seed into each hole and cover with earth. Make 
the rows across the bed. Smaller seeds may be sown in drills and 
covered from one-half to one inch deep, according to size. All 
berries enclosing seeds, like Haws, Black alders, Barberries, et&, 
may be put to soak for some hours or days in lukewarm water in 
a warm place, and as soon as they are softened to a sort of pulp or 
pounce, they should be mashed and strained through one of the 
coarser kinds of fine sieves, then washed several times till clean, 
and afterwards rolled in ashes or plaster to dry and separate them. 
Or you may drop one berry in each dibber-hole, the holes being 
3 to 4 inches apart, from each berry ; three or more plants will 
probably start and may afterwards be transplanted. 

In the same way treat other seeds. Allow the bed to freeze 
and thaw, as the alternations break the shells of the seeds and free 
the germs. Early in the spring loosen the earth between the rows 
with a handfork. When the plants appear, keep the bed free from 
weeds, and the earth light, loose, and well watered. 

The next spring transplant to another bed and put them 6 to 9 
inches apart, rows 2 feet apart and still running north and south. 
Mulch in summer, and cultivate them in this bed, till they grow 
crowded, when they should be removed to their final position. 

When this is done they should be examined again, and any tap- 
roots which have formed should be pinched off. 

Some trees like Hemlocks, no matter at what age, when taken 
from fields or pastures, have only a few finger-like roots ; those 



OBNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 709 

which live after being removed to a good soil and cultivated there 
for a year or two, will make an enormous quantity of fine, hairy 
roots, and may be transplanted anywhere with safety. 

A few seeds thus planted and cared for will save hundreds of 
dollars to a person planting largely. 

A more rapid way is to buy seedlings of a propagator who will 
sell them for a trifle per hundred. Set them out in the second 
year from seed. But banish from your mind the notion — which 
has been known to creep in — that after doing this and using what 
you want, you can sell the rest for enough to reimburse the outlay. 
Such a practice is detestable and fills one with care and worry. 
When he looks at his young plants he thinks — not of their beauty 
— but of the money they will bring ; instead of using the best, he 
acts like poor country farmers, who feed their family on the refuse 
of stall and field and sell the best If you would get real enjoy- 
ment from your young plantations, propose to yourself to use what 
you want and give away the rest. There is no gift more appro- 
priate or beautiful to a neighbor than a few choice trees, shrubs or 
flowers, which he may be too poor to buy. If you make a specula- 
tion of it, the cost of the plants which you use may be small in 
money, but it will be great in trouble and aggravation. 

In, forming your collection you should be influenced very much 
by the consideration of the soil you have to deal with, the charac- 
ter and species of the trees and shrubs already growing round you, 
and the requirements of the climate. If your place is to be your 
home in winter as well as summer, the plantations must be made 
with a view to their effect in the one season as well as in the other. 

It is common to set more value on strange trees than on the 

native trees and shrubs about us. In some cases the preference is 

well founded ; as for instance, in a region like the most of Plymouth 

County, Mass., where the principal growth is White and Yellow 

Pine, and Birch ; here the eye naturally tires of the monotony and 

longs for variety. A judicious intermingling of strangers enlivens 

the landscape and increases our love for it ; giving us not only the 

imported beauty, but by contrast, an increased enjoyment of the 

beauty of the native varieties. 

This reference to the woods of Plymouth County is not by way 

60 



710 JULY. 

of sneer or depreciation, for few trees are so beautiful to me as the 
American Pines. The White Pine is the organ of the forest; its 
cool, shady depths and gentle music in summer, when played on by 
the zephyr, are most inviting, while its sublimity when snow-laden, 
and resonant with deep, bass vibrations, giving utterance to mighty 
hymns of praise under the heavy hand of the storm-wind, impresses 
the most insensible mind. Considering its adaptedness to all situa- 
ttons, its shade and coolness in summer, its shelter in winter, the 
enlivenment it lends the wintry landscape, its grace, dignity, and va- 
riety, I think it cannot be much surpassed. I cannot call it the king 
of evergreens, for to me that place is the right of the perfectly de- 
veloped Hemlock, but it is second only to the Hemlock, and in 
music and voice is its superior. 

The size of your place must also have much to do in deciding 
your selection of trees and shrubs ; if it is large, trees should pre** 
dominate over shrubs ; if small, shrubs must be the leading feature, 
trees being used only for relief and shade. Upon the size, too, 
must depend the influence which is exerted by the natural wish to 
collect many specimens as a sort of arboretum, for purposes of 
pleasure, instruction, and curiosity. This is out of the question in 
a small place, and should only be indulged in on a place of several 
acres. 

What then do I call a small place ? It is difficult to answer, so 
much do standards vary. Ours is a large place. Half an acre, an 
acre, two or even more acres are small under certain arrangements ; 
if the larger part of a place of a few acres is devoted to vegeta- 
bles, crops or flowers, then the place is small. 

It is already plain, that in my estimation the useful is somewhat 
subservient to the beautiful. I would have grounds so arranged 
that the surface devoted to culture of any kind should be much less 
than that devoted to permanent beauty ; meaning by permanent 
beauty that which comes from well-arranged and established lawns, 
plantations, and shubberies, in contradistinction to the more fleeting 
attractions of flowers, orchards, and general culture. 

In the " village-garden " I endeavored to state my views about 
selecting and grouping trees and shrubs. I have no space to men- 
tion ail their varieties, much less to enter into particulars on their 



ORNAMENTAL GROUND8. 711 

merits, and the peculiarities of the groups which can he formed from 
them. The best way to master the subject is to study nature, and 
upon this I insist as the indispensable basis of good planting. ' Who* 
ever sneers at the woodland and meadow that surround his home, 
and seeks new varieties of trees, unless he have real genius or great 
familiarity with the imported varieties in their natural habitat, 
where they have attained all the luxuriant beauty of our best na- 
tives in wood and hedge, will surely produce awkward and artificial 
results. 

However liberally you introduce foreign trees, retain a large 
number of the native and common kinds, that they may connect 
the home-place with the general landscape, and let the strangers be 
subordinates to enrich and diversify, rather than to predominate. 

The following trees have been widely introduced and profitably 
grown by nursery-men to the exclusion of much finer native varie- 
ties. The opposite list contains American trees and shrubs quite 
as good, often vastly better :— 

Foreign. Natfre. 

Ailanthus, bad as possible. American White Ash, ) 

English Ash, good. " Red Ash, > good. 

Elm, " " Black Ash, ) 

European Elm, " Poplars of several kinds, all good for 

Abeie or Silver-leaved Poplar, bad; quick growth. 

leaves out late, and loses its foliage. American Linden, poor. 

Scotch Larch, very good. American Larch, not first rate, but of 

European Linden, very inferior; quick growth. 

loses its leaves early, much at* Maple Red, 

tacked by worms, etc. u Sugar, J- firstrate. 

Norway Maple, good, •' Silver-leaved, 

European Mt. Ash, ordinary. Oak Red, 

English Oak, very good, but of slow " Black, 

growth. •* White, 

European Sycamore, tender, not very " Scarlet, 

good. " Pin, 

Weeping Willow, firetrate as an oc- " Rock, 

casional tree. Hickory, 3 varieties, firstrate, 

Scotch Pine, very good. Buttonwood, once good, now poor. 

Austrian Pine, " Willow Water, good and not special in 

Norway Spruce, firstrate. character as the Weeping, admitting 

Of these trees, particularly of the of more general use. 

poorer kinds, thousands of dot- Willow Osier. 

iars' worth have been 6old ; of the " Golden, and many other good 

best American kinds comparatively varieties. 

few. 

All of the following are native : — 



very fine. 



1 



712 



JULY. 



Horse Chestnut, indifferent to bad. 

American Mr*. Ash, very good. 

Pine, White and Red, firstrate. 
" Yellow, good. 

Balsam Fir, very bad. 

Spruce, Doable White, good. 

Tupelo, peculiar and very fine. 

Liquid Amber, very fine. 

Red Cedar, firstrate. 

Arbor Vitse, fair, occasional tree, ex- 
cellent hedge. 

White Fringe Tree, firstrate. 

Judas Tree, good. 



Tulip Tree, ) iWW - 
Magnolias, \ «ood. 



Yirgilia euted, fair. 

American Elm, firstrate; other vari- 
eties good. 

American Cypress^good. 

Kentucky Coffee Tree, much like the 
Ailanthus, but not so vile,- rather 
tender. 

Beech, firstrate. 

Birches, " 

Sassafras, rather hard to grow, but 
peculiar and desirable; its autum- 
nal coloring very fine. 

Butternut, not very good as an orna- 
mental tree. 

Chestnuts, very good. 



and many others 



Of our American trees the Balsam Fir and Arbor Vitse, Ameri- 
can Elm, Sugar and Silver-leaved Maples, have been largely sold ; 
but the others in the native list are comparatively unknown. 

We generally depend on the taste of the nursery-man, who pre- 
fers to sell the trees he can grow most easily, and thus a deal of 
rubbish has been foisted upon the public. 

I have already 'said how beautiful I consider the American Elm. 
The maples are resplendent in the fall, but the Red Maple is the 
most beautiful of them, and well fitted for wet places ; the Sugar 
Maple is very fine, but is too regular and with too little variety to 
be firstrate ; the Silver-leaved makes a large, but loose and strag- 
gling tree ; it is good for wet places* The American Oaks are par- 
ticularly fine as a family, and as individuals. When properly man- 
aged in the nursery, they are easily grown, and quickly, notwith- 
standing the general opinion to the contrary. I hope to see the 
time when they shall be largely used as a roadside tree in our 
country towns ; by any such roadside they would thrive, though 
they never will do well in cities. They are all hardy, and many 
individuals might be mentioned which have stood by our village 
roads since the settlement of the country, and are still full of vigor. 

The Hickories come next for beauty. They vary much in 
character, but are generally most graceful ; their branches droop- 
ing from top to bottom often remind one of the rippling leap of a 
waterfall ; although the toughest of trees, and the very type of 
strength, they are never awkward or stiff; no branch is straight 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 713 

■ 

the curves blend together from little twigs and branches and stems, 
like harmonious music ; their rich yellows in fall are the clearest 
and most reliable of autumnal colors. . 

Beeches are very fine, and if well treated when young, are 
easily managed and of reasonably quick growth ; the branches and 
spray are very light and broken. The tree is said to be destitute 
of dignity, and to have no effect either grouped or single, but I 
cannot agree to this. However true it may be of the English 
tree, it is not so of our own, and it is on the dictum of English 
writers, and their ^discriminating disciples here, that the tree has 
been condemned. Its white bark broken with lichens, and the 
dark lines and scars of age and storms, is very attractive, and 
must charm the appreciative eye when seen gleaming through the 
leaves ; it is always picturesque and full of variety. The ease 
with which characters may be carved on its bark, has given it the 
name of the " pictured tree." The Copper and Purple Beeches 
may occasionally be introduced with good effect ; masses of them 
well blended with other trees would be fine. 

The Birches are very fine; the common Gray Birch not so 
good, — but the Canoe, Paper, and Yellow Birches, are entitled to 
a first rank among our trees. I would rather use them singly than 
in masses. They are particularly charming along the banks of 
brooks or ponds, which return a beautiful reflection of the singular 
and pleasantly colored bark and the unusually graceful branches. 
They all do well in low lands. The Scotch Birch is an acquisi- 
tion. 

The Chestnut, fine, whether alone or in masses. The nobly 
rounded outlines and massed branches of a Chestnut wood, are 
always among the finest sights in a landscape ; the foliage is as 
dear and vivid in summer as that of the Beech, and is a particular 
excellence in both, whilst in the fall they are the most conspicuous 
of trees. The Chestnut and Oak mass together in wood very 
well, and I know no better trees for this purpose in land that is 
rather level or rolling. 

The Beech is seen to the best advantage along rocky ledges, or 
along hill-sides ; Hickories either in level or rolling land. The 
Birch is finest in lowlands or on hill-sides, and when in groups, 

60* 



714 JULY. 

should always be massed with Evergreens, for the sake of the con- 
trast in winter between their white and yellow stems and the vivid 
color of the Evergreen, through which they gleam like a lamp 
from a window at night. - Elms never mass well together ; they 
are best as single trees, in groups of from 3 to 6, or to skirt a 
plantation. Tupelo and Liquid Amber belong to one family, and 
their autumnal color is very brilliant. The deep crimson of the 
Tupelo gives it a conspicuous place in the autumnal landscape, its 
abundant berries make it a haunt for birds, whilst in branches and 
spray it is the most weird and picturesque of trees. Its contor- 
tions remind one of the Laocoon, particularly when festooned, as 
it so often is, with Ivy or Woodbine. The Liquid Amber masses 
well with round-topped trees, while the Tupelo should be alone or 
on the outer edge of groups. 

The Judas tree, which is rather low growing, and of no particu- 
lar presence, is, however, recommended by its abundance of red 
flowers long before it gets into leaf. So, too, the Fringe-tree and 
Virgilia ; their blossoms recommend them ; the former is rather 
a large shrub than a tree. 

The Tulip-tree grows very large, and is fine in masses or single. 
Its curious flowers are its attraction to the mass, but its real merit 
lies in its architectural leaves, their clean and vivid appearance, 
and in its massive character. 

The Magnolia never gets much size with us ; the " Glauca " has 
beautiful flowers ; Acuminata has pretty flowers and fine foliage, 
and is good in groups of round-topped trees. 

The Tripetala or Umbrella, and the Macrophylla, are valued 
for immense leaves and flowers. There are several other varie- 
ties, all beautiful and conspicuous. Soulangeana and Conspicua 
are full of early flowers. 

The American Mountain Ash, like the European, is valuable 
for its blossoms and bright berries. .Rarely use it single, but plant 
it among Evergreens, where it may thrust its white blossoms and 
scarlet berries through their branches ; the color of both is height- 
ened and the effect always beautiful. 

Our Willows have great variety of form, size, and color, and 
are valuable in plantations about water. The usual mistake is to 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 715 

suppose that they are the trees for water, and should always pre* 
dominate in plantations in its neighborhood ; no pond as large as a 
wash-tub but is wept over by Weeping Willows. The practice is 
disgusting. The Weeping Willow is really a fine tree, and occa- 
sionally looks well near a pond, over which it may lean, and where 
it may be mirrored ; it likes plenty of moisture about its roots. 
But when this is said, all is said. It thrives perfectly in a deep, 
good, upland soil. On account of its marked character it should 
be introduced but rarely. Peculiar trees tire the eye unless they 
have a deal of .variety, and when often introduced, although they 
bear a small proportion to the whole number of trees on the place, 
they control the general effect, and leave their own impression pre- 
dominant in the mind. If you must use many weeping trees, vary 
them as much as possible. The Black Birch is a very graceful 
tree of this class, and is redeemed from being miserably lachry- 
mose by its generally sprightly character and its little tassels of 
blossoms and seeds. The Weeping Beech is considered tearful, 
but its contortions never allow it to become sombre, and the same 
is true of almost all trees which have been made violently weeping 
by horticultural devices, such as the Weeping Ash. 

The Golden Willow should have a place in every plantation of 
size, for the sake of its splendidly colored wood in the early spring. 
A group of these Willows, after they have felt the quickening of 
the early spring sun, and their sap has begun to creep, is perfectly 
resplendent, and in a violent rain storm beguiles us into the belief 
that over them the sun is shining. 

The Black, Bay-leaved, Water, and many other Willows, are 
all good in their place. Some of them do as well in a sand bank, 
or better, than in low ground. 

The Buttonwood is most often indigenous in wet lands, and al- 
though not so fine a tree as it was a few years ago, is still an ac- 
quisition, and we may reasonably hope that it will recover its health 
and re-assume a leading place among round-topped trees. Its scaly 
bark and white wood make it both curious and attractive. It, too, 
should be in the company of Evergreens, to bring it out in better 
^relief, One objection to it is that its leaves come out late. 
. The European Sycamore is a Maple, and pretty ; its- dark green 



716 JULY, 

foliage and yellow blossoms recommend it, but I do not think either 
it or the Norway Maple equal to our own Maples, and neither is as 
hardy in this climate. 

The American Cypress and Larch are two semi-Evergreens, as 
though nature had stopped with her intention but half fulfilled in 
their case, or the material had fallen short. The Cypress we need 
hardly consider ; it thrives only in a more southern latitude ; with 
us it lives and grows, that is all. ' But the American Larch or 
Hackmatack is too little known. It is as wild and unmanageable 
as an Indian girl ; its luxurious picturesqueness of branch and top, 
when it has room to grow, are wonderful, and to me it is the most 
picturesque of American trees. If planted from seed, it will grow 
anywhere, and would often very much heighten the effect of glens, 
brooksides, or even groups of formal trees. When planted as a 
specimen tree, it should be in a spot to which it can give its own 
character ; where the irregular surface needs, and is grateful for, the 
addition of the Larch. In groups, it should be planted in the mid- 
dle, to draw up and give character to the whole. 

The Scotch 'Larch, though picturesque and of quick growth, has 
never in this country acquired so fantastic and striking a growth as 
our own tree. Yet it is invaluable, and may be used to advantage 
alone, in groups with other trees, or in masses by itself. Both these 
Larches should be introduced where Evergreens and deciduous 
trees are mixed as a connecting link. 

I had nearly forgotten to mention the Acacias and Locusts. 
Alone, or to fringe plantations, to impart wildness to a glen, the 
three-thorned Acacia is of great value, and it also has considerable 
dignity. No tree is like it ; armed with terrible thorns, each bunch 
of which threatens blood and wounds to the intruder ; in them some 
fanciful persons have seen nature's weapons, to prevent bears climb- 
ing to suck the honey of the blossoms, and to eat the nuts. It owes 
much of its beauty to its long white clusters of fragrant blossoms. It 
is desirable wherever it will grow, which it does best in light, deep 
soil, though it will grow in sandy places. The Locusts are so much 
attacked by borers that they often die in spite of the care of the cul- 
tivator. As timber it is of great value, being almost imperishable, 
and it is a good quality in it that it will grow in grass or pasture 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 717 

fields without injuring the grass ; beneath its shade pasture always 
improves. 

No doubt I have neglected to mention many excellent deciduous 
trees, but it would take so much time and space to enumerate all, that 
I should not think it desirable even if it were possible. The best of 
our deciduous trees I have mentioned, and even if you use no others 
you cannot fail to get satisfaction from plantations made of these. 

But the Evergreens must not go unnoticed. The White Pine 
has already been described, but chief of Pines though it is, it is so 
nan longo intervallo ; the Red Pine (P. resinosa) comes close to it 
This tree is but little known here, but it is very common in the 
northern part of the United States, in the forests of Maine, Ver- 
mont, and New Hampshire, and up the mountain sides of the whole 
northern continent Its tufted foliage is like that of the White 
Pine, though longer, thicker, darker, in spite of there being but two 
leaves in a sheath ; its wood is rough, scaly-barked, and reddish, and in 
the forest its stem runs up tall and stately like gigantic columns. 
It is fully equal to the Austrian Pine in foliage and color, and 
should be in every collection ; and I hope it may yet be as com* 
mon as the Balsam Fir is now, which is of all trees the meanest, 
least expressive, stiffest, most worthless. When young it is often 
handsome, and that it may be beautiful when old ; witness the tree 
now standing on the old Gore Place, Waltham, Mass. ; but for one 
such specimen there are ten thousand mean trees. No sight is 
more common in our New England villages than a little cottage 
close to the street, with two or more tall Balsam Firs tyranizing 
over it, giving no shade in summer, no music in winter, no 
beauty at any time ; with their lower branches cut away to allow 
the inhabitants of the house to see out, they are like monstrous 
pompons 'in a soldier's cap. 

Never cut the lower branches of an Evergreen if you set any 
value on its peculiar beauty ! The habit of the whole class is to 
lay the lower branches on the grass, and present a succession of 
green, unbroken, to the very top. The Pines, as they grow old, 
acquire a new character. Their stems and branches become dig- 
nified and beautiful, often very picturesque, and a little judicious 
thinning may sometimes show this to better advantage. But never 



718 JULY. 

touch a branch of an Evergreen without first preparing yourself by 
careful and long thought and study and familiarity with the best 
specimens, for you can never replace the limb removed. 

The Yellow Pine is inferior to the others, but about equal to the 
Scotch Pine. One superiority it has; it is most deliciously fragrant 
when shedding its leaves in autumn ; then the air of a Yellow Pine 
wood is more delicious, fragrant, and balsamic than that of any 
flower-garden or greenhouse, even in their perfection. 

The Arbor Vitae may be planted along brooks and in rocky 
places, occasionally introduced into a group, used as a hedge ; but 
when employed without discrimination it is bad. 

The Norway Spruce is an unusually fine tree, and too much can 
scarcely be said in its praise, whether single, massed, or in mixed 
groups ; it is eminently a picturesque tree. The White and double 
Black Spruce are nearly as valuable. 

The Hemlock is the King of Evergreens. As a hedge nothing 
is more beautiful, particularly when it is gemmed with drops of 
rain or dew; when young its spray and color — especially the 
color of the new growth — are bewitching ; it may be used as a 
shrub, a tuft, or a screen. • In middle age it rivals the Norway 
Spruce in luxuriant picturesqueness, in variety and grace. But its 
triumph is in its old age ; a solitary old Hemlock stands like a 
king; its stately stem, powerful branches, rugged, sturdy habit, 
claim notice and praise. Standing alone it is peerless and magnifi- 
cent; and a Hemlock forest is all this, and in addition, sublime. 
Whoever has ridden along our northern mountains, and looked 
down even on a still day on a valley full of- Hemlocks, fringing 
the meadows and creeping up the mountain sides must have seemed 
to himself to see a glorious green ocean ; the variety of branch and 
top, the broken outlines, all recall the dancing waves of the sea. 
But let the storm-wind strike it, watch the trees bend, sway, and 
roll, as the blast pours its fury upon them, and you will feel that 
the sea has swept up over the solid land. You need not then ven- 
ture upon the treacherous deep to see the wild magnificence of a 
storm. As the tempest dies away and quiet returns, and the glad 
waves of branches dance and toss in the sunlight, you will feel the 
wonder, and power, and beauty of nature. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 719 

I have mentioned the Red Cedar or Savin, as a firstrate tree. 
It is so. It should be planted oftener in our ornamental grounds. 
We pass it by with the commendation that it makes good posts 
and feeds the birds with berries ; but few know the tree. It is a 
singular combination of grace, variety, and picturesqueness, with 
stiffness and formality. Its power over the eye is the less from its 
foliage being so minutely subdivided, and it might be said to lack 
beauty or individuality of foliage ; but its masses of foliage are fine ; 
scores of little twigs and branchlets combine to form one branch 
or mass of green on the tree, and the disposition of the main 
branches — often weird, always picturesque — gives its foliage a 
really marked character. The color of the leaf is more varied 
than that of any other tree; it would be easy any day in winter or 
spring to make a bouquet of cedar branches, which in sober rich- 
ness and variety of color would bear comparison with a garden 
bouquet During the summer it loads itself with berries, which 
are to be the food and mainstay of many birds through the winter, 
and meantime, their rich blue bloom gives the tree the appearance 
of being in blossom for months together. Its thick foliage makes 
it a favorite resort for birds in summer ; — resting on its spiry, 
swaying tip, the Red Mavis swings 'and pours over field and wood 
his rich, abundant song ; — while in winter it is the warm home and 
house of refuge for shelterless birds. It is excellent, too, as a screen 
to houses or barns. But it shows us something of its glories in the 
fall. Wild vines .incline to cling to and grow up through it; the 
Sweetbrier will push its flowers and berries up into it ; the Wood- 
bine and Ivy twine round the stem, and burst out in masses over 
the branches ; they climb up to the very tip of the slender top, and 
taking a firm hold they fling long festoons of branches and leaves 
abroad in the air. There they sway and dance in the wind all 
summer long ; but when autumn comes, and the " wine of the 
year " is fermenting in their sap vessels, and the leaves have grown 
ripe for the harvest, there comes over the Ivy a rich yellow, and 
over the Woodbine a deep crimson glory, that first appears in the 
edge of a leaf, but which creeps up the midrib, spreads through 
the sap vessels, and at length some glorious autumn morning fills 
and illumines every fibre and tissue. The dear old Cedar is ablaze 



720 JULY. 

with crimson and gold ; his modesty and sober colors can no longer 
veil and hide him from public esteem ; he is crowned with fire ; no 
one can pass without an admiring pause. The russet and browns, 
the blue berries, all combine to make a wonder and a glory. 

But beautiful as the tree is, enthusiastically as we should like to 
praise it, let us hush, for its real triumph is to come. The added 
glories of the fall do not develop its peculiar personal charms. 
But look at it after a snow-storm ! The minute subdivisions of 
leaf and twig offer thousands of footholds to the tired snowflakes ; 
it is full of purity and whiteness ; it bends beneath its load, but 
never tries to lose or shake it off; the long, pliant, irregular 
branches are now more weird and fantastic than ever ; the tree- 
tops bend in every direction, and the branches are pinned to the 
ground ; they form arches and pillars, towers and minarets, laby- 
rinths of beautiful shapes. The winter king claims the Cedar for 
his own. Pines and Hemlocks too are most beautiful in winter, 
but their long fascicles of leaves do not offer the many resting 
places which the little feet of the snowflakes find in the Savin ; 
they close up as the storm- wind blows, they bend down to avoid 
the blast, and at the least breeze shake off the load which they 
have taken up in still weather ; — not so the Cedar ! it spreads wide 
its arms as there is more to receive, and folds them about the wel- 
comed strangers, till fiercely shaken by the pursuing winds. 

If you would have your country house most beautifully sur- 
rounded in winter, build it among Cedars. Pass, one winter there, 
and when the snow has come you will see, what you perhaps never 
before suspected, that winter in the country is far from cheerless 
and may well compare with the summer. 

In characterizing our trees I have often spoken of their voice as a 
quality too important to be disregarded. In the Pine and Hem- 
lock it is the sweetest and most impressive music, responding to the 
most delicate touch of the zephyr, obedient to the ' might of the 
tempest ; whilst there are other trees which have no voice for the 
light winds and only shriek or roar under the blast The musical 
ear may be fed daily, charmed or annoyed by the voices of the 
trees as they join in the morning or evening hymn around the 
homestead. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 721 

" The wind, when first he rose and went abroad 
Through the waste region, felt himself at fault, 
Wanting a voice, and suddenly to earth 
Descended, with a wafture and a swoop, — 
Where, wandering volatile from kind to kind, 
He wooed the several trees to give him one. 
First, he besought the Ash ; the voice she lent 
Fitfully, with a free lashing change, 
Flung here and there its sad uncertainties. 
The Aspen next ; a fluttered, frivolous twitter, 
Was her sole tribute ; from the Willow came, 
So long as dainty summer drest her out, 
A whispering sweetness ; but her winter note 
Was hissing, dry, and reedy. Lastly, the Pine 
Did he solicit ; and from her he drew 
A voice so constant, soft and lowly deep, 
That there he rested, welcoming in her 
A mild memorial of the ocean cave, 
Where he was born." 
61 



CHAPTER LXXVL 

GREENHOUSE, ETC. 

JUST brings us to the end of our year. Be- 
nd us, is all the work done ; before us, much 
the expected reward. Many things have 
ten left undone, and many partially or poorly 
:ecuted ; but all has been attempted, and the 
hole work has been carried forward in the 
iat spirit, and with an earnest desire to do our 
best. The failures and disappointments which 
have tried us, or which are still before us, are small compared with 
the pleasure we have enjoyed and the success which is promised; 
and we have little to complain of, for who can expect unmingled 
satisfaction ? 

The greenhouse in August begins to re-assert its claims, and we 
begin, slowly and reluctantly, to repair, renew, and refresh, assured 
by reason of what seems impossible to our external senses, that 
the present luxuriant vegetation and rich beauty around us can so 
soon and so easily fall before the destroying touch of coming 

Clean all the wood-work, mend pipes and glass, stop leaks, pot 
and shift, cuttings, overhaul the old plants, and give them new earth 
and new pots; put every thing in the best condition for growth. Give 
copious waterings of liquid manure from time to time, and lay in 
a good stock for winter use. 

The graperies demand no time or care beyond that given the 
last month; they all contain fruit in some state of forwardness, and 
are to be enjoyed rather than worked over. 

The long shoots are to be pinched back, to mature wood, and 
where there are other plants, leaves should be removed to admit light. 
Be careful that the houses do not get chilled by easterly winds. 



GREENHOUSE. 723 

The grapes in the cold grapery will be coloring and ripening during 
the month. 

If you have not had as much or as fine fruit as you hoped, let 
this year's failure help you to insure next year's success. 

In the conservatory the work is the same, and there is rather 
more of it, as more of the plants are stock, and are seldom ex- 
changed for others. 

Repot and stimulate Pelargoniums which have been cut down. 
If the Chrysanthemums, Cinerarias, and Roses seem to crowd their 
pots, shift. Pot Achimenes, and lay aside such Gloxinias and 
Fuchsias as are out of bloom. Pinch Ericas and Epacris back a 
little ; it will both strengthen them and increase their bloom. 
Repot Callas, if not done last month. 

In beginning the work for winter, look over all that has been said 
in the previous months about the treatment, culture, and propaga- 
tion of plants, that you may be sure to start fairly. 

Now is the time to plan and start new cold or conservative pits, 
or refresh old ones, and, in general, to furbish up all the parapher- 
nalia of winter war. 

Those beds in the conservatory in which there are no plants 
should be enriched, and renewed, and well dug over, while those 
containing plants should have three or four inches of earth re- 
moved from their tops, to be replaced by rich virgin loam. 



CHAPTER LXXVn. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



If you would have the full midsummer glory in your flower-gar- 
den, be constant and careful in your attendence upon it ; the bed- 
ding plants are now at their highest point, and will continue to 
grow and blossom. 

Annuals, too, are in their prime, and the place of those just out 
of bloom should be filled from the reserve-garden. All annuals 
going to seed should be cut down or pulled up. Many, like Candy- 
tuft, may be kept much longer in blossom if prevented from ripen- 
ing their seeds. 

Most of the perennials are gone, but those which remain are so 
brilliant in color, and large in size, as to allow the loss to be scarcely 
felt. 

Transplant from the seed-beds the seedlings of all perennials or 
biennials sowed in the spring, to the places where they are to blos- 
som next year, or if no place has been selected, prick them out in 
rows in the nursery, that they may .get well grown before the next 
year. You may at this time sow the seeds of Sweet Williams, 
Foxglove, Canterbury Bell, Pansies, and other biennials, from the 
seed ripened this year. Such seed will germinate much more rap- 
idly than when dried over winter. This, indeed, is true of all 
seeds ; they are* in a better state to germinate and develop, if sown 
as soon as ripe ; examples of which are the Acorn, self-sowed from 
the Oak ; Peas and Beans, dropped from the vines while harvesting. 
Only such seeds as would be winter-killed should be kept till spring. 

Biennials hardy enough to stand the winter, gain a year in flow- 
ering if planted in August Pot out of the garden such annuals 
as you would like for the winter, which were sowed late and are 
not yet much developed. Take off slips, suckers, and cuttings 
from perennials. 

724 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 725 

Remember that the Chinese Hollyhock, Double Scarlet Lychnis, 
and similar plants, may be propagated by cuttings of the flowering 
stems and other parts. 

Clip Box edgings, that they may make a new growth before winter. 

Plant out such bulbs as are injured by too long drying, as Snow- 
drops, Lilies, etc Also if there are still any autumnal flowering 
bulbs not planted, Colchicum, Autumnal Crocus, etc., set them out. 

Make layers of Carnations and the other plants already men- 
tioned ; cut off such layers as have been before made, and are now 
well rooted. 

Pot cuttings which have struck roots. Pot seedlings that are 
well advanced, and shift into larger pots those seedlings, cuttings, . 
etc., before potted or sowed in small pots. 

Every thing which is to go into the house in the winter, should 
be arranged and assorted now, and many plants potted. After 
potting, remove to the shade of a north wall or a shed ; keep cool 
and moderately watered. 

Auriculas and choice Polyanthuses, whether seedlings, cuttings, 
or old plants, should be often worked over and cleaned ; keep them 
growing. 

Make ready your bulbs for planting in September and October. 

Give the flower-beds occasional waterings with liquid manure ; 
but remember that no slight watering should be given to plants in 
the open border ; they should be watered freely, if at all. For 
they ought to be accustomed to supporting themselves, and if the 
soil is deep, they will thrust their roots down to the water table, 
while if watered slightly from time to time, the roots will turn 
towards the surface, and thus not only the plant gets less hold upon 
the earth and less food, but it grows weaker, and if the watering 
is omitted for any length of time, will dry up speedily, when other 
plants, accustomed to rely on themselves, are thriving. 

Once a month, throw a little salt over the walks ; it kills weeds, 
and binds the gravel more firmly together. 

During the month, begin to bud Roses. The earliest budded 
will sometimes start and grow very much before winter ; but those 
budded later are safer. On the next page will be found a descrip- 
tion of the flower-garden referred to on a previous page. 

61* 



726 



AUGUST. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 

ROW PLANTED WITH BULBS, PERENNIALS, AND SHRUBS. 

* against a letter means that the bed is fall of the bulbs. ? only partially 
filled. 

Beds planted as follows : — 
*a, Snowdrop, Crocus, Hyacinth. 



*b, 


n 


ti 


*c, 




« 


*d, 


tt 


tt 



it 



(( 



Narcissus, Tulips. 



tt 



Daffodils, Pansies, 
Peonies, Day Lily, Tiger Flower, Gladiolus, Fall Crocus, Tuberoses. 
?e, Daffodils, Pansies, Polyanthus. 

*/", Snowdrop, Hyacinth, Tulips, Pansies. 

* tt tt tt tt 

%, Perennials. 

/, Bedding plants and Annuals. 



m, 

o, 

P> 

<1» 
r, 

8. 



Iris, Jonquills, " Daffodils, 

Crocus, " Hyacinth, Gladiolus, Squill, Tulips, Dielytra, 

Pansies, Dwarf Peony, Polyanthus, Lilies, Amaryllis, Tuberose. 

Perennials and bedding plants. 
<t 

Baskets of flowers. 



t, Fountain. 



LIST OF TREES AND SHRUBS. 



1. Norway Spruce. 

2. Larch. 

3. Hemlock. 

4. Copper Beech. 

5. Tupelo. 

6. Red Maple. 

7. Cockspur Thorn. 

8. Cydonia. 

9. Smoke. 

10. Spirea. 

11. Wigelea. 

12. Barberry. 

13. Oaks. 

14. White Pine. 



15. Red Pine 

16. Rhododendrons. 

17. Sugar Maple. 

18. Fringe-tree. 

19. Roses. 

20. Magnolia soulan- 

geana. 

21. Magnolia glauca. 

22. Kalmia. 

23. Azalea viscosa. 

24. Forsythia viridi- 

ssima. 

25. Austrian Pine. 

26. Red 



it 



27. Azalea Pontica. 

28. Spirea prunifolia. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 



<« 



hypericifolia. 
Hawthorn. 
Snowball. 
White Lilac. 
American Elm. 

34. English " 

35. " Oak. 

36. Nettle-tree. 

37. American White Ash. 

38. Fastigiate Oak. 

39. Bladderwort. 

40. Black Alder. 



Bed a is described on pages 30, 31, 544. 



b 
c 
d 

e 

f 



I 
o 

P 



<« 
<< 

<< 

<( 






tt 
tt 



it 

it 



31, 544. 
31, 544. 
468. 

537, 544. 
31, 544. 
537, 544. 
184, 185. 
467. 
544. 
467. 
183. 



F L O W E R-G A K I> E N . 



728 AUGUST. 

I will give full directions for budding, which are applicable not 
only to Roses, but to all other plants and trees. I have taken the 
illustrations from Field's new book upon Pears, a very valuable 
work, and a great assistance to the cultivator. 

Make cuttings or layers of the China, Bengal, Tea-scented, and 
other Roses, for the winter and spring. Those made at this sea- 
son will blossom next spring and summer. Make cuttings also of 
Heliotropes, Salvias, Lantanas, Verbenas, etc 

Read over the previous directions for the flower-garden. 

Budding is to be performed when the plant is ready, rather than 
at any particular season. 

Budding is, in fact, the same thing as grafting, but in practice it 
lias some advantages over that method. In the grail there are 
several buds, but only a small portion of stock and graft can be 
united, and the junction must be effected between like and like ; 
the albumen and young bark of the graft must grow upon the 
albumen and young bark of the stock. 

In budding, a larger amount of these substances can be brought 
in contact. 

The condition of the stock when to be budded, must be as fol- 
lows : When a small slit is made lengthwise in the bark, and a 
smooth, hard, and thin instrument is introduced between the bark 
and the wood, the bark must leave the wood freely and smoothly, 
as that of the "Willow separates when you make a boy's whistle- 
The stock must be tested several times to ascertain the condition 
of the bark. Most trees are in the best state in the spring, and if 
the bud were equally ready, budding could be done then as well as 
in the summer. 

The usual time to begin budding is late July, August, and Sep- 
tember ; if done later than this, there is scarcely time enough for 
the bud to get securely attached to the wood before winter. The 
condition of the bud should be like that of the stock. The buds 
must be all well formed and fully ripe. I have said before, that 
the lower buds on a branch are generally too old and not well de- 
veloped ; the branch grew so rapidly that the lower buds were 
passed by, while the upper are not well matured and ripened ; the 
middle buds will be ripe and well formed, and may be reasonably 
expected to thrive best when removed. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



729 



A shows a stick of such buds ; the upper 
and lower ends of the shoot having been 
cut off; those that remain lie close to the 
stem, are well filled out, and the stick is 
straight and regular. 

B shows buds which are too high on the 
stem, and too much elevated above the 
wood. 

The bud must be cut smoothly and ap- 
plied smoothly to the stock, every part of 
the bud, and particularly the base of the 
eye, coming in close contact with the mu- 
cous surface of the stock. Should a bud 
be cut from B, you see at once that it could not be laid smoothly 
on the wood ; there would be a cavity full of air directly under 
the eye. 

I said that buds might be set in the spring, if they were in a fit 
condition ; one leading objection is the absence of leaves, and con- 
sequently the loss of the assistance which the footstalk under the 
bud offers as a handle during the process of setting. 

A shows the buds with footstalks. B gives their appearance in 
the spring. 

Having selected the stick of buds, the next thing to be done, is 
to remove % them properly. 

Let a (Fig. C) be the bud you are to 
remove ; hold the stem in your left hand, 
and cut the bud out, beginning as far be- 
low 'the bud as you mean to come out 
above it, as is designated by the shaded 
lines. The woody side of the bud, when 
held towards you, will look like the centre 
lines, being the woody centre of the bud. 
Of course a bud so cut out will have on it 
a small shield-shaped piece of the wood of 
the branch from which it was cut. Many 
operators insert the bud, wood and all, into 
the stock, and very often the budding is 





780 



AUGUST. 





quite as successful as when it is removed. Still, if this wood 
comes in contact with the mucous surface of the stock, it prevents 
the junction from being immediately perfect. 

The removal of this wood is a nice but simple process. If the 
bud is not fully ripe, the operation will destroy the centre and life 
of the bud, its eye, as at b 9 and no growth can possibly occur. 

When properly removed, it is as at c, 
where you see the rough knotted root or 
bottom of the bud. 

To remove the wood, the pointed end of 
the budding-knife is used, or a blunt-pointed 
quill pen. The bud is held in the left hand 
by its footstalk, and the point of the quill 
introduced under the lower end of the 
woody shield, when a slight upward mo- 
tion will throw the wood out 

The operation must be executed with 
rapidity, and as soon as the bud is ready, 
before it has been exposed to the air, it 
should be inserted into the proper place in the stock. The air 
makes the bud oxydize, and causes decay, and of course endangers 
the success of the operation. Indeed, so necessary is rapidity in 
this matter, that it is best to prepare the stock before the bud is 
cut off. 

The budding-knife is essential to the success of the operator. 
These knives are of various patterns, but all have at one end a 
piece of ivory, elongated, thin, and rather broad, which, when the 
bark is cut, may be inserted under it, to raise it from the wood. 
The ivory may be used separate from the knife, but is less con- 
venient. 

Suppose you were about to bud a Rose. Knife in hand, first 
cut off a large number of the leaves of the stock plant, and rub 
off all the thorns near the place of operation, which must be care- 
fully fixed upon. It should be as near as possible to a bud, as this 
bud will draw the sap, and so aid the growth of the new bud. 
Some cultivators recommend that the bud on the stock should be 
out off, and the new bud set directly over its seat ; but this is a 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



731 



^ 



clumsy and blundering method. At the 
appointed place, make a light but smooth 
cut transversely across the stock, as at a 
(Fig. D) ; then another, parallel with the 
course of the stem, and at right angles 
with the first, as at b. e represents the 
bud, all ready for insertion, as it is pre- 
pared at this stage of the proceeding. 
When ready, put it into your mouth to 
keep it from drying, but do not wet it more 
than is absolutely necessary 

The stock cut, insert your piece of ivory, 
wood, or bone, under the two corners of the 

rectangular cut, and gently raise or slip up the bark. Before put- 
ting the bud into the opening, hold the top of it on the thumb nail, 
and cut it straight across, that this end may be fitted evenly against 
the transverse cut in the stock. Now insert the pointed end of the 
bad into the opening of the rolled sides of the cut, and press it 
into the aperture till the squared end of the bud is just opposite to 
the transverse cut on the bark ; when bring the two lines parallel, 
and press the edges close together ; the appearance will now be like 
E. When set, take a narrow piece of bass 
matting or tape, and beginning at the bot- 
tom, tie the side of the cut firmly over the 
inserted bud ; fasten the lower end by 
winding up over it, and the upper in a 
noose. Wind some distance both above 
and below the insertion and cuts, to insure 
that the air is kept out. The cut F shows 
the completed work. 

I said, in first describing buds, that the 
footstalk has a double value: first as a 
handle to the bud, in which light we have 
already considered it; the second value 

now becomes apparent. In about a fortnight after it is set, the 
bnd will have formed a junction with the stock. As soon as 
it begins to swell with the sap supplied, the connection between 



782 AUGUST. 

the bud and the old footstalk ceases to be of value to the bud, and 
as the new development continues, it loses its hold and will drop 
off if touched. This, then, is a test of a junction between bud 
and stock, and when it is proved, the bandage should be loosened, 
but not wholly removed for at least a month. 

Plants budded early in the summer will, if cut down to the bud, 
develop it during the late summer and the fall. If they grow 
enough to make a well-ripened and hardy wood of even two buds, 
it is a good thing, as this wood will stand the winter well, and be 
more forward the next spring ; but if the bud breaks without being 
well ripened, the whole will die in the* winter, and the operation 
will have been in vain. Therefore it is generally safer that the 
bud should not break till spring, when, after the frosts are over, 
and before vegetation really begins, the stock should be cut down 
to the bud, which will grow rapidly. I have seen a Cherry bud 
which grew 5 feet in one season. Pillar and wall Roses also make 
very rapid progress. 

Roses may be budded in July, August, and September. Those 
done in July and August will make good growth, if cut down. 
Cherries, Pears, Peaches, etc., should be begun in August and fin- 
ished in September. 

This is an easy way of adding to our stock of Running Roses, 
and increasing their beauty ; upon the strong canes of the Prairie 
or Boursault, we may work the Noisette, the Musk, and the Per- 
petuate, and the same plant will thus, in another year, show a won- 
derful succession, combination, and contrast of blossoms. 

But remember that you cannot produce any results by putting 
together different species or families ; like must grow upon like. 
The theory some persons have maintained, that a Rose budded on 
a Barberry will produce yellow Roses, is the wildest kind of non- 
sense. If the bud would take at all, the yellow Rose would un- 
doubtedly follow, but it will not. 

Not only must budding and grafting be confined to the same 
family, but generally to the same species, if real and permanent 
success is to be expected. 

Our floral year has revolved, and we are now upon the threshold 
of another ; we are looking forward to the preparations for the 



FLOWBB-GABDEN. 733 

next year, while yet we are in the midst of the perfection and en- 
joyment of this. 

I think no one can have followed this year through practically, 
without imbibing a deep and earnest love for flowers and their cul- 
ture, and forming a determination never to be without some such 
interest in future. 

I hope I have made it plain why I would have every one culti- 
vate something of a garden ; and have proved that it is not the 
size of the garden which gives it its power to bestow pleasure, but 
the perfection of its arrangements, the flourishing condition of its 
flowers, and the care devoted to it. 

And I need not repeat here what has been so often expressed 
and implied throughout these pages, that to obtain the purest and 
best enjoyment from a garden, it must be our own work ; the re- 
sult, more or less successful, of our own planning, and care, and 
labor, of early and late attention, of personal devotion and love ; 
for love it is, after all, that makes the flowers grow, as it does every 
thing else that is beautiful. And this love, like all other love, 
grows with exercise, so that to any one who has watched over a 
flower-garden for a few seasons, such a charge becomes almost 

indispensable. Try it, and see for yourselves. 

62 



CHAPTER LXXVm. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



It seems absurd to speak of this month as the end of our year 
in the kitchen-garden, for we are hardly more than beginning to 
enjoy the results of our labor. 

Set out during the month plants of Savoy and Red Cabbage ; 
they will head before winter. Plant White Turnips for winter 
use. Sow Lettuce to head in October and November ; transplant 
and tie up Endive. Sow seeds of some sort of Radishes, such as 
black and white Spanish, Salmon and Turnip-rooted, for October 
and November. Sow seeds of Cabbage and Lettuce for winter 
frames, and for setting out in the spring. 

Some kinds of Peas may be planted now ; the earliest varieties 
may be relied upon for a fair crop in October or November. Sow 
abundantly of small salads. Spinach sowed the first and second 
week, will be good for greens before winter ; the prickly seeded 
varieties are to be sown for spring in beds. 

Plant beds of Onions for pips, and for leaving out in beds over 
winter. Make the beds carefully, 5 feet wide ; rake the earth fine, 
sow in rows 1 foot apart and keep clean. Covered with pine 
branches they will go through the winter well, and begin to grow 
very early in the spring. 

Artichokes must be attended to. The heads will be constantly 
getting fit to be eaten. If they are cut down for chard, earth up 
once a fortnight, like Cardoons and Celery, but never do it in wet 
weather, or when the plants are wet with dew, lest they should 
rust. 

Keep the Asparagus beds clean, and when the seed is perfectly 
ripe, collect and separate from the pulp, and either sow it now or 
wait till Spring. Mustard and other small salads should be 
sowed weekly as before. Plant beds of Winter Cress ; the plants 

734 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 735 

will be well grown before winter and be early in growing in the 
spring. 

. Melons and Cucumbers are now in fruit ; Melons may be has- 
tened in ripening and improved in flavor, if a clean shingle is laid 
under each, which keeps it warm and prevents its being flavored 
with the earth. Gather Cucumbers for pickles. 

Cut off the ends of the Lima Beans, as the fruit on them will 
not ripen and removing them will aid the development of the pods 
already set 

Hoe and clear the weeds from beds and paths. 

Gather Okra for soup, and all fruits and vegetables as they come 
into condition. 

Such herbs as are ready should be gathered in season, either 
for drying or distillation, and all dead flower stems must be cut off, 
as they are unsightly. 

Collect all the materials you can for the compost heap, and do 
not let weeds grow upon it, as they not only sap its value and 
strength, but fill it with bad seeds. Manure-heaps of fermenting 
materials are but little injured by such seeds which are killed by 
the after fermentation, but never mix them into old and already 
fermented manure. 

Gather the fruit on the espaliers as it ripens ; remove all wormy 
and decayed fruit and leaves. I have already described the treat- 
ment of such fruit ; it will be abundant through the month. 

Read over the " kitchen-garden," of other months, as directions 
have sometme8 referred to the work of August 

Particularly, clean, repair, and renew the hotbeds, and cold frames. 

Many persons think this the best month for making Strawberry 
beds. But it is not When cultivated on a large scale, the best 
plan is to treat them as an annual crop. Plant early in the spring, 
in rows ; cultivate between the rows, gather the fruit next year, 
then plough them in and take a late crop of vegetables from the 
same land. In this way you will have a new bed each year, and 
no weeds. 

Continue to summer prune fruit trees, and thin the fruit Look 
out for insects, particularly for nests of autumn caterpillars ; they 
do little harm but are very unsightly. 



CHAPTER LXXIX. 

ORCHARD. 

The orchard in August makes no demand upon the labor of the 
farmer, beyond that of gathering the fruit as it ripens. 

The earliest Apples and Fears are now ripe, and should be eaten 
or sold as soon as possible. 

The fodder in the orchards is now very forward, and affords 
constant and ample supply for the cows. The orchard enclosed 
and sown for the pigs, is verifying what was predicted with regard 
to good food and rapid fattening. Give the pigs also an abundance 
of skim, sour, and buttermilk, as nothing makes young pigs thrive 
better. 

It is not, as I have before said, very good for the orchard to be 
highly cultivated, but it is allowable in the management of a farm 
to sacrifice one part to another, if we keep the general balance 
even, and if our fodder crops are profitable as they should be, they 
will more than compensate for some loss on the trees 

One fact will, I think, be admitted by all Apple growers, that 
those Apples which keep the best, are the fruit of trees in old 
pastures where, although pruned, they receive little other cultiva- 
tion. And another fact is equally established ; that the more highly 
an orchard is cultivated the more rapidly the trees grow and the 
later in the season ; consequently their wood is not so well ripened, 
and is much more liable to sap and frost blight, and to be nipped 
by early spring frosts. The more tender the bark the more sensi- 
tive to all changes of climate. 

But do not on this account fail in care and attention to the trees ; 

do not allow them to overgrow or overbear ; as soon as they have 

too much wood, not only is the fruit impaired, both in quality and 

quantity, but the tree contracts disease. 

As you review the directions for the orchard given through the 

736 



ORCHARD. 737 

year, you will see clearly that I would have you take great care 
before planting your trees, to select the most approved kinds, and 
then to spare no pains in planting and cultivating. If you do this 
your orchards when in bearing, even of Apples, will give you an 
average profit of $50 an acre per year. 

The Apples which ripen in August are Early Harvest, Red 
Astrachan, Summer Queen, Williams, Sops of Wine, Early Straw- 
berry. 

Pears ; Blood-good, Bartlett, Dearbon's Seedling, Jargonelle. 

Look out for insects and caterpillars. 

62« 



1 



CHAPTER LXXX. 

THE FARM. 

The farm work for this month is a continuation of that for July, 
with little change. 

On those farms which have meadow lands, either salt or fresh, 
their Hay is generally to be made now. It is rarely made earlier. 

Reclaiming Meadows. — Fresh meadow grasses, if cut when 
growing, and still young, make quite nutritious and succulent Hay, 
on which, with some Roots, dry cows and store cattle live and gain ; 
but if left till grown and nearly ripe, it is dry, chippy, and worth- 
less, and is no better for animals than so much brush. 

It is to be regretted that farmers take so little pains to inquire 
into the value of Hay, as differing with times of cutting and meth- 
ods of making. They are guided by prejudice rather than by the 
well-established principles founded on experiments, and conse- 
quently they annually suffer a loss of from 25 to 75 per cent on 
the value of their crop. 

Salt Hay, also, should be cut young. Some kinds, as Black 
grass, and others, are as much injured by standing as the best 
quality of English Hay. 

Want of space forbids my discussing the varieties of these grasses 
in detail, and the methods of improving them. It is enough to 
know that drainage of both kincU of land is extremely valuable. 
Salt meadows which, undrained, yield only coarse rushes and bed- 
ding, will, when drained, soon give a large burden of Black and 
Goose grass, and other kinds valuable for food. Fresh meadows, 
reclaimed, as I have already shown, become most valuable land. 
And if too wet for thorough reclamation, they may be so far drained 
and cleared as to permit many improved kinds of natural Grasses 
to come up and replace the worthless. 

738 



THE FARM. 739 

Foul-meadow is a grass which makes a hay nearly as good as 
English, and may be induced to grow luxuriantly in such meadows 
with a little care. 

I think, in most cases, such meadows, with some little expendi- 
ture of capital, could be more profitably cultivated in Cranberries 
than in grass, and they can generally be. flowed during frosty 
weather, and even if they cannot, Cranberries may often be grown 
with certainty and much profit. Whether for grass or Cranber- 
ries, the first treatment is about the same. 

First cut down all bushes and trees, and dig out their stumps and 
roots ; next make a drain round the edge of the meadow, which 
will cut off the water that runs from the adjoining high land. Con- 
duct this drain to some outlet, either natural or artificial ; # cut a 
main drain through the middle of the meadow to some outlet, and 
into this main carry enough side drains to remove the water rapid- 
ly. I am supposing the case of a bog, where covered drains could 
not discharge the water ; such cases are few, as although a bog 
may seem to be like a sponge, laying in a perennial supply of water 
(only that it cannot like a sponge be taken up and squeezed out), 
yet in all but the most desperate cases it will be found possible, by 
lowering the outlet enough, to draw off the water by underdrains. 
So your sponge will be gradually squeezed, but, unlike its proto- 
type, it will, instead of expanding with its freedom, shrink up. 

But drainage alone will not thoroughly reclaim a bog without 
some mechanical change in its texture, for its matted fibres and 
vegetable matter will still hold water to an injurious extent. As 
soon as the drains are made, and bridged, if open, gravel must be 
carted on to the bog, to the depth of at least two inches. This will 
cost, probably, about $30 an acre. The gravel can be best carted 
in when the ground is frozen. Before spring spread it If you 
choose not to plough immediately, leave it, and it will gradually 
work into the bog, its stones and sand opening the vegetable matter, 
thus draining it still more, and admitting the sweetening air. And, 
on the other hand, the carbonic acid, which is in excess in the peat, 
will seize upon the stones, and dissolve out of them lime, potash, 
etc 



740 AUGUST. 

Grass seed may be sown over the gravel. Fowl-meadow, Red 
Top, and other grasses, which, rooting in the gravel, will soon 
choke out the wild grass. In a year or two the meadow will be 
so far drained and settled as to receive the plough. Plough as 
deep as possible. 

If it is soft the horses should have meadow-shoes, called rackets, 
to keep them from sinking in. These shoes are at first troublesome 
to the horses, but are indispensable in the culture of all reclaimed 
meadows, even when well drained. 

As you plough give more gravel or sand, if you can, and spread 
from 50 to 300 bushels of lime to the acre, or 5 to 25 bushels of 
common salt, or 5 to 50 bushels of ashes. 50 bushels of leached 
ashes would be a large dose ; but of unleached a small one. 

When you have well ploughed, sow liberally the best Grasses, 
or cultivate the hoed crops for a few years, or introduce a regular 
rotation, the best plan of all. When this is done, give dressings 
of guano, urine, night soil, or other highly ammoniated manure, and 
barn-yard manure, if you have it in abundance ; but it is the poorest 
for such soils. 

Were you to plant Cranberries upon this land at the time of 
gravelling, several different methods might be pursued. Sods of 
Cranberries may be cut and set in rows, more than 3 feet apart 
each way, and kept hoed and clean for a year or two, till they cover 
the soil. Or vines may be taken and cut in a hay-cutter, and then 
be sowed broadcast and harrowed into the ground. Or seed may 
be sowed. 

Whatever crop is grown upon a meadow, it should be frequently 
rolled, especially grass. 

The reclamation of salt meadows is a different matter. By 
means of dykes and gates they may be reclaimed for general cul- 
ture, as thoroughly as the fresh, and more easily, but usually noth- 
ing more is done than to cut narrow, open drains through the soil, 
to facilitate the discharge of water as the tide runs out. These 
drains are cut straight from the shore, or some side drain, to the 
main, with a common peat or turf knife, and not more than 6 inches 
wide, and generally only the width of the turf-cutter. Some per- 



THE FARM. 741 

sons cut two spits or lengths of the cutter deep ; the upper as wide 
as two cuts of the knife ; the lower, one. Such drains are rapidly 
and easily cut. 

The peat removed from a salt meadow, and the mud of salt 
marshes, although not often used in the compost heap, is of very 
great value, and much more active in compost than the mud 
of fresh meadows. The mud of salt meadows is almost always 
rich with shells of shell fish, which give it its value as manure. 

August is the month in which farmers generally undertake the 
reclamation of meadows ; and it is best to continue the work through 
all the unoccupied time that intervenes before winter. 

Grain Crops. — In the course of this month the Grain crops 
will be harvested, and land laid down both to Grass and Grain. 
We cannot on our place sow Grain before September, as we have 
Potatoes in No. 3, and the rest of the field is in Roots, which will 
postpone planting grain till spring. 

Dig the Potatoes as soon 
as ready, and when they 
are well removed from the 
field plough with the deep 
tiller plough as deeply as 
possible, following with the 
6ubsoil plough. The land 
is smooth and in good order, and should be ploughed in ridges by 
the poles, as described, and immediately harrowed lightly. Or, 
better still, follow the plough with the cultivator. 

Harrowing of some kind seems to be a necessary evil ; we must 
reduce the surface to considerable smoothness to secure a good 
spread of seed and braird, or even start and growth of grain. But 
the action of the harrow is just that which is most undesirable in 
culture. Those who pack snuff in bladders, have a method of 
stuffing the bladder fuller, after it seems to be as full as possible ; 
they ram into it a pointed iron, which being withdrawn leaves a 
hole in the compacted snuff; this hole filled, another is made and 
filled likewise, and so on until the iron can no longer enter. The 
harrow acts in just this way upon the soil. 




742 AUGUST. 

Our soil is a fair gravelly loam and will fall down closely enough 
under the harrow, and during the winter will become as compact 
as even Wheat can desire. If it were clayey, it should be rolled 
with a clod crusher after ploughing to break up the lumps which 
the plough would leave. If sandy, it should be harrowed several 
times. 

We are now ready to sow the Wheat. The ordinary amount 
of seed per acre, is l£ to 2 bushels if sowed broadcast, and 1 
bushel if drilled. Less than one in drills, will answer. 

It is not necessary to quote the numerous experiments which 
have been tried with Grains, but the majority prove conclusively 
that the yield is generally larger with thin than with thick seeding, 
particularly when the sowing is in August and September, and 
there is time for it to cover the ground well before winter. 

Three pecks of seed per acre has given in many eases more 
Grain than 2 bushels, and at no greater cost. Any Grain when 
drilled may be weeded and cultivated if we choose, with a horse- 

t 

hoe and cultivator, with a return enough larger to pay an ample 
profit on the labor, and with a saving of from $2 to $3 per acre 
for seed. 

In our Western States the sowing of winter Wheat is rapidly 
falling into disuse, owing to the ravages of insects in summer. But 
this pest seems to be travelling westward, and it has been found 
that in parts of the country for many years valueless for winter 
Wheat, it may now be sowed without danger. 

Careful experiments upon the depth at which seeds will germi- 
nate, have shown that it varies with different seeds ; the proper 
depth for winter Wheat is If or 2 inches* 

Observe that sowing in the drill saves the cost of harrowing* 
Follow the Grain with Grass and flat Turnip seed ; sow seed in 
proportions already given. An English receipt is 9 lbs. Foxtail ; 
2£ lbs. Cock's foot ; 3£ lbs. Meadow Fescue ; 4£ lbs. Hard Fes- 
cue ; 4£ lbs. Italian Rye Grass (this will do with us only when sown 
in the spring) ; 3 lbs. Red Clover ; 4 lbs. Yellow Clover ; 4 lbs. 
White Clover ; 8 lbs. Timothy ; 2 lbs. Orchard Grass : 1 lb. Yar- 
row. (Omit all the Clover till spring). This great variety is recom- 
mended as making better and more permanent pasturage, and ap- 



THE FARM. 743 

imals will fatten upon it with more certainty. In laying down land 
to be>!kept in grass for several years, I should decidedly recom- 
mend the use of a large variety. See " Flint's Grasses " for a 
good history of American and foreign Grass, and for a good mix- 
ture for permanent pasture. 

Our farmers give one-half bushel Herd's-Grass or Timothy ; 
one-half bushel Red Top ; 12 pounds Clover in spring. I think 
for Grass in rotation these will be the best, but I recommend one 
bushel rather than one-half of Red Top, and 16 pounds instead of 
12, of Clover in the spring, or three kinds. Also I have no 
doubt that for the first year a liberal allowance of Italian Rye 
Grass would prove profitable. Italian Rye Grass is the staple 
Grass in England, and instances are given of its yielding 10 tons 
of Hay to the acre ; the best varieties are annual, and with irriga- 
tion and liquid manure it is an unrivalled fodder crop. It has been 
but little used in this country, and the experiments made with it 
have been so badly planned and unsystematically executed that 
they have by no means decided whether it will do well here or 
not Sow with the Grass 4£ pounds of purple topped Turnips. 
The seed may be evenly and advantageously spread in drills, or 
broadcast from the seed-sower, or by hand. 

If sowed by hand, either Grass or Grain, the seeds must be 
well mixed. Let the sower tie a good sized apron or small sheet 
about his neck, and gather up the farther end in his hand. Fill 
the pouch thus formed with seed ; set up the poles, and walk slowly 
towards them sowing the seed. If Grain, take a handful and sow 
slowly and evenly by swinging the hand backward and forward. 
A few experiments will be necessary to a beginner in order to as- 
certain how much grain to throw at each swing of the hand. To 
sow Grass seed, it is better to take less and sow with the fingers, 
with more rapid motion. Grass seed is light and easily blown by 
the wind, and should be sown on a still day. If sown as early as 
August, there will be no need of a top-dressing, but if later, sow 
100 pounds to the acre of guano with the seed, to give it a quick 
start and early growth. In the spring with the Clover, sow 150 
pounds more. If no manure is spread in the fall, sow in the spring 
200 pounds to the acre with the Clover. 



744 AUGUST. 

• 

The seed sown, harrow it in with a light harrow, and then roll. 
Rolling is necessary only in order to bury the uncovered seeds out 
of the way of "birds. I have tried both methods, with rolling and 
without, and could see no difference in the rapidity of starting, or 
evenness of growth, and I do not recommend a bush harrow ; I 
think it a relic of barbarous farming. The fine branches of the bush 
gather the earth into ridges, bury some seed too deep, and sweep 
other places bare. The best method, if labor would admit it, would 
be to rake the surface with hand rakes and roll ; and on light, well- 
ploughed, clean land, Grass seed might be sown without harrowing. 

Numerous experiments have shown that Grass seed does not 
need to be covered more than one-fourth inch deep, and often seed 
not covered at all, but rolled, has come up quicker and grown bet- 
ter than any other. 

During the autumn weed, if weeds appear. If sowed with the 
drill without Grass, Grain may be horse-hoed or cultivated with 
ease. Grain sowed early will tiller over the whole surface. Should 
it show any inclination to run up to head, feed it down with cows. 

The Turnips sowed with Grain or Grass, will need no extra 
labor and will give 300 to 600 bushels per acre. The manure 
that they extract will not injure the Grain crop in proportion to 
their own value. If flat Turnips are to be sowed alone, as on the 
pasture No. 1, break up the land with the Michigan plough ; har- 
row ; sow the seed with sower or in drill, with 150 pounds super- 
phosphate, or guano, 200 pounds ground bone, or the same value in 
unleached ashes ; rows 24 inches apart ; single to 8 inches in the 
row ; cultivate till they cover the 'ground. Top in the fall, and 
house, either in trenches, or in the cellar. As they keep very well 
in the ground through the whole winter and often start a new 
growth in the spring, it would be good farming on such land to 
fold sheep during the autumn after October, and through the win- 
ter and early spring where the ground is not covered with snow, 
as in England, and let them eat the Turnips off. 1,000 sheep 
folded on an acre of ground all night is a liberal manuring for the 
acre, and the unconsumed parts of the Turnips would enrich it 
still farther. There are good wire and wooden fences for fold- 
ing. »' 



THE FARM. 745 

Manures. — I have already discussed the subject of manures 
at some length, but have as yet only entered upon it I cannot 
close this book without saying more. 

I have given a list of manures, among which urine occupies a 
high place. It is undoubtedly the richest of manures, and were' 
all the urine of a family carefully saved and sowed over the 
ground, — either soaked by a compost 6r in a liquid state, — large 
crops would follow. 

One part of the urine of a man is equal to 13 parts of the ma- 
nure of a horse, or 16 of a cow. The solid and liquid fseces of 
each person are capable of producing, if applied to the soil and 
covered, food enough to support the individual a year. 

The water-closets and privies of every house should be so ar- 
ranged that the solid and liquid excrement of the family could be 
readily and neatly saved and applied to the soil. Many persons 
who annually pay large sums for manure, think they cannot afford 
the permanent investment necessary to arrange their buildings for 
this purpose. They are penny wise, and pound foolish- 

The seat to such places needs to be but little raised over the 
apparent vault, which should have a bottom rapidly sloping to a 
well-built and capacious drain, which leads to a cesspool at a proper 
distance from the house. This cesspool may be excavated in the 
gravel, and made by cementing the gravel, or may be brick or 
stone, laid in mortar. It may be arranged so as to mix muck, 
loam, and road scrapings, or to use the liquid alone. The urine, 
as I have shown, is made more valuable by mixing with it an 
equal bulk of water. Run into the vault of the water-closet the 
spout of the sink, and allow all the soapy liquids from the sink to 
wash out the vault and mix with the fseces in the cesspool. 

This will enrich the manure by its own constituents, besides 
supplying the water for admixture. If you have but scant means 
for constructing the cesspool, let your drain empty into an oil butt 
sunk in the ground. Haul near this oil butt a large quantity of 
mud, loam, sawdust, shavings, leaves, straw, any kind of vegetable 
matter, and even chopped brush, and forming a compact heap, or 
a basin, according to the material, with a long-handled dipper ; as 
often as the cesspool or btfft is full, dip it out on the heap. When 

63 



746 AUGUST. 

the heap is saturated, mix it up, and haul it away and put more in 
its place. 

A cheap dipper for this purpose is a butter firkin, with a handle 
carried through it and made fast by pins. The waste of a family 
' of six persons, well saved and managed, will thoroughly manure 
two acres of land, and as the net value of the most profitable crops 
on well-manured land is at least $50 per acre, we have $100 as 
the value of the waste. 

I will not pursue this subject farther, as it has been so often dis- 
cussed that information upon it is abundant. 

In discussing manures in April, I went upon the supposition that 
there must be returned to the soil every year just what is taken 
away. But in the long run this is not necessary, if land is well 
farmed, for every manure that we apply has a surplus of some- 
thing, which is added to the capital in the soil for future use, and 
may therefore be omitted in the next application. I put the case 
strongly, as the aim of the farmer should he to preserve the balance 
true, and this must never be lost sight of 

If we add this year a guano rich in phosphates and poor in am- 
monia, for a special crop, we may next year add ammonia in a 
similar excess, or lime, or soda, with a deficiency of phosphate. 
But what I wish to impress upon you is the importance of every 
cultivator's understanding the soil and its constituents, and the 
constituents of the crop and tne manure, po that .he may always 
act upon principles. 

Farming may, in most cases, be compared to a blind man sitting 
down to an entirely unseasoned dish for dinner. Near him are 
pepper, salt, and other condiments, and he is to help himself; but 
as he has no guide, the resulting taste alone can decide whether 
he helps himself wisely or not So the farmer, blind to all knowl- 
edge of principles, can decide only by experiment upon the appli- 
cation of seasoning to his soil, and he will get first too much pepper, 
then too much salt, and may think himself fortunate if his mistakes 
are not irreparable. But the farmer who knows before he acts just 
what the composition of his soil requires, and just what applica- 
tions will supply the requirement, works with his eyes open, seasons 
accurately^ his eye, and is in no danger of spoiling his dinner. 



THE FARM. 747 

I might enter into the details of the application of the various 
manures, hut I cannot even describe that of the principal ones, for 
want of room ; the subject is almost inexhaustible. 

Lime, for instance, upon which volumes have been written, is a 
sine qua non to some lands, but worthless to others, and where it is 
of value, its application varies from 5 to 300 bushels per acre, ac- 
cording to the length of time since liraeing before. If this has 
be, en done within 5 or 10 years, 50 bushels is ample; if not for 
40 years, 300 will be necessary. I must refer you to other books 
for the details of experiments and results. 

Let me close the subject by saying that the best farmer is he 
who cultivates his land in such rotation as to enable each crop to 
take something from the soil that the preceding crop did not want, 
who grows those crops which will give most milk, wool, flesh, and 
return the best and largest amount of manure ; who so husbands 
this manure and combines it with all the refuse, animal, mineral, 
and vegetable, that his place affords, as to make it sufficient for all 
his land ; who, if he cannot do this, buys special manures, and does 
not try to manufacture them ; who so drains, subsoils, and irrigates 
his lands, as to give his manures and crops the best chance ; and 
finally, who so expends his profits as to develop and cultivate his 
own mind and the minds of his family, that they may draw support 
and strength, beauty and nourishment, from all around them ; from 
nature and art, from society and books, from science and religion. 

Profitable but not generally cultivated Crops. — I 
have already alluded to these crops, in the kitchen-garden of a 
previous month, and they may with equal appropriateness be de- 
scribed under the head of Farming. 

We are as much behind the times with regard to this culture, as 
to that of Roots, and to the rotation of crops. 

Chicory, or Succory, is the first that I shall mention. Its use as 
a substitute for coffee, and for other purposes, gives the crop great 
value, and it may also be used for fodder. The land should be pre- 
pared by ample manuring; if fall ploughed, plough again in the spring 
and drill in the seed at the rate of 4 pounds to the acre, in drills 12 



748 AUGUST. 

inches apart. Cultivate through the season. In the fall, draw the 
roots, clean, slice, and kiln-dry. 

For a fodder crop,* sow 12 to 14 pounds broadcast, and cut as 
soon as it is well grown ; three or four times during the season. 
All stock are fond of, and thrive well upon, it. 

Flax and Hemp may next be mentioned ; they are somewhat 
largely grown in the Western States, and would grow in New 
England. Ten years ago they were about as much cultivated in 
Old England as now in New, and at that time an agriculturist 
spoke of it in the following manner, and his words might all be ap- 
plied to our American agriculture of to-day. It is to be observed 
that Hemp may be added to Flax each time that he mentions the 
latter, as they are alike in all the respects in which he mentions it 

u The cultivation of Flax, although it holds out a prospect of 
considerable advantage to the farmer, and. that neither very doubt- 
ful or very distant, is yet, like most things that are new, beset with 
certain difficulties at the outset. The preparation of the land, and 
sowing of the seed, are not, however, of the number, for those are 
simple ; but the gathering and managing of the Flax, after it has 
grown to maturity, the drying, scutching, hackling, and preparing 
it for market, all require some training and some skill in the per- 
sons who carry through these several operations ; and the great 
difficulty lies in obtaining the requisite practical knowledge in these 
matters at first ; once established, the whole will be plain and easy." 

" In addition to the profit, which, in a pecuniary sense, would 
arise from the cultivation of Flax in this country, another very im- 
portant advantage would be obtained ; it would afford a large 
amount of employment, especially for females, in those rural dis- 
tricts where employment is at present most needed. The various 
operations connected with the management of Flax require many 
hands, and much of the work may be performed by females." 

" It has been said that Flax is a very exhausting crop, but it cer- 
tainly is not more so than any of the usual green crops, neither 
does it require a very rich soil ; indeed, a rich or highly manured 
soil is injurious, causing the plant to grow too strong and luxuriant, 
and rendering the fibre coarse and less valuable. 



THE FARM. 749 

" Flax is grown on light land in Belgium and Holland, and I 
have seen it growing on mere bog in Ireland." 

" The general introduction of Flax culture would constitute a 
new and most valuable element in the rotation, and would enable 
the farmer to vary and extend his successions, which is in itself a 
highly important consideration ; the water in which Flax has been 
steeped is highly fertilizing when applied to the land, and the seed, 
when properly sowed and prepared, constitutes excellent provender 
for cattle and milch cows ; it may be safely asserted, therefore, that 
a Flax crop, rightly managed, is not only valuable as affording in- 
creased means of employment for our agricultural population, and 
highly profitable for the purposes of the manufacturer, and for the 
feeding of cattle, but that it, moreover, returns to the soil, in the 
shape of mauure, as much, if not more, than any of the Grain 
crops ; in addition to this it ought not to be overlooked by the ag- 
riculturists that Clover always does well after Flax. 

For Flax the land should be ploughed deep and lightly harrowed, 
enough to reduce it to a fine and uniform condition ; the seed may 
be broadcasted or drilled ; if the former, sow 2£ to 3 bushels to 
the acre ; sowed thickly, the fibre is finer and better. But thick 
or thin are relative terms ; each person must settle how much seed 
he needs, by practice. When cut in blossom, there will be no 
seed, but double the weight of fibre. 

Cut in the seed, 200 pounds of Flax to the acre is a good crop. 
In either case the Flax is pulled up by hand, and laid in bundles 
till somewhat dried, and when well dried stored until it is time to 
rot it. 

COST OP A CROP OP FLAX GROWN UPON l^fo ACRES. 

1 1-2 days ploughing, $3.00 

1-2 " harrowing and sowing, 1 .00 

6 " pulling Flax, 6.00 

2 " threshing and cleaning seed, 2.00 

1 " spreading and raking in, 1 .00 

1 " drawing to mill, 2.00 

1 1-2 bushels seed, at $1.50, 2.25 

Dressing and marketing, 15.95 

Interest on land, 10.50 

$43.71 

63* 



^ 



750 AUGU8T. 

CREDIT CROP BY 

283 pounds clean seeds, $35.50 

798 pounds dressed Flax, 79.80 

$115.30 
Deduct cost, 43.71 

Net value crop, $71 .59 

or $46.42 per acre. 

Hemp is grown to some extent at the West ; it needs strong 

« 

land, and is a paying crop. Sward land should be ploughed both 
fall and spring; plough deep and harrow well ; sow broadcast or in 
drill ; if the former, l£ bushels seed to the acre, from 1st April to 
10th May. Cut it when the blossoms are falling off. 

In the same book the following cost and profit of Hemp in Mis- 
souri, per acre, is, given. The estimate was sent to the Patent* Of- 
fice. Cost per acre, $20 ; gross profit, $40 ; net, $20. The same 
crop grown in our country, with our care in cultivating, would give 
a much larger gross and net profit. 

For details of culture I must refer you to special treatises. The 
estimate is given of the cost and value of an acre of Flax and 
Hemp, in " Fox's Text-book of Agriculture," to which I am in- 
debted for many valuable facts. 

" Liquorice, another valuable and profitable crop, little known, is 
annually imported in large quantities, though grown to a small ex- 
tent here. It needs a deep, rich soil, and occupies the land for 3 
years ; is grown from sets (small side shoots on the main roots), 
trench the land 3 feet deep, and, if it is not rich, manure with a 
large dressing of well-rotted dung ; throw the land into beds 3£ 
feet wide. In the middle of these beds, in the last of April, plant 
the sets 18 inches apart, in dibble-holes 8 inches deep. As soon as 
they appear above the ground keep them clean. When the leaves 
and stalks die in the fall, cover the bed with a dressing of well- 
rotted manure, which is to be carefully and lightly dug in in the 
succeeding spring. Treat this year as before, and the same the 
third year ; in the fall of the third year, after the stalks are dead, 
begin at one end and trench the bed over, throwing all the roots on 
the surface. Small side branches of the roots, with eyes, are to be 
kept in a place rather cool and dry till spring, for sets ; the others 



THE FARM. 751 

are washed, tied in bundles, and sold. Its gross value is not less 
than $500 per acre." 

Lucerne and Sainfoin are two fodder crops not much known 
among us, but of great value to the milk farmer and the stall 
feeder. They have been carefully tried in this climate and proved 
capable of cultivation. Sow the seed in May in clean earth, in 
drills ; cultivate and hoe ; cut two or three times in a season. The 
bulk of fodder which may be cut is enormous. English — and 
still more, Flemish and French — farmers, consider them to be all- 
important crops. They last for 3 years, are long, tap-rooted plants, 
and when the land is afterwards ploughed, their roots contribute a 
large amount of manure. 

From the cultivation of Madder large profits might be made. I 
do not doubt that any farmer who will cultivate this crop in the 
best manner for the next 20 years, will make money as fast as any 
merchant Madder, like Liquorice, must be grown from sets, as 
its seed rarely ripens with us. It is a dye-stuff, and great quanti- 
ties are annually imported from Europe and used. The roots are 
ground and in that condition sold to the manufacturer who extracts 
his own coloring matter. The land should be rich and deep with- 
out many stones. A stream near by, in which the roots can be 
washed is a convenience, but if overflowed for a day or two in the 
growing season the crop would be destroyed. Trench thoroughly, 
and then plant sets either in beds like Liquorice, or in drills 3 feet 
apart and cultivate with care for 3 years. The entire cost of the 
crop may be estimated at $100 per acre ; a fair yield is 2,000 
pounds (ground Madder) to the acre. The difficulty of grinding 
the root has been one objection to its culture, but now there are 
persons ready to buy the roots in the ground at a price which will 
pay the cost of grinding and a profit ; at 15 cents per pound for 
ground madder the net profit would be $200 per acre, making the 
large allowance of $100 per acre for cost of culture. 

Rape is valuable for forage and for its seed. It may be sowed in 
the spring to be fed off in the autumn by sheep. It grows rapidly 
gives a large quantity of food, will grow on much poorer soil than 



1 



752 AUGUST. 

the Turnips, and needs less culture and manure ; may be sowed 
broadcast or in drills. In the latter case 2 pounds of seed per acre 
are enough. The seed of Rape is worth for its oil, one-half the 
price of Linseed. It is rather liable to injury in cold winters, and 
consequently will not* be grown extensively for seed here, but the 
experiment has never been fairly tried. To get seed, sow on a 
clean stubble ploughed in drills, 24 inches apart, in August. Cul- 
tivate in the autumn. In the spring it will cover (he ground before 
the weeds spring up ; reap the straw the last of June ; dry and 
thresh ; the yield will be from 30 to 50 bushels per acre, and is 
worth at least $1 a bushel. 

Rye Grass I have already commended. Too much cannot be 
said for it, and where there is a command of water or liquid ma- 
nure, the produce per acre is almost incredible. It is often cut 5 
times and will yield 20 feet in height, if we add the lengths of the 
several cuttings, and 20 tons per acre of fodder may be, under 
such circumstances, relied upon. 

Silk seems to have been tried and exploded, and whoever rec- 
ommends it, incurs a suspicion of entertaining some sinister design, 
and yet without doubt no more valuable crop can be grown in 
Southern New England, if proper care is taken of the worms and 
their food, and they are managed carefully and economically, and 
without the hope of an immediate fortune. The worms should 
be tended by children and women, and if the culture were begun 
on a small scale and gradually enlarged as the management proved 
profitable, the growers of the worms would be amply repaid for the 
time and capital invested. 

Sugar beets. Were I to be asked what culture would best repay 
an enterprising farmer, who had capital and good loamy and mod- 
erately level land, I should say, that rotation which should intro- 
duce the Sugar Beet most largely and most frequently. It is 
another instance of a crop which has been hastily tried and con* 
demned by many persons, and yet which promises to the grower 
extraordinary profits. The causes of failure are easily seen. In 
the first place as in the case of other Root crops, the imported seed 
must be acclimated before the crop can equal the cultivator's ex- 



THE FARM. 758 

# 

pectations, and although great benefits arise from the interchange 
of seeds between different countries, yet in most cases this benefit 
does not come in the first sowing. 

Then, in the second place, this crop needs constant attention, and 
the best of culture , a good soil, plenty of manure, deep drainage, 
good subsoiling, and if possible, liquid manure or irrigation. The 
important point with this Beet is not enormous size of the roots, 
but a heavy yield of moderate, uniform-sized roots. 

Thirdly, there is in general a deficiency of proper machinery 
for the extraction of the sugar. 

Fourthly, a general want of faith in its value and the large 
quantity of refuse left after the sugar is expressed. 

The difficulties with regard to seed, soil, and culture, are easily 
remedied. Imperfect machinery has now been perfected, and above 
all, two large sources of profit have been discovered in the waste ; 
for it proves excellent food for store cattle, and is found to be 
superior stock for all coarse papers, so much so that the time is 
approaching when it will be impossible to provide too great a 
supply for the demand of the paper makers. 

It was first cultivated for sugar in France, under Napoleon, war 
having put a stop to the importation of cane sugar, and at first it 
needed protection to enable the cultivator to make it. Now the 
case is reversed, and so simplified has the process become, that it 
can be produced enough cheaper than cane sugar to undersell it .in 
the market, when the latter is not protected by a discriminating 
duty. The vast, loamy, fertile plains of the West, and all the 
alluvial and river soils of New England are well adapted to the 
culture of this Beet It has the farther advantage of being equal 
to any other Root crop, as a food> for stock, having by analysis 
more nutritive qualities. 

Teasels are somewhat grown in New England and the West. 
Their price varies much, so that they are of rather uncertain value. 
They need deep rich soil, and thorough cultivation. Plough deep a 
well-manured fallow, and then harrow down ; sow the seed in drills 
3 feet apart, 6 pounds to the acre ; when the plants are fairly distin- 
guishable, thin to 6 inches ; hoe and cultivate through the season. 
In the autumn leave the field clean. They begin to grow the next 



754 AUGUST. 

spring* and come into blossom in July ; as the heads become fit to 
gather (which is known by the ready separation of the seed), cat 
them ; several cuttings are necessary to secure all the heads in the 
right condition. Dry them on floors made so as to admit air from 
below ; lay them 6 inches deep on the floor. When ready for sale 
they may be tied in bundles according to the quality, or packed in 
boxes. 

There are several varieties of Teasel ; the best are imported 
from Germany, and the best alone should be cultivated. The wider 
our woollen manufactories spread, the greater will be the demand 
for Teasels, as their little elastic hooks do a work which cannot be 
equalled by any machinery. Machinery has been invented to su- 
percede them, and is often used, but cannot do their work per- 
fectly. 

The profit on Teasels ranges from $25 to $150 per acre, accord- 
ing to the yield and the market. Severe and continued cold does 
not seem to injure them, but rapidly alternating cold and heat, 
winter thaws and late spring frosts are very destructive. 

Tobacco. It is with some hesitation that I say any thing to in- 
crease a knowledge of this poisonous plant, but its commercial value 
is so great, and the profits of the culture so large, that it must not 
be omitted in this connection. It was formerly supposed that it 
would grow only in hot countries, and the most delicate varieties 
seejn to need a large amount of heat to draw forth their peculiar 
properties. I extract the following with regard to its culture from 
the Text Book of Agriculture : — 

" A seed bed is prepared as early in April as possible, for which 
the richest and best land — moist but not wet — is chosen. It is 
manured, dug deeply, pulverized and rendered fine and smooth, 
and the seed sown broadcast at the rate of one table-spoonful to 
the square rod, before the earth becomes dry. 

" After this it is raked, but the seed is not buried, it is rolled or a 
man treads it in, rendering the surface of the bed as hard as pos- 
sible ; weeds must be carefully extirpated. When the plants have 
leaves two or three inches long, they are ready for transplanting, 
about the beginning of June. The field to be planted should be 
well manured, and ploughed at least twice, harrowed and rolled, 



THE FARM. 755 

and left as smooth as possible ; the rows are marked out for 3 feet 
or 3 feet 4 inches apart, according to the variety grown ; and on 
these rows small hills are formed for the reception of the plants at 
2 feet or 2£ feet apart. 

"To makejine Tobacco it is important to plant early, so that the 
leaves may be cured when the weather is warm and dry. 

a If it rains at setting out, advantage is taken to plant as many as 
possible ; if not, about half a pint of water is poured into each hill 
and the plants immediately set. The plants should be set with a 
dibble ; make a hole, set in the plant, fill the hole with water, and 
and then press the earth in compactly about its roots. After this 
the field is examined several times, and where the plants are dead 
or injured by the worm, others are set 

" As soon as they stand well, they are either carefully hoed and 
the vacant places filled with new plants, or the cultivator is merely 
passed between the rows. After this the plants are kept clean 
with the cultivator or hoe, being hoed 3 or 4 times without hilling ; 
the plants are frequently and thoroughly examined for the Tobacco 
worm, which must be destroyed or the crop will be greatly injured. 
Turkeys are very serviceable for this purpose ; if a large flock is 
turned into the field, they will soon rid it of the worms. 

" When in blossom and before the formation of the seed, the plants 
are topped about 32 inches from the ground, leaving from 16 to 20 
leaves on each stalk. 

" If there are late plants in consequence of resetting, break them 
lower down and they will grow and ripen sooner. All suckers 
must be broken off. When ripe, the leaf is spotted and thick, and 
will crack when pressed between the thumb and finger. It may 
be cut any time in the day after the dew is off, left in the row till 
wilted, then turned, and if there is a hot sun, turned often to pre- 
vent burning. After being wilted it is put into heaps of six or 
eight plants and carted to the sheds for hanging. 

" Here it is hung with cotton twine on horizontal supported poles 
12 feet long, about 20 plants on a side. It must hang until the 
stem of the leaf is thoroughly cured to the stalk ; from 6 to 10 weeks. 

u It is then taken down on a damp day, to prevent the leaves from 
crumbling, and placed in large piles, by letting the tops of the 



756 AUGUST. 

plants lap each other, leaving the buts of the stalks out It re- 
mains in these heaps from 3 to 10 days before it is stripped, de- 
pending on the state of the weather, but it must not be allowed to 
heat. When stripped, it is made into small bunches, called hands, 
the small and broken leaves being kept by themselves. 9 ' 

" When fit for market it is pressed in boxes of about 400 pounds 
each. The crop varies from 1,000 to 2,700 pounds to the acre. 
In France, 4,000 pounds is got to the acre. An acre of Tobacco 
in Massachusetts cost $67.50, it sold for $160 — nett, $92.50. 

" To save seed, allow a few of the strongest plants to produce 
their flowers, which will ripen in September as much seed as will 
stock half a dozen acres. The best soil is a light, sandy loam, or 
a light soil rich in organic matters, having a portion of sand mixed 
with it. Clay soils are not adapted to it, and pretty steep hill-sides, 
if light and rich, are better for the production of Tobacco than 
level land. The manure for the crop should be highly ammoni- 
ated, and abundantly supplied, but both the manure and urine of 
horses are objectionable, as they seem to give the Tobacco a bad 
taste." 

" Tares or Vetches come here in alphabetical order, as a valuable 
fodder crop. Hogs may be fattened entirely on them ; milch cows 
give more butter when fed on this than on any other food, and 
horses are very fond of them. It should be sowed in a regular 
rotation, and take the place of late fodder, particularly where the 
late Grass is often deficient. The land must be clean and well 
cultivated. It will grow on any soil. Sow broadcast 3 to 4 bush- 
els of seed to the acre. If sowed with Oats, — as is very com- 
mon, — sow 1£ to 2 bushels Tares, and 1 bushel Oats. "The 
Hopetown or White-flowered Tare, is the best variety." 

As fodder, cut after the pods are well grown, but long before 
they are ripe. If for seed, let them stand till ripe, and then cut 
with the scythe and treat like Peas. 

Willows are a crop but little known in this country, of which 
several millions of dollars are annually imported, yet they might 
be cultivated with profit in many classes of soil, and in many 
places otherwise waste. 



THE FARM, /57 

There are seven varieties. The best single varieties are Salix 
purpurea, Salix Forbyana ; S. triandra is excellent. Salix vim- 
inalis is generally cultivated in England, with several sub-varie- 
ties, all of which thrive but poorly in our climate. The Yellow- 
skin Willow (S. vitelline) and the White Willow (S- alba) are 
both good and natives. 

The fanner about to cultivate the Willow, should make inquiries 
and satisfy himself as to the best kind for our market The indis- 
pensable requisites in a soil for a good plantation of Willows, are 
richness, depth, moisture, and case in cultivation. The many re- 
claimable and reclaimed meadows of New England, would make 
the best of land for the purpose. A long continuance of standing 
water is not desirable, but the land should be so circumstanced 
that the roots may penetrate through a rather dry surface into a 
wet subsoil. Having well drained the land, prepare it as for 
Com; insert cuttings 2 feet long perpendicularly into the soil 
leaving 2 inches above the surface. 

" Plant in rows, 4 feet apart, and 1 foot between the plants ; 
keep clean of weeds, by plough, hoe, and cultivator, for two Or three 
years. At the end of the second year, the osier is ready for cutting." 
There is a difference of opinion as to the proper time for cutting ; 
some advising fall and winter, after the sap has ceased to circulate, 
others the spring, when it is first slatting. When cut in winter, 
they are tied in bundles and set upon their buts in water till spring. 
Cut the osier about 2 inches from the stock. Peel them with this 
very simple instrument It is merely a 
round stick of hard wood, about an inch 
thick and a foot long, quartered about half 
the length of the stick, and the two oppo- 
site quarters cut off, bo that it will leave a 
sharp edge upon the remaining two. The 
tool is taken in the right hand, and the 
Willow inserted in the elit with the left, 
and pulled through, the bark coming off. 

Lay them to dry, and when dry, sell by 
weight. Some persons who have tried 
their culture, have got much mora profit 



758 AUGUST. 

from the Willow, than from all the rest of the farm. Some varie- 
ties sell as high as 8 to 10 cents a pound. 

The last crop which I shall refer to is the Grape for the manu- 
facture of wine. The culture of the Grape is on the increase 
throughout the country, both as a fruit, and for its juice. For 
the latter use, the method followed is quite different from any 
hitherto described. The best land for them varies much with the 
country, the aspect, the kind of Grape ; and the best method of 
making the wine differs in like manner. 

Slight changes of soil and climate make so much difference in 
the Grape and its juice, that no exact directions can be given for 
it As I have said once before, its cultivation is a specialty, and I 
must refer those interested in it to special treatises on the subject* 

* There is a manufacturer of brandy and wine in Boston, on somewhat a 
large scale, who buys all the native Grapes he can obtain, so that our common 
wild Grapes, well cared for, and harvested at the right time, may be made a 
source of considerable profit, without the trouble and expense of manufactur- 
ing the wine. 



CHAPTER LXXXI. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

Some trees not mentioned in July may occasionally be of service 
and value, but they will be so at rare intervals ; and I do not 
recommend the proprietor of a small place to plant them, even for 
the purpose of making an Arboretum (collection of all species of 
trees). The number of varieties is too great to admit of such a 
collection having a good effect within small limits ; but in all large 
estates, especially in public grounds, a portion could be set aside 
for this purpose. It seems proper that the love of the beautiful 
should sometimes be sacrificed to the advancement of knowledge, 
in large cities and towns (provided deformity be not put in the 
place of beauty) ; and it is very important that the people should 
learn the shapes, appearances, and uses both of our native trees 
and of those foreigners which will endure our climate. I have al- 
ready said enough against planting trees in rows, except from ne- 
cessity ; but where rows are deemed necessary, as beside malls or 
avenues in public grounds, it is better not to confine them to one 
kind, but to use several varieties ; for instance, one family, the 
Oaks, would furnish species enough to line quite a long avenue, and 
interspersed with the Walnut and Ash, all somewhat similar in 
habit, would form avenues, while they gave valuable information. 
Very few, even of our country folk, know all the varieties of the 
Oak, and city people seldom know the difference between an Oak 
and an Ash. ' 

But I no more recommend that all the rows we plant should be 

devoted to science, than that planting in rows should be general, 

for no one better loves the grand effect of a fine avenue of a single 

variety, of Elms or Maples, or of Elms alternating with Pines or 

Hemlocks. The beauty of an avenue is a separate and important 

consideration. 

759 



760 AUGUST. 

The row, however, is not the best form in which to plant an Arbor- 
etum. The real habit and character of a variety can not be so well 
seen in a single specimen, by the side of an avenue, as in a group. 
Grouped trees are better seen from all points of view, than those 
unrelieved by any companion. And, besides, the object being to . 
familiarize people not only with the individual, but with the family, 
several specimens are necessary. 

I have several times alluded to a doctrine, advanced by Gilpin 
and others, to the effect that but a few varieties should be introduced 
in ornamental landscape, and they in great numbers, in order to 
secure the characteristic effect, whether of Oak, Ash, or Pine. 
Now by planting in a well-disposed group one of each species of 
Oak, the best Oak effect can be produced, and as the family is large, 
quite a wood can be formed, with a pleasant variety of individuals, 
and yet a certain unity of effect This may be heightened by con- 
trasting and joining with the Oak wood on one side, or perhaps run* 
ning into it Hickories, they again blending with Chestnuts, which 
in their turn combine with Beeches. The Hickory and Beech are 
more alike than the Hickory and Oak, or the Beech and Chestnut, 
so that considerable contrast would be secured. At proper points 
the species — small in number — of Hornbeam and Hop Horn- 
beam, could be grouped to contrast their light and pliant branches 
and small leaves, with the sturdy and gnarled Oaks. The Hazel, 
varying in size from a mere shrub to a low tree, should be planted 
near the edges of the group, to fringe it, and combine Grass and 
trees. 

Thus, without going out of the deciduous trees, we may produce 
very beautiful and strongly contrasted effects, and in such a way 
as to mark decidedly the scientific character of the material used. 
We have joined the two families of Cupuliferae and Juglandacese, 
and have made the beginning of a properly arranged Arboretum. 

The shrubs and flowers which inhabit woodlands vary with the 
variety of trees forming the wood. I do not mean that shrubs, 
flowers, and ferns will not live except in particular woods, but that 
they have strong preferences, by humoring which we may gain 
both in beauty and scientific interest. And different species of 
trees are the home of different and particular species of Lichens, 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 761 

Liverworts, and Mosses, while others of these plants live on all 
trees alike ; another branch of botanic science may thus be illus- 
trated. 

To return to the trees ; the spiry branches and small leaves of 
the Hornbeam are very like some kinds of Elm. The resemblance 
at pnce suggests the point with which to connect the Elms. These 
vary much in character. The English Elm is a stately, close tree, 
more like the Oak, a strong contrast to the American Elm, and 
these are not the only members of the family which contrast To 
a group of them, the English Elm in the middle, tall and sturdy, 
will give body and vigor ; along the edges we shall be attracted by 
the rough bark of Ulmus suberosa, the cork-bark Elm ; at a well- 
chosen point the grace and beauty of the Ulmus Americana will 
convince the most complete monomaniac on the subject of caterpil- 
lars and canker-worms, that we should rather be more careful in 
its defence, than inclined to discourage its use. Connecting the 
Elms and Hornbeams, we might introduce the Nettle-tree (Celtis 
occidental is), that queer hybrid which seems to be an Elm-tree 
bearing blue cherries, whilst Celtis pumila is the shrub pertaining 
to the family. 

No need to multiply examples ; enough has already been said to 
show how science and beauty may both be made prominent in groups 
of deciduous trees. If we wish for contrast between deciduous and 
evergreen trees, we can have it by blending Hemlocks or Spruces 
with the Beeches or Elms, by the introduction of a few Birches and 
Larches, a gradation pleasant and yet productive of striking con- 
trast ; or we may boldly push our White Pines up to the Oaks and 
Ashes, sure that the fall coloring will justify our practice, even to 
eyes which can see no justification in the likeness between the stem 
and branches of the stately and pointed Fines and those of the Ash 
and Oak. In short, the scientific character and connection of our 
forest trees may be shown to as much advantage as their beauty, in 
groups and copses. 

I use the word group for want of a better. The popular idea 
of a group or clump of trees is a bunch of trees planted in a cir- 
cle or square, or some forms as close together as possible originally. 

Frequently directions have been given for making such groups •, 

64* 



762 



AUOUST. 



to plant the trees as closely as the quality of the soil will allow, 
surrounded by a fence to protect it from the browsing of cat- 
tle. 

The beauty of the fringe along the edge of plantations is cer- 
tainly much reduced by the browsing of cattle, and there is no 
protection like a fence. But fences are expensive, and conse- 
quently increase the cost of the plantations; therefore, if the trees 
are to be protected with a fence, there is an almost irresistible in- 
clination to draw the trees into some close and regular shape 
which will need but little fencing. It being plain that the result- 
ing group will be stiff, the planter argues that when grown, the 
trees can be cut out so as to produce an irregular shape. But the 
argument is very specious. Trees grow so slowly, that it but 
rarely happens that he who plants, lives to thin them, and how can 
that unity of design and execution which is so essential to the suc- 
cess of 'landscape gardening — especially in plantations, its most 
important feature — be secured, if the work designed and com- 
menced by one person is continued and completed by another? 
When trees are planted, it should be in accordance with a well-di- 
gested plan. In order that they may be perfect when mature, 
their mature perfection should be distinctly seen in the imagination 
of the designer. He will then plant each tree where it will stand, 
so for as the outline of the group is concerned. Its interior may 
be cut out without greatly altering the effect; not so the out- 
side. 




ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS 763 

Another reason why the plan of cutting these crowded groups 
into shapeliness can never be realized, is found in the fact that 
trees thus planted can never attain the complete beauty of their 
variety. Every one knows that trees grown in masses, with the 
exception of those on the edges of the plantation, lose their lower 
branches ; those branches only develop fully which are open to air 
and light. A great beauty of an irregular plantation is, that its 
trees feather down to the ground. Let A be a group of such out- 
line as we want 20 years after planting it What we want can be 
obtained only by planting it in this shape. Surround it with a 
fence as in the cut, and lose for Grass, pasture, or tillage, all the 
unoccupied land within this fence ; let it go cheerfully as part of 
the price, without which you cannot have a fine group. 

When it is necessary to form a group by cutting it out of trees 
already well grown, much may be done to relieve the nakedness 
sure to follow, by setting tall and quick-growing shrubs along its 
edges ; they will soon protect and fringe the trees. 

In such cases, select shrubs that will bear the drip from trees, to 
stand nearest the group. 

To protect new plantations from cattle, without a fence, the 
English planters fill in among the trees with thorns of various 
kinds, of a rapid habit of growth. They may afterwards be left, 
or cut away, as the beauty of the group demands. 

A mistaken assumption with those who recommend that trees be 
planted in close groups, to be afterwards cut into shape, is, that the 
owner will thin out the trees when they are well grown. By the 
end of 20 years he will become accustomed to the arrangement, 
will hardly believe that it can be improved, and will have a de- 
cided repugnance to cutting down his trees. Those who plant or 
own ornamental trees, acquire so blind an affection for them, that 
they cannot allow any thinning, however much their plantations 
might gain in beauty by it. 

Never plant a group in a circle, or other regular shape, unless 
from some imperative necessity. You may lay it down as a rule 
that the same amount of material may be used more pleasantly in 
some irregular form. You cannot mend a regularly shaped group 
by planting up to it hereafter ; it is as unapproachable as an ice- 



.764 



AUGUST. 



r^g&Z' ^-\ berg. B is a circular group. After it is well 
tf ":£>. >KS^^ grown, approach it as you may with trees and 
" - -*>.* shrubs, you cannot disguise its originally hard 




shape. If it stands alone, — as on a lawn, — it 
is equally bad from all sides ; no more play of 
B light and 7 shade, no more variety of outline, than 

a barrel! Kin the corner of a fence, — as in the cut, — it Ls 
irreconcilable with the surrounding lines, and cannot be relieved. 

The first glance shows 

. >, ,*cf? that the treatment of C 




ir~~ 




&-^> 



D 



or D is infinitely better. 
In B, even the beauty 
of the individuals is lost, 
whilst in C and D, each 
tree is improved by its 
neighbor. 

The recommendation frequently given to use the bushy top9 of 
young Evergreens in marking out groups for planting, is good. 
They may be cut 3 or 4 feet long, and pointed at the but, so as to 
be easily thrust into the ground, where they are so prominent as 
to give the character of the group at once. Stakes are rather 
small and inconspicuous. But be careful not to be guided in 
marking out your group by some fancied beauty or picturesque- 
ness of outline ; it will lead you into errors as bad as a ring fence. 
The outline is but a secondary consideration in a group ; the aim 
of the planter should be to exhibit the beauties and peculiarities 
of the trees he uses to the best advantage ; and, accordingly, he 
should so arrange the outline of the group, that each individual 
may have just its appropriate place. 

The outline of a wood may be formed on the same principles as 
that of a group, but their interiors must be differently managed. 
The interior of a group should be as closely planted as is consist- 
ent with the proper development of the trees ; but in a wood, there 
is a great charm in the frequent recurrence of grassy glades, dells 
bits of water, groups of shrubs, openings with a single tree stand- 
ing in them ; and this must be borne in mind when a wood is 
made. If there are trees enough to give a wood or forest effect, 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 765 

to shut out the world, make these openings within, wherever the 
surface will allow ; they not only contrast pleasantly with the gen* 
eral denseness, but they admit sunshine, and are rich with wild 
flowers and green grass. In such a wood, the depth of a hollow 
or a mere dimple may be much increased by planting its edges 
with trees of rather dark and sombre character, with marked, con- 
trasting horizontal branches ; whilst any little knoll may be raised 
decidedly by planting it with pyramidal and fastigiate trees. 

To conclude this branch of my subject, I must refer you once 
more to Nature's practice. Possess yourself of the spirit with 
which Nature disposes trees, rocks, hill-sides, valleys, and when 
the opportunity offers, practise the lesson she is so ready to teach. 

Shrubs. — I. have repeatedly dwelt on the beauty and capaci- 
ties of shrubs. They may be used almost without limit. Were 
the number of trees planted about our suburban houses reduced 
two-thirds, and replaced by well-selected shrubs, the general gain 
would be considerable. Few persons know what size and beauty 
groups of good shrubs acquire, when standing alone. There may 
be such a gradation in size as to carry them from the grass almost 
up to trees, and when varieties are properly combined, they give a 
succession of blossoms through nearly the whole growing season. 
Many shrubs, too, like Barberry, Privet, Black Alder, Snowdrop, 
produce berries quite as beautiful and striking as their blossoms, 
and which take up the beauty where the flowers leave it, and 
carry it on to midwinter. Groups of Rhododendrons, Laurels, 
Hollies, — particularly in favorable spots in the deep wood, — 
have a beauty of foliage unsurpassed by any tree or plant, while 
the color of the flowers of the two former, and the berries of the 
latter, equal the richest garden display. The inhabitants of the 
deep woods are many and various, and well pay for the trouble 
of making their acquaintance. 

The following list includes many of the best native and foreign 
shrubs : — 



Country. 


Name. Size, in feet. 


Color of flowers 


Time of 






or berries. 


flowering. 


Native, 


Alder, 20, 


long tassels — 








buff, 


April, 


<< 


Amorpha fruticosa, 







766 



AUGUST. 



Country. 



Name. 



8ixeinfeet 



Color of flower* 
or berries. 



Native, Indigo shrub, 
" Andromeda, 



purple, 



Time of 
flowering. 

July. 



Nat. and for., Azalea, 



3, 
1 to 6, many 
varieties, white and red, Apr. to SepL 
" . many colon, May to Aug. 

Of wonderful beauty. Azalea Viscosa of our swamps is large, bears the 
Bhade of trees well, likes damp places and any kind of culture, and is deli* 
ciously fragrant. 

Foreign, Althea, 3 to 12, many varieties 

and colors, Aug. to Oct. 
sev. varieties — ) May, June, 



Nat. and for., Barberry, 



« 



yellow flowers ; ) berries thro' 
red berries ; red i rest of sea- 



a 



Native, 



tt 



4* 



H 



Foreign, 
Native, 



44 
I. 



«« 



leaves in fall, \ son. 
Bearberry, 

A trailing vine, adapted to rocky and bleak places. 
Baybcrry, 3, berries, 

Bignonia, vine, yellow and or- 

ange, midsummer. 

Bladder™,*, 10 to 20, white, j ™§^™ 

Button Bush, 6 to 15, brown ball, August. 

Box, 3 to 6, evergreen and 

variegated. 
Excellent for edgings or single specimens. 
Cornel, many 3 to 12, white, some 

with berries, May to winter, 
6, wiiite, August. 

5, yellow, September. 



varieties. 
Clethra, 
Cinque Foil, 

(shrubby,) 
Nat. and for., Clematis, 
Currant, 



Imported, 
Native, 



Daphne, 
Elder, 






vine, 
3 to 6, 

4, 
6, 

6, 



white and colored, July to Sept. 
red and yellow, June to Aug. 



variegated, some I one in April, 
red leaved. ( 
white, with 



one iu Sept. 



Euonymus, 
Ferns, 

Forsythia, viridissima, 3, 
" Ground Nut, vine, 

Nat. and for., Honeysuckle, vine (extra), 



black berries, June to Sept. 
red berries, June to winter. 
Perennial, 
yellow, May. 

purple, August, 

all colors, June to October. 
Holly, already described. 

English, Hawthorn, 6 to 20 (extra,) white and red, 

with berries, June to winter. 
Native, Hazel, 6 to 10, tassels and nuts, April to Oct. 

Nat. and Eng., Ivy, vines (Am. poison.) 

Dwarf Juniper, Evergreen. 

Kalmia, 6, rose colored (extra), June and July. 

Lcathcrwood, 3 (wet land), June, 

Ledum, 3, pink, July. 

Lilac, 3 to 15, several colored, May and June. 

Osage Orange, 20, for hedges, 

Privet (extra), 3 to 6, for hedges — 

white and black 

berries, June to winter 



Native, 



<< 



Foreign, 
Native, 



M 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



767 



Country. 
Native, 



Name. 
Roses, 



u 



Rhododendron, 
Rhamn us-Buck- 
thorn, 
Tamarix, 
Spice Basil 
(fragrant), 
St. John's- Wort 
(shrubby), 
Nat. and for., Spirea, 



Size In feet Color of flowen 
or berries, 
already described. 



Time of 
flowering. 



<< 



<< 



« 



« 



<< 
a 

u 

M 
M 

M 
(I 



like Kalmia. 
hedge — black 
10, berries, 

4, white, 

2 to 6, purple, 

'5, yellow, 

3 to 6, many colors, 



Sweetbrier, already described 
S mi I ax (very 



autumn. 

Jane. 

September. 
May to Sep. 



thorny), 
Snowdrop, 
Sumach, 

Vacciniam, 

Wigelea, 



vine, very thorny. 

5, white and red berries, Aug. to winter. 
20, red berries, cu- 

rious wood, " 

3 to 6, white, fragrant 

berries, June to Sept. 

5, red, white, and yellow, " 
Wisteria (beautiful), vine, purple, May. 

Virginian Creeper, vine, called hitherto Woodbine, 

Hedges are not well understood. They are too often consid- 
ered a part of the ornamental treatment of a place. Now a hedge 
is & fence, is good or bad as it answers the purpose of a fence, as 
it is luxuriant and well kept, or thin and neglected. When good, it 
is certainly much more pleasing than most close fences. Where 
fencing material is scarce — as at the We3t — hedges should be 
much used as fences. 

Few shrubs are well adapted to make a close fence. The Osage 
Orange is the best for form purposes, where protection is desired, and 
the climate is not severe. # It will flourish in any part of the Middle, 
Western, or Southern States, and after the first year or two as far 
North as this book applies. No plant is more easily cultivated. 
It is best to place your hedge — of whatever plant — on the hither 
side of a ditch, so that animals may be prevented from charging 
the hedge at full speed ; its thorns will protect it from any mild 
attack. Dig the ditch to suit yourself, beyond 4 feet wide and 18 
inches deep, nothing less is much of an obstacle to cattle. The 
earth dug out should be placed on the .hedge side of the ditch, 
sloping as in the cut. Sow the 
seeds, or set young plants of the - 
Osage Orange from 12 to 18 
inches apart ; the seed may be 





768 AUGUST. 

put closer, and afterwards thinned ; the soil should be rich, and 
be deeply dug, ploughed or trenched first. If you use young 
plants, cut them within two eyes of the surface of the ground, and 
in the following spring cut down as much in proportion ; do not 
try to get the hedge quickly. The second year after planting — 
say in June — cut the sides of the hedge to the shape you wish. 
■d The conical is best as offering most resist- 
ance to the action of snow, (A). B is more 
common, and poorer. The third year, cut back 
enough to ensure a good hedge. If it is 6 feet 
high at the end of 5 years, you do well. And 
if it reaches 6 feet by slow growth, it will turn a mad bull. 

Buckthorn and other hedges are made and managed much in 
the same way. 

In some respects Buckthorn is the best hedge plant. It grows 
rapidly, is perfectly hardy and uninjured by any insect. Haw- 
thorn, the common English hedge, is not well adapted to our cli- 
mate, and is also liable to be attacked and destroyed by borers. 
Other varieties of the Crategus, Cockspur Thorn, Crusgalli, and 
Cocinnea for instance, are better for our general use. Every por- 
tion of our country has thorns admirably adapted for the purpose. 

Privet makes a beautiful hedge. It never grows large but is 
perfectly hardy and almost evergreen. When a few years old it 
will, if well managed, both blossom and bear berries, and hold its 
leaves till December. 

Hornbeam, Beech, Rosas, Cat Briar, and many other plants, are 
used for the same purpose. 

Cat Briar (S mi lax rotundifolia), makes a capital hedge for dis- 
puted boundaries, edges of ponds, brooks, etc. ; grows fast, needs 
no pruning, and in a few years presents a perfectly impervious 
fence to men and animals, while it is a favorite haunt for birds. The 
easiest way is to set bushes, dead or alive along the line, and plant 
among them either the roots or the seeds of Cat Briar. Plenty of 
roots may be got from a Cat Briar thicket, and each joint will 
grow. A few years will turn your bushes to an unequalled hedge. 
Keep the roots well cut back, as they spread badly. 

All these deciduous hedges may be started in three ways. 1st, 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. ' 769 

from plants set in a single line, 6 to 48 inches apart, according to 
the size reached by the full grown plants ; 2nd, from plants in a' 
double line, the lines 1 foot apart, the plants in them alternating, 
not opposite each other, 6 to 48 inches apart ; 3rd, from seeds. 
Draw a line down the middle of a trench and drop the seeds along 
it, two or three in a place at the same distance apart as the plants ; 
or a single berry may take the place of the 2 or 3 seeds. Plant 
in the fall to get the benefit of the frost ; cover one-half to one 
inch deep. They will generally make their appearance daring the 
next summer ; keep clear of weeds. Under either method the soil 
should be well trenched, and the hedges be cut back like the Osage 
Orange, and carefully pruned in July and August of each year. 
They then commonly make two growths, the second of which re- 
stores roundness and smoothness to the clipped surface. 

Evergreens make beautiful hedges, and where a fence would be 
used as a screen, they are the best plants to take its place, afford- 
ing as they do shelter both in winter and summer, and being more 
beautiful than ordinary deciduous hedges. Arbor Vitae, Hemlock, 
Red Cedar, Norway Spruce, are the common evergreen hedges. 
The American Arbor Vitse makes the quickest growing and stout- 
est hedge, and is liable to but few accidents. At times a single 
plant dies from cold or heat, or disease, but as a class they are safe 
and hardy. In 8 or 10 years they make a hedge 6 to 8 feet high 
a perfect screen from wind and observation. Set the plants from 
18 to 36 inches apart, according to size. Prune once a year into 
the desired shape. The best time for pruning is just before they 
make the new growth which will cover all signs of the shears. 
The Siberian and the Chinese Arbor Vitas are smaller than the 
American and rather more beautiful. They make excellent di- 
vision fences for flower garden and shrubbery, and never attain the 
height of the American. Treat like the American. 

Norway Spruce makes a stout, quick-growing, impenetrable 
hedge ; plant 2 or 3 feet apart, and prune frequently. They may 
be allowed to grow 10 to * 15 feet high and wide in proportion. 
Probably no better high hedge is known. 

The Bed Cedar makes a very pretty hedge ; plant 2 feet apart. 

65 



770 AUGUST. 

But when used as a hedge plant it is liable to be winter-killed and 
' to die from other causes and is never stout enough to resist cattle. 

The Hemlock makes the most beautiful hedge that I am ac- 
quainted with ; its delicate spray and foliage are always lovely, 
particularly when making their new growth, when the light green 
tips seem like thousands of blossoms bespangling the hedge. Of 
its appearance when gemmed with rain drops I have already 
spoken. Plant and treat like the Bed Cedar. 

Many other plants are used for hedges. A beautiful effect may 
be got with Pyrus Japonica ; a hedge composed entirely of it 
seems like a line of fire when in blossom ; combined with Hem- 
lock or Arbor Vitae it is still finer, the evergreens presenting a 
beautiful contrast to the flowers. 

Roses, Altheas, Barberries, Guelder Rose or Snow Ball are all 
good for this purpose. The Black Alder is particularly fine with 
its lively scarlet berries in winter, but not so good for fences or 
screens as the proceeding, which are hardy and easily managed. 
Care will make a good hedge of almost any plant, and those best 
adapted to the purpose depend greatly on the gardener's attention. 
All hedges need deep rich soil, and regular care in digging, ma- 
nuring and pruning. 

The varieties of hedge are so many, and they are so differently 
treated in different regions, that it is useless to attempt a minute 
discription of each. When they grow old and die out badly at the 
bottom, they may be renewed by cutting them down within a few 
inches of the ground ; the strength of the old roots will enable 
them to make a strong growth in a single season. Manage them 
afterwards like a new hedge. When a single bush in the hedge 
dies, remove it- and set a new plant in its place ; weave into the 
space above the new plant plashings of old thorn branches, to fill 
the gap till the plant grows to the level of the hedge. Or, in such 
a case, you may introduce the seeds or young plants of Smilax. 

The usual mistake in managing hedges is to stint manure and neg- 
lect pruning. It is folly to neglect pruning in the hope of getting 
a large hedge sooner. To be a perfect fence a hedge must be thick 
at the bottom, and this can only be the case with one which is cut 
back closely when young, and thus forced to throw out an abun- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 771 

dance of low branches, And by after-pruning to the shape I have 
advised, the hedge may be made to keep itself thick below ; but 
the hedge which is widest above shades and kills out the lower 
branches. 

To allow some of the plants or trees to grow up above the hedge 
at regular intervals, is bad practice. The stronger growing tree 
saps the ground, and robs the roots of the hedge near it, beside 
killing it with its shade. It is robbing Peter to pay Paul. 

Woodland. — I have tried to block out rudely the rules for 
planting trees so as to produce good effects, but have not yet con- 
sidered wood as a crop. No better cultivation can be applied to 
much of our waste land than to cover it with wood. I have men- 
tioned that waste, sterile land, abandoned to the growth of wood, is 
fertilized by the annual deposit of leaves, until we may not only 
cut a large amount of wood, but have left after it land that may be 
cultivated with profit. 

In all parts of our country there are towns like Duxbury, in 
Plymouth County, Mass., whose soil naturally light and sandy, has 
been exhausted by long culture, till it has become really barren. 
A very small outlay would make this land the source of large 
profit In midsummer it should be ploughed, or even harrowed, 
and sown with the seeds of White Birch, Poplar, White and Yel- 
low Pines, American and Scotch Larch, Scotch Pine, some acorns 
of the White and Red Oaks. This seed should be sown very 
thickly, as much of it will be eaten by birds and insects. Then 
harrow again, and roll, if the surface admits of a roller. During 
the next spring much of this seed will germinate, and for several 
years afterwards new plants will appear. Growth will be slow at 
first, but will increase as the young trees shade and fertilize the 
ground. Rev. Morrill Allen, of Pembroke, Mass., recommends us 
to cut back the seedlings, especially of Oak, during their first or 
second year, in order to strengthen the roots. The trees will soon 
cover the ground, too thickly if the seed germinates freely ; thin 
and prune according to the growth, paying the cost by so doing. 
After four or five years of little apparent progress, the young plan- 
tation will grow rapidly, and in 20 years it will give 20 cords to 



772 AUGUST. 

the acre, worth not less than $2 per cord — $40. And if cut at 
that time, it will leave the land in good heart. 

If left longer, the wood will rapidly increase in value, at the an- 
nual rate of six per cent of its value, according to reliable experi- 
ments in measuring the relative growth and expansion of many 
trees. If left for 40 years, this land will not only yield 40 cords of 
wood to the acre, but will have paid during the time a fair interest 
in thinnings, fence-poles, etc. 

Not an acre of land in this Commonwealth is too poor to be thus 
improved. Of course every acre cannot be made of the best qual- 
ity, but every acre can be improved. 

The above method of planting costs less at first than any other, 
but is not the best or surest The best way would be to plough 
thoroughly with a Michigan plough, and sow the seed in a drill in 
rows 3 or 4 feet apart, with 300 pounds guano, super-phosphate, or 
similar material, to the acre, to hasten the young growth. 

The lands we speak of are dry and sandy, and are burned by 
the summer suns. The trees give some shade, even in their earliest 
years, and more as they increase, until they materially diminish 
evaporation. Their leaves enrich the surface ; their roots draw up 
food from the subsoil, and entirely change the character of the soil. 
A liberal supply of kelp and muck at starting will make the growth 
more sure and rapid. 

It is not absolutely necessary that any attention should be paid 
to such plantations for 40 years ; but in that case the growth will 
be much slower and the yield less, for the trees crowd each other, 
and there are too many mouths for the food. Gradually the weaker 
trees, and the lower branches of the stronger, die. Trees stretch 
their boughs eagerly to the air, and never grow freely when they are 
deprived of sunlight. The proper method is to thin and prune an- 
nually after the fifth year. The weaker plants and the lower 
branches of the stronger should be removed ; the amount of thin- 
ning must depend - on the rapidity of growth and other circum- 
stances, only to be met by the judgment of the forester. Cut at first 
every third or fourth tree, afterwards those which do not thrive or are 
over-crowded ; but remember that all trees have not the same rate 
of growth. Poplar, Birch, and Larch grow much faster than Oak 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 773 

and Pine ; the Pine quicker than the Oak and jet the slow-growing 
trees will in the end prove most valuable. It should "be our aim to 
remove first the quicker-growing and less valuable trees, and re- 
tain the Oaks and Pines as the permanent plantation. The cost 
of preparing and planting need not be more than $5 to $8 per 
acre, and the expense of cultivation will be paid by the thinnings. 
The profit will come in the last years of the operation, and will 
be 20 to 40 per cent on the whole undertaking. There will be an 
additional gain in the improved appearance of the neighborhood. 

This thinning is an essential part of the proper treatment of all 
wood-lots. Farmers who cut all the wood from a lot, regardless 
of size or quality, whether for use or sale, are managing as ill as 
can be imagined. They might thin in such a way as to get a large 
yearly profit, and yet get more for the remaining wood than for all 
which they now cut off at once. 

Suppose an acre to be covered with 500 trees of 30 years 
growth, standing 10 feet apart, both hard and soft, of slow and of 
quick growth. If all are cut at once the wood will not be first- 
rate for fuel, as it is mixed. If we cut out 250 trees judiciously, 
remembering that a soft-wooded, quick-growing tree impoverishes 
as much soil as the best varieties, we retain 250 trees of the best 
quality. Next year these will have twice as much light and air 
as they had before, and almost twice as much earth to feed in ; — 
not quite twice as much, because the stumps of the trees felled 
will throw up suckers which need some food. The natural increase 
of unthinned wood is 6 per cent ; of wood well thinned 20 per 
cent, but we will call it 15. Next year we can cut 15 per cent of 
the remaining trees, (37 trees,) as a clear profit, getting the value 
of 537 trees for the 500 originally standing on the acre, and in the 
same ratio in after years. Continue thus till all are cut, when the 
saplings of the first cuttings will have become quite large trees. 
In this way a farmer may make his wood lot perennial, both for 
fuel and beauty, and the eye would not be offended each spring by 
the sight of thin, bare fields, where were beautiful groves the year 
before. One of the most forbidding and desolate features about 
our country towns is the mark of this yearly devastation which is 

65* 



774 AUGUST. 

quite unnecessary. By thinning properly you ** have your cake 
and eat it too!" By cutting clean, you "eat cow and calf together.'* 

It is strange to see men leaving their country homes to perpet- 
ual sterility, and gathering wealth in cities to be lost in bad 
investments or invested at low rates of interest, when by trans- 
forming their native plains and pastures into woods, they might 
beautify their birthplace, make it the pride of the country, and at 
the same time invest their capital at the best of rates. 

A secondary profit will arise from such a course ; every year 
we see men of wealth leaving the cities in summer to buy houses 
in the country ; however wrapt in money making, they are not in- 
sensible to rural beauty. Country towns properly improved will 
become exceedingly attractive ; their lanes and by-ways through 
woods and along water courses, will make drives of uncommon 
beauty ; the places will draw summer residents whose money will 
give employment to many persons, and contribute to the permanent 
enrichment of the little community. The more the number of such 
persons who visit a town, the more land increases in value. 

I have heard the past and present inhabitants of decayed and 
sterile towns bemoaning the departed glories of their birthplace, and 
contriving means for restoring that glory. They would foster man- 
ufactories for which the people have no taste, or the place affords 
no facilities ; they would build ships for which there is neither 
sale nor use ; would start banks without depositors, mills with- 
out corn whilst they leave untried the readiest means to enrich 
themselves, the soil, and the town. 

The woodland shown on the ground plan of our place is vari- 
ously planted, and divided into evergreens, deciduous trees, shrubs, 
arboretum, and general planting, as shown by color and index. It 
lies mostly about the pond and entrance, and at the foot of the 
lawn. Our house stands on rising land, with comparatively few 
trees about it. The treatment proper for the home in the matter 
of trees and woods, varies with the character of the estate and 
neighborhood. If it is in the skirts of a town or on a little estate* 
set it among trees if possible, for the sake of privacy, contrast and 
shelter. If it is in the country or on a large place, set it out of the 
woods and group trees about it for better effect, as a relief to the 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 775 

house, and to give shade at those hours of the day when it is most 
grateful. Here we want contrast with the surrounding country, 
we want to look out over the landscape and give free entrance to 
sun and air. There should be woods so near that we can easily 
walk to them ; but we do not care to live in them, and being at a 
little distance they become an attractive and a pleasant termination 
to our walks. 

In this way they not only add to the general beauty of the es- 
tate, but give us a point to walk to, an object of interest for 
6trangers to visit. I repeat that the location of the house is a 
very nice matter, and in deciding it, the peculiarities of the place, 
the neighborhood, and the proprietor, must be taken into consid- 
eration. 

When woods border on water, as ours do, there is a vast increase 
of beauty. Their shadows and reflections often make us doubt 
whether the real wood above or the mimic wood below is the most 
beautiful. 

Water. — Perhaps the most difficult, certainly the most often 
ill-managed part of the arrangement of ornamental grounds is the 
ornamental water, whether artificial or natural. No subject con- 
nected with landscape gardening has been so often and so lengthily 
discussed, and none is less understood. Among the contradictory 
theories and rules, each person is compelled to block out his own 
course. 

The pleasure which the sight of water gives is natural, and the 
wonder is not that the fondness for it is so general, but that it has 
not a stronger influence. In its simplest forms water has a mar- 
vellous individual beauty. Even the closest, most every day and 
prosaic familiarity with it, cannot deprive it of its charm as the 
most lovely and bewitching of fluids, even when it stands in or falls 
from a single glass vessel. Its spontaneous motion, in the foun- 
tain, the stream, the rising tide, makes it still more fascinating. 

When to its inherent beauty is added the grace and life of mo* 
tion with all the resulting music, it becomes the principal charm of 
whatever spot it inhabits. 



776 AUGU8T. 

Its treatment in ornamental grounds ' depends on the forms in 
which it appears, and for convenience let us divide these into foun- 
tains, still water, and running water. 

It may be either a primary or a secondary object. Secondary, 
when it is used to heighten the general beauty of the place, as 
when we own, perhaps enclose, a pond, brook, or fountain. Pri- 
mary, when it determines the treatment of the rest of the place, as 
when we bound on a river, a lake, the ocean, or have a waterfall 
on our grounds or in full view. In such cases the grounds are to 
be used to enhance the beauty of the water, and so far as we may, 
to bring it into our presence. If it be the ocean that we bound 
upon, we should open our plantations in one place so as to draw in 
as much as possible of the ocean view, and thicken them in an- 
other, where we approach our neighbor's) that we may shut out all 
that speaks of narrow boundaries, and is out of keeping with the 
illimitable. Our improvements must be adapted to the character 
of the shore. Where that is low sand beach, and our land is level, 
our plantations must aim to give broad views of the ocean, and 
shut out all that is disagreeable. Our lawn should slope and un- 
dulate gracefully to the shore, so that the repose of lawn and 
beach may harmonize with the summer peace, or contrast with the 
winter rage of the sea. So, too, on the edge of lake or river. 

Men value most things in proportion to their rarity, and to the 
amount of their own ownership in them. Distinct from all mean- 
ness or selfishness, there is an inexpressible pleasure in owning a 
beautiful thing. We feel ourselves nobler and better by the beauty 
we have, and are sure lhat we are enriching friends and visitors 
when we show it. Much as I love fine views of the ocean under 
any circumstances, I would choose that sea-shore residence which, 
being on a promontory, or on the side of a bay, seems to give a 
kind of proprietorship in the ocean. Our aim, then, must be to 
increase the appearance of embracement. Good planting will serve 
to carry our land into the water and bring the water into the land. 

As we leave the trees and lawn and come to the shore, the ques- 
tion arises, what shall be done with the water boundary. Let one 
rule never be forgotten : preserve or restore the original character 
of the shore. If it is a sand beach, no matter how great the in- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 777 

roads upon jour lawn made at times by the swelling surf, never 
bound yourself by a wall. If a stone boundary is necessary, give 
a sloping, broken shore of shingle (loose stones of all sizes), never 
shutting or walling out river, lake, or ocean. Here pre-eminently 
the true art is to conceal art Nothing is more repulsive than a 
fortified shore. I admit that it is not pleasant to have one's lawn 
washed away, or one's trees undermined ; but neither is necessary. 
Follow your sand shore along and you will come to some place 
where the sand is replaced by shingle. This shingle has assumed 
some definite and permanent slope from the water's edge to the 
land above, or to the top of a ridge, which is not decanged by the 
action of the waves. Here is your lesson. Begin at your imper- 
rilled boundary and fill out with shingle, large rocks at first, and 
smaller beyond, at the same slope far enough to protect you. Do 
not attempt to make a perfect work at first, or to lay a pavement ; 
throw the stones loosely into the general shape you wish them to 
take, and leave them to the action of a winter's surf. Before spring 
the waves will pack them into the best possible shape. 

If you wish to change the water boundary by digging bays or 
carrying out a mole or promontory, go and see how nature does it 
You can find some place like the proposed improvement 

Perhaps, however, you have to deal with a piece of marshy, 
sedgy, low land, repulsively muddy. Make no wall or gravel bank, 
unless they can be so skilfully made and screened that the change 
between the natural and artificial will be imperceptible ; dry your 
immediate shore by underdrains ; plant the outer edge with such 
trees and shrubs as like brackish waters. The Button Ball, Beach 
Plum, some kinds of Vaccinium, Cornel, Bearberry, Wild Rose, 
Ivy, Woodbine, Cat Briar will combine to fringe the marsh. 
Amongst them, and on the shoreward side, plant the Golden Rod 
and some of the Asters. Near and among the shrubs set Tupelo, 
Sassafras, Red Cedar, some of the Oaks, and, as you come farther 
in, any tree or shrub. This fringe will shut out disagreeable 
sights, and join your place to the marsh and sea gracefully and 
naturally, and its roots will soon make a fence able to resist the 
slowly moving tides of the marshes. 

But perhaps your shore is bold and rocky, like those of Nahant, 



778 AUGUST. 

Gloucester, Cohasset, Newport* Then remember that these shores 
are the most wonderful and awful of Nature's works ; they are the 
solid, impregnable fortress set up by her as the limit of old ocean's 
power. They are rugged, massive, sublime ; in them there is no 
debatable ground between the beautiful, the picturesque, and the 
sublime. The view from them may be beautiful ; their combined 
effect may be picturesque ; but in themselves they are sublime. 
The hottest, most enervating summer day never tames them. We 
may sleep on them, hunt through their crevices for seaweeds and 
shell-fish, visit them daily, but we never venture on familiarities. 
They may be as calm to look at as the war-battered cannon in an 
arsenal ; but as it is only necessary with the cannon to look into 
its throat, or glance at the truck splintered by hostile balls, to feel 
that it is a terrible thing, which one may indeed walk about and 
examine, but only with hat in hand, and a mood of awe and rever- 
ence ; — so with these glorious rocks. Their wonders of science, 
their beautiful fringes of algae, their delicate and graceful inhabi- 
tants, the rattle of the shingle upon them as the tide rises and falls, 
their rich deep color, may instruct, delight, and soothe ; but the in- 
stant rejection and destruction of the tiny waves rf summer tell 
us, by the spray borne to our faces in refreshing showers, of the 
awful battles which are fought there in winter storms, when the 
thick gray mists hang low over the leaden sea, when the war-blasts 
of the gale howl and sweep round them, when the blinding rain, 
and the terrible, the seemingly irresistible waves are alike reduced 
to the finest spray the instant they strike the solid shore. We can- 
not be for a moment on such a shore without feeling that it is the 
field of a never-ending battle. The water-worn pebbles, the holes 
indented into the rocks by the blows of monster mallets, the frag- 
ments of wrecks strown about, all keep the mind subdued and 
awed. 

Stand on the rocks at Newport, towering above the sea, where is 
dashed the whole weight of the Atlantic waves, swelling on from 
Spain to New England, with a roar and rattle that would drown 
the loudest artillery, and dare to devise plans for their improve- 
ment ! It seems incredible that a man should be found brazen 
enough to talk about laying out and improving such a spot Tis 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 779 

true we might introduce a tuft of Golden Rod or Aster in some 
cleft, where, sheltered from storm-winds, the gold or gray would 
lend color and softness ; or we might fill a sheltered hollow with 
the wild Mountain Bearberry, a plant that springs and thrives amid 
the battles of earth and sea ; if soil and exposure allowed, we 
might plant Bed Cedars to bend under the blasts, and, as along the 
Jerusalem road at Cohasset, stretch their weird arms inland, as 
though sheltering the earth from the terrible sea ; we might set 
here and there the low-growing Juniper, or group in proper places 
such deciduous evergreen trees as the genius of the place toler- 
ates ; but to do as has been done on that same Newport shore, 
terrace the earth banks, cut the rocks into carriage roads and arches, 
scoop out and plant beds of flowers, the ladies of the garden, in the 
hollow of rocks, from whose bald heads the salt gales have swept 
awaj every vestige of* grass, and whose only covering against the 
elements is their grizzled beard of sea-weed, is too monstrous and 
sacriligious to be the work of any one who dares even mention the 
word taste in his dreams. It is a sad mockery as a carouse in a 
graveyard ; it is sacrilege in the eyes of every reverential lover 
of the beautiful. But it has been done even on the glorious New- 
port shore ; one of the most sublime parts of the coast has been 
converted, by years of labor, and thousands of dollars, into a bur- 
lesque on nature. 

Whoever is about to arrange grounds bounding on large bodies 
of water, should give long and careful study to the original charac- 
ter of the surface and the landscape, and should endeavor to ap- 
preciate its peculiar spirit. When really beautiful landscape sur- 
rounds an estate, it is rare that improvements can be happily made 
which are of a different style of beauty, as where the general tone 
is beautiful, we can with difficulty make our own place decidedly 
picturesque ; nor among sublime scenery should we attempt to 
make a place beautiful. I am aware that my use of these descrip- 
tive words is somewhat arbitrary, and it must of necessity be so. 
Burke, in defining the difference between the sublime and the 
beautiful, has left no intermediate ground for the picturesque. He 
calls all objects sublime which are capable, directly or indirectly, 
of awakening emotions of terror, however slight in degree ; other 



780 AUGUST. 

and pleasing objects he calls beautiful, or rather other objects capa- 
ble of arousing emotions of taste. I hare no idea of entering the 
lists against Burke and his school, but will state in what sense I use 
the terms sublime, beautiful, and picturesque. 

The sublime in nature or art is that which can, directly or indi- 
rectly, awaken awe. 1 do not say terror, as that is an active 
emotion. Niagara, the Alps, volcanoes, glaciers, the ocean, a thun- 
der-storm, a gale at sea, a tornado, are sublime. In them we must 
recognize a power which has overthrown or can Overthrow man 
and his devices. They are the active manifestations or the evident 
results of a divine power. Every line in them combines to inspire 
these sentiments. 

The beautiful may accompany the sublime, or even be a part of 
it, as where the quiet lake or valley is found among rugged moun- 
tains. The gentle flash of the waves along a sea-beach in summer, 
the champagne country, all of whose lines are smooth and easy, 
where hill, water, and wood blend easily and harmoniously, are in- 
stances of the beautiful. It has no abrupt contrasts, no startling 
combinations ; " the line of beauty" prevails ; curves predominate ; 
in the prominent features no sharp angles appear ; the trees are 
rounded and full, as Oak, Ash, Elm, White Pine. 

The picturesque is the result of the sublime. The lightning is 
sublime, as it cleaves its way earthward through the black bosom 
of the thunder-cloud, and strikes and blasts some noble tree in a 
moment The blasted tree remains a picturesque monument of 
the tempest The noble ship, borne helpless with her precious 
freight of life, adds a fearful interest to the sublimity of the gale 
which sweeps her on to the rock-bound coast, but becomes picturesque 
when weeks or months afterwards she lies on the shore, with tat- 
tered sails and loose ropes flapping in the breeze, and broken ribs 
and planks, forcing the image of the skeleton of a sea monster on 
our imagination. Time smooths into picturesqueness the fearful 
traces of the avalanche ; as it gives the beautiful the courage to 
creep up to and twine about the feet of the sublime, the place of 
meeting receives something from each, and the result is the pic- 
turesque. The curves of the beautiful are there mingled with the 
straight lines and sharp angles of the sublime. Harmonious con- 



.-* 



. ) 



,\ 






.} -.',!• 



"*t >f • 



!..it 



IV 



1 • 



.'•1 '• . - n . ' it « • i i 



«' . i * : "i'i 

l'. )|l • ! 



or 

O 



r. 



\ « 

»V t!' 



I* 



•1 ... 



.r 






! W'f> i »■! 



Ii • 



.4.1 , 



... i , • 

■•.'•I 
i- ;i 



• * . '.'ii'i'' / ■ . 

i ■. • -«,v -:» > 

• ' '•'.[''* i » 

: i .i: v« -■ ;■ 

. *»'• -.,* I : nr. 

• • fi • 

1 HI-' -t. 'If Im-'h'i - - 



.'.' !t • n 



t 



■<;..• 






,(••.! ,i i . ■ r- 



:t. 



f ' r 



« "., 



I «. > 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 781 

trast is the leading feature of this scenery. Through the light, 
sweet music of the beautiful we hear the deep bass of the sublime, 
ever true to the harmony. 

Among trees the Norway Spruce, Hemlock, Larch, Tupelo, are 
picturesque. 

After this explanation, the reader cannot fail to understand 
though he may not approve, my use of the terms in question. 

To resume ; the landscape gardener must appreciate the kind 
of beauty which surrounds any place, on which he is to exercise 
his art, and must work in harmony with it. Though contrast is 
the life of rural improvements, it can only be pursued with success 
within certain limits, a knowledge of which is essential to the ar- 
tist. For instance : in an estate some miles in extent, situated in a 
decidedly beautiful country, picturesqueness may be gained by in- 
troducing so many trees and other objects of a picturesque char- 
acter and by so altering the surface and water as to afford a marked 
contrast to the general landscape ; but no conceivable amount of 
art can make any portion of the estate sublime. 

In comparison with the sublime, the picturesque and the beau- 
tiful are as quarried stones to the everlasting hills. We may 
do what we will with the stones, may construct what we please ; 
our edifice and masonry may strain the limits of human skill; but 
in comparison with Nature's works they are mere trifles. We may 
create the beautiful, may carry it toward the sublime till it becomes 
picturesque ; but then our limit is reached. Unless it be thought 
that the magnificent is a step farther, when a skilful addition of 
objects stately but more artificial, as fountains, architecture, broad 
and brilliant masses of color, gives our estate the character in 
question. 

Of the way in which a home situated at the foot of a mountain, 
on the sea-shore, at the head-waters of a river, or in the gorges cut 
by it — in short among sublime scenery — may be made pictur- 
esque by the tasteful use of the beautiful, I know no better instance 
than the place of Mr. H. W. Sargent, on the Hudson river, oppo- 
site Newburg. The river has just come out of the Highlands, and 
with the forest-clad mountains makes a scene truly sublime. On 

the home-side of the estate, the landscape gardener has most skil- 

66 



782 AUGUST. 

fully introduced the beautiful. On the opposite page is a view 
taken from these grounds. So well is that which was under 
control adapted to that which was beyond it ; so well is the land- 
scape drawn into the place, that the whole seems at times purely 
beautiful. 

Another instance of proper adaptation of improvements to the 
prevailing tone of surrounding country is given in the view of the 
Fisher Place near Philadelphia. All the scenery of the neighbor- 
hood is beautiful, and with this the grounds are so in harmony 
as to greatly enhance both their own effect and that of the sur- 
roundings. 

The house and grounds of Washington Irving, give another 
instance of judicious and pleasant contrast This quaint old 
Dutch house with fantastic gables and wild draping of most luxu- 
riant vines is very picturesque from the home-side. Taken in 
connection with the wild country lane that leads to it, the rude 
entrance, the banks covered with shrubs and wild vines, it is as 
picturesque as any specimen of landscape gardening to be seen in 
this country. Yet things outside the place, the Hudson with low 
banks and broad bosom, the far-off mountains, are beautiful rather 
than sublime. 

There are several other views in different parts of the book, 
which illustrate the opinions thus briefly stated, and which tell their 
own story. 

Ponds and Brooks. — Let us now turn to the consideration 
of bodies of water, which are wholly or partially under the con- 
trol of the proprietor of the estate. The water may be artificial 
or natural, in the form of brook, pond, or fountain. In the two 
former cases it may be on so large a scale as to be worthy the 
name of river or lake ; the latter like the gigantic fountains at 
Versailles, or the jet on Boston Common, may throw so large an 
amount of water that the cause is lost in the effect ; but whether 
large or small the same principles apply to them. 

When water is artificial, one of two things should be decidedly 
done ; either the art should be carefully concealed and converted 
into a semblance of nature, or it should be made so prominent as 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 783 

to draw attention both to the beauty of the material and the skill of 
the workman. For skill is a thing by no means to be lost sight of 
in a beautiful work. Though it be the highest art to conceal art, 
the second place should be assigned to that which teaches impres- 
sively that man is the greatest of God's works, and that to him it 
is granted in many cases to increase the beauty of the minor 
things which are put under his. control by their Maker. Evi- 
dently these two degrees of art have entirely different spheres for 
their exercise. 

The pond, or stream which skirts, a lawn, gleams in a wood, 
leaps down a hill ; the water which gushes from a ledge of rocks 
by man's contrivance, can hardly be satisfactory unless they seem 
in place, unless they combine naturally with all about them, earth, 
grass or trees.* Naturalness is a primary and- essential element in 
their excellence ; but in fountains, fish ponds, aquariums, which 
stand in flower-gardens or on esplanades and terraces, naturalness 
is quite a secondary matter. We know instinctively that the pres- 
ence of water under such circumstances is due to art alone ; and 
accordingly the art should be made prominent ; it lends to the 
effect rather than detracts from it. We may build the pedestal 
of our fountain of mossy rocks, in imitation of sylvan grottoes or 
mountain springs, and may, perhaps, thus increase its beauty, — 
not because we believe that the arrangement is the work of nature, 
but because we admire the art which could present so charming a 
thing as water in such a way as to add the agreeable association of 
woods and mountains, mosses and ferns. 

Or take an instance on a larger scale. Occasionally we meet 
with a natural and perennial stream of moderate size, winding 
through a hilly country. It may be wise to execute an idea sug- 
gested by the precipitous hill-sides, or by our preference for the 
grand effects of a mountain, lake, or tarn, over the attractions of 
any ordinary mountain brook (where the soil is of too poor quality 
to deter us on economical grounds) ; and to dam the stream and 
flood its waters back till they form such a pond as we like. The 
first step is to ascertain at what point the hills approach each other 
enough to allow a dam to be built with most economy and the best 
effect Do not imagine me to mean least cost by economy; I mean 



784 AUGUST. 

to the best advantage, and may as well say here that cheap water 
works are a plague to an estate and its owner ; if you attempt to 
deal with the subtle and insinuating element, remember that half- 
way work is ruinous, and that the cheapest work is that which is 
most thorough from its first general conception to the last detail of 
execution. To return; by following the valley along, we may 
find a point where the approaching hills will permit a dam to be 
made easily, and this is the point at which to pause and decide 
whether to give the dam a natural or an artificial appearance. In 
both cases the work must be equally well done. 

First examine the valley and the views of it, as seen by the 
imagination, filled with water, which may be got from different 
points. Consider these views carefully. Though it be sometimes 
well to make ponds for boating, bathing, fish culture, and yet more 
for the beauty they reveal to us when on their shore or their sur* 
face, the wonderful variety of light and shade, the shadows sleep- 
ing in their depths, still in most cases these considerations are not 
the main inducement to make the dam. The views of the water 
which may be got from the windows of the house and from differ- 
ent points on the ground, the general beauty at a distance, are of 
equal importance with the nearer attractions. Consider the pro- 
posed water from all these points. If you examine faithfully, you 
will perhaps see that by cutting down or raising a small hill, by 
breaking a ravine through a ridge, eradicating or creating a wood, 
you may give your pond much greater charms. Pause now and 
inquire whether you are able not only to make the pond, but to 
reconstruct the landscape. There no art must appear. In dealing 
with the water and earth works it may be allowed to show itself; 
in the other changes, never. Study the soil ; make the acquaint- 
ance not only of the trees and shrubs, but of the wild flowers, of 
the grasses even, which grow there, and must be reproduced if 
you remove them. 

Having assured yourself that you can do this, take levels from 
tfoe bed of the brook up the sides of the valley, along the hills, 
into the meadows ; try the different heights. If your dam is 15 
feet high, the pond will stretch along here and there ; 5 feet more 
would give a beautiful bay or inlet, winding river-like behind the 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 785 

hill or wood, or through yonder valley, or would bring the sheet 
up to the view from this or that distant point. Another rise would 
connect it with another pond or stream. Try ail these things. 
Then return to the dam. To make the pond with a dam of 10 
feet, will cost a certain sum. The earth-work must be of sufficient 
strength and slope to bear the pressure of 620 pounds to the square 
foot at the base. 5 feet more in height involves an additional pres- 
sure of 310 pounds to the square foot, and consequently much more 
solid embankments, at a corresponding increase of cost. These 
facts should be carefully ascertained and estimated by a competent 
engineer, and what matter if his bill swells the expense by one or 
two hundred dollars, if thereby the value of the improvements is 
increased many fold, or the cost being thoroughly ascertained, the 
decision can be understanding^ made whether the work shall be 
undertaken or abandoned ? 

You have now settled the question of where,, how high, and how 
solid the dam is to be. 

The resistance of water is overcome* by giving the dam a slope 
on the inside and out A dam with, a perpendicular wall of ma- 
sonry a, necessitates either an 
increase in the size of the 
earth-work b, or that the ma- 




sonry should be very heavy *— 

and costly. A much more ^ 

secure and less costly method, 

is to make the whole dam of earth, as in the cut B. 

But before you can settle the question of the material to be used 
in the dam, you must decide what kind of fall or outlet the water 
is to have. The waste-way or fall may be made to suit the fancy 
and the supply of water. Under the lowest part of the dam there 
must be a flume to discharge, by which the pond can be drained at 
any time. This question of the waste-way or fall, brings us back 
to the consideration of the size of the pond. 

Evaporation is nearly constant from every sheet of water. A 
stream which winds through a bog and along a cold shaded bed 
through the whole year, screened from evaporation under sun or 
wind, and maintaining a steady though small stream, may, if con- 

66* 



786 AUGUST. 

verted into a pond, be unable to do more in summer than supply 
evaporation. Thus we are compelled to take into consideration 
the amount of evaporation which our pond can support without 
shrinking into insignificance or uncomeliness. 

The rule is sometimes laid down that an artificial pond, which 
does not at least remain permanently full, is worthless. 

I do not agree. It is by no means necessary that it should stag- 
nate when low, a misfortune not inseparable from a want of out- 
flow, as appears in Jamaica Pond, a little lake of some three miles 
circuit, near Boston, which has no visible inlet and outlet, and 
what is true of a large pond, holds, under similar circumstances, 
for small ponds. It is urged that the water line left on the stems of 
trees and shrubs along the shore of a pond low in summer droughts, 
the rugged banks, the growth of sedge, etc, are unsightly and in- 
tolerable, and more than neutralize its beauty during the rest of 
the year. To argue the point would be to waste breath. What 
can be said to him who will not admit that half a loaf is better 
than no bread ? It is true that the beauty of a full pond in sum- 
mer is very greatly increased by the coolness it imparts to the air, 
and by the pleasures of bathing and boating. But lovers of na- 
ture know that the three hot months when ill-fed ponds shrink, are 
but one-quarter of the 'beautiful year. Th4y know that such a 
pond in the early spring, when it reflects the tassels of the Alder, 
Hazel, and Birch, is decked with the floating flowers of Red 
Maple, and the keys of Maple and Ash, has a wonderful attrac- 
tion. They know, too, that never is it more beautiful than when 
it catches and returns intensified the purple and gold of Maple and 
Ash, or is ablaze with the October Are of the Oaks and Walnuts. 
They know that in winter its outlet will be a mystery of icy stalac- 
tites, that the sides of the waterfall will be fluted with frozen organ 
pipes, whence the music of the brook below seems to flow. They 
know that in stinging mornings the warm breath of the brook will 
rise through the bitter air, and be caught and held in lacework by 
every twig and branch, till the silver wood rivals the summer 
glories. 

They, like me, think half a loaf better than no bread, and we 
agree to make a pond, though it be full only half the year. When 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 787 

I 

it is low, its edges, or even its bare bed, may in a few weeks ex- 
hibit a new beauty. As the water shrinks, sow the moist margin 
with the seed of Canary Grass ; it will immediately germinate and 
keep the shore green all summer, and as it is not aquatic, will dis- 
appear soon after the water returns. But do not suppose that this 
is the only compensation with which the owner of a. shrunken pond 
can console himself. To me the green covering is no more needed 
than are clothes on the naked limbs of the Greek slave. 

Having made the dam, raise the water to mark the water line, 
and then draw it off. The same line may be marked by grade 
stakes, and the trouble of letting on and drawing, off the water 
saved ; but in that case you fill the pond with imaginary water, 
and the impression left on the memory is not so vivid, and cer- 
tainly not so reliable, as by the real pond. Before you draw off 
the water, row over it in a boat, study every point and inlet. If 
you are not familiar with the shores of any beautiful pond, find 
one, and study it. You will then discover how little you know of 
the minute effects that the mossy rock, upturned stump, gnarled 
knuckles of the roots whose reflected beauty you so often admire 
are not absolutely and independently beautiful,, but depend for 
their effect upon* that which surrounds them, and what you admire 
is not the individual, but the tout ensemble ; they are a part of the 
whole construction of the place, and adorn it, and are as relative 
to it as the ribbons and laces are to a lady's dress. 

Let the pond be drawn off a few inches while still in your boat, 
and again study the shore from the water side. First there are 
large stones, some bare, some covered with minute infusoria and 
larger algae. Among them spring Pontederia and Potamogeton, 
Sagittaria, Sedge and Bulrushes, then Grass and tufts of bushes, 
Viburnum and Cornel, the Button Bush, Alder, Elder, Clethra, 
and Andromeda. Or the stones and pebbles retreat under an over- 
hanging bank, bound together by the roots Of trees and shrubs. 
The gentle fingers of the wavelets have picked out the earth from 
between them, and the fibrous roots hang like a veil over the little 
cave within. Or the retreating water exposes the solid rock, 
which, as it heats in the sun, will be alive with basking frogs and 
turtles. Or the roots of a gnarled old Oak project abruptly. In 



788 AUGUST. 

another place the bank towers up overhead, covered with ferns 
and low shrubs, rich with Violets, Hepaticas, Anemones, or gay 
from bottom to top with Cardinal Flower and Golden-rod; and 
farther along, a strip of sand beach is left sloping slowly to the 
si lore, to be lost in grass, or to open into a cattle track or roadway. 
Hither the cows will saunter lazily in the summer noon, and wad- 
ing knee deep, will stand through the hot hours, beating the flics 
from their sluggish sides with their wet tails. The irregular flap- 
ping, the measured chewing of the cud, the patient waiting, all so 
in keeping with the surroundings, have attracted the artists of suc- 
cessive generations, and moved them to hand down to posterity the 
sweet rural scene in pictures, which they hoped posterity would 
never cease to love. 

Does not the study of this shore prove that the retreating wa- 
ters may add rather than remove something, and that for variety 
an occasional subsidence is desirable. 

I cannot give minute directions for making your pond's edge ; it 
is a matter of feeling rather than of rule. Each pond has its own 
character and should be treated accordingly. When you are at a 
loss what to do, 1 can only give you my former advice: hunt out a 
similar natural pond and catch its spirit. The country is full of 
beautiful ponds, of dells with pools in the bottom, where lessons 
unteachable in books may be learned. 

So, too, if you want islands. You know Nature makes them 
from a kind of necessity ; peninsulas are cut quite into islands ; 
on accumulations over snags aquatics start, shrubs take root ; and 
the resulting islets are among the greatest charms of the water. 
They may be the same in artificial water, may close or 
lengthen vistas, fill up openings that are too large, make bays; 
they become the report of water fowl, and increase the number 
and variety of reflections. If you make your ponds as directed by 
damming a brook, you will probably produce islands unawares ; 
some parts of the valley being higher than the rest will be cut off 
from the main land as the water flows back. 

By making the outline of the pond in this way you will get a 
variety and fitness beyond the reach of the most artistic designer, 
however elaborately he measures and levels, and thus made it will 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 789 

have double the beauty it could have, if made in the same place 
by line and rule. 

Where the shore of either pond or island is exposed to the wear- 
ing of a current, it may be fortified by stones, as directed for the 
sea-shore ; but never surround your water with a stone wall, unless 
necessity requires it. The basin in a flower-garden may be stoned 
because it is a basin ; and for the reason that the pond in a lawn or 
woodland is no basin it should never be converted into a washbowl 
by a stone margin ; the outrage is almost as bad as terracing the 
seashore. 



700 AUGUST. 

But to the dam again ; to the outlet, now that the extent of the 
pond is determined. Whatever our original prejudice for or against 
a regular or a broken fall, we must first consider the amount of 
water which will run over it during the months when it is full. 

No words are needed to set forth the grandeur and beauty of a 
single, unbroken sheet of water, when upon the scale of Niagara, 
and even at the dam of a mill-pond there is no small charm in its 
regularity and glitter. But I confess that where the supply is not 
very large, there is to me no comparison betwen a well-broken fall 
and a regular sheet. The very mention of the two suggests the 
difference in the character of the dams. For the sheet there must 
be an uninterrupted descent from the top. to the bottom, which can 
be obtained only by a confessed wall of masonry, or by an abrupt 
ledge, real or artificial. If the ledge is available, and the sides of 
the valley narrow to the very fall, and is planted with appropriate 
trees and shrubs and ferns, the single sheet may be made very 
effective ; and when the stream is small and little or no water 
wastes, the solitude of the glen, the luxuriant vegetation, the ferns, 
lichens, and mosses, which will spring out of the crannies and 
crevices of the ledge, make an exquisite and impressive combina- 
tion. There is a pleasure in studying the water-worn face of the 
ledge, and we can better realize how grand the fall is after a thorough 
inspection of its parts. A fall of this kind seen through a veil of 
trees with its concentration of water toward the outlet, its noiseless 
glide over the brink, the hesitating of the little drops left on the 
outside by the greater weight within, the dashing, foaming plunge 
below, has a solemn beauty, which may well rouse the feeling that 
there is nothing more to desire in the way of a fall, — unless a well- 
managed broken fall can be seen near by. 

Put if you decide to have a sheet, try so to combine the stones 
in the masonry of the dam that they may resemble the ledges near 
by, particularly if these crop out in the hillsides which descend to- 
ward the pond. A little study of the peculiarities of such out- 
cropping ledges will teach you not only the intrinsic difference 
between different rocks, but how their characteristics can be im- 
itated, and how artificial rock-work can be pushed toward, or 
even up to them. 



ORNAMEXTJX GROUNDS. 791 

Li mestone, Slate, — indeed all the secondary rocks, — are de- 
cidedly laminated ; they lie in strata and according to the dip of 

the strata is the appearance of the outcrop. In the three varieties a 




b e, of such ledges we see how the treatment of a dam should vary, as 
it is in the neighborhood of one or the other ; a is easily imitated, 
as its stones lie in the position which masonry most commonly 
takes,' and if the pieces of rock are well selected and the sides of 
the ravine well managed, the dam in a few years after it is made 
will seem to inhabit the place. But in general these ledges are of 
varying softness, so that they break irregularly. The formation at 
Trenton Falls is of this character. In the interspaces there may 
be some long mosses and lichens, but rarely ferns or flowers, as the 
crannies offer no hold for the roots. For the same reason that a 
is good, b is bad for the single sheet ; and yet when exposed to the 
eye for a considerable portion of the year b and c, are the most 
agreeable forms of stratification, because their crevices offer abun- 
dant foothold to fenis, wild flowers and shrubs, and the glen which 
is faced by them will soon be wild, verdurous, and a haunt for 
birds and lovers of nature. The perpendicular stratification c, 
breaks off on its outer laminations into irreg- 
ular heights, (see cut), and can be easily 
adorned. 

Another class of rocks, the primaries and 
- volcanics, of which our New England is largely 
= composed (granites, sienites, porphyries, con- 
glomerates), lie in heavy solid masses dipping 
into the earth at various angles, but the strata 
being very thick, their outcrop seldom shows 
much stratification, is more often a bold smooth, 
water-worn surface, covered with some kind of 



792 AUGUST. 

lichenose vegetation, but rarely giving much foothold for plants. 
Among such formations the dam for the single sheet must be made 
as solid as possible and of stones native to the place, showing as 
little mortar as may be, trusting to the growth of trees and bushes 
near by, and the water lichens etc, to cover their face. 

To whichever of these formations the dam is to be assimilated, 
if the native ledges do not come near it, set large masses of rocks 
into the neigboring banks, in imitation of the peculiar natural 
ledge, in order to blend earth and dam more kindly. 

Your dam must be made after the habit of the natural formation, 
be your preference what it may ; no other arrangement will har- 
monize well with the landscape. It is among horizontal or obliquely 
inclined strata of secondary rocks that the abrupt fall obtains ; the 
water constantly wears upon and cuts them back. Not so with the 
hard rocks of the volcanic and primary formations ; they offer a 
resistance too solid to be much affected by the wear of an ordinary 
stream. The streams which find their way through these rocks is 
so obstinately met and turned back, that they work hither and 
thither, and take advantage of every slope and inequality of the 
surface, finding it necessary to be guided by the original form of 
the stone instead of cutting their way through it ; and to me such 
falls are always the finest, because they are always active and in- 
teresting. In them a very small stream is turned, twisted, and tor- 
mented before it can escape ; at one point its impetuous rush is 
stopped by a projection of the rock ; its waters roar and foam as 
they are crowded back, they eddy and boil till they find an escape 
at a lower point, or until they gather volume enough to swell over, 
when away they go ! all foam and roar, to be again tortured and 
fretted. All is hurried beauty. Cries of pain at being dashed 
against hard rocks, and torn by sharp points, combine with the glad 
laugh of triumph as the water at last escapes and blends in the 
deep undertone of the current below, which has all the while been 
hastening on to its final leap. It is rich in variety ; bushes fringe 
and dip into it, and sway with wind and current ; trees root at the 
edge of eddies, where their seeds have been caught and whirled 
till they found a resting-place. In the winter each point is seized 
by the frost as a fortress, whence it throws out bastions and breast- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 793 

works of ice to stop the stream. The constant dashing sends up 
unexpectedly large volumes of spray to clothe the trees. And 
when in summer the channel is nearly or quite dry, its " potholes," 
where stones have churned deep into the rock, its jagged points and 
polished surfaces, the little bushes and flowers which have clung 
tenaciously to the cracks, the flicker of light and shade make the 
bed of the fall almost as attractive as when full of water. 

A broken fall like this gives the largest amount of beauty possi- 
ble from a small supply of water, and will not generally be so ex- 
pensive to build as the other. The bulk of the dam can be of 
gravel and clay, much less expeasive than masonry, and only so 
much stone used as is necessary to receive and turn the water. 

The fall several times referred to, and of which a sketch is given 
on page 789, is a notable illustration of the points just insisted 
on. It is on Beaver Brook, Belmont, Mass. In a distance of 200 
feet it falls about 50 feet. The outlet of the pond is over a com- 
mon mill-dam, 10 feet high, where it is caught in the jaws of a 
rocky ravine ; the ravine narrows rapidly, and the compressed 
water foams and boils, but soon escapes ; running some 50 feet, 
among rocks and trees, it meets a perpendicular barrier of rock, 
fringed with Ivy, and shaded by Elms, where it turns at a right 
angle, falling quite rapidly through a course of about 20 feet ; 
then turns again at a right angle in another ravine, glides over some 
15 feet of rapids and rocks, and makes its final leap of about 20 
feet This cold description can give no clear idea of even the 
mechanical formation of these falls, much less of their beauty at 
all times. In all parts but the outlet of the pond it is natural, and 
I mention it to show how nature makes falls among the primary 
rocks. By these turns of the channel a little water is made at all 
seasons to assume the character, give the foam and spray and music 
of a large fall, whilst in a freshet it rises from beauty to grandeur. 
It comes down, a torrent, with a body and violence that seems to 
threaten the solid rock, and sweeps along large fragments of rock 
like pebbles. In the ravine about the fall the high sides, outcrop- 
ping ledges, sturdy trees, and views over the distance, give the 
scene a mountainous character ; and almost within sound of the 

bells of Boston is a bit of wild beauty and real grandeur not often 

67 



794 AUGUST, 

surpassed in the mountains and forests of Vermont and New 
Hampshire. 

I have said that the dam of the broken fall may be made of clay 
and gravel mainly. A close, hard gravel, puddled or intermingled 
with clay, is the best material to resist water. It packs together 
under the pressure of water, and unless there are too many large 
stones in it, prevents its escape. In gravel dams great pains should 
be taken to entirely surround all large stones with fine material. 
Water is very insidious ; it will work along a stone, clinging to its 
surface, dissolving all soluble particles, and will gradually creep on 
to the next, so that if many lie near together, or in a somewhat 
direct line through the dam, it will not be long in making its ap- 
pearance on the other side. 

There is hardly a pond which is not at times very much fuller 
than usual. During freshets, the water is far above its usual level. 
To make a pond capable of holding this excess would not only 
necessitate a much higher and more costly dam, but leave a large 
empty space after the. freshet was over. The emergency may be 
as well met by the waste-way before mentioned, which should be 
quite narrow at bottom, with a wide flare as its sides rise. Let a 




b be the waste-way. At all ordinary times the water will not rise 
much above a, but in a freshet there may be a great and sudden 
rise ; but water seeks its level, and a foot's rise in the pond is a 
foot's rise in the waste-way, and the flare of its sides allows a much 
greater amount of water to escape as it rises, so that the rapid and 
increased flow will counteract the tendency of the pond to fill, the 
escape being in the ratio of the rise, and experience shows how 
difficult it is for a pond with such a dam to rise inconveniently. 

The great drawback to the gravel banked dam is the danger of 
being mined by muskrats, in their desire to get into the pond during 
winter, or to descend thence into the bank for a home. This may 
be met by vigilance and good traps. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 795 

I do not propose to give minute directions for building dams any 
more than greenhouses ; one is the province of engineering the 
other of carpentry. 

I have said that the undisguised appearance of art in masonry, 
is sometimes agreeable in water-works. This depends on locality 
and circumstance. If a large stream is to be used to flood a 
valley, it is nearly impossible to check it unless with expensive 
works of engineering, to disguise which into a semblance of nature 
would be enormously expensive. A case might occur where such 
disguise would be in good taste and worth the cost, but it would be 
the exception. Masonry may be made beautiful to look at, and is 
certainly beautiful in its suggestive power, — as the work of man. 
When a dam is obviously artificial, a road or path may cross it, the 
waste way being spanned by a bridge, rustic or elaborate accord- 
ing to the character of the shores. Thus we seem to invite in- 
spection and to appeal to the perfection of the work for our justifi- 
cation. 

In laying out and improving grounds, the avowed object is to 
create beauty, and we may therefore put up on the shores of our 
ponds and islands rustic houses for boats and aquatic birds, bathing 
houses, rustic seats. Islands should be connected with the main 
land, waste ways, inlets and brooks spanned with rustic bridges, 
both for their convenience and the beauty of their reflections. The 
line between good and bad taste in such structures is very fine, and 
beautiful natural scenes are often terribly disfigured by carpentry. 
Rustic bridges and seats are perhaps no more beautiful in them- 
selves than elaborate carpentry. We often see archways over 
gates in a fiat, sandy country, devoid of all similar objects ; arbors 
in town gardens, and the like, evidently considered beautiful by 
their owners. They are just as bad and incongruous in such places 
as the carpenter-work in the woods and by the water. There is a 
fitness which we all recognize as an important element of beauty. 
The rough bark, and irregular, contorted roots and branches woven 
into rustic seats, bridges, and arbors, assimilate in color, form, 
character to the surroundings ; they harmonize well with shrubs 



796 AUGUST. 

trees, and vines. Vines seem to have a liking for them, will climb 
along the bark, garland the rough knots, festoon the hand-rails as 
though they loved them ; the irregularity of wild vines, shrubs, and 
flowers seem to need irregularity in all wood or stone work to feel 
at home, and however nicely, beautifully, luxuriantly, ivy or 
flowering vines may cover the wall of a stone house in town, the 
gardener's hand is evident ; they give no idea of the free growth 
of these climbers in the forest or waste, where they trail over 
bushes to look at themselves in the still waters, or dip in the run- 
ning stream. 

But even into wild scenes rustic ornaments are not to be intro- 
duced at random. It by no means follows that because some tree 
stretches its arms widely that we ought to set a rustic seat under 
it. or because there is a point reaching out into a pond that it should 
not terminate in a boat house, or because a path crosses a brook 
that it should have a bridge. Many objects of this kind tire, and 
remove the feeling of fitness. 

As for bridges they should be introduced only where depth of 
water necessitates. Shallow spots are much more agreeably crossed 
by stepping-stones, round which the waters may purl and babble in 
a thousand little bubbles to catch the sunlight as they sail down the 
stream, and where in a June morning we may sit and paddle 
barefooted. 

It is impossible within these limits to do more than hint at the 
various beauties of water. One quality it has in common with 
green meadows : horizontally. It is sometimes said that the beauty 
of level meadows is attributable to their resemblance to a sheet of 
water, but the truth is that the beauty is due to the horizontally 
common to both, a quality always attractive, and also to their con- 
trast with the irregular forms that surround them. The truth of 
this statement may be demonstrated in winter. Visit the most 
beautiful sheet of water you know, when frozen and covered with 
snow, and you will And that the charm you have been accustomed 
to connect with water solely is not peculiar to it Now that the 
charm of sparkle and reflection are gone, you will surely derive a 
greater pleasure from the horizontal surface than when water was 



OKN'AMKNTAL GROUNDS. 797 

• 

in the place of snow and ice. In the summer there is a perplex- 
ing superfluity of wealth, which prevents any fair analysis or re* 
cognition of the attraction of the quality under consideration. 

Ponds may sometimes take the place of grass meadows. I am 
an advocate of ponds great or small, wherever they will heighten 
effect, and can be economically made, and kept reasonably full. 
One can often drain a bog into a pond dug out in its centre* or can 
carry all the underdrains from the grounds into some dell or hollow, 
where a little pond may nestle ; a pond thus supplied will be per- 
ennial. In most ponds thus made in bog-soil, there is a tendency 
to noisome vegetation. Make your pond on the principle of an 
aquarium. First dig out enough of the original soil to give the 
proper depth ; upon the bottom lay several inches of clean stones, 
(shingle from the sea-beach is best), over this lay several inches of 
clean sand from river or beach ; put in snails and little fish, but 
never aquatic birds, unless you can have a perpetual stream run- 
ning through the pond ; they will eat the snails and little fish, and 
leave the confervae and algae, which in time will fill the pond. In 
some cases it will be cheaper to pave the bottom, leaving openings 
where springs exist for their water to come up through. Clear 
away the autumnal leaves; if left they will sink to the bottom, 
causing considerable impurity. In very small ponds it may be well 
to surround the edge with stones to prevent the bank's caving, etc, 
and if the stones are old and mossy they may be a great orna- 
ment ; but as surely as a pond larger than a basin in a flower- 
garden is bordered with hewn stones, unless avowedly used for a 
horse, duck, or fish-pond, good taste is inexcusably outraged. 

In connection with fish-ponds, a word on the subject of ponds for 
breeding fish. They should be stocked with such fish as are na- 
tive to similar soil, water, and surroundings. At small expense 
they will, in a year or two, give the fisherman both sport and profit. 
Those who wish to know more must consult special treatises. 

By referring to the plan of our place you will see in the large 
pond in the lawn many dotted lines connecting the shores at 
different points. These in connection with the true shore lines, 
sjiow the shape of the pond when we took it. By the other 

67* 



798 AUGUST. 

water lines you see that if the water were raised a little at 
the dam, it would be sent into many little dells and would cut off 
some promontories. It was by raising the dam 3 feet that we got 
the present pond. This increase of size makes a second bridge 
upon the avenue necessary, but it is evident that the bridge and its re- 
flection will be a pleasant object. By the enlargement we get three 
pretty islands and many bays, and add to the extent of the water 
even more in appearance than in reality. You see by the direc- 
tion of the little arrows, how from various points there- are large 
water views, no two alike. These extensive but different views 
from, points so far separated give the pond all the merits of a large 
lake to one who strolls along its shore. 

The dam is supposed to be 10 feet high and with a broken fall 
situated just where the land narrows abruptly, and planted princi- 
pally with evergreens. In fact it is an evergreen wood. No 
path has been carried to it, for the pleasure of a stroll in the woods 
is often heightened by the absence of paths and a sense of 
untrammelled freedom. 

There should be as many paths on a place as possible without 
showing to one who walks along them, more than the portion of 
the one he is upon which is just before and behind him. Where 
many are visible at once the place seems cut up and pathy. Yet 
a plan may look pathy without being so, for upon it every wood or 
path is seen at a glance, while on the ground they wind in and out 
among hills and valleys and are screened by trees or even by slight 
inequalities of surface. You should never pronounce on a plan in 
this respect, till you know the surface which it represents well 
enough to be a competent judge of the degree of concealment it 
affords, or unless the topography is so well shown on the plan as to 
tell its own story. 

Brooks. From the dam you descend to the brook. The most 
difficult matter in the management of ornamental water is to make 
a natural brook, one which shall be neither canal nor ditch. The 
course of brooks is naturally devious, bending hither and thither to 
avoid roots, stones, hard pan, and this gives them much of their 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 799 

beauty ; they are still more indebted to the bushes and flowers that 
fringe them, and not a little to the music they make as they run 
over stones. 

To attempt to give directions for making brooks in the abstract 
would be like painting the portrait of a person one had never 
seen. 

The general principles laid down for the treatment of water ap- 
ply to the brook. Make its banks like the shores of a pond, after 
the style of other brooks. Its bed must vary with the soil it trav- 
erses ; its bends and curves may suit your fancy ; only remember 
that here, as elsewhere, no one line is always right Sometimes 
the straight line is best, sometimes the abrupt, sometimes the gen- 
tle curve. As before, learn of Nature ; visit many brooks, become 
familiar with them ; fill your mind, too, with the theories and prin- 
ciples advanced about other kinds of water. Then carefully try to 
make your brook. If it prove successful, you are more than 
fortunate ; if unsuccessful you could hardly expect more ; and at 
worst, it will be better than a ditch or canal, if you made any 
effort for variety. 

The course of a brook through a rapidly changing and steep 
surface may occasionally be varied by a little dam to spread it in 
some hollow or make a little fall whose deep tones shall give body 
to the song of the lighter ripples. All the devices of taste and 
skill may be exhausted and the result be only a very poor brook. 
Beware of the serpentine ! the tendency is toward it ; brooks are 
capricious, and rarely move in regular curves, often in abrupt 
twists and bends. 

Following our brook through the farm you come to the cattle 
pond near the barn, where the brook was dammed to give water- to 
all the animals, and a swimming-place for water-fowl. Where 
the pond bounds the farmyard its edge is carefully made and 
sloped with shingle to give a gradual and safe descent. The 
opposite side is protected by a wire fence, to prevent the animals 
crossing at will into the pasture beyond. 

There now remains only the consideration of water in 

Fountains. Where it varies according to the supply and to 



the fancy of the maker. In their proper place all kinds are 
beautiful, from the jet single or combined, (hat leaps a hundred 
feet into the air, to the weeping or oozing fountain whose 
supply is hardly enough to sustain a constant overplus and keep 
the water plant3 at its base in a healthy state. Every form into 
. which (hey can be. put has its charms and has its due of praise, 
till we come down to the squirt; — here we must stop. Nothing 
is more pitiful than to see in front of some expensive mansion, in 
(he centre of a broad lawn, or of a glowing flower garden, a little 
intermittent jet, flickering and wavering in the air a few feet above 
its basin, without sufficient vitali(y to withstand a mild zephyr, and 
so slender that we must bring it into relief against some dark 
object to assure ourselves of its existence. This kind of preten- 
sion is truly painful and reprehensible. The same weakness in a 
different form, leads men of small means to ape the vices and 
extravagances which disgrace men of fortune. Such abortions are 
the more to be regretted, as the same amount of water could -make 
a very pretty weeping fountain. To get the squirt, the pipe of 
discharge and supply must be narrowed to the smallest possible 
opening. Were the opening slightly increased, the stream would 
instantly topple over like a ricketty child, and disappear. 

The weeping fountain is 
generally a Urge basin of fan- 
tastic form, raised on a pedes- 
tal, which in its turn is sur- 
rounded by a lower basin 
filled with water, and perhaps 
containing gold-fish or shining 
pebbles. The force with which 
the water bubbles up is in pro- 
portion to the supply, and it 
then escapes over the sides 
into the lower basin. If the 
upper one is well designed, 
the lower may be built with 
rough, mossy blocks of stone, 
and in their crevices may be 



ORNAMENTAL GEOUNDS. 801 

planted tufts of Fern, Lobelia, Mysotis, etc, which will be nour- 
ished by the water from above. A wide field for ingenuity is 
opened, and with a very small amount of waste water a great 
deal of beauty may be produced, which is impossible with the 
squirt It is not my purpose to describe larger fountains, as they 
are familiar to every reader, in one form or another, and where 
there is a free supply of water they may be fashioned after the 
most beautiful devices. 

The base, or the part, by whatever name it be called, used as 
the means of discharge, is too often the expensive part of a foun- 
tain ; people are very apt to think that the water should be second- 
ary to the shell of the fountain. This is a pity ! the most beauti- 
ful fountains are the simplest ; the single or complicated jet rising 
from the middle of a pond pleases everybody more than the most 
elaborate device. The weeping fountain, with a boiling, irregular 
jet in the middle, is much prettier than a larger jet, which lacks 
the picturesqueness of base, which should always accompany the 
weeping fountain. The latter may be introduced into conservato- 
ries and flower-gardens with the happiest result. Be careful to 
know well what will be the supply and head of water before you 
begin the fountain ; upon these two things its importance depends. 
If you can do what you please with the water, the flower-garden 
should be subordinate to the fountain ; but if the supply is too 
small for any- thing but a vase, the fountain must be subordinate to 
the flowers. On a slope the same water may be used several times, 
if it can be brought out upon the top of the slope to advantage. 
At first it may appear as a jet, next as a weeping fountain at some 
turn in the path, shaded by dark pines, or under a bank ; again as 
a rill bursting from the top of a ledge, or from under a projecting 
rock ; at another turn it may seem to be a cool spring, surrounded 
by moss and wild-flowers ; and it may often happen that by careful 
designs this variety may be produced with little trouble and no ap- 
pearance, of straining. A Hydraulic Ram is very useful in all 
these cases. By means of it a small brook may be made to force 
itself to a very high point, whence the water may be again dis- 
tributed over the whole place, to return finally to the brook which 
gave it birth. The improved Hydraulic Ram will raise water 10 



802 AUGU8T. 

feet for each foot of fall ; it is mentioned in the Annual of Scien- 
tific Discovery for 1851, that one with a fall of 6 feet lifted 60,000 
gallons per day 60 feet 

Another means of raising water is by a wind-mill, which may 
be made quite a picturesque ornament to any place. 

All machines of this kind, however, are liable to get out of 
order, and will try the proprietor's patience. 

By whatever means a good supply of water is secured, it is a 
great acquisition to any place. 

Arbors, etc., in Gardens. — My reason for objecting to car- 
penter architecture for little structures in the rural parts of an es- 
tate ; viz., that it is not in harmony with surroundings, may be 
supposed to imply an approval of it in the more enriched and ar- 
tificial grounds near the house; and it is true that arbors, seats, etc, 
in and about a flower-garden should be more elaborate ; but let 
them be used sparingly. It is common to see a little garden, with 
starveling flower-beds and a few shrubs, bestridden by an elabo- 
rate, expensive edifice, miscalled a summer-house, miscalled an 
arbor, properly called a nuisance. If a place is wanted for shade, 
rest, as an out-of-door sitting-room, in a small garden, it should be 
at one side, and of humble, unpretending character. A seat under 
the shade of a tree, or overrun with roses or other vines, is appro- 
priate and often convenient No one cares to sit about in a flower- 
garden, unless after the sun is low, or before he rises high ; when 
the shadows are long, no especial structure for shade is needed ; 
and in 99 cases out of 100 no arbor or garden structure should be 
built in a suburban garden. When a simple building can be 
partly hidden by a group of trees, relieved by rising ground near 
by, or otherwise fitly placed, it is well enough to have it It be- 
comes a support for vines, and perhaps a favorite place for children 
to play in. 

Another popular delusion is the idea that empty urns and vases, 
painted china sets, ugly statues of mythological deities are appro- 
priate to square plots of grass and patches of flowers. Suburban 
gardens are often spotted with these things, which are seldom either 
ornamental or useful. A rich urn or vase filled with flowers 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 803 

is a beautiful sight, and may sometimes be used with excellent 
effect, but when and where must remain an open question. Some 
persons contend that the antique vases, copies of which are com- 
monly used for this purpose, were not originally intended to hold 
flowers, and that it is a perversion to put them to this use in our 
gardens. Grant that such use is a diversion from their original 
purpose ; it may not be a perversion. The real question is, Why 
introduce them at all ? if to show them as in a gallery of sculp- 
ture, then treat the surroundings accordingly ; but if the vase is 
used as a flower-garden ornament, the flower-holding property is 
its attraction, and constitutes its fitness. If it is not .appropriate 
for this, and cannot receive from graceful vines and brilliant flow- 
ers as much beauty as it gives to them, it is badly chosen, and 
should be changed for a better. 

Earnest appeals have been made to the love of art in man not 
to desecrate the sacredness of art and antiquity in this way. The 
alarm is unfounded. A vase in the middle of an open space, gi- 
gantic, surrounded by impressive architecture, may fitly concentre 
on itself all the beauty and solemnity of the place. A reduced and 
imperfect copy in plaster or iron, which can be carried in a wheel- 
barrow and set where we please, is quite another thing, is to be 
judged from another stand-point, and is by no means desecrated 
when used to show plants and flowers to the best advantage. 

Having thus passed in review the principal features of the 
country place, having considered how economy and beauty , busi- 
ness and pleasure, may be combined, it is with great regret that I 
leave the subject, since the fact is now thrust upon me, which I 
indeed foresaw, but could not realize, from the beginning ; viz., that 
however minutely I have followed the subject, I have only touched 
upon it, and that what is said is but as the cropping out of the 
ledge in comparison to the vast stratum beneath the surface which 
lias not even been uncovered. 

It must, however, be apparent that none but a man of expanded 
views and noble aims can be the best farmer and gardener ; that 
these occupations have an interest not surpassed by any other ; 



804 AUGUST. 

and that the arrangement of a country place is a very difficult and 
elaborate, though a charming work. 

You see that no book can convey the minutiae and details which 
give finish and fitness to .ornamental grounds. Bring to the work 
of arranging such grounds the best agriculture, horticulture, en- 
gineering, architecture, and there yet remains a subtle sense of 
natural beauty, of harmony and fitness in details, which are to the 
whole place what the " atmosphere " is to a picture, or the cuticle 
which covers the nerves is to the organism ; without it there will 
be harshness, and an indefinable want; with it, rich, harmonious 
perfection. This spirit of landscape gardening cannot be com- 
mitted to paper ; the artist who possesses it seldom haa an oppor- 
tunity to give it full scope, he is cramped and fettered by the 
economy of his employer, who thinks it quite enough to pay for 
time he sees expended in producing obvious and large results, and 
cannot be persuaded that time spent in giving his place those last 
touches, which would be to it what glazing and varnish are to the 
painted landscape, is worth any farther outlay of money. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE GREENHOUSE AND CONSERVATORY. 

|INCE " Country Life" was first published, very 
many new green and hothouses have been con- 
structed, and we ought to expect a correspond- 
ing improvement in heating, ventilating, and 
the use of materials ; and, although great im- 
provements have been made over the common 
practice of former times, a careful examination 
of tho plans and theories herein presented will 
show that " Country Life " is still in advance of 
the times. We gladly welcome every new house, 
whether erected for purely commercial pur- 
poses or for private gratification ; for, besides 
the pleasure their fruit and flowers give their 
owners, they exert a liberalizing and humaniz- 
ing influence on every one who comes into 
contact with them. The most earnest lover of nature and flowers, 
who will readily walk miles in the fields and forests for the pleas- 
ure of association with nature, or to procure some favorite flower, 
who knows the delight with which one finds a rich bed of Epigsea 
in blossom, a bank of Violets, a tuft of Pogonia, a hedge of wild 
Roses, or the fringed Gentian, feels a still keener pleasure when 
he enters in winter a planthouse full of blossoms. 

We seem then to especially realize the value and beauty of 
flowers ; and but few persons are so stolid or careless as not to 
wish, when they visit a greenhouse, that they too might have 
plants in blossom during the winter. The contrast between the 
cold silence of nature out-of-doors, and the rich glow and fra- 

805 




806 GREENHOUSE AND CONSERVATORY. 

grance within, compels us to recognize the real beauty and signifi- 
cance of the flowers, which we are too apt to neglect in the profu- 
sion of summer. 

Keeping pace with the increasing number of planthouses, many 
families of plants have been greatly increased, and have sprung 
from the minority to the majority in point of numbers. This 
change is most conspicuous in the plants with- variegated leaves, 
which have become sufficiently numerous to demand special accom- 
modation ; these plants have an advantage over others in the con- 
trasts of color in their foliage, which make them interesting when 
not in blossom ; some indeed are more valuable for their leaves 
than their flowers. The following list of the most desirable varie- 
gated plants, for a private collection, was made for me by Jona- 
than French, Esq., of Roxbury, Mass., who has been a very suc- 
cessful cultivator of these plants : — 

Begonia, — rex, reichenhernia, grandis, argentea, Queen Victoria, 
Madame Boy, Madame Crouse, velvetiana, Madame R. L. Stewart, 
verechaffeltii. 

Caladium, — argyrites, bellemeyii, barraqmnii, chantinS, bicolor 
picturata, Newmanii, pictum, poecile, hastatum, Wightii, bicolor. 

Ferns, — plais, argyrea, tricolor, cretica alba lineata. 

Croton, — picta, variegata, noblesse. 

Maranta, — zebrina, regalis, alba lineata, fasciata, eximea. 

Ancectochilus, — argenteus, Eldorado. 

Pothos, — argyraea 

Ananassa, — sativa variegata. 

Pandanus, — javanicus argenteus. 

Diffenbachia, — seguina picta. 

Aspidistra, — lucida variegata. 

APHELANDRAiE, — leopoldii 

Draccena, — terminalis, picta. 

Hota, — variegata. 

Eranthemum leuconervum. 

Billbergia, — zebrina, gesnera splendidissima. 

Dioscorea, — discolor, zebrina. 

Agave Americana variegata. 

Ledum, — cameum, variegatum. 

Hydrangea, — variegata. 



CHAPTER II. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



The flower-garden has been sensibly affected by the, increased 
interest in horticulture : the number of genera of flowers has not 
been increased, but the number of species has expanded im- 
mensely. 

Whole exhibitions of our horticultural societies have been 
given to special plants, such as the Gladiolus, the Cape Bulb, the 
Japan Lilies, Verbenas, or Petunias, which a few years ago were 
content to occupy a very small space. For many years it was sup- 
posed that new varieties of plants could be produced only by a 
kind of legerdemain; for instance, Tulips, we were told, would 
change their color if we drew different colored silken or worsted 
threads through the bulb, that the color of thread might pass into 
the circulation and • change the petal; there were also minute 
directions for special composts and watering solutions, which, ap- 
plied around the growing plants, would change color and form. 

None but special gardeners cared to try to bring new varieties for 
seed ; Tulips and Gladiolus bore seed, but it was supposed they 
could not be expected to blossom from the seed under five or seven 
years. All this has changed, and we have every year increasing 
numbers of seedlings, some better, others not so good as their par- 
ents ; the seedlings, generally, seem less reliable and permanent 
than the old varieties, and many of them are never heard of after 
a year or two. 

Tulips can be produced from seed in three years, instead of 
seven, as formerly believed. # 

Gladiolus seeds, planted the year they ripen in peaty soil, and 
carried through the winter in a greenhouse or pit, will blossom in 
two, or, at most, three years ; and, starting from the pretty but not 
especially interesting G. Byzantinus, the beautiful but weakly 

807 



808 FLOWER-GARDEN. 

G. Cardinalis, the G. Psittacinus, the brilliant G. Gandavensis, 
several hundred new and magnificent varieties of Gladiolus have 
been produced, which are so varied in color and form that one 
might well be excused if he devoted himself to their culture to 
the exclusion of all other flowers ; grown singly, tied up to stakes, 
nursed in beds, retarded to give a succession of bloom, there is 
really no bulbous plant which repays so bountifully the care ex- 
pended upon it. 

The Gladiolus requires no special culture. A rich, light, well- 
drained gflrden soil will produce splendid flowers ; its worst enemy 
is the mealy bug ; if any bulbs are found to be troubled with them, 
burn the bulbs at once. 

The bulbs should be taken up as soon as the leaves turn yellow, 
be dried rapidly, and kept in a cool place until spring ; never plant 
it in wet land, or clayey loam, on a clayey subsoil ; if your soil is 
wet, drain and surround the bulb with sand ; wet produces rust, 
which soon burns the foilage and plants ; when in favorable soil, the 
bulbs often produce two or three spikes of blossoms, giving a great 
quantity of blossoms for several weeks. 

When the bulbs are lifted and dried, remove the bulblete which 
will be found at the base ; put these bulblets in dry paper bags, 
and lay them aside for at least a year ; then plant in pots in the fall, 
or in the earth the succeeding spring, and you will get plants 
which will, at maturity, give the same variety as the parent ; by 
the bulbs, therefore, we may produce like, and by seeds unlike 
varieties. 

The list of beautiful species is numerous; and, as they are con- 
stantly changing by new seedlings, no list can be of permanent 
value. I shall therefore only give names of twelve. Their colors 
will enable the amateur to select according to the effect he may 
wish to produce. Planted in the beds of city areas (see pp. 
880-9), as succession to spring bulbs, I think they would be equal 
to any bedding plants. 

1. Ceres, pure white and purple. 

2. Napoleon III., bright scarlet, striped. 

3. Brenchlyensis, vermilion-scarlet. 

4. Solfaterre, pure yellow. 



FLOWEB-GAKDIN. , 809 

5. £1 Dorado, pure yellow. 

6. Ophis, yellow, spotted with purple. 

7. Pluton, deep scarlet, spotted with white. 

8. Hebe, carnation, striped with carmine. 

9. Madame Vilmorine, rose, white centre, striped with carmine. 

10. Purity, pure white, lower petals marked with rosy-violet. 

11. McMahon, cherry-orange (very bright). 

12. Azlaie, salmon-rose, shaded. 

Gladiolus Byzantinus, Communis and Boseus are sufficiently 
hardy to be planted in the autumn, and, well covered, will come up 
and blossom in the spring. 

Hyacinths have always been favorites as spring bulbs, both in 
the garden and the house. New varieties are yearly introduced 
to replace those which have deteriorated ; for even when the bulbs 
are carefully taken up each spring, after flowering, and replanted 
in the autumn, they seem to lose vigor, making it necessary for 
those who would keep up with the times to purchase new bulbs or 
propagate for themselves. 

The precautions are to have rich, loamy, well-drained soil, and, as 
with the Gladiolus, to surround the bulb with sand if the land is 
inclined to much moisture. Where Hyacinths are left in the ground 
unremoved for several years, they will continue to blossom, but less 
perfectly each year, as the tendency of the bulb to make offsets 
increases, and at last the offsets consume the parent ; these offsets, 
taken and treated like the full, grown bulb, will in time produce 
perfect flowers of the same species. 

To all these bulbs the same rule may be applied : if you desire 
to surpass in the quality of your flowers, you may make a soil just 
suited to them, — and all require about the same, — an equal mix- 
ture of loam and cow manure and one-quarter common sand. 
These bulbs are grown in the house in the winter, -in rather deep 
and narrow pots about four inches in diameter, with good drainage, 
made of broken charcoal, soil like that just described. Set bulb in 
sand, and cover top one half-inch deep ; as they grow, move in to 
the light. Occasionally the bulbs may be watered with nitrogenous 
guano-water or any other form of ammonia; when in bloom give 
plenty of water. 

68* 



810 FLOWEE-OABDHN. 

When Hyacinths are grown in glasses, be sure to use dark col- 
ored glass, and change the water sufficiently often to keep it pore ; 
if the roots get slimy, the slime should be removed and the water 
changed ; pieoes of charcoal in the water Help keep it pure, and 
you may add. very little guano or ammonia to the water to stimu- 
late the plants. Set the bottom of the bulb one-quarter of an inch 
above the water ; keep them in the dark until the roots get a couple 
inches long, then remove to the light. After Hyacinths have blos- 
somed, either in pots or glasses, you must be very careful to dry 
them thoroughly, and then lay them aside to be planted in the 
ground next autumn ; but they seldom blossom as well a second 
time, though after a year in the garden the bulbs recover much of 
their size and firmness. 

The same objection applies to lists of Hyacinths as to Gladio- 
lus. The subjoined list of twelve varieties is made by R. McCleary 
Copeland, who has been for many years a very successful exhibitor 
of Hyacinths before the Massachusetts Horticultural Society. 

Lord Palmerston, grayish blue, shaded with purple. 

Robert Fortune, reddish pucy-mauve. 

Thorwaldson, bright azurean blue. x 

Josephine, rich crimson. 

Von Schiller, deep red, striped. 

Macaulay, deep rose-pink, full centre. 

Ida, clear yellow. 

Heroine, yellow. 

Croesus, deep yellow. 

Sultan Achmet, white. 

Mont Blanc, white. 

General Cavaignac, white. 

I could easily fill pages with detailed descriptions of different 
bulbs, the treatment varies but little, all wanting attention, rich, 
dry, light soil and good drainage, and earnest amateurs will soon 
find what particular care each variety requires to bring it to per- 
fection. I can safely say that there is no variety of plants which 
will not compensate the cultivator who brings them to their per- 
fect condition. 

Many of the tender Cape bulbs would become acclimated if suf- 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 811 

ficient care should be taken with them. Mr. Sargent, in his very 
thorough appendix to Downing's Landscape Gardening, describes 
the careful experiments he has tried in acclimating tender and half- 
hardy evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs ; planting them, 
in the first place, in sheltered situations, the first winter he would 
surround them with boxes and straw, the second with straw and 
canvas, the third with canvas, and at last leave them unprotected. 
In some such manner he has brought several specimens to endure 
a temperature which would have been fatal at first. 

Such experiments teach a lesson of value : we cannot make any 
given bulb more hardy by planting it year after year, but we may 
produce seedlings which in a few years would become hardy. The 
beautiful Cape bulbs, now only fit for the greenhouse, or the heated 
and protected border, to be started in pots under glass and removed 
to shelter before winter comes, would be very much more valuable 
if we could treat them like Hyacinths or Tulips ; as there is sure 
to be trouble and vexation in every horticultural operation, and 
every effort should be made to reduce the sources from which 
trouble and vexation are liable to arise. 

Cyclamens are very charming little plants, the most patient and 
enduring bulbs we can have in the greenhouse. There are many 
species which are very tender and fit only for the greenhouse, whilst 
there are others which in England are as hardy as the Crocus, such 
as C. Coum, C. Europaeum, C. Ibericum, C. Lalifolium, C. Linearifo- 
lium, C. Littorale, C. Neapolitanus, C. Verum ; being hardy there, 
it only needs patience to acclimate them or their seedlings here. 

These plants offer as good a field for the amateur florist as the 
Gladiolus did a few years since ; and to show what are the ele- 
ments necessary to commence their culture, I will give a brief ac- 
count of the English method. " It would be folly to deal with 
hardy Cyclamens as we deal, with most other hardy spring flowers, 
because, if exposed to all the rigors of the early season at which 
they bloom, nothing but disappointment is to be expected/' Those 
who grow Ixias, Sparaxis, and other of the newly hardy Cape 
bulbs out-of-doors are in just a proper position to do justice to 
hardy Cyclamens. A border facing south, sheltered with a back 
wall or greenhouse, or enjoying some of the surplus warmth from a 



812 PLOWEBrGABBBN. 

stove or furnace, and consisting chiefly of peat and leaf mould, in a 
warm and well-drained subsoil, is the place for Cyclamens, Tritonias, 
Ixias, the hardy Amaryllises, Alstrimerias, and myriads of the 
choicest flowering-plants known, which need not so much the help 
of artificial heat, as moderate protection against the scathing blasts 
and perishing sleets of our spring. We can promise our readers 
who will make up a border for plants of the kind first named, an 
amount of enjoyment far surpassing all that they have ever derived 
from the pursuit of gardening according to the established plan of 
making a grand summer display, and devoting every possible ener- 
gy to the development of the bedding system. 

If the position is well drained, all that hardy Cyclamens require 
is a mixture of turfy peat, leaf mould, and yellow loam, equal 
parts : this must be eighteen inches deep ; and, when the bulbs are 
planted, cover them with two inches well-rotted dung. Plant in 
October, and take up and replant every succeeding October ; plant 
in a little sand, and set C. Coum an inch below the surface; the 
others press in slightly like onions; cover the bed in ".winter with 
four inches of tan." 

The varieties of greenhouse Cyclamens must be refused water 
as soon as out of bloom until the leaves turn yellow ; then keep 
the plants moderately dry until you wish to start them anew. 

The Cyclamen will ripen seed freely, which easily germinates 
when sowed in rich earth ; they will blossom in three years from 
seed. In our hot summers the bulbs might dry too much, which 
can be prevented by setting them in a box of loam or trench, 
where they could be occasionally moistened ; this would keep the 
bulbs full and plump until wanted. 

This English advice is not directly applicable to this country, 
but it teaches the direction in which our efforts should be made. 
THe same reasoning applies to the other Cape bulbs, and I believe 
that in the small and protected gardens of city areas, warm borders 
under hedges, and indeed whenever there is sufficient interest to 
provide good quarters, we may hope to propagate seedlings of these 
plants which will become in time perfectly hardy. * 

The Tuberose is another illustration of the rewards bulbs will 
give the patient cultivator. It is a most beautiful flower, and deli- 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 813 

ciouslyfragrant. Their qualities have induced many persons to try 
to grow them in the open ground, but with little success; when they 
received the best skill of nurserymen, only about half the bulbs 
could be made to blossom, throwing up stalks with fifteen to twenty 
blossoms on them. 

Mr. £. W. Buswell, an enthusiatic admirer of flowers, living near 
Boston, tried tuberoses year after year, and found that the purchased 
bulbs would rarely throw up flower stems, although they made many 
small bulbs as offsets. This awakened his curiosity, and induced 
the belief, that if he should remove all the offsets, and every ap- 
pearance of them, by gouging out the eyes which could be seen 
on the bulb, that he could drive the vigor of the bulb into the 
flower stem. He according purchased some new bulbs, carefully 
selecting those which were hard at the top, showing that they had 
not blossomed the preceding year, and which showed neither scars 
of old offsets, nor many indications of new ones. Knowing that 
roots must precede the leaves, and that the more roots at first, the 
more vigorously the flower stems would push when they should start, 
he prepared a compost, as directed on p. 809 ; he selected medium- 
sized pots, and filled them one quarter full of broken, very dry cow 
manure, picked up in the pastures ; over this he placed the loam, 
and planted his bulbs ; to promote growth at the roots, he set the 
pots in an active hotbed, watered them moderately, and covered 
them from the light. As soon as the point of the new growth began 
to appear through the soil, and he found that the roots had got to 
the manure, he gave water freely, admitted light, and kept the 
plants covered with glass ; in this warm and moist air, they pushed 
rapidly, and soon required to be set in deeper frames to give the 
ascending stalks more room ; he continued to water freely, and 
when the weather got warm enough, transferred them to an old 
hotbed frame in the open air, where the plants blossomed abun- 
dantly, eighty per cent blossoming, giving thirty blossoms on a stalk. 
During the entire growth, he watched for offsets, and, on their first 
appearance, pushed his knife down, and cut them off so that the 
bulb had nothing to do but blossom. 

This success shows what can be done. Doubtless, the tuberose, 
started in pots in the house, in April, would, with attention, be 



814 FLOWSB-0ARDEN, 

ready to go into the open ground by Jane. Set them over some 
fermenting horse manure to give a little bottom heat, and water if 
the weather should be dry, a very fine bloom may be expected, 
not so large a percentage as Mr. Buswell got with his hotbeds, 
but sufficient to repay all the care and trouble. 

The following list of perennials, bedding plants, and annuals was 
prepared by Mr. John C. Hovey, of Cambridge, and member of 
the Flower Committee of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society. 
The plants and flowers here mentioned can be relied upon as being 
really the best for a small collection : — 



« TWENTY-FIVE BEST PERENNIALS. 

Aconitum Japonicum. 

Adonis vernalis, yellow. 

Caltha palustris, fl. pleno, yellow. 

Campanula carpatica, blue. 

Campanula persiccefolia, alba plena (white). 

Clematis erecta, white. 

Delphinium formosum, deep blue. 

Dielytra spectabilis, rose and white. 

Epimedium macranthum, white. 

Genista Siberica, fl. pleno, yellow. 

Gypsophila paniculata, white. 

Helleborus Niger, white. 

Iberis saxitile, white. 

Iris superba, light blue. 

Lathyrus latifolius, dark rose. 

Lychnis, viscaria, fl. pleno, red. 

Orobus verna. 

Papaver Orientalis. 

Ranunculus aconitefolius, fl. pleno. 

Salvia azurea, blue. 

Sedum denticulatum, red. 

Spirea filipendula fl. pleno, white. 

Spirea japonica, white. 

Trillium grandiflorum, white. 

Yucca filimentosa, white. . 



FLOWBBrGABDEN. 815 



BEST TWELVE NEW FEBENNIAL8. 



Arabis lucida, variegata. 
Clematis erecta, fl. pleno, white. 
Dielytra spectabilis alba, white. 
Doronicum caucasicum, yellow. 
Gaillardia grandiflora. 
Iberis tenoreana, purple. 
Orobus, vema rubra, red. 
Pentstemon grandiflora, lilac. 
Phlomis abasicus. 
Platycodon grandiflorum, blue. 
Tradescantia pilosa. 
Verbena montana 

TEN BEST PHLOXES. 

Augustin Lierval, white, with crimson eye. 

Julie Roussel, white, carmine eye. 

La Volupte, dark crimson. 

Madame Marseau, white, purple eye. 

Madame Suer, white, crimson eye. 

Triomph de Twickel, white, and crimson stripe. 

Madame Vilmorin, crimson, dark eye. 

Madame Lierval, violet and crimson. 

Madame Bougiere, white, rose eye. 

Madame Henricq, rose. 

BEST TEN HEKBACEOUB PEONIES. 

Festiva maxima. Camille Caillot. 

Eosea lutea. La Negres. 

Victor Leman. Lutisciana. 

Madame Vilmorin. Officinalis pleno*. 

Comtesse de Moray. . Tenuifolia pleno. 

BEST TEN TREE PJBONIES. 

Banksia. Maxima plena. 

Athlete. Ottorius. 

Alba plena. Rosea odorata. 

Carnea plena. Splendissima. 

Fragrans. Triomphe de malines. 



816 FLOWER-GARDEN. 

BE8T TEN DAHLIAS. 

Loveliness, white, tipped with purple. 
Lord Palmerston, crimson and scarlet. 
Mrs. Turner, corn color and yellow. 
Peerless, golden-yellow. 
Triumphe de Peck, dark maroon. 
Mrs. Pressley, white and purple. 
Gold-Finder, golden-yellow. 
Pioneer, deep scarlet. 
William Dodds, deep yellow. 
Miss Watts, white. 

■ i 

BEST TEN CHKI8ANTHEMTJM6. 

Golden Hermione, golden-orange. 

Golden Trilby, fine yellow. 

Lady Hardinge f light rose. 

Chevalier Domage, deep yellow. 

Mrs. Slade, fine white. 

August Mie, carmine, tipped with yellow. * 

Progre, rich crimson. 

Le Phare, deep red. 

Little Harry, golden-amber. 

Gold queen, sulpher yellow. 



BEST TEN POMPONE CHRIS ANTHEM UMS. 

i 

Bob, deep maroon crimson. 
Stella, golden-yellow. 
Solfaterre, light yellow. 
Nelly, white, yellow centre. 
Bernettianum, white. 
El Dorado, golden-yellow. 
John Salter, orange red. 
Henrietta, blush. 
Rose pompone, rose color. 
Sunset, dark orange. 

TEN BEST NEW ANNUALS. 

Coreopsis coronata. 

Callirhoe pedata. 

Aster, Dwarf Chrisanthemum, fl. pL ' 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 817 



Dianthus heddewigii. 
Nasturtium, Tom Thumb. 
Portulaca, doable. 
Palafoxia Hookerina. 
Whitlavia grandiflora alba. 
Tagetes, signata pumila. 
Zinnia, new double. 



BEST TEN NEW VARIETIES OF VERBENA. 

Blue king, light blue. 

Sunset, rosy scarlet. 

Decorata, scarlet. 

Blue flag, blue and white striped. 

Sir Harry, rich purplish blue. 

Boule de nege, pure white. 

Lucy Gray, crimson, yellow centre. 

Miriam, pink and white striped. 

Bouquet, blush, crimson centre. 

Victor, light scarlet. 

BEST TEN PETUNIAS, SINGLE. 

Countess of EUsmere, dark crimson. 

Union flag, striped. 

Striped Gem, striped. 

Wyoming, crimson, white blotched. 

Evening Star, dark, veined with maroon. 



DOUBLE VARIETIES. 

Rubra pleno, crimson. 

General McClellan, crimson, white blotched. 

Alba Magnifica, white. 

Bostonia, purplish-crimson. 

Viola, blush. 

The following list of picotees and carnations was prepared by 
Mr. James McTear, of Boston, who has made tbese plants his 
speciality : — 

69 



' 818 FLOWER-GARDEN. 

BEST EIGHTEEN OHOIGE CARNATIONS. 

Apollo. Lady Peel. 

Lively Ann. Mayor of Nottingham. 

Admiral Curzon. Splendor. 

Christopher Sly. Tenby Rival. 

Royal Scarlet. James Kirtland. 

William IV. Sir Joseph Paxton. 

James the Second. Fanny Garden. 

Merrimack. General Simpson. 

Lord Gooddrich. Queen Boadicea. 

BEST EIGHTEEN YABIETIES PICOTEES. 

Rosetta. Mrs. Norman. 

Princess Helene. William Summers. 

Jemima. Sultana. 

Mrs. Holbeck. • Countess. 

Finis. Prince of Wales. 

Prince Albert. Mrs. Dodwell. 

Ada Mary. Mrs. Lochner. 

Cedo Nullii. Mrs. Hovey. 

Ophelia. Parsee Bride. 

BEST EIGHTEEN HOLLYHOCKS. 

Acme. Macrantha. 

Warrior. Princess. 

George Young. Prince of Wales. 

Princess. Luckier. 

Minerva. Chrysolite. 

Decision. Hesperus. 

Rev. J. A. Dix. Cynthia. 

Invincible. Lady Dacres. 

Cams. Queen Victoria. 

The following list of roses is recommended by Mr. Francis Park- 
man, of Jamacia Plain, near Boston, as having been grown by him, 
and are adapted to our climate. The most of them will be found 
in the list of roses, on pp. 611 to 622, " Country Life," with their 
colors and habit described : — 

Moss, Reine blanche, pore white, large and full 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



819 



SIX CLIMBERS. 

Boursault, — amadis, crimosa. 

Ayrshire, — ruga, splendens (needs protection in exposed situa- 
tions in winter and spring). 
Evergreen, — felicity perpetue*, (cover). 
Prairie queen. » 

Baltimore belle. 



HYBRID- PERPETUALS. 



Auguste Mie, fl. pleno. 
Baronne Prevost, fl. pleno. 
Caroline de Sansel, fl. pleno. 
General Washington. 
General Jacqueminot, fl. pleno. 
Gloire de Santenay. 
Jules Margottin. 



La Reine, fl. pleno. 
Lord Raglan, pleno. 
Maurice Bernardin, fl. pleno. 
Sensteur Vaisse, fl. pleno. 
Souvenir de Reine d'Angleterre. 
Triomphe de l'Exposition. 



BOURBON ROSES, — NOT ABSOLUTELY HARDY. 



Blanche Lafitte. 

Dr. Berthet. 

Dupetit Thouers. 

George Peabody, fl. pleno. 

La Quintrine. 

Monsieur Jard. 

Prince Albert. 



Reveil. 

Sir J. Paxton. 
Souchet 

Souvenir de Malmaison, fl. pleno. 
Louise Odier (these are especial- 
ly autumn roses). 



CHINESE ROSES. 



Archduke Charles. 

Cels Multiflore. 

Cramoisie Superieure, fl. pleno. 

Eugene Beauharnais. 

Fabvier. 

Madame Breon. 



Madame Bureau. 

Mad. Bosanquet, fl. plena 

Carmine Superb. 

Napoleon. 

President d'Olbecque. 

Prince Charles. 



These roses are most valuable for planting in masses or in beds, 
where succession is wanted. 



820 FLOWBR-GABDEN. 

List of perennials especially recommended by Mr. Parkman. 

Achillea, ptarmica, double white. 

Aconitum versicolor, variegated blue and white, 

Aquilegia Alpina, blue and white. 

Aquilegia formosa plena, blue and maroon. 

Betonica grandiflora, rich purple. 

.Cerastium tomentosum, pure white. 

Delphinium formosum celeatinum, white and sky-blue. 

Dianthus florii, deep rose. 

Dielytra spectabilis, red and white. 

Funkia Sieboldii variegata, blue variegated leaf. 

Gloxinia flowered Digitalis, white, with black and purple spots. 

Iberis caridifolia, pure white. 

Lychnis Haageana, scarlet and red. 

Lychnis vise aria splendens, deep vivid red, double. 

Platycodon grandiflora, blue, very large, drooping bells. 

Platycodon Wahlenbergia, white, very full. 

Pyrethrum Carneum, flesh-color, yellow centre. 



CHAPTER in. 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The most important improvement connected with the kitchen 
garden, is the publication of " The Field and Garden Vegetables of 
America," by Fearing Burr, of Hingham, Mass. This is the most 
valuable contribution to horticultural literature for many years. 
Mr. Burr has not only collected into one volume a careful descrip- 
tion of all the vegetables which can be cultivated in this climate, 
but has grown most of them himself; so that we know that his 
judgment upon any particular variety is formed upon actual expe- 
rience. 

We have long needed such a book, because the diversity of cli- 
mates and soils in this country permits the cultivation of a great 
variety of fruits and vegetables ; and yet but few persons can hope 
to know all the plants they might profitably cultivate. In this 
book of six hundred and forty pages, the reader will find all the 
genera of vegetables, and most of the species, with their character, 
value, and methods of culture, carefully described. 

Mr. Burr disagrees with the direction given in p. 625, " Country 
Life," where the cultivator is directed not to tie up his tomato- 
plants, but to leave them on the ground until they are well grown, 
and then to work some meadow hay under them to protect the fruit. 
This practice is certainly the best in field culture, as obviously to 
make trellises or supports for an acre or two of tomatoes would be 
more troublesome and costly than the profit of the crop would war- 
rant. In his article on the tomato, he advocates confining the vines 
to trellises, as a means of hastening the maturity of the crop. 

This seems very reasonable ; and as it is of the utmost importance 
to get tomatoes early, where early fruits may be expected, I will 
quote his directions for forcing the crop on p. 640 : " The ripening 
of the fruit may be hastened by setting the plants against a south 

69* 821 



822 KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

wall or close fence : as the plants increase in size, they most be 
nailed or otherwise attached to the wall or fence ; and, if the weather 
be dry, liberally watered. When the first two trusses of bloom 
have expanded over each shoot, the shoot should be stopped by 
pinching off the portion whioh is beyond the leaf above the second 
truss, and no more lateral shoots should be suffered to grow ; but 
the leaves must be carefully preserved, especially those near the 
trusses of bloom. The number of trusses on each plant will vary 
with the strength and vigor of the particular plant ; but three or 
four will be quite enough, leaving about half a dozen trusses of 
fruit." 

" As the fruit ripens, it must be well exposed to the sun. There 
will be nothing gained by allowing a great many fruit to ripen : 
the number above given will be sufficient, and the tomatoes will 
be much earlier and larger than if they were more numerous." 

By growing them on trellises or within loops, supported by 
stakes, the vines can be more easily controlled, and the fruit more 
readily gathered. 

The best varieties are, for general field culture, the large red 
V>mato : this is the most, productive variety, but not so early by a 
fortnight as White's Extra Early. " The plants are moderately vig- 
orous and readily distinguished by their peculiar, curled, and appa- 
rently withering foliage. In order to retain this or any other 
early variety in its purity, seed for planting should be saved 
from the smoothest, best-formed, and earliest-ripened fruit." 

In strawberry culture, there has been no materia} change. The 
practice recommended on p. 735, " Country Life," of growing it as 
an annual crop, is increasing, and is universally advocated by mar- 
ket-gardeners near Boston. Nor is there very much change in the 
varieties about Boston for market : Hovey's Seedling continues on 
the whole the favorite. Wilson's Albany, though more prolific, 
is too sour to be desirable, and the Jenny Lind lacks firmness of 
berry to stand transportation. 

Mr. W. H. Locke, a well-known market-gardener of Belmont, 
Mass., the headquarters of successful strawberry culture in New 
England, gives the following list of the strawberries cultivated in 
Belmont : — 



EITOHSN-GABDSN. 823 

Jenny Lind ; Early Virginia ; Cutter's Seedling, a good bearer, 
hardy, but fruit top soft for market ; Brighton Pine, a fine berry, 
but difficult to cultivate; Wilson's Albany; Hovey's Seedling; 
Jenney's Seedling; Austin's Seedling; Triomphe de Gaud; La 
Constante. 

The two latter are generally conceded to be the best of the im- 
ported varieties. Mr. Locke recommends for three varieties, Jen- 
ny Lind, Hovey's Seedling, and La Constante, ripening in the 
order in which I have named them ; La Constante exceeding the 
others in sweetness and flavor. 

A new berry, widely disseminated and highly praised, The 
Agriculturist, has not yet been sufficiently tried to enable one to 
speak definitely of its qualities ; it is claimed to be the best new 
strawberry : as there are many beds of them which will fruit this 
year, its merits will soon be known. 

Currants have been improved by two seedlings of Mr. Dana, of 
Roxbury ; but, for general use, the old Dutch currants continue to 
be favorites. There has been little change in the other small fruits : 
each year gives new varieties ; but there is no need to discuss them 
here. 

The profit attending the culture of the small fruits is strongly 
brought out in a report of the New-Jersey Fruit-growers' Associ- 
ation, published in 1864. 

This report gives the number of acres under strawberries in 
three towns, Burlington, Chester, Cinnaminson, as three hundred 
and fifty-four ; yielding 12,596 bushels strawberries, which were 
sold at the average price of three dollars and sixty cents per bushel. 

" Two hundred bushels have been raised to th,e acre under favor- 
able circumstances; the common error is, not adapting the variety to 
the soil. Early Scarlet, May Queen, Iowa, Denner's Prolific, suc- 
ceed well in light sandy soil ; Triomphe de Grand, Scarlet Magnate, 
Lady's Finger, require rich and heavy soil. Set the vines, eighty 
thousand to an acre, beds three and a half feet wide, plants twelve 
inches apart, in rows five inches apart, eighteen inches between 
beds." 

They give the yield of raspberries on forty acres as an average 
of thirty- three bushels to the acre, sold at four dollars and sixty- 



"H 



824 KITCHEN-GABDBN. 

« 

four cents per bushel The varieties grown were Old Purple Cane, 
two kinds Allen, Kirtland, and Black. 

There were ninety-nine acres of blackberries, yielding an aver- 
age of fifty-three bushels to the acre, sold at three dollars and 
thirty cents per bushel ; varieties grown were New Roohelle and 
Dorchester. 

An interesting fact elicited in connection with market-garden- 
ing is, that of all engaged in that occupation, twenty-five per 
cent get rich; twenty-five per cent make a living; twenty-five 
per cent just get along, and the remainder fail. There is no other 
occupation, not even general fanning, which gives so favorable a 
return to those who follow it. 



CHAPTBK IV. 



ORCHARD. 



There is little to say about the orchard, although there is no 
branch of my subject which possesses a wider interest. Near Bos- 
ton, cultivators, having met with so many discouragements in 
peaches, gave up their general culture ; but a few who have ob- 
served the theories and directions given in " Country Life," pp. 
296-299, have found the peach steadily improve un^er their 
hands : and, during the past year, the peaches shown at the Bos- 
ton Horticultural Society were as fine as in the good old days, when 
every garden could boast of its abundant and perfect fruit. 
Throughout the West, the peach-crop failed. Occasional failure 
of peaches from late frosts, and from early warm weather in the 
spring, must ever be expected ; but where cultivators are careful 
to get healthy trees, and take good care of them, the peach will be 
found, one year with another, a very profitable crop. 

In Eastern New England, the apple-tree has been so infested 
with canker-worms for several years, that it seems almost impossible 
to secure a reasonable yield of fruit ; and farmers are in many cases 
cutting down their trees to cultivate pears, grapes, and vegetables : 
but through the rest of the country, the apple continues to pay the 
grower perhaps better than any other kind of fruit. The lists 
already given of apples are as well suited to general culture as any. 
A meeting of eminent fruit-growers, in New York, to decide to 
what varieties of fruit the Greeley prizes should be awarded, gave 
the first premium, of a hundred dollars, to the Baldwin Apple. 
As the best six apples after the Baldwin for general culture, — 

For Summer — Red Astrachan, Primate. 
Autumn — Oravenstein, Porter. 
Winter — Northern Spy, Hubbardston. 

825 



826 OBGHABD. 

The same committee awarded the first prize for pears to the 
Bartlett. Best six — 

For Summer — Manning's Elizabeth, Best. 
Autumn — Shelden, Seckel, 
Winter — Lawrence, Hovey. 

This committee of eight gentlemen, from different parts of the 
country, in making these selections were obliged to leave out many 
first-rate varieties of fruit. They first agreed upon the points of 
excellence which a fruit should have to make it perfect; and then 
classified the fruits in the order in which each variety covered the 
greatest number of these points. The result of their vote showed, 
that, in the judgment of the committee, no collection can be com- 
plete which does not comprise at least twenty-four varieties of 
pears. 

In conclusion, I will give two receipts for grafting wax, which 
have been found very valuable by many persons. 

Dr. Ward's receipt. — One part of tallow, two of wax, four 
of rosin; if too stiff, add tallow; too soft, rosin; keep bottled, and 
apply with a brush. 

Watson's receipt. — Two parts of rosin, two of black pitch, 
one of white turpentine, one of tallow, one of beeswax ; apply when 
melted with a brush ; keep warm when using, in a bottle or jar of 
hot water. 

Liquid grafting wax. — One pound rosin, five ounces ninety- 
five per cent alcohol, one ounce beef tallow, one tablespoon spirits 
turpentine ; melt the rosin over a slow fire ; then take from the fire, 
and stir in the beef tallow with a perfectly dry stick or wire ; when 
cooled, add spirits turpentine, and last, the alcohol, in small quan- 
tities, stirring constantly; if the alcohol cools too much,. so that a 
lump forms, reheat until it melts. Keep it in a corked bottle, and 
lay it on with a brush. 



CHAPTER V. 

GRAPERY. — GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

I DO not intend to devote any space to the culture of grapes 
under glass, as the directions previously given are sufficient ; but 
the interest in the culture of out-of-door grapes has greatly in- 
creased : in every village there are many who now grow them for 
their own use or the market, and very many vineyards have been 
planted in different parte of the country in order to make wine. 

In California, grape culture and wine making seem as certain 
as any other kind of cultivation, whether owing to peculiarities of 
atmosphere or rarity of rains ; but east of the Rocky Mountains, 
the vine has suffered from a variety of enemies, which have proved 
in some cases too powerful to be overcome, until many vineyards 
have been pulled up, and the soil devoted to other purposes. 

Immense efforts have been made, and are now making, to find 
or produce some grape which will be hardy in all sections of the 
country, not liable to mildew and rot, and which shall be sufficiently 
spirited for the table and sweet for wine. Several grapes have 
been propagated which it was hoped would prove all that could 
be desired, and have been very extensively sold; but none has 
yet proved equally valuable in all parts of the country. If 
such a grape can be found, it will be an incalculable benefit to the 
country ; but I think our cultivators ask too much, and have set 
too great a stint for themselves. 

No one grape has ever been the favorite in Europe, where there 
are a great variety of wines of entirely different qualities, and 
made from very dissimilar grapes. Some of the best wine-grapes 
prove very inferior for the table. 

Our country affords very dissimilar soils and climates for the 
vine; and if man, with his infinite capability of self adaptation, 

827 



828 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

finds it so difficult to move from the east to the west, and continue 
in the same health and vigor, do we not make an unreasonable de- 
mand on the vine. 

The grape which would be perfectly satisfactory in the cool, 
changeable climate of New England, where we rarely have a hot 
moist interval in summer, so very common in Cincinnati, would 
find itself unable to contend with the Ohio climate ; whilst, on the 
other hand, a grape which would find in the long, hot summer of 
the West the time to develop and perfect its sugar, and to ripen 
its wood, would be crude and unripe here : it might make a fine 
wine on the Ohio, and a poor vinegar in the environs of Boston. 

Grapes have two distinct uses, — to be eaten, and to make wine ; 
and their value as a crop in any locality depends on the manner in 
which they are to be consumed. Near cities and large towns, they 
are most valuable for the table. At five cents per pound net, grapes 
will sell in any city, if well grown and ripened, faster than they 
can be brought into the market. It is the rarest thing that we can 
buy a nicely flavored and well-ripened grape in our markets: 
there are plenty of sour, ill-ripened grapes, which are sold at five, 
ten, fifteen cents per pound, whilst the perfect article can rarely 
be purchased at any price. 

Supposing that a gardener should establish a vineyard solely to 
grow table-grapes ; grown to stakes or espaliers by any good method 
the fruit will average, when he gets a crop, ten to twenty- 
five pounds per vine, which at five cents per pound, and this 
generation will not see well-ripened, good quality of grapes at a 
less price, would give at least eighty-four cents net per vine. 

Setting the vines one to every forty-eight square feet would 
give nine hundred vines to the acre, or a net profit, under favor- 
able circumstances, in grapes of seven hundred and fifty-six dol- 
lars per acre. Such calculations and realizations as these are very 
tempting, and certainly enough to stimulate an immense culture. 
And it is to the fact that men have made money in grape-culture 
that we owe the increased interest in new varieties of the grape. 

With these figures before their eyes, men have established vine- 
yards with t>he reasonable belief that a great deal of money could 
be made ; and, when the heavy first-cost of starting the vineyard 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GliOW THEM. 829 

has been incurred, it is a great sorrow as well as loss to have the 
crops cut off by some insidious disease. 

Every new vine is asserted to have all the required virtues, and 
to be exempt from disease ; but in time it is found but little better 
than its predecessor. When the first edition of " Country Life " 
was prepared, the interest in grapes was commencing, and the 
" Concord " was the great favorite ; every thing was predicted for 
it : but so many fine grapes have been since produced, that it is 
difficult to decide which is really the best. 

In order, if possible, to ascertain what grape or grapes are really 
best for general culture in the Northern and Western States, and 
to enable me to succinctly state the most important facts about the 
vine and its culture, before commencing to write this article, I 
wrote to many of the leading cultivators of the grape in all parts 
of the country, asking them the same questions, as to best varie- 
ties, frequency and cause and cure of mildew and rot, best soil and 
method 'of pruning, and other similar questions. I have received 
a large number of replies embodying the most important informa- 
tion from Mr. Huseman, Hermann, Mo. ; Mr. Huidekoper, Mead- 
ville, Penn. j Mr. Meehan, Philadelphia, Penn.; R. A. Grider, 
Bethlehem, Penn. ; J. A. Deliot, Sing Sing, N. Y. ; R. Buchanan, 
Cincinnati, ; Dr. Grant, Iona Island, N. Y. ; Professor Silliman, 
New Haven, Conn. ; J. Fiske Allen, Salem, Mass. ; W. C. Strong, 
Brighton, Mass. ; and E. A Brackett, Winchester ; and the views 
which I shall give in the following pages are those in which all 
these gentlemen, or a majority of them, coincide. I do not propose 
to write a minute treatise on the vine, its propagation, profits, dis- 
eases, &c. I have no space in which to do so, nor does the able 
treatise of Mr. Andrew S. Fuller of New York leave much room 
for a new comer ; for the same reason, I cannot enter into any 
extensive discussion of varieties and various methods of treatment. 
I shall confine myself to the general plan of this book, and give a 
simple statement of what I esteem to be the best method of culti- 
vating the viae, a summary of the facts about its diseases, &c, 
and the most valuable varieties in which, as I have said before, 
these distinguished cultivators coincide. 

Many varieties of grape have been discovered which blossom 
70 



830 GBAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

late enough, and ripen early enough, to escape frost ; so that the 
chief enemies to grape-culture are black rot and mildew. The rot 
is more injurious at the West than the East; but, wherever it 
exists, it is attributed to excessive moisture, either at the root, or 
in the atmosphere, and to sudden changes of* temperature. It is 
nearly sure to come with a hot, moist condition of the air; and when 
these periods occur at the West, in the infancy of the berry, the crop 
is sure to be lost. There seems to be no cure for the disease, other 
than planting vines on high and dry land, and selecting those vari- 
eties of grapes whose constitution will not be affected by it. Differ- 
ent grapes in the same vineyard will be affected differently, some 
varieties escaping entirely, when all the rest are ruined ; and singu- 
larly enough the grape ruined this year may escape next. The 
natural precaution is to plant in each vineyard several varieties of 
grape, selecting those which common experience has most often 
shown to have escaped the destroyer. In the East we are but little 
troubled by black rot. Professor Silliman finds the Catawba and 
Isabella rot in New Haven; Mr. W. C. Strong, the Catawba and 
Concord, in Brighton, Mass. ; and J. Fiske Allen, the Diana, in 
Salem, Mass. ; but these agree with other cultivators, that, at the 
East, the rot is not as yet a dangerous enemy. In Missouri, Mr. 
Huseman complains of the Catawba, Isabella, Garuguls, and To 
Kalon, as most subject to rot and mildew; Mr. Buchanan, of the 
Catawba, Delaware, Norton, and Ives; Mr. Grider, Bethlehem, 
Penn., finds Concord, Maxataway, and Clinton very great sufferers, 
whilst the Franklin escapes from disease. On the Hudson at Sing 
Sing, Mr. Deliot finds Catawba, Anna, and Concord most injured. 
The West has suffered more because vineyards have been more 
extensively planted in that region, but every cultivator at the East 
has lost his crop at some time by blighting* diseases. Mr. Grider 
states that vineyards frequently escape both mildew and rot for 
several years ; but at last their time comes nearly irrespective of 
locality and varieties of grape. Mildew seems to act very capri- 
ciously, attacking some plants standing near to each other in a vine- 
yard, and leaving others of the same variety, equally near each 
other, untouched ; sweeping off all the fruit from some variety, and 
leaving all of another uninjured ; whilst the next year it will affect 
the vines left uninjured this year, its former victims escaping. 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 831 

What all the causes of mildew .are is not yet ascertained, though 
some and the worst are well known. All agree that sudden changes 
of temperature, unequal currents of cold or warm air, radiation 
from the leaves of the plants at night when the temperature becomes 
unusually cold, standing water about the roots of the plants, badly 
drained land, are sure to cause mildew ; or at least plants exposed 
to these conditions always suffer from mildew. 

It is possible, in the cold or warm grapery, when the vines are 
growing rapidly and the temperature is high, to produce mildew in 
a few hours by leaving the sashes open so as to bring rapid cur- 
rents of cold air over the surface of the leaves, but mildew under 
glass may be checked and removed by the free use of sulphur 
dusted over the leaves, and exposed on the flues. Brushing the 
vine over before it commences to grow with a mixture of sulphur 
and lime-water is found to be very beneficial. Under glass, none 
but careless persons need suffer from mildew ; but sulphur applied 
out of doors is of doubtful benefit, for in the open ground we can- 
not control the currents of air. 

Professor Silliman, reasoning from the effects of cold currents 
of air in graperies, and from the fact that vines growing on fences 
or house walls rarely mildew wiere there is a projecting roof over 
them which moderatesnocturnal radiation, believes that this disease 
can be controlled by planting vines against such supports as will 
enable us to throw out a light roof or shelter over the top of the 
vine, thus checking or retarding upward currents of air, and reduc- 
ing the radiation. This would be beneficial, but it does not cover 
another class of causes. Mr. Allen of Salem has frequently found 
grapes out of doors ruined by mildew after being enveloped for 
twenty-four hours in a dense fog, against which no projecting roof 
would be any defence. 

Others of the gentlemen I have referred to have found that 
those vines are sure to be the victims of mildew which are of 
weakly habit of growth, whether produced by over-pruning, over- 
bearing, moisture, sterility of soil, or currents of air ; and here I 
think lies the root of the matter, — mildew is a consequence of 
enfeebled vitality ; the seeds or spores of this fungus are always 
floating in the air, ready to take root and develop whenever a suit- 



832 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

able soil is ready for them : we all know that any vegetable matter 
laid in a damp and ill-ventilated place will become mouldy very 
quickly. Vegetation suffers from fungitic growth, whenever any 
cause renders it sickly, weakens its vitality, suddenly checks its 
vital processes, whether currents of air, nocturnal radiation, or ex- 
cessive moisture. As soon as the vine ceases to progress or main- 
tain its integrity, it commences to decay ; for growth and decay are 
simultaneous processes in all living matter, the animal absorbing 
oxygen and giving out carbon at the same time, and the plant doing 
just the opposite. When therefore from any cause you check the 
advancing processes of vegetation, you uncover the decaying pro- 
cesses to the seeds of the fungus, which is mildew or mould. If 
the vine's progress is but momentarily arrested, it may start on 
again, and suffer but little, its leaves perhaps become spotted ; but, 
if the adverse condition is continued long enough, the leaves and 
fruit are both blighted. 

We therefore see that there are two methods for us to pursue 
with the hope of ultimate success : first, so to arrange the vine- 
yard that its aspect, shelter, soil, moisture, shall afford to the vine 
a perfect condition of health ; second, as we can rarely insure all 
these conditions, we must try to produce vines of such varieties 
as shall have particularly hardy constitutions, and be in them- 
selves able to resist adverse influences. 

It is a mistake in growing new varieties, which we may hope will 
be able to resist mildew, &c, to suppose that the wild grape of 
any portion of the country is the best stock to commence with, 
because sometimes wild grapes suffer from these diseases, quite 
as much as cultivated ; during the last year, for instance, wild 
grapes in many parts of the country were entirely cut off by mildew. 
We must follow the same plan which cultivators of other plants have 
proved to be the best, propagate from the best cultivated varieties 
you can get, for cultivation brings with it new diseases and condi- 
tions, and the best cultivated varieties will have overcome many 
dangers, which will threaten new comers from the field and forest. 

These considerations enforce the importance of seeking new va- 
rieties of grape adapted to particular localities ; the climate of the 
East may be expected to attack vines from the West, and vice 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 833 

versa; and, whilst we may reasonably expect to produce a vine per- 
fectly adapted to one district where the conditions are always rel- 
atively the same, it is almost impossible to believe that one can 
be found whose constitution can equally resist the unfavorable 
influences of climates and atmospheres of widely separated loca- 
lities. 

I will now give a list of the grapes which the gentlemen I have 
referred to believe to be the best for the part of the country in 
which they reside. The following are the six grapes on which the 
greatest number of persons have united; perhaps if a still larger 
number of persons were consulted the verdict might be different ; 
but these gentlemen are well-known authorities in horticulture, 
and their opinion is as likely to be fair as that of any other set 
of men. 

1. Delaware — Grant, New York ; Silliman, Connecticut ; Strong, 
Allen, Brackett, Massachusetts ; Huidekoper, Pennsylvania ; Huseman, 
Missouri ; a qualified commendation, Meehan, Deliot, in rich soils, Bu- 
chanan (10). 

2. Concord* — Silliman, Huidekoper (thinks it vigorous, prolific, but 
crude), Huseman, Meehan, Deliot (in poor soil), Grider, Buchanan (7). 

8. Ion a — Grant, Silliman, Strong, Allen, Brackett, Deliot (all Eas- 
tern men), (6). 

4. Diana — Grant, Strong, Allen, Huidekoper, Meehan (5). 

5. Allen's Hybrid — Silliman, Strong, Allen (Eastern) (3). 

6. Crevelling — Strong, Brackett, Meehan (3). 

Clinton — Meehan, Deliot (poor soil), Grider (Middle States). 
Hartford Prolific — Silliman, Huseman, Grider. 

This tabular view shows us that the Delaware is a favorite in all 
parts of the country, to which may be added the opinion of Mr. 
Fuller, who in his " Treatise on the Grape " says, " It (the Delaware) 
is a purely native variety, and probably a seedling of the Catawba, 
or one of that group." " If I could have but one variety for my 
own use it certainly would be the Delaware, as it is the highest fla- 
vored native grape known." " All that it requires is a good rich 
soil, with fair culture, to produce the best results." 

" Bunch and berries of a medium size, skin thin of a beautiful 
dark red color when ripe, flesh tender and juicy and scarcely any 

70* 



834 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

pulp, exceedingly sweet, but still brisk and vinous, never cloying 
to the taste, vine very hardy, moderately vigorous and productive, 
ripens the first of September." 

Mr. Huseman of Missouri, whose first favorite is the Concord, 
says, " The first season the Delaware attracted great attention by 
its fruitfulness, seemingly healthy habit, and excellent quality of its 
fruit; but the two following seasons it has been badly affected by 
leaf blight, and seems too feeble and delicate in its habit to be- 
come a paying fruit here compared with others.' 1 

The Concord, which is second in number of advocates, is a 
hardy, vigorous, and productive grape, though found to be more 
liable to rot and mildew than some of the other grapes. Its fine 
color, a rich deep purple, and largish berries make it a very attrac- 
tive market fruit, for which it will be a favorite until purchasers 
shall learn to discriminate in buying between looks and flavor, as 
its juicy, pulpy, sometimes acid and foxy, though thin-skinned 
berry is decidedly inferior in table qualities to several other varie- 
ties ; it ripens from 10th to 20th September. Mr. Huseman finds 
it the best grape in Missouri for table and market, and third for 
wine purposes. 

Third, the Iona, which is also a seedling of the Catawba, which 
Mr. Fuller " considers the most promising of all the new varieties ; 
the vine is strong, vigorous, short-jointed, and hardy ; berries large, 
rpund, semi-transparent when they begin to ripen, growing opaque 
as the color deepens; skin thin, pale red, with deep small red veins 
at first, changing to dark red when fully ripe ; flesh tender with 
very little pulp; sweet brisk flavor ; ripens 10th to 20th September. 

Fourth, Diana. This grape has been twenty-six years before the 
public, and has been always praised ; but owing to its being more 
tender than some varieties, and more liable to rot and mildew, it 
does not rank as high as formerly ; medium-sized branches ; me- 
dium-sized, though often uneven berry, pale red with thick skin ; 
flesh tender though more pulpy than the two former ; keeps well 
after being gathered ; ripens from 15th to 30th September. 

Fifth, Allen's Hybrid is considered te be a cross between our 
native and the foreign grape. Bunches medium to large ; berries 
round, good sized; skin thin, amber-colored; flesh tender, pulpless; 



i 

I 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 885 

very fine vinous flavor ; ripens 1st of September ; rather tender, 
needing some covering to thrive in the Northern half of the 
Northern States, therefore not so good for the vineyard unless in 
well-protected situations. 

Sixth, Crevelling. This is a Pennsylvania variety of grape 
which is very highly praised by those who have cultivated it, but 
has not been generally cultivated. Berries round, black, rather 
large; flesh juicy, sweet, and rich flavored; good bearer, vine 
hardy and vigorous ; ripens from 5th to 20th September. 

For the eastern half of the Northern States this list is undoubt- 
edly all that one can wish who only proposes to plant half a dozen 
varieties ; there are many others very popular and doubtless very 
valuable. First, the Adirondac, a seedling of the Isabella, which 
Mr. Brackett of Winchester, Mass., places second in his list of 
grapes. Bunches large ; berries large ; skin thin, nearly black, 
with a delicate bloom; flesh tender, little pulp, sweet flavored; 
ripens 1st to 20th September. Strong and vigorous grower. Sec- 
ond, Israella, seedling of Isabella, much like the Adirondac, ri- 
pens 1st to 10th September. Third, Rogers No. 15, which some 
cultivators think the best of the new seedlings ; bunch rather large ; 
berries loose, large, round, amber-colored, tender, juicy, pulpless, 
rich flavor, earlier than the Concord ; vine vigorous and but little 
affected by mildew. This grape is constantly increasing in favor ; 
but the great number, more than forty seedlings, grown by Rog- 
ers tends to create confusion, and some of the inferior varieties 
have been taken for No. 15, which has injured its reputation. 

As we get farther West there is less unanimity of sentiment as 
to the six best grapes, because of the greater number of varieties 
which thrive in the different localities, and the smaller interest 
felt by cultivators in comparing and testing their individual expe- 
riences. 

Mr. Huseman, of Missouri, recommended in an essay published 
by him in 1863, — for wine, Norton's Virginia, Herbement, Con- 
cord ; for table and market, Concord, Herbement, Hartford Proli- 
fic, Blood's Black, Union Village, North-Carolina seedling, or ^Mary 
Ann. 

I should consider any cultivator unwise who should stock a vine- 



836 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

yard of whatever size with one or two varieties : he should have 
at least half a dozen, in order to take advantage of all circum- 
stances ; but where one can grow only a single vine on some fence, 
house-wall, or post, then let him select of the foregoing six varie- 
ties the one he prefers, sure that it will be as good as any grape 
yet discovered. 

Leaving the varieties, we will now come to methods of cultiva- 
tion. The first condition of success is thorough drainage ; and 
whether the vine is to be in a city area or a country vineyard, no 
one can have reasonable hope of success who does not thoroughly 
secure good drainage. 

Where otherwise there is no appearance of surplus moisture, a 
close, clayey subsoil almost prohibits success, as it is, like the cop- 
per bottom of a basin, almost impervious to moisture ; and a sudden 
summer rain which does not appear on the surface may be collect- 
ed in the subsoil like a pond, and give the vine, by its cold evapo- 
rations, a sudden check and mildew. 

Second, Soil. Many specific soils have been recommended for 
grapes ; in the grapery under glass, whether the border be with- 
in the house or outside, the soil and border must be rich, as the 
roots are compelled to draw their support from a limited surface. 
In garden or field culture, the best soil is a light rich loam, which 
must be x thoroughly worked by trenching or subsoiling. If it is 
rich, it is an advantage to have a tendency to sand, and that a rich 
soil is rather stony is in its favor. 

If the soil is poor, it must be enriched by well-rotted barnyard 
manure or special manures, of which the two best are ground bone, 
ashes and gypsum. 

Third, Situation. First let it be sheltered, to reduce as far as 
may be the injurious sweep of cold winds. The garden or the 
vineyard, protected on the north, west, and east by high ever- 
green woods and hedges, is most likely to be healthy. When 
a side-hill well sheltered, and with the other conditions se- 
cured, can be obtained, it is the best, as the atmospheric conditions 
are more uniform, there is less tendency to stagnation of air, 
cold currents, and low temperature than on level land. 

When a vineyard is to be made on a side-hill, select the side 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 837 

facing east or south if possible, the west last, and north not at all, 
as it does not receive sufficient sun early and late in the day or in 
the year to give the vine its necessary stimulus. 

If vines are to be grown in city areas, where the soil is on the 
shady side of the yard, procure a vine with a long cane, plant on 
the shady side, and lay the cane down under the bricks or flags of 
the yard, and bring it up on the sunny side ; or plant your vine, and 
let grow the first season as long a cane as will ripen its wood ; 
then stop it, and lay it down as before. You will also gain in this 
way more active root-surface, as the vine under the bricks or walk 
will root freely, and will obtain a much larger feeding ground : if 
the soil is rich and well drained, the roots will thrive under the 
pavement about as well as in the open ground ; they will be pro- 
tected from the direct evaporation, and, if they get less direct rain, 
will lose less by evaporation. 

Fourth, How to plant. Prepare the ground thoroughly, not 
merely where you are to set the vine, but the entire surface to be 
used for the culture ; by deep spading or trenching (see pp. 88, 89, 
C. L.), adding at that time such manure as you desire, carefully 
incorporating it with the soil. The soil ready, dig your holes 
eight feet apart, three feet in diameter, in rows six feet apart, deep- 
est on the edges, say one foot on the circumference, shoaling to six 
inches in the centre, which enables one to spread the roots evenly, 
and give their ends a suitable downward tendency. When you 
plant in the open ground, set the stake in the centre of the hole' 
first, lest it should injure the roots by being thrust in afterwards. 
Select good red cedar, locust, chestnut stakes, about three inches 
square or diameter ; char the lower three and one-half feet ; then 
drive them in three feet deep, leaving seven feet projecting above 
the surface ; then set the vine, first softening the surface around 
the stake on the surface of the hole with a hand fork, as directed 
on pp. 157 to 160, " Country Life." 

Select in preference two or three year old plants, and, before set- 
ting them, prune their roots carefully, and cut the cane back to 
four or six buds ; after planting, leave the surface of the ground 
fine and smooth; if you plant in the fall, cover the ground with 
well-rotted top-dressing of manure, drawing the mulch or some 



838 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

earth about the stem to protect buds ; during the first season, the 
vines which grow feebly should be stimulated with liquid manure 
or guano, in order that all may be equally ready for pruning 
and training the second year. 

If the vines are to be grown on espaliers/ you may make the 
whole espalier when you set the vines, or only set the posts, leav- 
ing the completion of the espalier for the time when it is needed. 
Where the vines are to be trained on walls or fences, there will be 
no need of any long stakes. Light stakes one inch square may 
be set as a support for the vine for the first year or two. 

When the buds break 4 after planting, select the strongest, and rub 
off the other buds that all the strength may go into it, and, when 
it has made a few inches' growth, cut off the naked stem of the re- 
maining old cane an inch or two above the new shoot : this shoot 
may be left to trail over the ground, or be tied up to the stake. 
About the first of August, pinch off the end of the cane to 
check its growth and ripen the wood. One or two new eyes may 
break below; if so, when they have grown a few joints, pinch 
them ; the vine may now be left until time for pruning. The best 
season for pruning is from the fall of the leaf to the middle of 
winter. 

It is best for all young vines to be lightly covered with 
some kind of litter during the first winter ; and therefore conve- 
nience will induce one to prune before the cold sets in. Cut 
away the long cane, leaving two buds at any rate, and, to avoid acci- 
dents, it will be well to leave three or four. In the spring, before the 
vines have started, you can rub off the weaker a buds. Save the 
canes you cut off to propagate new vines. 

If your ground is not rich enough to maintain a permanent vine- 
yard, top-dressing of manure may be dug in between the rows ; 
best do this in the fall, and use well-rotted manure, as green ma- 
nure, or too much of it, is likely to over-stimulate the growth when 
applied in the spring, driving the vine too much to wood, produ- 
cing larger but not so well-flavored fruit. 

We are now ready to start on the second year of the vine, and 
must commence by deciding in what way our vine is to be pruned. 
Experience has shown that vines left to themselves will grow 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 839 

every year longer, and farther from the ground, with a long inter- 
val of naked stem of no possible good, at the top of which is the 
new growth and the fruit ; and where the vine is left to run un- 
pruned, the fruit will be large and fine at the top of the vine, and 
nearly worthless below. Pruning, therefore, is simply a process 
by which man brings the fruit-bearing portion near the ground, 
saving labor, and, as it proves, increasing the crop, by compelling 
the sap to feed all the fruit-bearing buds alike, producing fruit 
equally good in all portions of the vine. This is the principle ; the 
application has varied with different cultivators, but the vari- 
ations are easily reducible to two : the long-cane system, in which 
the vine throws up a cane this year which bears fruit next, and 
at the same time produces a second cane ; next year the fruit- 
bearing cane of this year is cut out, and the succeeding or third 
year the cane of the second year bears fruit, and makes a new 
cane to replace the fruit-bearing cane of the same year. I will 
dispose of this method at once, by saying that although it has 
some advantages it is wasteful, more troublesome and inferior to 
the second system or spur-pruning. On pp. 116, 117, 118, you 
have the cuts of the method of spur-pruning applied to the grape- 
vine as it is carried along the rafters of the grapery : the prin- 
ciple is the same when enforced out-of-doors, though the man- 
agement is different ; but even though I may repeat myself I shall 
go through the treatment of the vine for the first four years. 

Having decided upon spur-pruning, we must next decide 
whether the vines are to be grown on posts or espaliers, and we 
should remember that the wall of a house or a fence are the same 
as espaliers. It has been found best, in order to secure the greatest 
amount of fruit with the least expenditure of vital force, and to 
insure the even breaking of all the buds and a uniform supply 
of fruit, to bend the vine considerably out of the perpendicular, 
as thereby we retard the sap, and are enabled to produce uni- 
formity in the length of the new wood, which insures an equal 
distribution of sap to all parts of the vine, and therefore a uni- 
form development and quality of fruit. 

When vines are to be grown upon espaliers, the first step is to 
produce for the second year canes which can be bent at a consid- 



840 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW HUM. 

erable angle, if not a right angle, and carried along the espalier ; 
the posts of the espalier being set eight feet apart, the vines may 
be set opposite them or half way between : in either case it will 
have eight feet in length by one-half the height to cover with 
fruit-bearing wood, and the simple problem is how this may be 
most perfectly done. 

By referring to the plan annexed, you will see the method of 
pruning and training for several years ; after the fourth year the 
method of pruning is the same, unless spurs become too old or 
chance to lose their buds, in which case they must be cut back 
to the arm. In time the arms themselves get too old to produce 
as vigorous fruit as when younger ; in that event cut one out at 
the fork, when a new one can be developed from many latent or 
concealed buds which are always present at the base of buds 
formerly developed and removed, and which will grow whenever 
there is a chance ; after one arm is renewed treat the other in the 
same manner. 



To return to our vine with four buds left at the commencement 
of the second year, let the two most vigorous buds grow, and 
rub off the others ; as they grow, bend them down to the ground, 
or tie them to stakes, keeping them always very carefully bent. 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 841 

Pinch the vines when they have made five feet growth ; prune them 
back to four feet in the autumn, and lay them down and cover 
them up as the first year. At the commencement of the third year 
tie them to the espaliers at A and C ; the buds will break at each 
eye ; rub off all but those you wish to preserve, and tie them up 
to the espalier as they grow ; when they have made three to four 
feet growth pinch them ; they will then be in the condition shown 
by the left side of C. Prune, them to two buds ; besides' these two 
buds, B and C, shown in fig. 3, there will be several base 
buds, D, E, F ; leave them all until spring. 

In pruning the vine this and succeeding years be careful to cut 
the right hand-spurs so that they will incline to grow to the left, 
and the left vice versa, to ensure the espaliers shall be covered 
evenly, — this is best effected by leaving that bud as terminal for 
growth which has the right inclination. 





Fig. 2. 

Fig. 3. 

Plate No. 2 shows the condition of the buds on the arms 
at the end of the second year. Plate No. 3 at the end of the 
third year. 

The fourth year there will be two shoots, one starting from 

B or E, plate No. 13, for fruit ; and one for growth of new 

cane from C, D, or F, according to which of these buds is the 

strongest and has the best inclination ; all other buds but the two 

will be rubbed off. B, in plate No. 1, shows on its left side 

the condition of the vine at the end of the fourth year, and on 

its right, when pruned at the commencement of the fifth. 

71 



842 GRAPES, AND HOW TO UEOW THBM. 

Plate No. 4 shows the con- 
dition of the spurs at the end 
of the fourth year, (he right hand 
cane B developed from bud E, in 
fig. 3, and produced fruit; and 
cane D was developed from bud D 
in same plate, which was the 
strongest of the base buds ; after the 
cane B had grown two buds beyond 
the fruit, it was pinched, and D was 
pinched at three feet ; in the au- 
tumn, all the fruit-bearing spurs 
were cut off at H, in fig. 4, and 
the other shortened ba<!k to two 
buds of base. 
"' Remember that the object of this 

method is to keep the spurs short as possible, by constantly bring- 
ing up the new canes from as near the arm as the buds will per- 
mit. When the vine is pruned in the autumn, it is safe to leave 
one more bud than we mean to retain to enable us to cut it off 
later in the year, when the frost of winter may have chilled the 
upper bud ; as I have said in another part of this book, the prun- 
ing should always be made midway of an interuode lo leave a bit 
of cane above ihe bud as its protector. 

Plate No. 1, at D, shows the vine at the end of the fifth, 
and pruned for the commencement of the sixth year : there 
is a difference between A and B, C and D, in that B and D are 
trained on the upper half of the trellis ; to get the vine up the 
extra height, generally requires another year. When at the be- 
ginning of the second year the two buds grow into two shoots, 
and are bent down, in order to produce B and D, we remove one 
shoot and carry it up to the place where it is wanted, stop it a little 
beyond, and, when ripened, prune the wood back to the point at 
which you wish to have it commence growing the third year, rub- 
bing off all the buds below; from that time the treatment is the 
same as A and C. 

This method enables one to carry a vine on the side of a house 
or as high as he desires, and spread it where he wanta it, either 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GEOW THEM. 843 

to get it into the sun or out of the way of thieves : this method 
of pruning once fairly understood, the cultivator can do what he 
pleases, carry his vine where he pleases ; if he wants to lay a 
tender vine down and cover it each year, he can carry one cane 
the second year diagonal to the espalier, and the third year carry 
out his spur from one arm instead of two ; then, when the fall 
oomes, he can untie the viae and cover it as he thinks best. When 
vines are grown on walla or houses singly, they may be allowed to 
make longer arms and spurs than when in vineyards, as the vine 
has more room for its roots to feed. 

Plate number five shows a spur 
which has grown too old and clumsy 
to give vigorous canes and the best of 
fruit : remove it at the line A, li, but 
not smooth with the wood, as the la- 
tent buds are more readily developed 
from the base of the spur, a little 
above the arm, than from the surface 
of the arm itself. 

Espaliers for the support of the 
vine are but rarely used in the vineyard, where it is usual to tie 
the vines to stakes. The vines are allowed to grow about six feet 
high, and are then stopped, and pruned according to the short- 
spur system. This is cheaper, and very often o, more convenient 
method ; but, unless the vine is twisted, in order to retard the flow 
of sap, the upper buds will be over stimulated, and produce the 
best fruit. There are many ways for doing this, but by far the best 
is that practised by Mr. E. A. Brackett, of Winchester, 
who, taking the two eyes and canes of the second year, 
winds them in opposite directions in a spiral around 
his stake, keeping the two canes about four inches 
apart, and stops the growth by pinching when the 
vine has reached the top of the stake. The spiral 
vine is in much the same condition as the horizontal, 
and is pruned by the short spur method. A secondary 
advantage of this method is, that as the vines acquire 
age, they become rigid, and ultimately can dispense 
with a stake. 



844 GRAPE8, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 

How long vines can continue to be pruned in this manner and 
yield profitable crops has never been ascertained. But there are 
some in Europe more . than one hundred years old, still bearing 
vigorously every year. As vines acquire age and stretch their 
roots indefinitely, they could be allowed to carry out their arms 
much farther, and in such cases the alternate vines should be re- 
moved to give room on the espaliers to the remainder. As the cost 
of vines in the new vineyard is large, the proprietor should, as 
far as possible, propagate his own vines ; and I should not do jus- 
tice to this subject, were I to leave it without briefly setting before 
the reader the best methods for their propagation. 

If our object is to get new varieties, plant the seed selected 
from well-grown and perfectly ripe grapes of the variety to be cul- 
tivated. The seed must be kept from drying, or their vitality will 
be injured, which may be prevented by drying the grape into a 
raisin, which will keep the seeds moist until spring, or by plant- 
ing them in the fall, in open seed-beds, or boxes of loam, or sand, 
which are to remain under cover : as grape seeds very often do 
not germinate until they have been in the ground two years, the 
cultivator must leave the bed in which he plants them undisturbed 
for two years, unless as many vines come up the first year as he 
wishes. The seed should be sowed in drills one foot apart, seed 
three inches apart, and half an inch deep : plant in a light, rich, 
loamy soil ; when the seedlings come up, shade the young foliage 
in its infancy from the scorching rays of the sun ; the plants will 
soon grow strong enough to need no protection ; they may be al- 
lowed to grow together in a mass until fall. When they have made a 
few leaves, tie the little plants up to small sticks, and pinch them 
after they have made six or eight good buds ; in the fall take them 
up, cut back the wood to four eyes, leave the tap-root of a moderate 
length, and either plant them at once in rows four feet apart, plants 
four feet apart in the row, or cover them up, tops and all, in a 
trench until spring ; if they are planted out, they should be cov- 
ered with a protection of light litter until spring. In the spring 
tie them up, and let them run from four to six feet, then stop them, 
and cut them back in the autumn to four eyes, when they will be 
ready to be set out in a permanent position. The fruit continues 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 845 

to improve for several years, so that it is not possible, until the vine 
is mature, to decide upon the success of the experiment. 

But if you want to increase the number of plants of the kinds 
you now have, it must be done by cuttings, either of a single eye 
or of several eyes, or by layers. In layering the vine, you do 
not need to tongue it as is directed on p. 289. When it is laid down 
under the soil, it will root at every bud, and if the buds are near 
the surface, each eye will break and throw up a cane ; when, well 
rooted, cut the layer off the main stem, and treat like a new vine. 

* 

Single eyes will give the greatest number of plants in the short- 
est time. Cut buds off with a piece of the internode on each 
side as in plate 12, taking them from wood of the last year's 
growth : you may set the bud in that condition in the soil, covering 
the bud about a quarter of an inch; or you may slice off the lower 
part of the wood under the eye, nearly or quite to the pith; or 
you may cut the bud away from the internode at the upper end, and 
taper the lower end, leaving it an inch or two long. In the first 
two cases the bud is laid horizontally on the earth, in the top of 
the pot, and then covered over ; in the other the pointed end is 
pressed down into the earth in an oblique direction, until the bud 
is covered as deeply as before. On p. 292 of " Country Life," 
you will find its after-treatment indicated. It is quite necessary 
in order to succeed with single eye cuttings to have bottom heat 
until the plants have got well established, when they may be potted 
off into small pots, or be at once set in an open frame or bed in 
the ground, to be treated like seedlings. You can get bottom heat 
by the hotbed where there is no greenhouse. 

Cuttings of two or more eyes may be set at first in the open 
ground : when the vines are pruned in the fall, cut the prunings 
into two, four, or six buds, according to the number of plants you 
need ; two will answer. Pack them in sand or loam, and keep them 
during the winter where they will be moist, or bury them in the 
garden ; prepare the cuttings by removing the wood smoothly at 
the base of the lower bud, and two inches above the top of the 
upper bud. In the spring make a trench of good soil, with a slop- 
ing side deep enough to take the cuttings ; set them in four to six 

inches apart, and cover all but the top eye with soil ; return all the 

71* 



846 GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THBM. 

earth back, and press it compactly about the cuttings. If the 
weather should be very dry, occasionally watering to keep the 
ground moist might be necessary ; they will very soon commence 
growing, and frequently make three to six feet the first year. Tie 
them to stakes as they grow, and pinch the ends of the vine as in 
other cases ; in the autumn take them up, prune back to four 
buds ; you will find roots have started out from each bud which 
was below the ground ; cut off the root-stem below the strongest 
roots, and then cover the vines till spring, or set them in their 
proper places. 

Another method of increasing vines is to graft old or worthless 
stocks with new varieties ; the method in " Country Life," on p. 
562, is not the best ; it has been proved that grafting the root or 
lower part of the stem by the cleft method is more successful, cut- 
ting the vine off just below the surface of the ground, or as near 
it as is convenient, using but one scion of one year's wood, shaping 
it as you would an apple-scion : insert it so as to bring the edge of 
the inner back of the scion and root together ; cover the head with 
grafting clay, or merely return the earth close about it. Mr. 
Fuller recommends, when this is done in the autumn, setting an 
inverted pot over the top of the scion to protect it when we re- 
move the covering in the spring, and then to cover the whole 
with earth and litter. 

Cuttings may be made of the immature wood, but they are 
more troublesome, and some think can never make healthy vines, 
though there is no reason why they should not, after they once 
become established ; the cutting is made and treated as is de- 
scribed on p. 284 to 286 ; cut a piece of the vine with two eyes 
upon it; cut away the cane smoothly below the lower eye,- and a 
short distance above the upper, leaving the leaf that is opposite 
the upper eye ; the cane should be taken off smoothly below in 
order to offer as large and smooth a surface of the cambium layer 
as possible, out of which the new roots will be emitted ; set these 
cuttings in pots like that shown on p. 284, and treat as is there 
described ; when they are well rooted, transplant to open beds, 
frame, or small pots, and treat them as heretofore described. 

With these directions I must leave the subject, believing that I 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 847 

have simply and succinctly stated the leading facts, and given the 
important directions about the vine which will enable any earnest 
persom to cultivate grapes successfully. There *rill be, of course, 
many questionings occurring to every one which I have not answer- 
ed ; many cases to which my directions do not seem to apply ; but I 
have given the principles, which, like the foot rule, may be applied 
by intelligence to all cases. 

Different localities will require different treatments, and will be 
exposed to very dissimilar obstacles; men who live near great 
sheets of water, as on the islands in Lake Erie, will be able to 
grow grapes with a perfection unknown to the main land, the great 
body of water producing a more equable condition of atmosphere. 
The vineyard on a side-hill or upland will escape some of the trials 
which annoy those in valleys ; but each grape-grower will learn 
how best to contend with his own enemies, and at length sufficient 
knowledge will be gained to enable us to overcome the principal 
obstacles to grape-culture. Before many years, we may reasonably 
hope to see grapes adapted to every locality, which will funish an 
abundance of fruit and wine. 



CHAPTER VI. 

i 

THE FARM. 

During the past six years, there have been many improvements 
in farming tools and stock ; by the aid of improved tools, the old 
men, women, and children of the Northern United States have 
cultivated and harvested full crops, with as much ease as the entire 
male population before the war, and with greater profit. 

I shall not recount the changes in tools, for they are still pro- 
gressing, and the tools which are seemingly perfect this year may 
be surpassed next : in " Country Life," I described and gave an 
illustration of a very excellent mowing and reaping machine, which 
is antiquated now ; and the same would be true in a few years of 
the best mower or reaper of the present day. Great as the ad- 
vances have been, there is an immense field still open in the appli- 
cation of steam-power to cultivation : many steam-ploughs, field 
and road engines, have been invented, but none which can do the 
work with sufficient economy. The time is near when all the work 
of the farm will be done by steam : the farmer will make, a fire 
under his engine, get up steam, ride to his field, plough, harrow, 
hoe his crop, cut and harvest his hay and grain, gather it into 
wagons, and move it away by steam ; nor would such power re- 
duce the value of cattle and horses, or the rates of labor. Noth- 
ing in human economy is more remarkable than that every 
simplification of process, every invention of labor-saving machin- 
ery, has increased the demand for labor, and the rate of wages. 
The Spanish Proverb says, " It takes a mine to work a mine ; n 
and it certainly takes a machine to repair and utilize each new 
machine, and men to supervize, control, and use them. 

The improvement in stock-breeding has been in sheep, rather 
than cattle. The greatly increased demand for wool for the past 
six years has made sheep more valuable than formerly, and of 

848 



THE FARM. 849 

coarse as fast as sheep become important, men try to develop 
them into their most valuable form and condition. 

Wise sheep-breeders have been at work for twenty years, lay- 
ing the foundation of the new and improved varieties of sheep, 
and were ready to meet the inquiry for them, when they were 
wanted ; and, stimulated anew by the rapid and profitable sales 
they made of their improved animals, they have continued breed- 
ing with care until we now have an American merino sheep, 
which is better than any other variety of sheep for wool, and 
although carefully bred from Spanish imported stock, have so 
far outstripped their progenitors that our sheep are carried from 
America back to Europe to give the flocks there fresh start and 
better blood. 

What variety of sheep is best for this whole country cannot 
be settled in a word. There are many considerations latterly over- 
looked by sheep-breeders, which will yet qualify the estimation 
in which the merino is held, and which will raise other varieties, 
if not to its level, to at least a very high point in the general 
estimation. 

Sheep are valuable for mutton and wool ; and the greatest profit 
seems certainly to lie in a sheep which will make the best and 
most mutton, and the best and most wool, at the same time. With 
the usual enthusiasm of Americans, who believe that what is good 
for one part of the country must be for the whole, some breeders 
have assumed, that, with sufficient care and time, such a sheep 
may be produced. 

But there are certain indisputable facts which contradict this 
theory : all sheep do not produce the same kind of wool ; there is 
as much difference between the wool of a merino and Leicester or 
Cotswold as between the feathers of a turkey and eider-down. 
The merino wool, whether long or short, is very fine, and each 
separate fibre is crimped or curled ; whilst the wool of the Cots- 
wold is coarse and straight, with few, if any, curls and crimps. 
These distinct characters never vary, and are of great importance, 
as from the fine wool broad-cloths and floe cloths are made ; whilst 
blankets, shirts, alpacas, and similar goods, are made from the 
coarse ; and neither kind of wool can be made into both kinds of 
cloth. 



t 

I 850 THE FARM. 

I 



This fact leads to another. In England there are several 
breeds of sheep, which have been in that island so long that 
they are called native. These sheep are all long-wooled, though 
some, like the South-downs, are shorter and finer wooled than 
the others ; and, though bred for years side by side, the fine and 
coarse-wooled sheep have maintained their differences. They 
have also differed in size, the coarse-wooled being the largest. 
Many breeders have tried to combine these two kinds, and vari- 
ous cross breeds have been made, some lasting for a time ; but 
all the valuable improvements have been made in the direct line 
of the same variety as coarse or fine wool, or rather, as they call 
it, long and short wool. Besides the difference in the wool, there 
is a marked difference in the quality of the mutton ; the sbort- 
wooled or South-down sheep having always had the highest rep- 
utation for the quality of their mutton. Certain English breeders 
have improved the quality of the coarse or long-wooled sheep. 
They have increased the tendency to fatten, reducing the coarse- 
ness of structure, replacing bones by fat, and substituting a 
rounded outline, and skeleton capable of taking on flesh, for the 
gaunt, leggy, bony animals which yielded but little mutton or 
wool. 

The old Leicesters are described as large, heavy, coarse- 
grained animals, the meat having little flavor, and no delicacy ; 
the carcass was long, thin, flat-sided, with large bones and thick 
legs ; the fleece was heavy, long, and of coarse quality. The 
sheep were slow feeders ; and when sent to market, at two and 
three years old, weighed about one hundred to one hundred and 
twenty pounds each. Mr. Bake well by care produced from these 
sheep the new Leicester, a sheep without horns, with white 
faces and legs, head small and clean, eye bright, neck and shoul- 
der square and deep, back straight, deep carcass, hind quarters 
tapering towards the tail, and somewhat deficient in this respect 
when compared with the Cots wold sheep ; legs clean, with fine 
bone ; the flesh is juicy, but of moderate quality, and is remark- 
able for the proportion of outside fat it carries. They are not 
considered so hardy as the other large breeds, and require shelter 
and good keep. Early maturity and an aptitude for fattening 



THE FARM. 851 

are the principal characteristics of the breed ; wethers at twelve 
to fifteen months old weighing from eighty to one hundred 
pounds, and at two years they average one hundred and twenty 
to one hundred and fifty pounds each ; fleeces averaging seven 
pounds each. I have quoted the Leicesters, not because I should 
propose them to our farmers as the sheep for us, but to show 
what has been done. 

The merino sheep, with all its wool, and all its good qualities, 
is inferior in flavor and quality of mutton to the best coarse- 
wooled sheep ; and no amount of breeding has ever changed it 
materially in this particular : it is just as inferior to the im- 
proved English long-wools as they are to the short-wools. Were 
fine the only or the best wool for manufacturing purposes, it 
might be best to content ourselves with poor mutton, and make 
up in the wool. But this is not the case ; the long-wools are 
equally important, and some of them, for special purposes, sell 
higher than the fine wool. The obvious conclusion is, that long 
wool and good mutton are to be set against fine wool and poor 
mutton. Nor is the weight of fleece of clean wool in favor of the. 
merino in all cases. Owing to the large amount of yolk in the 
merino wool, their fleeces average much heavier than the long- 
wooled sheep ; but from fifty to seventy per cent of the weight 
will scour out when it is cleansed against thirty to forty per cent 
of the weight of the long wool ; and therefore, in many cases, 
carefully bred long-wooled flocks will beat fine wools in weight. 

Generally, however, the flocks of full blood or grade merinos 
yield a greater average weight of wool than any other sheep. 
Therefore where sheep are raised for wool, as they must be 
where distant from market, the merino is preferable ; but where 
the market is convenient, the long-wooled and fine-mut toned 
sheep may be made more valuable to the breeders. I do not 
mean what are now called mutton-sheep in New England and 
Canada, any more than when I say merino I mean the merino 
sheep of 1850, whose average fleeces would weigh three pounds 
against five pounds to-day, but the mutton sheep which will be 
bred by some competent person who will improve it, as Hammond 
and others have improved the merino. 



852 THB FABM. 

The merino has certain qualities for New England, and much 
of the Northern United States, which are invaluable : they are 
good workers, not being willing to feed in the same pasture, how- 
ever fertile, unless it has considerable range ; they will walk over 
the surface, cropping the bits they like, until they get back to 
the hills and sterile places, seeming to find in the stunted herbage 
food exactly adapted to them ; and, as we know, they improve 
the poor land by feeding upon it. They thrive on lands that 
would be only a burying-ground for the improved Leicester or 
Cotswold. The merino also are very quiet ; and though inclined 
to ramble for their food, they are not unruly, and are restrained 
from jumping by very moderate fences, whilst the old-fashioned 
mutton sheep could be controlled only by six or seven high bars* 
Careful breeding has changed these sheep in shape, wool, and 
mutton ; has reduced the wild flocks of former times to the quiet 
and contented animals which follow their master whenever he 
appears. 

The number of sheep in Vermont, the headquarters of the merino, 
has not increased in the last ten years in proportion to their 
quality ; but the yield of wool to the head has doubled. The 
credit for this change is due to a few men who, though, at first 
prejudiced against the Spanish merino, soon saw their good 
qualities, and purchased full-blooded animals from the importers, 
and have carefully bred them since ; never mixing any impure 
blood with their flocks. The Vermont merinos originated from 
two families of Spanish sheep, called, in Spain, Pauiar and Infan- 
tado ; names belonging for many generations to large families of 
sheep which were carefully bred, and kept from any intermixture 
with other families. These sheep were driven every year from one 
part of Spain to another, seeking pasture ; making a march of 
eight hundred miles a year, for so many generations, that the sheep 
became great travellers, and, according to the Darwinian theory 
of development, acquired a constitutional capacity for enduring 
labor, and a disposition to work for their living, of great value 
to us. Imported into America at different times, most of the 
merinos were mixed with the common sheep ; but some of the 
Infantado family passed into the hands of a Mr. Atwood, in 



THE JABM. 853 

Connecticut, who kept them pure, and from whose sheep the im- 
proved Infantado or Atwood merino is derived. 

The Paulars were brought to the United States by Mr. Jarvis 
at about the same time with the Infantados. Some were kept 
pure ; others mixed and disappeared amongst other sheep. A 
few full-blooded Paulars went into Vermont, and are still bred 
there, but have failed to find as many admirers as the Infantado 
or Atwood sheep, which, as improved by Mr. Hammond, of Mid- 
dlebury, who has done for the merino what Mr. Bakewell did 
for the Leicesters, are certainly the beau-ideal of fine-wooled 
sheep. 

I cannot give the details of their breeding, or enter into minute 
descriptions of these sheep. They have been described in the 
Patent-Office Reports, in Randall's " Practical Shepherd," and 
elsewhere ; and it is enough for my present purpose to say, that, as 
merinos, they stand first, and have been sold for fabulous prices. 
Mr. W. R. Sanford, of Orwell, sold twenty-three two-year-old 
ewes, in 1863, for $15,000, and they were soon sold a second 
time for an advance. Mr. N. T. Sprague, of Brandon, Vt., a cele- 
brated breeder of these sheep, has a buck which he values at $20,- 
000. Bucks have been sold within the past two years for $5,000 
to $7,000 each ; and offers of $10,000 have been refused ; and 
ewes for $1,000 to $8,000. These prices seem fabulous and purely 
speculative ; but it is not speculation alone, rather the real merit 
of the animal, which sells them. One of these extra bucks 
taken West, and crossed on any flock of coarse- wooled sheep, 
would, in two or three years, double and perhaps treble the yield 
of wool, without increasing the cost of producing it, and at the 
same time perhaps, give rise to a lamb as good or better than 
himself.. 

Nor is the improvement imaginary : it is conceded by those 
who have grown sheep, and who for years kept only the com- 
mon varieties, that the present merino is better than the old 
sheep in all particulars. Their wool is finer, more uniform in 
all parts of the body, equal in quality, is stronger, makes stronger 
and more durable cloth ; the sheep are less liable to disease, are 

better shaped, more compact ; every part of the body is covered 
72 



854 THE FABH. 

with wool, the head and face, all but the top of the nose, and the 
legs down to the dew-claws, just above the hoof. More wool 
can be cut from the parts of these sheep which used to be naked, 
than came from the whole body of the old common sheep. 

The wool is worth from ten to twenty per cent more in quality, 
besides its increased quantity ; the average of most flocks now be- 
ing from five to seven pounds per head, and many going as high 
as twelve pounds per head. Mr. Sprague cut from ten yearling 
ewes, eight of whom had born lambs, which always reduces the 
wool, one hundred and seventy-two pounds, thirteen ounces, — 
one shearing nineteen and three-fourths pounds, unwashed wool. 

Mr. Darwin E. Griswold, of Orwell, who has been several 
years breeding these sheep, estimates the improvement in the av- 
erage yield of Vermont wool to be two and a, half pounds per 
head. The coarse sheep have been improved by Spanish merino 
blood, making their wool finer and heavier ; whilst the Saxony 
sheep, a smaller variety, which yield very fine wool, have gained 
in size of body and fleece, losing some of the fineness of the fibre 
by the same cross. 

This improvement has resulted from the constant care of the 
breeders, who have never sold their best sheep, but preserving 
the best to make their flocks better, and selling only the poorer 
sheep ; and we may reasonably believe, that, if they adhere to 
this practice, these sheep will be still further improved, until the 
culls of the flock will be as good as the best are now. 

To bring the merino to their present condition, it has been 
necessary to keep them from storms in cold weather, and feed 
and water them generously. Formerly, sheep were left to shift 
for themselves all winter, the farmer tossing some hay or straw 
to them every day, or letting them eat at a stack, without shelter 
or care. I have seen large flocks, which have remained oat 
through sleety storms in winter, perfectly cased with ice. 

The barns provided for their flocks by good sheep-farmers of 
the present day are models of convenience and comfort ; the 
sheep are sheltered from all severe storms between the first of 
October and May. In the winter they are fed with the best hay, 
have free access to pure water, and are kept warm in good eel- 



XHS FABM. 855 

lars or barns ; their lambs now come in March, when they can 
be easily watched and provided for by the shepherd, instead of 
being scattered far and wide in bleak pastures, to be hunted up, 
or left to die if exposed to a severe storm. The sheep are 
sheared in May, and sheltered from bad weather until their new 
wool grows enough to protect them, and then turned into well- 
fenced pastures, which are not overstocked. During the summer 
they are carefully watched, salted, their noses kept tarred, to drive 
away the fly, and then, as autumn's storms come on, are carefully 
protected. 

It hardly seems as if all this increased cost could pay ; but it 
does. Mr. Daniel B. Buell, a careful breeder in Orwell, Addi- 
son County, Vermont, who has been brought up with sheep, and 
has kept them in all ways, considers that the present price of 
wool, fifty to fifty-five cents currency, pays for all the extra trou- 
ble. He considers that the better the sheep are fed, the more 
profitable they become. He turns his sheep into his best fall 
feed, to bring them into the barn in good condition, and then 
keeps them well during the winter, giving a peck of oats and 
corn to fifty sheep per day, with abundance of best hay, and pure 
running water. Too much care cannot be taken to provide water 
in abundance. Sheep do not drink much, but often. They do 
not need grain all winter : it is best to give it them at first, when 
changing from grass to hay ; and when they become used to hay, 
and are thriving on it, the grain may he withdrawn, until to- 
wards spring. 

The breeding ewes should have grain, oats and shorts being 
best, six weeks before lambing, and turnips or some roots, in 
order to increase their milk. A variety of food is of great im- 
portance to them ; many careful experiments have been tried, in 
England and America, with different varieties And mixtures of 
food ; and the result has been always in favor of mixed food in 
which there was a large proportion of roots. 

Strangers to the merino are frequently aurprised at their 
wrinkled appearance, and do not understand how the many folds 
of skin sheep-fanciers desire to produce, can be of any value. 
The original merino was a nearly smooth-skinned sheep, with a 



856 THE FABM. 

tendency to folds of loose skin about his neck ; these folds were, 
of course, extra skin, and caused just so much more wool-surface. 
As the sheep were improved, the tendency to wrinkle increased, 
and it was soon considered a proof of improved blood ; this in- 
duced some breeders to try to increase the wrinkles on their 
stock, until sheep are produced that have twice as much skin as 
their carcase would warrant. Wrinkles are by no means a 
proof of good blood, nor are they especially desirable ; the wool 
of very wrinkly sheep is generally shorter and less valuable, 
though it is equally true that some of the best sheep are very 
much wrinkled. Wrinkles ' belong to no one family ; and Mr. 
Sprague, who has kept them sixteen years, thinks they are rather 
a proof of mongrels, or mixed families of merino. 

The merinos are less subject to disease than common kinds 
of sheep, which seems contrary to analogy ; as we should expect 
that increased care and protection would make them more 
tender. Sore lips, sore eyes, a kind of colic called stretches, and 
foot-rot, are the principal diseases. Grub in the head is very 
troublesome sometimes, but may generally be prevented by tar- 
ring the nose in the summer, to drive away the fly which seeks 
to lay its eggs in the sheep's nose. If the eggs are laid, the 
grub, after it is hatched, creeps up the nostril, and attaches itself 
to the upper part of the mucous membrane, causing the sheep 
great uneasiness, and sometimes, when their numbers are exces- 
sive, death. 

Sore mouth and lips generally come from eating some perni- 
cious weed in the grass or hay ; lambs are frequently very much 
distressed by sore lips after the winter sets in, when hay is their 
principal food. Whether due to hay or other causes, this sore 
mouth generally yields to a few applications of healing ointment 
of any kind, even common mutton-tallow. Sore eyes, ophthal- 
mia, aud the like, will generally pass away without any perma- 
nent' injury, after bathing the eyes a few times with luke-warm 
water. Some shepherds recommend many kinds of violent treat- 
ment, but they are useless, and often injurious; Nature will 
effect a eure with the most simple treatment. 

Foot-rot, the scourge of thousands of flocks in Europe, is well 



THB FARM. 857 

known in America, but has not yet become a great evil here. It 
is an inflammation of the foot, which first shows itself in the 
skin between the cleft of the toes at the top of the hoof; this 
skin is commonly as fine, " sound, smooth, and dry as the skin 
between a man's fingers ; the first symptom of hoof-rot, is a dis- 
appearance of this smooth, dry, colorless condition of the naked 
skin at the top of the cleft over the heels, and of its coolness ; " 
the skin becomes chafed, a little corrugated and moist, and, as 
the disease increases, hot. The part first attacked becomes sore, 
discharges a very foul-smelling water, and soon ulcerates ; the 
ulcer extends between the horn on the inside of the cleft and the 
inner sole or core of the foot, and increases very rapidly ; if not 
cured soon, the inside of the foot will become entirely rotten, 
and at last the hoof drop off. 

As soon as a sheep is seen to be lame, it should be caught, and 
examined ; if there is any appearance of rot, dissolve some 
green-vitriol in hot-water, making a strong solution ; then lay 
the sheep on its back, holding it partly between your knees ; pare 
the inner-sole, or side-horn, as thin as you can, and not bring 
blood ; cut the diseased horn entirely away if possible. Return 
the sheep to its feet, but set the diseased feet into the hot solu- 
tion of vitriol, taking care that it shall not be scalding hot ; let 
the sheep stand on its feet, resting its weight as much as possi- 
ble on the feet in the solution ; so that the pressure may open 
out the hoof, giving the vitriol a chance to get into every part. 
Let the sheep stand three to five minutes, and then take it. out, 
and turil it into a dry place, where it should be kept for a day 
ont of the wet. Very bad cases will be cured by one immersion, 
if it is thoroughly done ; many specifics are advertised to cure 
foot-rot, but none will be found more simple or effective than 
this. 

Foot-rot is attributed to many causes ; changing from a light 
and dry to a low and wet pasture ; too much rank, green food in 
the autumn, producing general derangement and inflammation 
of the system ; contagion, filthy yards, wet straw. Whatever its 
origin, it should be watched with care ; a lame sheep should be 
examined as soon as seen, and isolated from the rest of the flock, 



858 THE FARM. 

as it is certainly contagious ; and common sense should teach 
every one to keep tfieir sheep in clean and dry quarters. It has 
so often appeared in flocks which have been removed from high 
and dry summer-pastures to low and damp meadows in the fall, 
that I suppose we must believe it is often originated in that way ; 
but it appears in flocks not subjected to such changes, whilst 
flocks in wet meadows often entirely escape. I believe, that, 
although often due to locality, it is also hereditary, like the gout ; 
and that descendants of flocks in which the hoof-rot has been 
will always be subject to it. 

Where a flock of sheep, or an individual, shows the hoof-rot, 
it is very desirable to change their food, and clean their yards 
and stables at once, as so violent a disease cannot fail to affect 
the general system, and no local treatment will dispense with a 
proper attention to food and cleanliness. No good sheep-farmer 
will ever allow his yards and folds to get filthy, but will clean 
them as carefully as the horse-stable, and permit no accumula- 
tion of manure or litter. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

FARM. 

In order to present to those of my readers who are not farm- 
ers or stock-raisers a clear idea of the management of sheep, 
I will follow a flock through a year, and will commence with 
them in January, when they will have become accustomed to 
winter food and treatment. 

The amount of food, whether hay or grain, which sheep or 
other animals require to keep them thriving, depends on the con- 
dition in which they were when they were brought into the barn, 
and the kind of building in which they are kept. It has been 
found, that, when sheep commence the winter fat, they can be 
kept so with very little extra care ; first-rate hay and plenty 
of fresh water is enough for most of the winter. But, if they 
come in poor, it is very difficult with any amount of feeding to 
get them fat, or keep them improving. To insure the best con- 
dition, some farmers give their sheep a little grain every day, 
after the frosts set in in the fall, to replace the sweetness of the 
herbage, as it withers under the frost, — a gill of oats per day 
per head would be ample for this purpose. 

A perfectly warm barn may be made above the surface of the 
ground ; but the best way to secure warmth is to dig a cellar in 
a side-hill which faces to the south or east, selecting a place to 
which water from a spring may be readily brought through pipes. 
Build a solid wall on the west and north, and board up the east 
and south, leaving large windows, which must be carefully glazed, 
as sunlight is of great importance to the health of the sheep. 
Carry a drain under the walls and across the floor of the cellar 
to keep it perfectly dry. Over the cellar erect a suitable barn to 
hold hay and grain, but not for stabling cattle, as their water 
would leak through, and injure the wool. The room may be 

859 



860 FABM. 

divided into as many small apartments as is desirable by using 
racks for holding the hay, as division fences, taking care to set 
them in such a manner that the hay sent down through a tunnel 
from above can be easily distributed to each rack without extra 
labor, and without carrying it over the sheep, sprinkling hay and 
seed on their wool, which is very injurious, dirtying the wool, 
and causing irritation in the skin, which induces the sheep to 
tear out their wool with their teeth, or by rubbing against project- 
ing surfaces in their efforts to allay the itching. Set the water- 
tubs convenient to each apartment, so that all may drink at will ; 
if the racks are properly made, hay and grain can be fed in the 
same rack with economy. Shut off a small space, which should 
be built up for bucks, like a room. When they are allowed to 
run with the sheep, their long horns catch in the wool ; and as 
they are pften cross, they bunt the other sheep, perhaps killing 
a pregnant ewe, or destroying her lamb. In such a cellar as 
this, the sheep will be warm all winter, and ewes can be per- 
mitted to lamb in March with greater security than out of doors 
in May, as the young lambs are protected from the damp ground 
and cold currents of air. One hundred per cent in lambs may 
be reasonably expected, whereas the merino left to lamb in the 
fields rarely give over eighty per cent. 

The cellar should be connected with extensive yards on the 
south and east, to which the sheep should be admitted whenever 
the weather will permit, in order that they may get as much 
exercise as possible. Want of exercise is very injurious to 
breeding -ewes in particular, some flocks having been nearly 
ruined by confinement. 

By January, the sheep will have become accustomed to their 
winter-food ; and if they are in good condition, and the hay is 
of the best quality, their grain may be slowly reduced until 
none is given. Keep salt with a little sulphur in some accessi- 
ble place : the sheep like it, and its free use is thought by many 
to counteract the tendency to stretches. The feeding should be 
perfectly regular in time and amount ; in winter, feeding three 
times in the day, and once in the evening, would be none too 
much ; and, every day, all the remaining hay, straw, and stubble 



FARM. 861 

# 

should be cleaned out of the mangers, and given to colts or 
horses. 

Early in February, the sheep should be sorted ; all the lambs, 
wethers, barren ewes, being removed from the breeding-ewes. 

If the ewes were properly marked when tupped, it will be 
easy to know when to expect them to lamb, as they are regular, 
rarely exceeding one hundred and fifty-two days. 

Strong ewes rarely need any assistance in laoor, but the 
lambs often come weak, and, if they are born on a cold night, 
might die before morning. To prevent mishaps, good shepherds 
visit the flock once, and better twice, between the last feeding 
and morning. The new-born lamb will soon get sufficient 
strength to stand up, and will immediately try to suck : if he 
once gets his stomach full of his mother's milk, he will take care 
of himself ; but if he seems to be unable to find the teat, or the 
mother will not stand still, the shepherd turns the ewe's head 
into a corner, stands over her, holding her tight between his legs, 
his face towards her tail . he moves the lamb up to the mother's 
udder, and inserts the teat into its mouth ; if it does not incline 
to suck, by inserting his finger a little way into its mouth, and 
tickling the tongue, or roof of the mouth, it will be induced to 
try. If it really makes a vigorous pull, it will soon learn to 
take care of itself; milking a few drops into its mouth will 
sometimes stimulate an unwilling lamb ; but it often happens that 
all is useless, and it will not suck : for this case, the bottle is the 
only remedy. A common pint-bottle with an India-rubber nip- 
ple is the best for convenience. The milk of a new milch cow 
warmed to the temperature of the body, sweetened with molas- 
ses or brown sugar, and stiffened with a few drops of whiskey, 
should be ready ; and rather than tire lamb, mother, and shep- 
herd by ineffectual attempts to make it suck, give it a good feed. 
It will soon gain strength, and compel its mother to stand for. 
it. In very cold nights, lambs should be wrapped in a piece of 
old carpet, buffalo, or be well covered with straw : they are easily 
chilled, aud yet may often be saved by timely care. I have 
known a very valuable sheep grow up from a lamb, which was so 
far gone with cold and hunger, that he was wrapped up, placed 



862 FAfiM. 

in a warm oven, and fed with whiskey and milk from a spoon for 
several hours, giving a few drops at a time, until it could run 
round, and bleat as loud as the best lamb in the pen. As soon 
as the lamb is able to run about, all solicitude is over, for they 
will gain very rapidly. 

Within a fortnight of their birth the lambs' tails should be cut 
off about two joints or vertebrae from the body. This is done by 
laying the tail on a block of wood ; press the skin back as much 
as possible, so that when the bone is cut the end of the skin will 
project beyond it ; after cutting the tail, the two flaps of the 
skin may be drawn together with needle and thread to check 
bleeding. The tail should be cut with a quick blow, of a dull 
chisel ; if bleeding is profuse, the end of the tail may be seared 
with a hot iron, which effectually stops bleeding and saves the 
lamb's strength, which often suffers from the loss of blood, but 
when the operation is made just right, there will be very little 
bleeding, which can be neglected. The older the lamb is, the 
more he will bleed and suffer from it. The male lambs not to 
be preserved for bucks should be castrated within a few days of 
the docking, so that the lamb need have nothing farther to im- 
pede its growth. 

Running with their mothers, the lambs will early learn to eat 
some hay, grain, &c, and will thrive if the mothers have suffi- 
cient milk. Some over-zealous breeders feed their choice lambs 
with cow's milk for some weeks, by which they increase the 
size of the lamb. 

After the lambs are all born, there will be but little for the 
shepherd to do until shearing, other than the regular routine of 
feeding and tending. In old times shearing was postponed un- 
til June ; now the sheep are sheared early in May, before they 
are turned out to pasture, which saves the trouble of tagging. 
If the sheep are to be turned into the pasture before shearing 
they must be tagged ;• that is, the wool on both hind legs, from the 
roots of the tail down, should be cut off. The change of food 
from dry to green will cause the sheep to scour, and if the long 
wool is on the legs it gets very much injured in value ; the tags 
are laid aside in the wool-room until shearing, when the clean 



FABM. 868 

wool is rolled in with the fleece, the remainder put with the 
sweepings of the wool-room floor, to be sold as dirty wool. 

When the sheep are not sheared until June, they suffer from 
the heat through May, and sometimes shed their wool ; and, 
after shearing, the hot summer sun blisters the skin, and often 
checks the growth of the wool for the year. When sheared # 
early in May, they must be sheltered at night and during cold 
storms ; in a fortnight, enough new wool will have grown to de- 
fend them against any ordinary weather. 

Whether sheep should be washed before shearing is a mooted 
point : we know that a large percentage of the weight of wool 
is dirt and grease for which the buyer does not want to pay ; if 
this could be thoroughly washed out the remainder should com- 
mand a high and corresponding price. But to wash completely, 
the sheep should be soaked in warm water with potash in it, 
and then be carefully scrubbed until every vestige of dirt is 
removed. The usual practice, merely dipping the sheep ii cold 
water, or letting a stream run over them, an attendant squeezing 
the water out as fast as possible, can remove but little dirt. 
Buyers careless or ignorant pay alike for all kinds of washing, 
and of course discriminate against the good work. If wool is 
not washed, the buyer takes off a third of the weight from all 
wool alike, which is also indiscriminating and unjust. 

A sheep kept well in clean stables, with no exposure to hay- 
seed, mud, or filth, will get but little dirt into its wool, and 
whilst some sheep are full of coarse heavy yolk, properly called 
grease, others having only a light, soft oil, of course the wool 
of the latter has less waste than the former ; but if all unwashed 
fleeces are shrunk alike, the heavy wool is most profitable to the 
farmer. Sheep sheared early should never be washed, as they 
are liable to take bad colds from carrying a heavy wet fleece un- 
til it drys ; besides the rough handling which they must undergo 
is bad for them. 

Every physiological argument is against the practice, and 
nothing in its favor but the cost of the dirt to the buyer. 
When the time comes that men who buy are really good judges 
of wool they will pay for wool according to its quality, which 



864 FAEM. 

will encourage farmers to take pains to produce a really good 
article. 

The clean floor of any room or barn is selected for the shearing- 
place, and when there is no suitably clean floor, sheets or canvas 
may be spread under the sheep. As whoever reads this book 
will either be a shearer or have to employ one, it is needless for 
me to enter into any details of the process. When the fleece 
is removed the sheep is set upon its legs, its toes cut short with 
a chisel or toe-shears, and its owner's initials and its own num- 
ber are stamped in lamp-black or venetian-red on the sheep's 
hind-quarter or side as fancy may dictate. 

Sheep-breeders who wish to sell in the succeeding autumn are 
careful not to cut the wool close, but leave rather a thick cover- 
ing of wool, say one-quarter to three-quarters of an inch on the 
forehead, along the legs, and about the scrotum, wherever, in 
fact, it is desirable to have a sheep look well wooled when he is 
offered for sale. This is not a fair practice, unless the buyer is noti- 
fied, for it is impossible to judge in the autumn of the sheep's 
capacity for fleece. Ewes are not as often treated in this man- 
ner as bucks, as they are usually judged by their general appear- 
ance and lambs ; but a buck may sire many lambs, and whether 
he is worth five or five hundred dollars depends on particular 
points of merit, a thick and uniform fleece being one of the 
most important. 

Too many merino buck-lambs are raised in Vermont at pres- 
ent ; the number of breeders has largely increased, and every 
farmer hopes to sell his buck lambs or yearlings for great prices, 
and therefore, instead of converting all but the undoubtedly 
most valuable into weathers, all passable bucks are permitted to 
grow up, with the hope that some few may sell the whole lot for 
high prices ; as a consequence, they become a drug, and are peddled 
about the Western country, and often sold for a trifle at last, 
and when sold pan do very little to improve the stock of those 
who purchase them. 

As soon as the fleece is removed, the folder of the wool gath- 
ers it up in his arms, and lays it down on a large, clean table, the 
inside down : he carefully spreads it out to its full size, cleans it 



from dung and other impurities, turns over the two sides to 
meet in the middle, folds over the ends, and then doubles it all 
together, and ties it in a firm square bundle with stout twine. 
As this is rather a nice job, and must be firmly and well done 
in order that the discolored surface may all be carefully closed 
in, and the fleece be neat and white, wool-boxes have been in- 
vented into which the fleece is laid after the ends are folded up. 
String being first laid across the box, the sides of the box are 
then pressed together, compressing the wool into the smallest 
compass ; it is then tied with the strings which lay under it. A 
cheap and good box may be made as follows : Take a board, 
a, b, c. three feet long and one foot wide, 
cut it into three equal parts, and attach 
a and c to 6 by binges, then attach two 
boards same size d and e to b by hinges, 
screw two small hooks to a and c ; when 
the fleece is twice folded lay two strong 
strings lengthwise of a, b, c, and two 
across d, b, e, at equal distances. Lay 
the fleece in the box, covering the central 
part ; raise d and e to a right angle with 6, then raise a and c to 
a right angle also ; fasten the sides a and c into d and e by let- 
ting the little hooks attached to a and c drop into the notches 
made for them in d and e ; thus the whole will be held compact : 
tie the strings tight, open the box, and you have the fleece solid 
well shaped ; store the wool in a cool dry place ; cover well 
from dust. 

Merino sheep, partly owing to their thick, close wool, are but 
little troubled with ticks : such as there are will take refuge 
in the lambs as soon as they are admitted to the company of the 
old sheep after shearing. In a week they will be all in the lambs, 
and may theu be all killed by dipping the lambs into a decoction 
of tobacco, which may be made by steeping " five pounds of 
tobacco to every one hundred lambs in hot water until the tea 
becomes strong enough to kill a tick as soon as it is immersed : 
or three pounds of white powdered arsenic are dissolved in six 
gallons boiling water, to which add forty gallons of cold water ; " 



866 FABM. 

in either case stir the solution, and immerse the whole lamb in it, 
saving the eyes, nose, and mouth. Keep it in the water long 
enough to soak the wool ; then take it out and set it on a grating 
over the tub to drain ; one dose will kill the vermin ; it is a good 
plan to dip the old sheep in the same manner, as additional 
security. 

When the ewes are sheared, their number, weight, and quality 
of fleece, and quality of lamb should be entered in the Sheep Re- 
gister, that we may know in the fall to what kind of bucks the 
ewes should be bred. Ewes vary very much in their qualities ; 
and by carefully noting the variations, we may increase or dimin- 
ish any given characteristics by using bucks of like or unlike 
peculiarities. Vermont farmers often carry their ewes many 
miles, and divide their flocks amongst several different bucks, 
and are exceedingly particular as to the merits of the animals 
they use. 

When the sheep are sheared, marked, and dipped, they are 
turned into pastures, where they are expected to range during 
summer. In some convenient place set a box, with some tar in 
its bottom, into which sprinkle salt and a little sulphur ; or put 
in it only a lump of rock-salt and a little sulphur, so that the 
sheep may lick it as often as they wish ; or salt them a little 
every week. Sheep will do very well in good pastures where 
there is no water, as they get the dew in the morning and eve- 
ning feeding, and the juices of vegetation reduce their thirst ; but 
water is very grateful to them, and they thrive better if they can 
get it. 

With the exception of salting the sheep and occasionally tar- 
ring their noses, they are left, to themselves until August, when 
the lambs are separated from the ewes, leaving with the lambs 
one or two dry ewes, or cossets, to keep them tame, and teach 
them to follow the shepherd. The lambs should be turned into 
the best pasture which can be given them, and far enough from 
their mothers not to hear them calling. In a fortnight they will 
have ceased to miss the mothers' milk, on which they have, of 
course, depended but little for some weeks. After the lambs are 
taken away, the ewes should be carefully watched lest their bags 



FARM. 867 

swell : when they do, bathe the bag with warm water, and grease 
it, and draw a little milk out ; they will then soon dry up. 

As the feed on the hill-pastures gets short, move them on to 
the after-grass in the meadows. If the grass is very rank, let 
them stay at first only long enough to fill themselves with it, and 
then drive them back to the hill until their stomachs become ac- 
customed to the new food, and their eagerness for it abates, 
when they may be left on the meadows until winter. It is 
very desirable throughout the season to change the sheep from 
one pasture to another ; they improve more rapidly if their pas- 
tures are frequently changed, thereby being able to get a greater 
variety of food. 

When the lambs are taken off the ewes is the usual time for 
looking over the flock, and drafting out by themselves the inferior 
animals, and the fat sheep which are to be sold during the fall. 
About the 10th October, if the ewes have not got fat since lambing, 
give them a little grain daily up to the time of buck-service, and for 
a week after. They are more sure to conceive and give their 
foetus a vigorous start if they are themselves in good condition. 
The 20th October is time enough to begin to serve the ewes : a good 
adult buck will serve one hundred and fifty to two hundred ewes 
at the rate of Ave or six a day without harm, if he is well man- 
aged. He should be fed well, and only allowed to serve the ewes 
once ; as the ewes come in heat at different times, the flock must 
be examined every day ; and the quickest and best method is to 
put the ewes in a pen, connected by a door with a pen or room 
in which the buck is. Let them in one at a time, and as soon 
as they have been served, or prove not in heat, remove them ; if 
served, mark them on one side with the day of the month, and 
record it in your register against the ewe's number. In this way 
you can examine a flock of ninety ewes in an hour easily, and 
save all the hurry, bustle, and injury to the ewes which is liable 
to occur when the buck is turned in to the entire flock : the ewes 
should be returned to the buck until the seventeenth day after 
service, as they will come about again within that period if they 
have failed to conceive the first time. 

During the summer, the bucks must be kept away from the 



868 FARM. 

ewes ; if the bucks run together, they will fight more or less, but 
gradually get used to each other, and the weaker decline fighting 
with the stronger animals. About a month before their working 
season commences, begin to feed the bucks grain, half a pint a 
day, and increase until you give a quart of corn and oats mixed, 
with plenty good hay and fresh water. When serving-time is 
over, gradually discontinue the grain to the minimum which will 
keep him vigorous : good hay and a few roots during winter will 
be sufficient without grain. 

After the middle of September, careful farmers house their sheep 
every night, and take them in whenever there is a prospect of contin- 
uous or severe rain. This practice may be carried too far, and 
the sheep's vigor be diminished by too much sheltering : they are 
able to contend with any reasonable weather ; and unless one 
wishes to sell his sheep, and fears that rains will wash the wool, 
removing the yolk, and make the wool look dry and towy on 
the ends, he had better leave his sheep out during all moderate 
weather until winter. Carefully-sheltered sheep get to look 
almost black ; the oil in the wool collects dust and dirt on the out- 
side of the fleece and crusts it over, so that some very oily sheep 
would seem to have been painted with lamp-black ; but when 
they are painted or rubbed with lamp-black to impart an artificial 
blackness, it is apparent upon careful examination ; for, however 
severe rains a sheep may have been in, an oily sheep will be sure 
to show it under the belly and legs, and in all sheltered spots be- 
tween the wrinkles, whilst no amount of blacking can make 
those places greasy. 

I have described the year's management of a flock of merino 
sheep ; but there would be no material difference if they were 
mutton and long-wool sheep. I have entered rather lengthily 
into the merits of the merino, because it is the best known, and 
because I believe that over the immense plains of the South and 
West, where the carcass is of little value, they will prove the 
most profitable. But there is unquestionably a field open to long- 
wool and mutton sheep of no less importance in the thickly set- 
tled parts of the country. Whether Leicester, Cotswold, South- 
down, Oxfordshire, or Flemish sheep are to be the source from 



FARM. 869 

which the American mutton-sheep will arise, time will show ; 
but nothing is clearer than that, whoever can produce a sheep 
which will come early to maturity, yielding lambs which will 
weigh eight to ten pounds to the quarter, and sheep fifteen to 
twenty-five pounds to the quarter, which is hardy, a good worker, 
adapted to our rough hills and briery pastures, will realize as 
great profits as Mr. Hammond, and will find an immense sale 
for his stock. 

There are several gentlemen now engaged in the business, with 
various success. Most of them are too rich to feel the acute in- 
terest in the subject which makes a man keenly alive to all the 
considerations which affect stock-raising. Not by any means' 
every man who loves animals and keeps them is competent 
even to begin to raise an improved breed of any kind : it re- 
quires a peculiar quickness to see and appreciate the good and 
bad points of animals ; a readiness to remember how each ani- 
mal he has bred resembled or differed from the rest ; a power of 
combining facts connected with his own and others' breeding, 
and deducing from them the theories which can be followed to a 
successful conclusion. 

The man who is to make an improved breed of sheep will 
very likely know nothing else : he will see sheep, think sheep, 
dream sheep. They will be always present in his mind ; and 
such a man will yet be found to produce the American-mutton 
sheep, and he will reap a golden reward. 

An improver of foreign sheep, in adapting them to America, 
will find many unexpected obstacles, in climate, soil, and food ; 
and when he has overcome them all, he will very likely have an 
animal widely differing from the parent stock. The merino- 
breeders, .after having attained great excellence, thought they 
could, perhaps, get on faster by importing new and superior ani- 
mals from Spain ; and several competent persons went to Spain 
and other European countries to examine the flocks in their na- 
tive localities, ready to pay any price for first-rate stock ; but no 
importations were made which were equal tft the sheep already 
here. This seemed strange, and unaccountable upon any other 

theory than that the sheep had deteriorated in Europe. 

72* 



870 FARM. 

Some of the Spanish breeders claimed that the French inva- 
sion had broken up the flocks, mixing varieties; and that, 
since that invasion, no breeders had taken sufficient care to re- 
store their animals by careful management. I do not believe 
that this is the cause of the apparent depreciation. Our best 
farmers are satisfied that their sheep can be much more surely 
improved by keeping them in small flocks, and will divide even 
fifty sheep into three or four flocks, when they have room. By 
this plan, each sheep gets a better chance at the food than when 
many are pushing at the same time. The shepherd can easily 
study each individual, learn its defects, and decide how to breed 
to improve its progeny. During the season, each sheep is 
studied carefully, and defective animals sold ; but in Spain, the 
flocks vary from hundreds to thousands, owned by a few rich 
men, and managed by hired shepherds. Although the best men 
are got for shepherds that can be hired, no hired man can be ex- 
pected to take the care of his master's sheep, and feel the intense 
interest in improving them that he would feel in his own, where 
every improvement would give him money and reputation. 

If a few extra sheep were to be imported from the best of the 
Spanish flocks, and divided amongst men like the Atwoods, 
Humphreys, Hammonds, Spragues, Buels, Griswolds, and Camp- 
bells, who have improved the American merino, in another 
forty years there would be sheep derived from them so greatly 
in advance of the imported progenitors, that they would seem to 
have been of an inferior variety, could they be compared with 
their descendants. 

Improvement in stock-raising in America is the most promis- 
ing and profitable business to which any farmer can turn, and 
will prove a surer mine of wealth and fame than the gold, coal, 
oil, and copper-mines, which seem to our farmers to be the short 
and tempting roads to prosperity. 



CHAPTER Vni. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

In the first edition of " Country Life," I have discussed very 
fully the advantages of living in tfre country, the beauty we may 
find there, the principles which should govern us in selecting our 
homes, and arranging them afterwards ; but I said little or noth- 
ing about cities. It might seem that cities were to be denied 
all participation in natural beauty because they are the places in 
which men live for the convenience of business and social inter- 
course ; but this would be a very narrow view of the subject. I 
believe every city offers abundant opportunity, if it is well im- 
proved, for the cultivation of flowers and flowering-plants ; and 
often, in their parks and public gardens, may be found the finest 
opportunities for producing beauty with earth, grass, and trees. 

As I propose to devote some space to this branch of the sub- 
ject, I will first draw the reader's attention to some of the promi- 
nent defects in the present treatment of public grounds in cities ; 
and, as I am best acquainted with Boston, I shall apply my criti- 
cism to that city, conscious that what is true of one is applicable 
to all. 

The necessity of large and frequent open places in cities to 
promote the health of their inhabitants is universally admitted ; 
and when land is set aside for such purposes, it has always been 
considered proper to plant it with trees ; but hitherto very little 
care has been taken that such plantations should be made with 
any other view than to furnish abundant shade. It has been 
taken for granted that a variety of trees will not flourish in cities ; 
and, therefore, the plantation is always of the same kind, and of 
very few varieties. Elms, lindens, horse-chestnuts, and latterly 
maples, are planted in endless repetition ; and either indolence 
or ignorance prevents any earnest attempt being made to plant 

871 



872 ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

the many other forest trees, some of which are more beautiful, 
and less liable to the ravages of insects and premature decay. 

Let us consider, first, the Boston Common, a very undulat- 
ing and beautiful surface, of about fifty acres, with several hills 
of considerable elevation. Nature seems to have given man a 
chance here to produce something beautiful ; and, according to the 
reverential enthusiasm of generations of Bostonians and New 
Englanders, man has done so. But, in truth, man has done noth- 
ing towards improving this beautiful surface. Regardless of the 
undulations which imperatively demand that the foot-paths shall 
follow the hollows, or gently wind up the hills, every path was 
carried as straight as the compass could run it, careless of how 
or where it should strike the hills, or cut the valleys. If such 
straightness came awry to a valley, and made an awkward hole, 
the surveyor ruthlessly filled up the valley, and destroyed its un- 
dulatory beauty. 

The lesson that Nature teaches us, that the cattle practise, that 
is the foundation of the river's pliant power, has been neglected : 
the crookedness of Boston streets, which are a real inconvenience 
to traffic, are shamed by the straightness of the walks and paths 
over the broad field which has been preserved for the health and 
beauty of the city. 

The broad, straight malls, with their double rows of trees, were 
well enough : their stately formality bordering the noisy streets 
seems to bring us by gentle gradation into the presence of the 
quiet beauty of the Common itself; but with the malls, the de- 
mand for straightness and formality ceased. When we look at 
the surface, and see how by planting the trees in groups on the 
hillrtops and sides, winding the paths around, rather than forcing 
them over the undulations, we might have broad lawns and open 
grassy play-grounds, ornamented by trees and shrubs, which, 
well placed, would have made the surface appear still more diver- 
sified, all now sacrificed to the straight paths which have been 
cut across it, each defended by rows of lindens or maples, like 
so many grenadiers on guard, we feel that man has thrown away 
the whole to take a part. 

The plea of convenience does not weigh in the argument, be- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 873 

cause we all know that a curve is no shorter when it stands upon 
its diameter, as a base, than when it lies on its side. Paths, 
which would have wound their way through the hollows, gently 
ascending the hills at the easiest angle, would have been as short 
as those which now go straight from point to point, and would 
have cost less and have granted opportunities for skilful planting 
now gone forever. 

The ignorance or carelessness which made these paths has 
been farther exhibited in the plantation, which is mainly composed 
of three species of trees, the elms, maples, and lindens ; and 
lest these trees might really be too beautiful, the city causes their 
stems to be yearly scraped and painted with a filthy mud-wash 
which removes all the color and variety of the lichens from their 
trunks. 

No one can deny that the tops of the elms in their dignity and 
grace, with their beautiful tracery of branch and twig against the 
sky, are truly beautiful. The foliage of the maples and lindens 
is very refreshing in the hot summer days, and the dullest person 
must feel real pleasure in seeing on some bright spring or sum- 
mer evening, the gay children, happy people, bright sky, blue 
water, golden yellow grass, rich green foliage of the Common ; 
but all this is only a part of what might have been, and should 
teach us the more loudly to condemn those, who, from ignorance 
or design, have mutilated the beautiful pleasure-ground we might 
have had. 

When the artistic world is startled by the discovery of some 
grand old Torso, or fragment of Grecian sculpture which has 
lain under the dust and ruin of ages, but which, when exhumed, 
shows us how great was its conception and execution, do you 
think it is admired the more because it is mutilated? Far from 
it. The artistic soul enjoys the beauty which remains whilst 
mourning the mutilation. 

This should be the sentiment with which we should think of 
such wasted opportunities as the Common. Why are elms, ma- 
ples, and lindens planted row upon row? Because they are the 
only trees worthy our love and admiration ? Beautiful as the 
elm is, the Venus of the forest, shady as the linden with its 



874 OBMAKSNTAL GBOUND8. 

sugar-loaf of foliage, glowing and grand the maple with its re- 
dundant wealth of autumnal colors, like a painter's palette, on 
which are gathered together the yellow and red of the brilliant 
summer sun, jet stationed in rows, with no grouping of one 
against the other, lending and receiving no new glories by har- 
mony and contrast, they are deprived of the largest part of their 
power and beauty. 

What have the oaks done, so sturdy of limb, rich in leaf, 
grand in outline, earnest in autumnal color, to be shut out, espe- 
cially when they do not bring worms to spin their gay cocoons, 
filling the air with swinging acrobats, whose crowning feat is to 
catch on the bonnet and hat and dress of the passer-by ? Why 
have we no knowledge of the beeches, whose sumptuous green of 
summer is turned to a still more sumptuous yellow in the au- 
tumn, making our northern hills golden for many weeks? 

Have the richly clad hickories, whose irregular and graceful 
branches and lithe ascending stems are of surpassing beauty, com- 
mitted the deadly sin, and been therefore excluded ? Is the met 
that they bear nuts to condemn them to the orchard, and exclude 
them from the ornamental grounds ? 

For what faults of omission or commission are the feathery 
pines, the picturesque and kingly hemlocks, the graceful Nor- 
way spruce, shut out from the sight of Boston men, women, and 
children ? 

There are thousands in that city, whose only idea of evergreen 
is the trimming material brought in to decorate the churches at 
Christmas, or to make the Christmas-tree ; who, if they think 
of a tree at all in winter, think of it only as stripped of its 
clothing of leaves to offer as little resistance as possible to the 
wintry wind. Transport them into one of our pine or hemlock 
forests in winter, where the thick branches sift the sharp cold 
out of the winter wind, and they would think they had been the 
subjects of a conjurer's hocus-pocus. 

Men who plant public grounds are often ignorant themselves 
of what trees are ; they have often only seen to know by name, 
the elms, maples, and lindens of city streets, and when success- 
ful business or politics have placed them in authority to dictate 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 875 

as to the laying out of public grounds, they naturally desire the 
only thing they know about. It is a positive wrong committed 
on the public, who cannot go out into the country to learn its 
beauties, and see the trees and shrubs. 

One who plants for the public ought to be true and generous 
to his employer, and instead of wilfully deceiving him as to what 
he might have, giving only the easiest got and commonest varie- 
ties, he should try to bring together a good collection of the 
beautiful inhabitants of our woods. There is no reason why we 
should not plant every variety of trees on a large area, like the 
Common. The narrowness of the street, the too great shade of 
the houses, which may be quoted to prevent the planting of some 
kinds of trees in the streets of cities, are no argument here, 
where every tree and shrub of New England would grow and 
thrive. 

South of the Common is an area of about twenty-five acres, 
called the Public Garden. This garden is a vigorous effort of 
an enthusiastic person in the wrong direction. The original 
surface was a dead level, much of it made from deposits of city 
rubbish. Conscious of the mistakes made in the Common, where 
the irregular and graceful had been sacrificed to the straight, 
and not comprehending that under some circumstances the sur- 
face demands straight lines as imperatively as in another curves, 
the designer of the improvements, taking before him a piece of 
paper, the surveyor's plan of the surface, laid out thereon a 
series of ovals* circles, and curves, meaning nothing, leading no- 
where, the paths serving rather as a bewilderment and aggrava- 
tion than either a convenience or pleasing effect. 

The reader of the previous pages of this book needs not be told 
here, that I believe in sometimes treating level surfaces with 
graceful lines, curves, and irregularities ; but I have laid down as 
an axiomatic principle, that curved lines on level surfaces are 
justified only by real or apparent necessity. 

If you have no hill or variety of surface to cause you to bend 
out of the straight line, a group of trees or shrubs, a building or 
flower-bed, some real obstruction, should be created to give a real 
as well as apparent reason for the deflection. 



876 . ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

But in this design no such idea prevailed. An oval or a circle, 
or some geometrical figure, looked nicely on paper, and they 
were therefore transferred to the ground ; what was to be done 
with them afterward seems to have had nothing to do with their 
first conception. 

Nor is there any harmony of detail. This design could only 
be excused by the dead level of a Dutch tea-garden, where petty 
conceits and surprises, paths leading nowhere or ending in a 
seat or bower, a place to be enriched by frequent flower-beds and 
architectural ornaments, and to have all the peculiar elaborate 
details of the artificial French school, is considered the height 
of perfection. Into this plan has been introduced, apparently 
borrowed from some design for an irregular surface, several mod- 
erate alterations of the surface, and a pond of regular irregularity 
of outline, which serves to utterly distort it, and destroy what 
merit it originally possessed. 

As has been said, it is perfectly legitimate to wish to introduce 
a variety into a level surface. Taking the dead level as a base, 
laying out a pond of such shape as seemed best, giving the shore 
variety by raising it in some places, leaving it natural in others, 
carrying the raised portions back into little hills or undulations 
to give a surface, around and amongst which paths might wind 
giving new charms by the variety produced, would have been 
legitimate ; but the heterogenous combinations of the Public Gar- 
den are inexcusable and very ugly. The Common is great in 
spite of its abuses : the grandeur of the surface will make itself 
conspicuous, and compels admiration however much it has 
been distorted ; but in the Public Garden the deformity cannot 
be concealed, and is as incongruous as the fool's motley over a 
parson's surplice. 

When we leave the arrangement of the surface, and come to 
the planting, there is no improvement, the previous faults sink 
into insignificance. The first excuse of the changes of surface 
from a level is to get places on which to raise plantations above 
the usual surface, by which, with well-selected groups and varie- 
ties of trees, we may increase, indefinitely, the real variation. By 
taking advantage of each change, however small, we may pro- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 877 

duce an effect perfectly incomprehensible to the uneducated mind ; 
but in this garden no such thing has been done : indeed, the word 
plantation has no meaning when applied to it. In spring and 
summer there are gaj flowers and bright grass, and some very 
common trees and shrubs, some roses, some azalias, some, I 
should say much, of many things arranged with no more eye to 
harmony, contrast, and combination than if they had been 
sprinkled from a pepper-pot. 

Nor is the poverty of design compensated by richness and va- 
riety of material. I have never seen so many ordinary, cheap, 
and poor shrubs and flowers got together, excepting in a nursery ; 
the shrubs are mostly lilacs, snow-balls, syringas, common roses 
like the boursault, spireas, and herbaceous plants of the most 
ordinary character. In summer, there are rich bedding-plants 
and a profusion of bloom ; but the general material used for 
planting seems to have been bought at a miscellaneous auction, 
because it was cheap ; and having been purchased, it must be 
used somewhere, and, alas, here was the spot ! 

I would not deny the beauty of color anywhere ; it is as glo- 
rious and enchanting as music ; and nature will be beautiful in 
spite of man's efforts to prevent. The delicate or rich green of 
the newly-shaven grass, the sparkling water, the rich masses of 
salvia, geranium, heliotrope, and verbena, make the Public Gar- 
den an attraction not to be lost from the Boston world* and they 
do much to reconcile one to its obvious failure ; but, granting 
it all, it is a pitiable apology for what might have been. 

This area, which will be surrounded by the finest architectural 
dwellings money can produce, should have been so arranged with 
groups of trees, conservatories, rich gardens, open play-grounds, 
fountains, basins, shrubberies, that it could have rivalled any for- 
eign garden of its size, and been a spot to which a Bostonian 
might gladly take an acknowledged master of the art of land- 
scape gardening, sure of his approbation. 

Stretching away from the Public Garden is the broad Com- 
monwealth Avenue, of sufficient width to permit a continuous 
line of planting in its centre. In the original plan for the ave- 
nue, it was proposed to introduce through its entire length a se- 

74 



878 m ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

ries of little openings, — I hardly know what specific name to 
give them. To add still more to its glory, the houses are all to 
be set back from the very broad side-walks, leaving large areas 
in front of every house. 

The avenue is partially completed ; and although, so far as it 
is made, it is planted in the usual way, there ( is still left an op- 
portunity for a grand treatment. Of course, every one can sug- 
gest that these centres should have some plantation ; but to be 
content with introducing a double row of trees, as is now pro- 
posed, through its length, is partially throwing away a chance for 
one of the finest effects. 

Let the avenue be treated as a whole, the sides as well as the 
centre ; although each one of the areas is small, plant them ar- 
tistically. Supposing, for instance, that it has been decided that 
in the centre we are to have nothing but trees ; introduce, in suc- 
cessive groups, all the trees which will endure our climate. In 
the first space a group of pines, next hemlocks, alone or mixed 
with other trees of the same genus, or the Norway spruce ; then 
a group of maples, then oaks, then, beech and walnut, then a 
combined group of several varieties, then the many members of 
the ash family, and so on. Or, better still, devote some of these 
spaces to shrubbery ; bring in groups of shrubs among the trees, 
thus breaking the monotony of trees, and again combining 
shrubs and flowers, and at another place shrubs, flowers, and 
trees. 

At the same time, carry the hand of culture and nature's dec- 
orations to the areas in front of the houses, which afford, as I 
shall show, a field for a great deal of pleasure and beauty. 

The Public Garden should have been laid out and planted so 
as to produce the utmost beauty the space could afford, and then 
have been connected by the grand avenue with some large park, 
yet to be made in the new land near Roxbury, where there could 
be a large basin of water kept ever fresh by the Charles River 
or the changing tide. 

Treated in some such manner, the beauty would increase 
each year ; and, eventually, the combined avenue, trees, shrubs, 
flowers, parks, and buildings would have become a splendid 
ornament to the city and the surrounding country. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 879 

•« 

The question of how best to treat our cities is not to be passed 
by carelessly ; we are planting towns and embryo cities every 
year, and their future health and prosperity, as well as beauty, 
will depend on their being laid out and planted in the best man- 
ner. It is worth our while to consider the question at once, 
both in the old cities of the land and in the villages which are 
springing up everywhere, some of which are certain, in time, to 
rival the most populous cities of the present day. 



CHAPTER IX. 



CITY ABEAS. 



I will now give some directions for the treatment of small 
city areas, the few feet in front of houses which are often catch- 
alls for scraps of paper and rags, and tenanted by a little rank 
or half-starved grass. A primary objection to the culture of 
plants and flowers in cities, is, that they will be broken and 
stolen by thieves ; but, first, I do not believe they would be sto- 
len ; second, this is not a treatise on police management. 

<The directions I shall give are based on the belief that what 
is worth doing at all is worth doing well, and that we know 
that any kind of horticulture is attended by difficulties. Who- 
ever wishes to have his house adorned by flowers, shrubs, and 
vines, must realize at commencement, that he will have a great 
deal of trouble and labor. You cannot thrust a few bushes into 
the ground, set a vine against the wall, attach a plant-box to a 
window, and then give yourself no further concern about them. 
When you have planted you must cultivate, prune, train, and 
protect, sure, if you do not, that all previous* preparation was 
wasted, and that, if you do, you will have a great amount of real 
pleasure. 

Again, my directions will not apply indifferently to all kinds and 
styles of houses ; a small and unpretending house, such as the 
thousand live in, may be clothed with shrubs, flowers, and vines, it 
mattering but little how they are carried over the surface. A 
costly house, with rich architectural finish and ornaments, should 
be very carefully approached, and only those plants applied to it 
which will harmonize with its style of architecture ; and, what- 
ever we plant must be carefully pruned and trained, each year, 
so as to remain subordinate to the architecture. 

860 



CITY AREAS. 881 

But for expensive houses and rich owners I shall give no di- 
rections ; if they want aid, and the presence of natural beauty, 
they can afford to get advice when they need it, and thus they 
make sure to produce a harmonious result. Nor can I give, at 
the same time, directions for the shaded and sunny sides of the 
same street ; houses erected on the south side must treat their 
front areas differently from those on the north side of the street. 
Moreover, the space allotted to houses differs in every street ; 
in some they are flush with the side-walk, no space being left 
even for a vine ; iu others there will be ten, iu others twenty 
feet of area, and I shall not give details for all ; but this, I 
think, may be assumed, that what is possible for the area of 
twenty by thirty is proportionately so for ten by Ihirty, and 
when there is but a foot or two, although the resident must 
dispense with the flowers and shrubs, he can have the vines, and 
plant boxes that his more lucky neighbor uses as a part of hia 
improve meat. 

In the few square feet of a city area we must not strive for 
grand effects, but must rest content with pleasant color, fragrance, 
and variety. Though in a small way, in our beds of bulbs and 
bedding-plants, even in cities we can get contrasts and harmonies 
of color. 

It may seem, when one examines the plans I have subjoined, 
that I have overcrowded the space ; but I expect that constant 
care and pruning will keep all the 
plants and shrubs in their proper 
bounds, and many of the largest 
shrubs, as the cydonia japouica, 
could be trained directly on the 
fence, like an espaliered fruit ; its 
thorns would deter any thief from 
putting his hand through to gather 
the flowers, and its rich coral blos- 
soms in the spring, and dark green 
leaves in summer, would be very 
beautiful. A, B, represents corner of fence and stem of cy- 
donia. 



882 CITY ARRAS. 

In order to get the utmost beauty from the city street, several 
persons living in contiguous houses should combine together to 
arrange and plant their areas according to a definite plan, one 
person giving especial predominance to roses, another to azalias, 
another to flower-beds of bedding-plants, another to evergreen 
shrubs. In the spring, one devoting most space to hyacinths, 
another to tulips ; and later, one to the gladiolus, another to Japan 
lilies, another to Gape bulbs, another to verbenas or petunias. 
The small plots planted in this way would be like the flower-beds 
of a large garden, and though the different owners would have no 
right to gather each other's flowers, they would share the plea- 
sure of seeing them, and could try experiments and produce a 
variety of plants utterly beyond the efforts of one or even ten 
persons. 

The same method should prevail in treating the house-front or 
facade ; let one plant against the house be running roses, another 
honeysuckles or woodbine (Virginia creeper), or bignonia, <fec. 

If we extend this kind of improvement to its utmost capacity, 
by attaching hanging boxes of plants to the windows of the houses, 
we could make many a city street more varied and beautiful than 
any country village. 

If trees are wanted, plant them in the same manner ; take care 
not to put the trees so near as to over-shade the flowers and shrubs, 
and select such a variety as the space permits, which would give 
the street a great interest to strangers and residents, and teach the 
dwellers in cities, how varied and beautiful our fresh trees are. 

I will give a detailed treatment for a large area, — where I sup- 
pose the houses to have a front of thirty feet, and to be thirty feet 
back from the street, with walks leading to the house six feet 
wide ; the fences separating the different houses and areas are to 
be used as trellises for various vines, as well as the front fences 
and the wire fences separating each walk from the area belonging 
to the same house. 



CITY ABIA8. 



888 



Flower-bed bulbs. — 1, snowdrops; 2, crown 
Imperial; 3, polyanthus ; 4, crocus, all around the 
edge; 5, iris; 6, jonquils; 7, narcissus; 8, hya- 
cinth; n vase for trailing plants; n basket for 
trailing plants ; flowers to follow bulbs, edge with 
gazanla splendens, centre with Mexican sage, ver- 
benas next edge, then heliotrope and geranium; ^ 
10, climbing roses; ll,oydoniajaponica; 12, ivy on 
fence; 13, mahonia; 14, standard rose; 15, trail- 
ing rose; 16, donble flowering almond; 17, spirea 
pnxnifolia; 18, perpetual roses; 19, woodbine; 
20, oobea scandens ; 21, rose. 







<& t 



Shrubs for B: 1, spirea punifolia; 2, forsythia 
viridlssima; 3, spirea gracilis; 4, rosa acacia; 
6, cletbra; 0, azalea pontioa; 7, perpetual roses; 
8, black alder; 9, woodbine; 10, tropeolnm; 11, 
wlgela rosea ; 13, woodbine ; 14, trumpet creeper ; g 
n vase. Slower beds of B and C : crown impe- 
rial next fence ; then narcissus and jonquil, small 
beds ; hyacinths and sundries ; large circle, edge 
with polyanthus; then tulips and white and Ja- 
pan lilies against fence. 



Shrubs toC: 1, prairie rose; 2, honeysuckle; 
3, honeysuckle; 4, privet; 5, roses; 6, mahonia; 
7, shrubby cinquefoil; 8, azalea pontic* ; 9, cy- 
donia; 10, phlox; 11, Roxbury wax work; 12, O 
honeysuckle; 13, Dutchman's pipe. Between C 
and D, on fence: 1, rose; 2, honeysuckle; 5, 
woodbine; 6, ivy. 



D, after bulbs : Centre with salvia, next scar- 
let geranium, heliotrope, points with verbena, 
gazanla, nierembcrgia and mignonette; bulbs, 1, 
snowdrop j 2, polyanthus; 3, jonquil; 4, crocus ; 5, 
hyacinth ; 0, tulips ; 7, crown imperial, after these 
in place or with bedding plants use Japan lilies, q 
gladiolus, amaryllis, and other Cape bulbs ; 8, 
honeysuckle; 9, roses (running); 10, wigelea ; 11, 
woodbine; 12, clematis; 13, oobea scandens and 
woodbine ; 14, roses ; 15, azalea pontioa ; 10, daph- 
ne mezereon; 17, black alder; 18, snow ball ; 19, 
clethra; 20, English privet ; 21, roses ; 22, spirea ; 
23, tropeolnm. 




CITY ABKA8. 



Many of the evergreen shrubs, and 
1 1 particularly the new variegated kinds, 
' would be especially interesting to city 
■■ amateurs, but I should recommend 
| them rather for the shady sides of the 
street ; and I fully believe that on the 
shady side, the most beautiful rhodo- 
dendrons and, kalmias, and where the 
space would permit, piuus cembra, ilex 
laurifolia, American holly, androme- 
das, juniper, would live and thrive. As 
city gardening is a novelty, there 
would be constant opportunity for ex- 
periment, and we should undoubtedly 
find many shrubs doing just as well in 
the city as the country ; whilst others, 
of which we had reason to expect bet- 
ter results, would die, unable to contend 
with the dust, smoke, and confined air. 

1, perpetual roses; 2, Dolly; 3, Mack alder; t, 
euonymui; S, privet; 8, kalmli; 7, clelhn; 8, 
wlgelea. ™ei; (t, mulia pontic!; 10, nun; 11, 
iplres prunlfolia; 12, dentil* acabn; 13, rOM 
acacia; 14, oydonla (on fenoe) ; 15, spiri'ji carrm- 
boiBj IB, standard rosea ; 17, daphne meierton ; 
18, fonytbl* vlrialniimu ; 10, shruUby St. Jglius- 

moad ; 23, furhsia; 23, taoHdropa. 

In this plan, by turning the paths 
out of the right line, we are enabled 
to get masses of shrubs together, which 
would be very effective. We might 
introduce some of the small ever- 
greens, like pin us eembra. or deciduous 
trees, like chionanthns (the fringe 
tree), cornus florida, haleeia (ailve* 
bell), cranberry tree, the snow balL, 
magnolias, and others. 



CITY ARBAS. 



885 



I bave given, first, two arrangements of large areas ; now let us 
turn to the front of the house, where the vines are to be trained 
over the surface. To relieve them from the heated radiation from 
the bricks, a simple wire-trellis like that shown in the cut should 

. -^__ be made, covering the brick- 

\ work, and raised four or six 

\ inches from its surface. The 

construction of the trellis is very 



L 





I 






fe^l 








simple: drive in between the 
bricks, eye-bolts, or pins of stout 
wire, say one-eighth of an inch in 
diameter, sharpened at one end 
to drive in, and turned into an 
eye or loop at the other ; drive 
one at each side of the lower 
window, and one between, just 
at the edge- of the underpin- 
ning; drive again at same rela- 
tive positions over the windows 
of each story. Then take a 
wire about one-tenth of an inch 
in diameter, and fasten to the top eye-bolt; bring it down through 
the others, and fasten at the bottom; you can cross wires as 
often as the vines need. Paint these wires dark-brown, and they 
will be inconspicuous, and yet answer the purpose of supports to 
the vines perfectly ; and as there will be sufficient air-space be- 
tween the trellis and the wall, there will never be any danger of 
burning the foliage of the vines. The only danger to apprehend 
is the over-stimulating effects of the spring sun, which, as I have 
before described, causes the destruction of our partly acclimated 
plants, by starting the sap too early, which freezes, thus bursting 
the sap-vessels when the cold returns before the mild weather is 
fully established. 

Under each alternate window of the different stories, suspend a 
box, which may be made as graceful in shape as you please, of two- 
inch plank, or of common boards ; the box to be supported by 
clamps from the window-sills, or brackets of wrought iron, let in 



to the brick-work. Such plant-boxes should be about two feet deep 
and wide, and as much longer 
than the window as one can 
easily reach from either aide. 

Fill six inches of the box- 
es with broken crock or 
stones for drainage ; then 
three inches of broken bones 
and pieces of leather; over < 
this fill a rich, light loam ; to t 
make eure of its quality, it '. 
would be well to prepare a i 
compost similar to that de- 
scribed on page 10 of this 
book. In such a box, we 

can grow what we please, — plant along its front edge, verbenas, 
niererabergia, gilia, mignonette, maurandyia, and let them hang 
down in the air, showing their beauty of form and color, as a 
fringe to the box. We might commence the season with a collec- 
tion of spring bulbs, to be followed by Cape bulbs, like i»ia, 
cyclamen, amaryllis, sparaxis, homeria, nerine, tuberose. All 
these bulbs should hare been started in some greenhouse, and be 
set in the boxes after the spring bulbs have gone. 

In lieu of the bulbs, use the bedding-plants or annuals ; set at 
the corner of the boxes, tropeolum, or convolvulus, to cling to 
the nearest wires. Be careful to select only those climbing- 
plants which will run of their own free will when once they are 
attached to the vine, as it would be troublesome, and to a careless 
person dangerous, to get out by ladder, or painter's window-jack, 
to train the vines. 

It needs but a feeble imagination to summon up the rich pic- 
ture such a house would present to the eye of the owner or of a 
stranger. Were there no back area to be improved, we could get 
from the front, end, or side of a house a great deal of satisfac- 
tion and a large quantity of flowers. 

I will now introduce a plan for a series of houses, with but ton 
feet front area, the length of the house, or say two hundred 
square feet. 



CITY AK1A8. 



887 




*t* et 



Croons, on the edge ; 2, groups of polyanthus ; 3, jonquil and narcissus ; 
4, hyacinth ; 5, tulips ; 6, snowdrops ; 7, cydonla, on fence ; 8, plants on 
staging in pots ; 10, rose; 11, rose and honeysuckle. The corners next 
the house could be occupied by staging for plants carried as high as the 
owner wishes. 




1, roses ; 2, honeysuckle, on fence ; 8, privet, on fenoe ; 4, forsythia 
yiridlssima, on fenoe } 5, mahonia. In a very small area, large shrubs, un- 
less well confined to the fenoe, would crowd, and lose their beauty be- 
low, only showing leaves and flowers on the top. In the crowded space, 
dirt and rubbish would collect. 



1, snowdrops; 2, oobea scanden; 3, black alder, trained against fence ; 
4, deutzia scabra variegata, on fenoe; 5, trumpet creeper; 0, sweet 
\r. briar, on fenoe; 7, oobea scandens; 8, Dutchman's pipe; 9, lilies of the 
~t'-v^ valley. Stand of flowers against house with fire steps; verbena, roses, 
■fflftJTS geranium, heliotrope, fuchsia. 





1, roses ; 2, spirea prunifolia ; 3, privet on fence : 4, clethra ; 5, rose 
acacia ; 6, crocus, on the edge ; 7, polyanthus, in groups ; 8, hyacinths ; 9 
tulips; 10, rose; 11, honeysuckle. If the area is depressed much below 
sidewalk, bedding plants or annuals might suffer from want of sun, in 
which case, a raised flower-bed should be made to bring them up to 
thought. 



888 



CITY ABMAB. 



But there are areas not more than fourteen feet square, and 
some smaller ; the greater the depth in proportion to the length 
the better the chance for planting. 

I give one now fourteen by fourteen, with walk to house four- 
teen by five feet. 

> 4 Flower bed, bulbs followed by bulbs or bedding plants : 

* 1, ivy; 2, woodbine; 3, honeysuckle and bignonia; 4, 
j rose*; 5, tropeolum; 6, honeysuckle; 7, woodbine; 6, 

* roses; 9, azollAs; 10, deutzia gracilis; 13, dwarf wigeHa 
3 rosea; 14, symphoria zacemosa; 15, dielytra spectaMHs, 

rarlegata; 16, variegated tartarian honeysuckle; 17, 
standard rose; 18, mahonia; 10, kalmia; 20, roses on 
fence. 




For areas on the shaded side of the street, the treatment must 
be entirely different : we can have snow-drops and lily of the 
valley ; and probably some of the other bulbs, like the hyacinths, 
will blossom pretty well ; but the want^f sun wpuld be a fatal ob- 
jection to most flowers. 

But shade would be no objection to evergreen and variegated 
shrubs ; of these, many varieties have been introduced to notice 
during the last five years, and the shaded side would be especially 
favorable for ivy. You must not expect the blossoms of any 
plants, even evergreens, to be as brilliant in the shade ; but the 
foliage will be very rich, for it is not the severe winter cold that 
kills our evergreens, but the sun of spring and late winter. On 
the contrary, it is the sun of summer which kills many of the 
leaves of the variegated leaved shrubs. The white places in the 
leaf are practically diseased portions from which the chlorophyl 
or coloring matter is absent ; when these leaves are exposed to 
the hot sun's rays, they are burned up. 

I venture into this part of the subject with diffidence, because 
this experiment has never been carefully tried, although analogy 
is decidedly in its favor ; for in the country we always select the 
north sides of hedges, groups of trees, and the like, as the best 
positions for both these evergreens and variegated plants. 

All the variegated shrubs require only good, well-drained com- 
mon garden soil. The evergreens do better for having incorpo- 



CITY AREAS. v 889 

rated into the soil lumps and fine particles of peat ; but both should 
be well drained. 



V*TE& 





5 5 



y^v^ epc^--^ pl4n for 8nftded 8lde of ■treet: 1, ivy; 2, 

* ^;p%43SI woodbine; 3, ivy; 4, snowdrops; 6, lilies of 

the valley; 6, mahonias; 7, rhododendron; 8, 

rhodora canadensis; 9, kalmia; 10, golden 

box, evergreen euonymus (half hardy, oovered 

In winter) j 12, sweedish juniper; 13, rhodo- 

2^4/> dendron; 14, ilex laarifolia; 15, silver box; 

f^ii^A^ 17, kalmia. Wherever I have given kalmia, I 



4 



*^^^J&5i>r.j[ 



mean K. latifolia. 



In these several plans I have used the same scale, twenty feet 
to the inch. I have planted the shrubs too thickly, were they to 
be left unthinned, as they would ultimately crowd and injure 
each other ; but I have set them thickly to get an early effect, 
believing that the planter will have sufficient sense to cut out and 
prune closely before the plants begin to crowd each other. 

I have been thus precise and full in my treatment of the front 
areas, because they are generally most open to the sun ; but I do 
not forget the back of the house, where there is generally much 
the largest space. The back areas are very often deeply shaded 
by high fences and surrounding houses. Whatever room there is 
should be improved. On the sunny sides, I should prepare the 
soil thoroughly, and plant grape-vines and fruit on espaliers. In 
the ground at the roots of the trees and vines, we may have bulbs 
and flowers ; but the necessity of using most of the back area for 
household purposes generally forbids the introduction of shrub- 
bery. 

Mr. E. McCleary Copeland, the Librarian of the Massachusetts 

Historical Society, has shown triumphantly, that great success in 

special culture may be had in the city. He has cultivated for 

many years in a small back yard, hyacinths so successfully as to 

take the first premiums offered by that society. These beautiful 

flowers were grown in a grape-border, an Isabella grape occupying 

the wall above it; the hyacinths being replaced, when their time 

of bloom had passed, by Japan lilies and other bulbous plants, 

and later by pot-plants, which had passed the winter in the house. 

In a very confined area not nearly as large as the one first shown, 
75 



890 CITY ABBAfl. 

Mr. Copeland has raised great quantities of flowers, and, as he says, 
" plenty of grapes." 

In plan on p. 884, 1 omit the planting of bulbs, aa from what I 
hare said any one can combine for himself; also, I have made 
the plan more simple by using the same numbers to designate 
the same plant on the four plana. 

There is no need for me to dwell any longer on this part of 
my subject. I have given details in the earlier portions of this 
book which will readily teach whoever wants to improve his 
back-yard, how to do it ; on the shady side we can only hope to 
succeed, as on the south sides of the streets, by planting those 
things which do not require sun. 

Let us now go up on to the roof of the house, not for the view, 
bnt to Bee the opportunity it affords for greenhouse, conserva- 
tory, or even garden-culture. I do not mean the roof of the six 
or seven-story house, but of the projecting L, and the lower parts 
of the house. 

Many city houses have a long, low shed, and often a two-story 
elevation over the whole or a part of the back yard and kitchen, 
which may be used for garden or green-house ; in the latter case, 
heat might be supplied from the kitchen-range, or the furnace. 
In as small space as twenty by fifteen feet, we could have a col- 
lection of plants, a cold grapery, or a cold peach-house, that 
would be perfectly satisfactory ; or, if we do not want to be 
■troubled with glass, make the roof strong enough, and lay out a 
garden there. 

Suppose a, B to be the slanting roof of such projection ; b, c the 
front of the house to the 
yard. Carry up the posts 
A, D, and lay a strong floor 
1 over tbe area it, d ; then 
< plank up the sides d, c, e, 
f, eighteen inches or two 
feet deep ; lay a bottom of 
coarse materials and bro- 
ken bones for drainage, and 
fill with compost. Any 
thing will grow here, and 



CITY ABBAS. 891 

you can make the house-top as perfect a flower or vegetable gar- 
den, so far as its size permits, as if it were on the ground. I 
know there are objections : first, the weight on the walls of the 
house, — strengthen them ; weight and trouble of snow in win- 
ter, — shovel it off; trouble in getting up the materials and wa- 
tering, — generally it would be watered by the rain, and the 
materials once carried up would be there forever. 

Many of the far-famed hanging-gardens of Babylon were, 
doubtless, made in this way ; and it requires but a feeble effort 
of the imagination to see the beautiful addition such gardens 
would be to city houses. 

I do not give minute details for this arrangement, because the 
simplicity of the garden is obvious ; and when any one wishes to 
have a greenhouse, or other planthouse, he would naturally get 
advice at the time, as the peculiar shape of each roof, and its 
exposure, would require special arrangement. 



CHAPTER X. 



HOW TO PLANT TREES. 



I have spoken of the overcrowding of city areas, and in the 
earlier part of the book (see pp. 760, 763), of the evils of over- 
crowding plantations in the country, but I think, before leaving 
the subject, a little more might be said ; for there h really no 
more serious mistake made in ornamental planting. 

Whether one plants for himself or employs a landscape-gar- 
dener, he wants to get as immediate an effect as possible. Life 
is short, and very uncertain for all ; and when a man has reached 
the age of forty to forty-five years, and but few Americans are 
ready to make a country home at an earlier age, his chances of life 
are less than those of younger men. But take heart ! seven years 
will make a plantation where the trees will be from fifteen to 
twenty feet high : good trees, well planted, grow very rapidly ; 
and, if the trees have been well combined with shrubs, in seven 
years we may convert an open field into a thicket. 

Few men believe, when they plant trees, that they shall be un- 
willing to cut them down at a suitable time ; but when the tree 
we have loved and protected gets lusty and well developed, it 
seems almost a sacrilege to cut it down. Nor can many men 
realize how much beauty and protection may be got from well- 
grown and well-selected shrubs ; they have always associated the 
idea of trees and country together, and they do not understand a 
plantation which does not give shade. 

Shade is very desirable in hot, summer days, and we should be 
careful to provide it somewhere near the house ; but a little will 
answer for comfort, and, having secured that, we should arrange 
the remainder of our plantation with a strict regard to the beauty 
we can produce. 

892 



HOW TO PLANT TREES. 893 

Many persons, who have made plantations within the last ten 
years, and who thoroughly love and understand trees, and who 
thought their trees were far enough apart, are already compelled to 
cut them down, or cut off the leading shoots to delay their growth, 
and devise all kinds of plans to prevent the trees they do not re- 
move from injuring each other. 

This difficulty could be avoided in small places, by planting 
only the low-growing trees and tree-like shrubs, such as 



EVERGREEN SHRUBS. 

Rhododendron, — varieties. 

Kalmia, — latifolia. 

Ilex, — laurifolia, scottica. 

Mahonia, — aquilegifolia. 

Arbor Vim:, — varieties. 

Juniper, — varieties. 

Box, — varieties. 

Privet, — varieties. 

Andromeda, — floribunda. 

Cotoneaster, — buxifolia, microphylla, margniata. 



VARIEGATED EVERGREENS. 

Box. 

Privet. 

Taxus, — argentea, aurea, and variegata. 

Thuja, — variegata. 

Euonymus, — japonica, half hardy (could be covered with straw). 



VARIEGATED DECIDUOUS SHRUBS. 

Wiegelia, — rosea nana, dwarf, two to three feet high. 
Lonicera, — brachypoda reticulata, climber, six to ten feet. 
Philadelphia, — variegatus, six feet 
Stmphoria, — racemoea, four feet 
Deutzia, — gracilis, six inches to two feet. 

Sambucus, — aurea (golden elder), eight feet ; argentea (silver), 
three feet. 



894 HOW TO PLANT TUBES. 

Deciduous shrubs, — see lists on pp. 766, 767. 
Then we might use for the low-growing evergreen trees, — 

Pintjs, — cembra. 

Arbok Vita, — varieties (some new and fine). 

Cryptomeria, — generally tender. 

Araucaria, — in shade. 

Abies, — alba nana. 

Biota, — pendula (weeping Arbor Vita), nepaulensis, tartarica, and 

Siberian. 
Cephalotaxus, — drupacea, also Irish yew. 
Juniperus, — suecica, communis, hibernica, sqnamata (scaly leaved), 

very fine. 
Torre ya, — taxifolia (rather large). 

With these shrubs and low-growing trees, we should not need 
the larger trees, either evergreen or deciduous. I do not wish 
to be understood to discourage all tree-planting in small places, 
because there is a pleasure in trees which shrubs cannot give. 
Nor do I think that trees are satisfactory only when grown sin- 
gly, and as specimen trees. I admire them as much in the 
grove, and well combined in groups, as single. Indeed, I think 
it is only by grouping, so as to get their mutual effects, that we 
can ever understand the full beauty aud capacity of trees and 
shrubs. 

There are many persons who only appreciate a tree when it is 
grown like a specimen-plant in the conservatory, perfectly de- 
veloped and balanced. In order to produce such trees, much 
more room must be allowed to each, and we must indulge our- 
selves with less in quantity or fewer varieties. -I like variety as 
well as perfection, and should prefer to crowd a little, if I must 
choose between perfect trees and shrubs and few varieties, and 
groups with less perfect specimens. 

The important point when we commence is, whether we shall 
plant for ourselves or posterity. If for the latter, arrange your 
plan so as to leave ample room between the trees as they are to 
ultimately stand, and fill in with such trees and shrubs as you 
will be willing to cut out when their duty as nurses is at an end. 

76* 



HOW TO PLANT TRESS. 895 

If we plant for ourselves, decide whether we want specimen trees 
and shrubs, or close groups and immediate effects. If the 
former, we must wait patiently for the effect, which will come 
with time, and compel ourselves to cut down whatever grows too 
fast, and destroys the harmony of the plan we have laid out. 

Latterly, great interest has been felt in growing in the green- 
house and in the open grounds plants with variegated leaves. 
It is a foreign taste, especially developed in Japan : the Japanese 
have several hundred varieties. The variegation is an unhealthy 
absence of the coloring matter of the leaf, and is curious rather 
than pretty ; very often such leaves cannot stand the intensity of 
our summer sun ; but when they will bear our climate, they are 
interesting as varieties ; and some of them should be planted in 
all ornamental grounds. 

The following list of variegated trees (of both kinds), as well 
as the list of variegated evergreen and deciduous shrubs, last 
given, was made by Mr. Francis Park man, a most suc- 
cessful horticulturist, of Jamaica Plain, near Boston, who has 
found those he names hardy in his grounds, and they will doubt- 
less prove hardy throughout our Northern States. The spotty 
foliage of these plants, valuable only as curiosities, will not per- 
mit them to be used in masses ; they should always be grown 
with plenty of room, as specimen plants. 

VARIEGATED DECIDUOUS TBEE8. 

Horse-chestnut, — sixty feet high. 

Oak, — forty feet high. 

Willow, — ten feet high. 

Acer Negundo, — twenty feet high. 

Gingo, — (Salisburia) twenty to thirty feet, rare. 

Ash. 

variegated evergreen trees. 

Cupressus, — lawsoniana. 
Thuja, — occidentals. 
Thuja, — dolobrata. 
Chamacyparis. 
Retinospera, — aurea, argentea. 



896 HOW TO PLANT TRUES. 

The growing interest in horticulture will insure that all new 
varieties will be tried, where one's grounds are extensive, and 
there is room for experiments ; but for our thousand country 
homes they are of little value. 

The commoner varieties of trees and shrubs are more accessible 
and cheaper, and are the best for general culture ; no newly dis- 
covered trees have yet trenched on the merits of the white pine 
and hemlock, the oaks, maples, elms, and hickories of America; 
and whoever plants the known and loved trees and shrubs of our 
native land, giving them good soil to grow in, and good care in 
their infancy, need not envy his neighbors their foreign or varie- 
gated trees. He can produce effects with them which will make 
his home very beautiful, and capable of enduring the most care- 
ful criticism. 

The secret of successful landscape-gardening lies in thoroughly 
understanding the various shrubs and trees which we can plant 
in any given place, and the effect they will produce alone and 
combined in groups. No matter how skilful one may be as an 
architect, how careful and successful as an engineer, unless he 
thoroughly knows and loves natural beauty, and understands how 
to produce it, he cannot hope to arrange a country place success- 
fully. Too many persons suppose that how and where roads and 
paths ' are directed, flower-beds marked out, and kitchen-gardens 
planted, are the essential parts of laying out a place : these are 
essential as the canvas, the frame over which it is stretched, the 
palette, the brush, are the essentials of landscape-painting; the 
success of the landscape painted depends on the knowledge and 
use of color in the painter, combined with skill in drawing. 

Inness, with a few rapid dashes of his brush, owing to his won- 
derful knowledge of color and memory of effects he has seen in 
nature, combined with a peculiar instinctive knowledge of the 
results of certain combinations of form and color, will make a pic- 
ture of great beauty and lasting value in a few hours ; other men 
may use his brushes, his palette, canvas, and colors, and be withal 
splendid draughtsmen, and yet work hours and days, and fail not 
only to produce a decent result, but even be utterly unable to 
copy successfully Inness's picture, which they have taken as a 



HOW TO PLANT TREES. 897 

study. On pp. 581 to 587 of this book, I have briefly sketched 
the elements which should enter into the composition of one who 
would make landscape-gardening his profession ; and the experi- 
ence of many years convinces me that I did not set the standard 
too high. 

Landscape-gardening in America will never attain the position 
it deserves ; for most of the work a landscape-gardener may do 
will be ruined by the neglect or caprice of the owner, the accidents 
of time, or the necessities of a growing population, which in a 
few years compel the destruction of places laid out with cost 
and skill. Where there are so many accidents, and when as a 
necessity much time must elapse before under the most favorable 
circumstances the perfected design can be realized, it is obvious 
that men of other professions, who lay out grounds to put money 
in their purses when their own business will not support them, 
and who are in no wise inspired with the enthusiasm of the art, 
may get good reputations ; for they will probably make few mis- 
takes in the skeleton of paths, roads, and gardens which are per- 
manent, and the world will be but slowly educated up to the ap- 
preciation of true success in ornamental planting, which is the 
real test of the landscape-gardener. 

Men will be employed to lay out grounds, not so much because 
they are thoroughly acquainted with the subject as because they 
are at hand, or cheap. Occasionally there will be a man who 
knows what a truly beautiful country place, park, or public gar- 
den is, and who will give the real artist a chance to produce the 
best result nature will permit ; and for such rare opportunities 
the landscape-gardener must wait, content in the mean while to 
do whatever he can to improve the public taste. 



896 OBAPE-C0LTURE. 

The following letter from Mr. R. A. Grider was received too 
late to be noticed in the " Essay on Grape-culture," and as it seems 
to give valuable directions and advice for these parts of the coun- 
try where the thrip is an annoyance, I have subjoined it, copying 
it in full. 

Bethlehem, Pa., Feb. 25, 1806. 
To Robert Morris Copeland, Winchester, Mass. 

Dear Sir, — Fruit-growers suffer much from bugs, worms, and other 
insects, but experience teaches that the larger-sized bugs, although de- 
structive, are not as much to be dreaded as the small sized, which almost 
always appear in great numbers, while the former are comparatively 
few ; the larger can be readily found and destroyed, but the smaller are 
not easily found, and are harder to extirpate. I need not give you a 
long description of losses caused by the thrip or grape-vine hopper, an 
insect of minute size, which is. found on the young shoots of the vine, 
early in spring, when they first begin to sprout They deposit their 
eggs on the young leaves and shoots. When first born, they can 
scarcely be seen without a magnifying glass, but soon legs appear and 
the perfect insect comes forth. 

Whenever an egg hatches, it- leaves a wound caused by the eating of 
the insect ; the wound turns rose color, then purple, brown, and finally 
black. As the vine expands in growth, so does the wound in like pro- 
portion, and, although one wound does but little damage, many wounds 
cause great damage, as they not only destroy the growing crop, but 
sometimes every young shoot over acres in extent ; and, of course, de- 
stroy the wood for the coming season, leaving the vines covered at first 
with festering sores, and then looking as if fire had passed, and left all 
black and desolate. Such is the experience we have had of that insig- 
nificant little hopper, known by different names. 

We made many experiments ere we learned how to destroy the eggs, 
but now find it perfectly easy to do so. To destroy the eggs, powder 
them with air-slacked lime, which can be readily done in early sum- 
mer before the foliage has expanded. This should be frequently done 
early in the morning, while the dew is on. After the leaves expand to 
about one-half their size, provide free-burning torches, and, when the 
weather is warm and the evening dark, let two persons, — one to agi- 
ate the vine, and one to carry the torch, — visit the vineyard ; one 
shakes the vine, the other passes the torch under and about it, the in- 
sects start as soon as disturbed, and fly into the fire. Care must be 
taken not to heat the foliage, but it should be passed to and fro ; if this 



GRAPE-CULTURE. 899 

is done a few times, the tbrip mil be destroyed. They gain great head- 
way only in the early part of the season ; later in the season their ene- 
mies thin them out 

Many excellent practical fruit-growers believe that the black spots on 
the vine are caused by the sun's rays acting on drops of water after a 
shower, and, being condensed by the drops, burn the surface on which 
they rest. 

Charlton, in his work on grape-culture, examined the subject, and ac- 
counts for the spots by the drops of water, which form a lens and burn 
the shoots ; but as the wounds are found on the lower part of the shoot, 
this theory does not answer ; as the rays of the sun cannot be concen- 
trated there, the sun is not the cause. . 

I have stated these facts at meetings of fruit-growers, and have asked 

them to test the matter and correct me, if wrong, and have been so far 

confirmed. 

I am, yours respectfully, 

R. A. Grider. 



INDEX. 



Acacia*, their characteristics, 716. Where to 
plant, 717. 

Account*, farm, onght to be kept, 668. 

Achimenes, the, 06, 227, 298, 728. 

Acorns, when to plant, 146. 

Adlumla Cirrhosa, 467. 

Aeration, 96, 97. 

Ageratum, description of, 668. 

Agriculture, the processes of, an endless chain, 
627. Processes of, time to commence varies 
with latitude, 1, 2 Treatises on, when of a 
general character difficult to prepare, 2. ' 

Air, currents of, beneficial, 99, 100. Full of 
elements of vegetable life, 99. Currents of, 
remove insects, and add to the efficiency of 
the syringe, 99. 

Alderney cattle, the, 890, 891. 

Alexanders, 134. 

Alisanders, 651. 

Alkalis, some one predominates in each soil, 
626. 

Amaranths, globe, 8. 

Amaryllis, the, 181, 466. 

Ammonia, 624. Sources of, 600. Amount 
constant in the soil. 600. Amount of, sup- 
plied to an acre by the air, 60S. Amount 
of, which re-evaporates, 604. Much of, In 
rain-water runs into the drains, 604. Chem- 
ical constitution of, 497. Is the source of 
nitrogen in plants, 497. Carbonate of, how 
affected by Plaster of Paris, charcoal, etc., 
492. Its action, 614, 526. 

Ammoniacal gas, favorable to vegetation, 866, 
866. 

Anagallis, 668. 

Analysis of Soils, 406, 496, 497; of Beans, 
498; of Clover, 498; of Oats, 498; of Rye, 
498; of Potatoes, 498; of Turnips, 498; of I 
Wheat. 498 ; of Crops, by Bousslngault and , 
Way, 499. Any one, which neglects an im- 
portant element, worthless, 601; of human \ 
uriue, 504, 605; of cows' urine, 605: of 
soils, is of but little practical value, 50 < ; of 
sheep, cow, and horse manure, 512, 618, 
514 ; of barnyard manure, 515 ; of peat, 615, 
516 ; of wood-aphes, 522. 

Anemone, ISO, 402. 654. How to cultivate, 
465. Treatment of, when out of blofsom, 682. 

Animals, bones and blood of, are dependent 
on plants for their mineral constituents, 
494. Care of in cold weather, 218. 

Annuals, seeds of often sown broadcast with 
guano, 462, 468. Which grow well in 
masses, 463. Seeds of, when to sow, 637. 
Depth at which to sow seeds of, 587. How 
to sow seeds of, 588. Arrangement of, in 
flower-garden, 688. Lists of, 644, 546, 546, 
547. 

Antirrhinum, description of, 664. How to 
propagate, 665. 



Apples, varieties of, 89, 142. Harvesting. 89, 
140, 141. How to prune, 205, 206. Barrels 
. of, to be kept closed, 268. Trees, how grafted 
when without wax, 661. Windfalls de- 
stroyed by pigs, 666. Generally keep best 
when come from uncultivated trees, 736. 
Which ripen in August, 787. 

Apricots, under glass, 804, 806, 806, 807, 626. 
Ripening of, 809. On espaliers, 88. 

Aquarium, 249-256. How to make, 268. How 
to manage, 252-255. 

Arbor Vitas, where to use, 718. 

Arboretum, how to plant, 759, 760. 

Arbors, rustic, when to be introduced, 796. 

Arbors, in gardens, when to use, 802. 

Artichokes, 406, 407. 661. 734. Chard, 88, 
182. Jerusalem, 407, 408 

Artificial water, treatment of, 222. 

Ash, its character, 92. Mountain, its charac- 
teristics, 714. How to plant, 714. 

Ashes, of wood, valuable as manure, 622. 
Salts contained in them essential to vegeta- 
tion, 624. 

Asparagus, autumnal treatment of, 88.' Seeds 
of, 199. Bed, where to place, 198. Bed, 
how to make, 199. For forcing. 188. - How 
to treat in September, 88. How to force, 
862, 858, 403. How to treat in May, 550. 
Do not cut for too long a time, 624. For 
seed, 784. 

Association an aid in agricultural improve- 
ments, 377. 

Atmosphere, cooling of, 176. Laws which 
govern the. 177. 

Auriculas, 28, 467, 654. now to cultivate, 
464. WTien in blossom, treatment of, 630. 
When out of blossom, treatment of, 681. 
Repotting of, 668. Treatment of when re- 
potted, 668. 8oil for. 659. 

Avenue, how to make, 81, 88. 759. 

Ayreshire cattle, the. 890, 891. 

Azalias, 14, 166, 228, 293, 396 How to culti- 
vate, 229, 280. To be cut back in May, 529, 
630. 

Banks, how to make, 86, 87. 

Bark, uses of, 419, 420. Outer, a protection 
from cold, 420 ; of plants^varies with the 
species and locality. 421. Washes, no bene- 
fit to, 421. Lichens and moss a benefit to, 
422, 423. 

Barley, kinds of, 488. Time for sowing, 483, 
486. Amount of seed to the acre, 486. 

Barns, for the farm, their location. 888. Our 
description of, 148, 149, 455. 

Beans, 33. Lima and Sieva, treatment of, 
664. Lima, how to ripen their fruit, 37, 
735 Seed, 87. Time to sow, 491. Distance 
apart of rows, 491. Seed to the acre, 491. 
Value as fodder. 491. Should be cracked 
before fed out, 491. 



902 



INDEX. 



Beautiful, effect of the, on the mind, 278. 274, 
275. The, its best exhibitions unexpected 
and fleeting, 642. The. definition and de- 
scription of, 779, 780, 781, 782. The, may 
be created in sublime scenery, but not the 
reverse, 781. 

Beauty, its universality, 161-168, 171. 172, 835- 

846. Its cultivation profitable, 264, 265. 
Bedding plants, 25, 26, 28, 591. Roots of, to 

be well spread out before planting, 591. 
Watering of, important, 591. To be care- 
fully trained, 654. 

Beeches, their characteristics, 712. Best 
adapted to rocky ledges and bill-sides, 713. 

Beef, when to cure, 26*. 

Beets, when to plant, 552. Time to sow, 642. 
Sugar, their value and culture, why hither- 
to neglected, 752. 

Birches, their characteristics, 718. 

Birds, the amount of insects consumed by. In 
the course of the year, 478. Crows, 478. 

Blackberries, 188. How to increase the quan- 
tity of fruit, 686. 

Blossoms of plantspreserved by being shaded 
from the sun, 582. 

Boiler, our, 128. How to calculate rise of, 
122. Surface for, how to calculate, 122. 

Book farming, not to be condemned, 879, 799. 

Bones, as manure, profit of, 447. 

Borecole, 418. 

Borers, how to destroy, 800. 

Boussixgaclt, advocate for the use of ammo* 
nia,493. 

Box, edgings, time to clip, 725. 

Bridges, rustic, when to be Introduced, 795, 

Broccoli, 38, 188, 875, 418, 560. 

Brooks, secondary water, 782. The most diffi- 
cult kind of artificial water to treat, 796. 
The same principles apply to, as to other 
artificial water. 796. Beware of the serpen- 
tine. 799. Our, 799. 

Buckthorn, for hedge. 145, 768. 

Buds, blossom, and leaf, how to distinguish, 
806. 

Budding, 728. Time to commence, 686. 
Similar to grafting, 728. Time for, depends 
upon the condition of the bud and of the 
stock. 728. Usual time for, 728. All buds 
not fit for use, 728, 729. Treatment 
of the bud for insertion. 729. Rapidity 
essential to the success of the operation, 
780. Knife for, description of, 780. De- 
scription of the process of, 780, 731. How 
to ascertain whether the bud has taken, 
782. Buds inserted in the summer, 782. 
An easy means of increasing the number 
and variety of our cultivated plants, 782. 
Can only be successful when similar species 
are budded upon each ottfr, 782. 

Bugs, injurious to vines. 624. 

Bulbs. 106, 581, 588. How to cultivate, 107. 
Varieties of, 107. Compost for, 107. How 
to pot, 107. Indication of growing season, 
107. Pots for, 107. Treatment of, 9, 164, 

847. When to plant beds, 25, 26, 726 
Depth at which to plant, 26. Succession of 
bloom, 26. Proper distance apart to set 
different varieties, 26. From seeds, how to 
propagate, 225, 226. Utter on beds to be 



removed in April, 461. Fall flowering of. 
591. Care of, in November, 180. Winter 
oultu&e of, 181. 

Butter, how to make. 688. How to preserve 
a long time. 634. Best of salt for, very im- 
portant, 684. Mrs. Winchester's method of 
making, 683, 684. 

Buttonwoods, their characteristics, 715. 
Where to plant, 715. 

Cactus, 224. 

Cabbages, 82, 87, 186. 408, 475, 550, 784. How 
to preserve, 187. Early, treatment of, 686. 
Fall, treatment of, 182. improved by trans- 
planting, 624, 625. 

Calceolarias, not good betiding plants. 6©, 
668. 

Callas, 8, 166, 

Calves, 681. 

Camelias, 8, 18, 14, 96, 166, 896, 897, 582, 587. 
How to cultivate. 171, 228, 229, 293. 

Candytuft, how to be used. 662. 

Cankerworms, 142, 564, 416. Traps for, 416, 
417. 

Capital, want of, the cause of our inferior 
culture, 488. 

Caraways, for seed, 562. 

Carbonic acid, amount of supplied to the land 
by the air, 600. 

Carbonaceous matter, in excess, injurious, 
610. 

Carbon, in manure, of but little value, 518. 

Cardoons, 83, 186, 187, 376, 403, 406, 409, 551, 
628. 

Carnations, 8, 26, 95, 166, 227, 28, 181. 288, 
631. Varieties of. 656. Kinds of, 655. 
Time to propagate, 665. How to propagate, 
655. Soil for, 666. How to force, 656. 
How to insure perfect flowers, 666. Wire- 
worms, destructive to, 666. Preparation 
of the flower for exhibition, 666. A per- 
fect one, 667. layers of, treatment of, 657. 

Carrots, time to sow, 642. Soil for, 643. 

Cat briars, for hedge, 768. 

Caterpillars, to be destroyed in the sprirg, 
471. How to destroy, 471, 664. Birds their 
greatest enemy, 472. 

Cattle, breeds of, 890. Time requisite to pro- 
duce a new breed. 889. Differences between 
large and small, 890 Circumstances which 
render fattening profitable, 429, 480. Neat 
not profitable to the feeder through their 
earlier years, 481. How to fatten profitably, 
481. Indications in an animal easy to fit- 
ten, 481. How fattened at Sedllngton, 
460. 

Cauliflowers, 182, 875. 408. How to preserve, 
187,188. Glasses for. 414. Perfect flowers, 
indications of. 414, 650, 686. 

Cedar, red, its characteristics, 719. Its beauty, 
719. Its winter beauty. 720. Where to 
plant, 719, 720. 

Celery, how to house, 88, 408, 684, 186, 187. 
When to plant, 658. How to cultivate, 
625. 

Cesspools, 67. How to arrange, 746. All 
waste water of the family to be conduofed 
into, 746. Material* to be mixed with waste 
water. 746. 

Cheese, how to make, 635. How to treat, 686. 
Coloring of, 686. Room for, where located, 



J 



INDEX* 



903 



686. Profitable, If well made, 686. Many 
methods lor making, 686. 

Cherries. 208. Pruning of. 209. Under glass, 
804. 806, 806, 807. 806, 809. How to pro- 
tect from birds, 626. 

Chestnuts, when to plant, 146 Their charac- 
teristics, 713 

Chickens, in the shell, never try to release, 

687. Treatment of. when young, 687. 683. 
Early and late broods most profitable, 640. 

Chicory, for forcing, 88, 188. Its Talne, 747 

Its culture. 747. 
Chrysanthemums, 8, 28, 96, 96, 227, 629, 

Churn, kind of, 688. 

Cinerarias, 8, 96, 166, 293 Description of, 
663. 

Climate, differences of. 2. 

Clays, how benefited by drainage, 65. 

Clover, how to make, 44. 8eed for, 44, 46. 
White, produced by wood-ashes, 470. Bed. 
produced by a top-dressing of sulphate of 
lime, 470 Seed to bo sown in April, 482 
Amount of seed to be sown, 482. 

Cockspnr, thorn, 768. 

Cold, to be especially provided against in glass 
houses in April, 467, 468. Grapery, 178 
Work in, 23 Pits, 227. 

Color, how to produce effects of, in the flower 
garden, 639, 648. 644, 666. Nice gradations 
of. not possible in the flower-garden, 648, 
644 A love of, to be cultivated, 640. 

Compost. 10, 182 Materials for, 615, 623, 
786. 740. Seventy per cent of water, 617. 

Conservatory, what constitutes a, 18. Work 
in. 111, 112, 228 How to make beds in, 21, 
112. Management of. 18. 19, 118, 114 
Plan of, 18-20. Cost of, 21. Work in. in 
January, 294. Work in, in February, 851 
Work in, in March, 896 Work in, in April, 
466. Work in, in May, 538. Sashes to be 
removed, 688* Pits in, time to renew and 
repair. 728. Work in, in August, 723 
Work in, in Sept., 18-20. In Oct., 112-114. 
In Not., 171. In Dec , 228-266. 

Conservative pit, how to make, 165, 166, 168, 
169, 286, 286. Plants in, how to treat, 166, 
167,170,238. How to heat, 23S, 239. Cost 
of. 240. Fuel for, 240. Treatment of. in 
May. 681. Time to plan and start, 687, 
728- 

Corn salad, 186. 

Corn, for seed, 37 How to harvest, 160, 161, 
162. Different methods of harvesting, 161, 
162. Treatment of. in June, 641. 

Corn, Indian, its culture, 488. Amount of 
seed to the acre, 488. Manuring of, as a 
means of laying down land to grass, 488. 
Amount of seed to the acre, 488. Time for 
sowing, 488. 489. Time to plant, 676. 

Corn, sweet, for table, when to plant, 663 

Corydalls, 467. 

Country places, the important features in 
their laying out, 647. 

Courage, the want of, prevents New England 
fanners from improving their farms, 446. 

Covers, for greenhouses, 108. 

Cows. 46. Treatment of, and food for, 163, 
680. Manure of, 163. 154. New-milch, 
t reatm ent of, 164. How to select (Guenon's 



Treatise), 681. Calves unpromising, 681. 
How to raise calves economically, 681, 682. 
Heard's method, 632. 

Cranberries, how to cultivate, 740. 

Cream, to make butter, should not be very 
sour, 633. Temperature of, for churning, 
688. Vessels for keeping in, 684. 

Cresses, 188, 411. 

Crocus, autumnal, 466. (See Bulbs.) 

Crocks, 11. 

Crops, which of them to be marketed, 168. 
The value of, for cultivation, to be deter- 
mined by the net profit. 436 The profits 
of, greatly Increased by drainage, 488. 
Ratio of profit the same in America as Eng- 
land, 448. Mineral elements of, exist m 
all soils. 528. Those obtained, by careful 
culture, without manuring, 626. 

Crows. (See Birds.) 

Cucumbers, 628. In May, 660, 664. Beds 
for, 862. 

Cultivation, relative to latitude, 2. 

Cuphea, description of. 668. 

Curd, how to treat, 686. 

Currants, fell treatment of, 188. Where to 
plant, 198. How to improve the berries, 
684 Time to prune and propagate, 688. 
How to propagate, 688. Never plant suck- 
ers of, 688. Much benefited by thorough 
pruning, 688. New varieties of, 689. One 
of the most profitable of fruits, 689. Bushes 
should be reset often, 669. 

Cuttings, 688. List of plants so propagated, 

288, 289, 290, 291, 292. How to transport, 

289, 292. How to learn whether they have 
struck, 285. Time to make, 896, 728. For 
fall stock of plants, time to make, 668. Of 
Chinese hollyhock and double scarlet lych- 
nis, 726. Pot and repot.726. 

Cut branches, cement for, 209. 

Cyclamen. 8, 166, 227. 

Cyprus, 716. 

Dahlias, summer treatment of, 669. Cultiva- 
tion of, 26. 181, 466. 466. 

Daisies, 96, 186. 227, 457. 682. 

Dams, bulk, 786. Elevation, 784. Character, 
790 Material, 785, 790. 791, 792. Arti- 
ficial, 794. 796. 

Dandelions, 410. 

Daphne, 18, 228, 231. 

Day-lily, 467. 

Devon cattle, 890. 892. 

Dew, origin of, 176, 176, 177. 

Dibbles, 34. 

Dielytra, 293. 466. 

Dill, 184. 

Disagreeable objects, how to conceal, 828. 

Drainage, important in the cultivation of 
plants, 10 Universally applicable, 67. 
Profit from, 447. Doubles the value of 
land, 489. Relative value, 487. 

Draining, 47-66. 486. Reasons for. 48, 49. 
Instruments for, 62. Effects of. 440. 

Drains, catch, 64, 66, 66, 68, 61. 62, 68, 67, 75, 
78,79. Depth of, 64, 68. On side hills, 60. 
Point of discharge, 768. Cost of. 64, 66. 
Time to make, 80. Tiles for, 66. V. 62. 
Discharge of water into, calculations by 
Parks and Shedd, 64, 65, 66, 67. Peat, 67. 
Open, 68. Importance of outlet, 67, 68, 



904 



IKDEX. 



488. Angle to join. 59. Blind, 62. Dls- 

Unce apart, 65, 66, 67. 
DrWe, or walk, how to make, 647. Principles 

of laying out, 647. 
Docks, treatment of, 688. 
Durham cattle, 890. 
Duxbury, Mass., land in, how to improre, 

771. 
Dwarf trees, how to make, 207, 208. 
Earth, impoverished by removing leaves, 218. 

A sponge, 10 
Edgings for beds, 201. 
Editors, agricultural, their duty, 452. 
Kgg crop, value of, 429. 
Eggplant, 656. 
Elements of plants, soluble and insoluble, 

499.500. 
Elm, form of, 91. American, beauty, 882. 

English and others, 761. How to plant, 

714. 
Endive. 88, 134, 409, 686, 734. For forcing, 

188, 876. 
English best farming. 381. 
Erica. 108, 109. 229, 687, 728 
Espaliers. 123, 124, 133. 188 How to make, 

192, 197. Fruit on, 86. 667. Varieties of 

fruit fit for, 86. 
Espaliered trees, how to prune. 627 Treat- 
ment in August, 723. Mulching, 627, 

628. 
Estate, sin of, 8. 

Euphorbias, treatment, 14, 529, 587. 
Evergreens, pruning, 43, 717, 718. Trans- 
planting. 42, 48. Shrubs, treatment in 

winter, 181, 182. 
Evaporation, cold caused by, in soil, 49, 50, 

Exotic bulbs, 631. 

Experiments, what they are, 577 . 

Fallows, 433. 484. 

Farm, 46, 47. Work in September, 44, 45; in 
October, 147; in November, 211; in De- 
cember. 266; in January, 844-846, in Feb- 
ruary, 876, in March, 429; in April, 481; 
in May. 666-, in June, 680; in July, 690; in 
August, 73S. How to select and arrange, 
886 

Farms, English, like manufactories, 448. 

Farming. American, 487; English, 446-451. 
Advantages of, 269 Profitable, 271, 272. 
In New England. 382. Value of crops. 429- 
English, applicable to America, 486. High, 
profitable, 448. English, most profitable, 
450. Profit of, 448-461. 

Farmer, what constitutes perfection of, 
378 Crops of each, important, 480 He- 
investment of profits, 446. If poor, 444. 
Our character, 445. Inertness of, 451. 
The best, 747. His education, how affected 
by surroundings. 885-346. 

Farmers' clubs, 378. 

Fattening cattle. 155. 429-438. 

Feeding cattle, 266, 432. Regularity impor- 
tant, 216. 

Fencing, 884. 

Fcering poles, 570, 

Forme Ornee. 3, 4. 

rip., 139. 203, 262, 558. 

Filberts, 133. 

Fir balsam, 717. 



Flax, value and culture of, 748, 740. 

Flow meadows, 76 

Flower-garden, in September. 25 ; In October. 
126; in November, 180: in March, 402; in 
April, 460; in May, 587: in June, 691; in 
July, 654, in August, 724 Plans for, 461 
Not too large. 468 Grass and shrubs in, 
468. How td plant. 467, 468. Pot plants 
in, 468. Its perfecfion short, 541 None 
perfect in this country. 547. Annuals re- 
moved from. 724. Seedlings of perennials 
and biennials, 724, 725. Reasons for hav- 
ing, 781. Urns and vases, 802. Fountains, 
797, 798, 799. Our plan of, 726. 727 

Flower-bed. in shrubbery, 127 How to stake 
out, 28. 29, 80, 81. Perfect one. 464. Shape 
of, 28, 29. 659-665. 

Flowers, new varieties should not supplant 
old, 462 Should be often cut, 669. How 
to arrange in bouquets and dishes, 541- 
Florists', 28. The cultivation of, conducive 
to mental culture. 282-284 

Food, influence on manure, 445. 

Fodder, green, 567. 

Forcing, house, 22, 115, 117. 178, 899, 400, 
585 When to begin, 22, 28, 874. 

Forest, planting, growth, management, and 
profit, 771-776. 

Fountains, 799-802. 

Fowls, for table, 47> Fattenirg and feeding, 
218, 267. Should lay in their house, 636. 
Setting, 687. Treatment of. iu cold weather, 
213 

Frames, cold. 167, 467. 

Fringe tree, 714. 

Fruits, on espaliers, 198, 460, 686 Trees in 
tabs, 260. Under glass, 295, 296. 

Fruit trees, in grapery, 124. Trees, how to 
dwarf, 298. Thinning of. 297, 686- Shoots, 
808 

Fruit, ripening of. underglass, 586. How to 
protect from birds, 626 Trees, time to 
bud, 780 Profits of culture, 427. Houses, 
257 261. 

Fumigation. 225, 226, 806 

Fumitory, 467. 

Fuchsia, 8. 14, 282. 293. 629, 728. 

Furrows, 671. Slice, 674. 

Garden , reserve. 647 

Gardener, landscape, 560-582. Competent, 
uncommon. 689- 

Geese, 639, 640. 

Geranium (see Pelargonium), varieties o£ 
664. 

Germination, 706. 

GNU. 227. tricolor, 661. 

Gillyflower, 8, 180, 629. 

Gladiolm, 181, 466. 

Gloxinia, 227, 298, 587, 728. 

Glasshouses. (See "Cold.") Heating, 7. 

Gooseberries, fall treatment, 188, 262. Where 
to plant, 198. How to improve. 122, 684, 
687 Time and methods to prune and 
propagate, 687, 688. Mildew, to avoid, 687. 
Best varieties, foreign and domestic, 697. 

Goslings, 689, 640. 

Grain crops, August, 741. How to sow, 748 

Drills, advantage of, 441. Winter and 

spring, 488. Importance of weeding. 489. 

• Stacks, 700. Cutting and harvesting. 702- 



INDEX* 



90S 



704. 
484. 



More exhaustive than roots to noil. 



Grape, value and culture of, 758. Varieties, 
40. List for forcing house, 818. In pots, 
118,«119, 810 Borders, 124, 126, 206, 460. 
For retarding house, varieties. 174. Garden 
culture of, 204. Trough culture of, 811, 
312. How to grow from cuttings, with sin- 
gle eye, 292, 298. How to keep, 179. For 
general planting, list of, 818. 

Grapery, 22, 119, 120, 121, 178, 256, 295, 872, 
469, 722. Description of, 119-125. Work 
in, in September, 23. Work in. in October, 
115-119. Temperature in, 872, 874, 899, 
459 Preparations for forcing, 374. Cold, 
121, 459, 585. 586. List of grapes for, 318. 
Attractive, 587. 

Grafting, wax, 209, 561. Clay tor, 559. To 
begin, 428 474. Roses and Camellias. 562. 
Herbaceous plants, time for, 563. Cleft, 
the vine, time for, 562. Scion for, 663. 
Cleft. 560. Crown. 562. Whip, 559. Sad- 
dle, 560. Shoulder, 663. 

Grass crop, value of, 429. Seed, time and 
quantity to sow, 484, 748. Seed, weeds in, 
706. For seed. 705. English, 742. How 
to lay down land to, with Indian corn, 489. 
Experiments on, with artificial manure, 
578, 579. Lawn, treatment of, in June, 
645 Best time to cut for hay, 691. Mowed, 
why it cures slowly, 692 How to sow, 748. 
Turnips with, 744. Italian rye, 748. Treat- 
ment after sowing, 744. 

Grasses, Flint's book on, 743. 

Gravel and clay, retentive power of, 54, 66. 

Green crops as manure, 99. 

Greenhouse and conservatory, plants In, how 
to group, 95. How to protect against cold, 
108, 104 In September. 6, 14; in October, 
95. 224 ; in November, 164 ; in December, 
224; in January, 280; in February, 847 ; 
in March. 895; in April, 456: in May, 52S; 
in June, 587; in July, 653: in August, 722. 
Temperature, etc., in. 108, 224, 304, 847, 
467 Plan and description of, 6-15. What 
constitutes, 116. List of plants for, 110, 
111. 

Grounds bordering on water, 776. 

Groups of trees, natural and artificial, 90-94. 
Variety in, 830, 831. Groups of trees and 
shrubs, how to make, 92, 94, 710, 761. 

Growth of plants controllable, 9 

Guano, 12. Advantages t)f, 484 ; in kitchen 
garden. 479; and disadvantages of, 493. 

Harrow, brush, 744. 

Harrowing, unscientific, 741 

Hawthorn, time to plant seeds of, 145. 

Hay and fodder to be cut, 267 ; cured 1n cock, 
44. Value as feed, compared with turnips, 
448. Importance of being well made. 694 
Ventilation, 695. Salt, 694 Time of cut- 
ting, 786. Danger of being too salt, 699 
Varieties of, 738. How preserved in Europe. 
699. Value of, dependent on time of 
cutting, 73S. Varieties of fresh and salt, 
738. Covers for, 698; description of, 696, 
696. Rakes, 693. Making, 690-705. Ma- 
chines for making. 697. Ropes, 698. Stacks, 
697-700. 

Haying, not hard work, C90. 

68* 



Heating glass houses. 7, 852, 868. Potomaise 
system of, 855. 

Heaths, 629, 630, 687. 

Hedges, 767-770 

Heliotropes. 8, 18. 620, 661. 

Hens, keep close. 321. Setting, 687. 

Herbs, treatment of, 188, 188. Place for, 200, 
201 

Hereford cattle. 890. 

Hemlock, roots, 700, 706. Characteristics of, 
718. 

Hemp culture. 748-760. 

Hyacinths, 548, 649. 

Hickory, character of the. 91, 712. 

Hill pastures for sheep, 884, 886. 

Hoeing, advantages of, 624. 

Holes for trees and shrubs, 90. 

Hollyhock, 292. Chinese, 726. 

Home spirit, 886, 887 

Honeysuckles, 144. 

Hornbeam, 761. 

Horse-chestnut, character of, 92. When to 
plant, 146. 

Horseradish, 188, 406, 561. Winter treat- 
ment. 188. How to cultivate, 200. 

Horse, Morgan, 892. 

Horticultural, processes of, time to begin 
varies* with latitude, 12. Treatises. (See 
Agriculture.) 

Hotbeds. 170, 262, 817, 403. now to make, 
848,849.350,362. Materials for, 360. Heat 
in, 851-858. Heated by water, 855 Polo- 
maise system, 356. Best, 857. Range of. 861. 
For strawberries, 362. Work in, in March, 
895; in April, 462. 

Hothouse, 17, 105. List of plants for, 110. 

Hot-water pipes, how to calculate amount 
necessary, 121, 122. 

House, location of, on small place, 319, 820. 

Hudson, Mr. John, of Castle Acre Farm, 
448. 

Humus, source of carbonic acid, 524. 

Hyacinth, 27, 180, 548. 

Hybridising, how to do, 285, 286, 287, 291, 
292. By insects, 292. 

Hydraulic rams, 799. 

Hygrometer, 174, 17G- 

Inarch, how to, 896. 

Insects, to destroy, 83. Not removed by 
scraping, 118, lrl9, 41S-424. Harmful, un- 
der glass, how to remove, 307, 308. Killed 
by wood-ashes, etc., 470. 

Iris, 466. 

Irrigation, method and benefit of, 48, 68, 69, 
77,458,702. In England, 70, 76, 77; In 
Scotland j70; in New England, 76; in Swit- 
zerland, 77. First method of, 74. 75. Sec- 
ond method of, 77. Reasons for, 69-72. 
Water of, when to apply, 482. 

Ixias, 9, 95. 

Japan lily, 227, 298, 847. 

Jessamine, Cape, 18. 

Judas tree, characteristics, where to plant, 
714. 

June, charms of, 650-652. 

Kitchen-garden, how to select, lay out, and 
make, 189-202. 268, 264 ; fruits In. 33 ; work 
in, during September, 32; in October, 182; 
November, 186; December, 262; January, 
818; March, 402; April, 475; May, 560; 



906 



INDEX. 



June, 628 jJuly, 684; August, 794. Treat- 
ment of. 182. 

Labor, price of, no argument against root 
crops. 443. 

Land, all its fertile elements not directly avail- 
able, 602. Fertile, exhausted by cropping 
without manure. 606. How to keep in good 
heart, 606 Why benefited by small amounts 
of manure, 607. Free fertile elements in, 
small in quantity, 606. Stubble and sod, 
how to plough, 6 1 8. 

Landscape gardener (see "Gardener") must 
hare executive as well as sasthetic qualities, 
681. Education never complete. 688. His 
mind like the painter's sketch book, 684. 
8errices, why costly, 684. Advice from, and 
economy of, 684, 686; should be followed 
minutely, if at all, 686- Works of, perfec- 
tion not attained for years, 686. Effect 
sought relative, 682. 

Landscape gardening, an art by itself, 681- 
688 Plans for, 646. Careful preliminary 
surveys essential to, 646. Architectural, 
inappropriate to this country, 688 As 
showing the spirit of the improver, 804. 

Lantana, 26, 96, 227, 629, 668. 

Laperousias, 9. 

Larch, European and American, their charac- 
teristics, etc.. 716. 

Laurestinus, 18. 

Lawn, how to make, 88, 89, 647-649. Care of 
in autumn. 222 Importance of manure 
to, 649. How to make permanent in a sin- 
gle year, 647-649. 

Levering, in autumn, 146. Method of, 289, 
291. Season for, 291. 

Layers, of carnation, etc., time to make, 726. 

Lea, or grass, land, suffers from cut-worms, 
487. 

Leaves, action of, 97; for bedding, 211. 

Lemon, 166. Propagation of, 89? . 

Lean to, 16. 

Lettuce, 82, 182, 186, 476, 784. Transplant- 
ing, 624. 

Level for laying out drains, 80. 

Liebio, on saline manures, 499. 

Lilies, 181, 466. 

Lima beans, 87. 

Lime, essential to vegetation, 470; value of 
to, 747. Sulphate of. to fix ammonia, 608. 

Lining*, should be protected from loss of heat, 
868,864. 

Liquid, amber, characteristic, etc., 714. Ma- 
nure, 12, 18, 14, 621, 606, 746, 746. 
Strength of. how to regulate, 12. Its effect 
on roses, camelias, etc. 

Liquorice crop, value of and culture, 760. 

Lobelia, 96, 227. Varieties of, 662. 

1 ocust, 716. 

Lucerne, value and culture of, 761. 

Lychnis, double. 292. Double scarlet (see 
"Cutting"), 726 

Machine, mowing, importance of; how to use 
it, 691, 692; when inapplicable, 692; de- 
scription of, 701- 

Madeira vine, 181. 

Madder, value and culture of, 761. 

Magnolia, characteristics of the, etc., 714. 

Mahonla, 181. 

Mangold vninel, 148, 642, 648. 



Manure, 211, 416. Effect of food on, 161 
Effect of, on crops, even in small quantities, 
618, 619. Cow, a type of manures, 614. 
Amount made tn a year, 614. Horse, the 
most valuable in compost, 618. *8heep, 
very valuable. 618. Escape into subsoil 
when appttad at beginning of rotation, 521 . 
Contact of, harmful to roots of vines, 126. 
Round cold frames, disposition of in spring, 
467. 

Manures, value of smmonla to, 624. 496, 601- 
Ammontated, etc., stimulating, 624. Arti- 
ficial, 446, 492, 621, 622: list of, 628; should 
be applied each year, 621 ; why costly, 622; 
test of value, 438. Barnyard, amount per 
acre, 490; its value and constituents. 601, 
611,612. Value of moisture in, 612. Gases 
of. bow to absorb, 492. Heating or fermen- 
tation of, in pile, the cause and cure. 492. 
Treatment of, in spring, 491, 492. Appli- 
cation of. in summer, to grass land, 708. 
Mineral extraction of, from rocks, by the 
slow process of atmospheric action, 602; 
value relative to amount of salts La, 498. 
Saline, highly fertilising, 601; how to im- 
prove, 611; liquid, 18; effect of, 621, 606; 
value and varieties of, 746, in a family. 746. 
(See " Liquid" manure.) Special cost of, 680, 
621 ; value of, 677 ; time to apply, 677; for 
rotation of five years, 619-628; value ef, 
relative to barnyard and animal manures 
necessary, to same crop, 619-628. 

Manuring, successful principle of, 498; theory 
of. 746 

Market gardening, 888. 

Maples, characteristics of, 712. Norway, 716. 

Marling, practice of, in England, 447; in- 
stances of, 447. 

Maurandyia, 668. 

Meadows, reclaiming, 788. After cultivation, 
788. Benefited by gravel, 780. Salt, re- 
claiming, 740. 

Melons, 188, 403. 628; in May, 660. 668 Beds 
(tee '-Cucumber''), 862. Varieties of. 36, 664- 
How to force, 862. Ripeness of, how to as- 
certain, 87. 

Mignonette, 8. 

Mildew, consequence of imperfect drainage, 
10. How to prevent, 28. 

Milk, of large cattle. 891. Summer and win- 
ter value of, 667. How long it should set, 
684.686. Rooni. 688. 

Millet. 646. 649, 706. 

Mimulus, 668. 

Mowing, 690 Machines for, 691, 692, 70L 

Mulching, 627, 628. 

Mushroom beds, 134-187, 624; spawn, 136, 
187, 188. 

Mustard, 188, 410, 411. 

Nasturtiums, for pieties, 668, 668. 

Nature, the studv of, a great aid to mental 
culture, 886-846. 

Neat cattle, 886. 

Nectarines, on espaliers, 96; in orchard, 40; 
under glass, 804-809. 

Nemophila, 96, 166, 227, 662. 

Nettle tree, 761. 

Nieremburgia, 96, 227, 668, 629. 

Nitrogen, its importance to vegetation, 407, 
625; in food, 601; in manures, 526. 



907 



Nursery, 146; in September. 41; American, 
910. How to make a, 706. By amateurs, 
700. Men, 712. 

Nut harvest, 144. Time to plant, 146. 

Oak, character of, 91. Characteristics of the, 
712. Seedling, 771. 

Oats, kind of, and time for sowing, 488, 486. 
Seed to the acre, 486. Straw as fodder, 703. 

Ocean Shore, 778. 

Okra, 88, 666. 

Oleander, 280, 281, 289. 

Onions, 88, 182, 186. For spring;, 784. For 
seed, 188, 662, 667, 686. 

Oranges, 166, 668. Propagation of, 897; in 
May. 680. 

Orchard, October, 140; November, 206; De- 
cember, 266; March. 415; April, 470; May, 
669; Jane, 628; August, 786. How to 

?lant, 426. Effect of high cultivation of, 

Orchids, list of, 106, 106. How and where to 
cultivate, 106. 

Ornamental grounds, September, 80-86; Oc- 
tober, 166; November, 222; December, 278; 
March, 470; May, 680; June, 646-660 ; July, 
706; August, 769. Harmony with land- 
scape. 779. Plantations. 760. Trees, 686. 

Oyster plant, 188, 406, 666. 

Oralis, 8. 

Panstes, 8, 298, 26, 28, 180, 467, 682. 8um- 
% mer treatment of, 669, 660. 

Pasture, our, 667. 

Parasites, 419, 420, 424. 

Parsnips, winter treatment of, 188. Time to 
sow, 642: soil for, 648. 

Parsley, 182, 661 

Passion flower, 16. 

Paths, 84. 85, 192,222, 268-266, 276. Seem 
crowded on plan, 796. 

Peaches, 146. 196. 266. Cause of decay in 
trees. 296, 297, 426. PeachhouM, 267-261. 
Bspaiiered, 86. In orchard, 40. Under 
glass, 296-808. In tubs, 864-806. Soil 
for peach-trees, 298. Borders for, 299. 
Profitable. 421. Pruning and cultivation 
of under glass, 299-806. 

Pears, 208, 627. Artificial impregnation of, 
806. Root, pruning of, 809. Bspaiiered, 
86. Dwarf and standard, 196. In orchard, 
89. How to harvest. 142. To prune, 206, 
206, 686. List of, 148. Culture of, 426, 427. 
Trees, distance apart in orchard, 427. 
Which ripen in August, 786. List of, 89. 
Best method of gathering and preserving, 
89,142. 

Peas, 88, 188, 666. Time to sow, etc , 491, 
624.686,784. For seed, 87. 

Peat, 609, 610, 616, 616, 618. 

Pelargoniums, 26. 96, 166.280-287.298,629, 
664, 660, 664, 728. Varieties of, 281. Soil 
for, 281. Undcrpottlng of, 282. Cuttings, 
how to treat, 288-286. Varieties, how to 
produce. 286-287. 

Peonies, 466. 

Peppers, red, 666. 

Perennials, list of, 127-180, 182-186, 687. 
Damask, 606. Plants. 41. Hardihood of, 
606. Soil for, 606. Arrangement of, 180, 
186. 

Perspiration of plants, 97. 



Petosporam, 228. 

Petunias, as bedding plants, 662. 

Picturesque the, definition and description 
of, 780-782. 

Pictures, as seen on canvas, rarely created on 
ornamental grounds, 682, 688. 

Pickles, 87, 188. For seed, 486, 486, 577. For 
crop, time to plant, 624, 686. 

Pigs, fattening, 47, 166. Green fodder for, 
664,666. Pfas,898. 

Picotees, 28, 654. 

Pine, white, characteristics, 710. Red, char- 
■ acteristics, etc., 717. Yellow, 718. 

Pinks, 227, 288. Varieties of, 667. Propaga- 
tion of, 667. How they show to advantage. 
667. 

Pips, or pipings, 288. 

Pirns, japonica as hedge, 770. 

Pit, 188. 

Place, small, what constitutes, 710. 

Plans for year's work, 882. 

Plantations, of trees, for winter as well as 
summer, 709. Native trees in, 709. Should 
vary with slse of place, 710. 

Planting, ornamental, principles of, 91-94, 
759-766. 

Plants, arrangement of, 96. Perspiration of, 
97. Fed by air, 98, 99, Treatment of, when 
chilled, 104. List of, for greenhouse, 110; 
for conservatory, 113. Preserved by frees- 
ing, 170, 468. How to group, 186. Atten- 
tion when young, 688. Propagation of, by 
leaves, 288. List of, to be so treated, 288. 
For layering, 291. Stock, repotting and 
pruning, 18. 14, 687. Treatment of, when 
newly potted, 8. Time to house, 9. Shape 
of, should decide the kind of roof for, 16. 
Benefited by guano, when injured young 
by bugs, etc., 479. Bedding, 629. Stock, 
629, 580. 687. Seeds for fell stock, etc., 668. 

Plough, Michigan, 487, 488, 673, 674. Sub- 
Ploughing, proper method, 669, 670. 672, 673. 

Plums, 40, 146. Undo* glass, 804-809, 627. 

Poinsettias, 629. 

Polyanthus, 28, 181, 681. 

Ponds, 782-796. Secondary water. 782. Be- 
fore making, dam to be considered, 784. 
Evaporation, 786. Not permanently full. 
786, 787. 8hores of, 787, 788. Islands in, 
788. Ponds made by damming brooks, 788. 
Stone wall about, 788. Outlet of, 792, How 
to make, in level pieces, 797. Should be on 
principle of aquarium. 797. Liability to 
stagnate, 797. Stocking with fish, 797. 
Oar, 797. 

Pork, when to cure, 267. 

Potatoes, hills to acre, 568. Culture of, 490. 
Time to plant, 491. How to force, 404. 
Sixe of, to plant, 406. Treatment of. when 
ripe, 87, 46. Varieties of, 46, 406, 491. 
Tops of, 160. Varieties of, for seed, 568. 
Sweet, 566, 686. 

Potash, essential to vegetation, 470. 

Pot-herbs, 562, 623. 

Pots for large plants, 893. 

Potting, 11. 

Poultry, preparation of, for market, 640 

Primrose, Chinese, 8, 620, 531. 

Pruning, 686. Of grapes, 116-117, 204. Of 



908 



INDEX. 



pears, 206, 206 In summer, 196. Season 
for, 196. A means of changing time of 
blossoming, 699, 600. Root, 11, 809. 

Quassia, 694. 

Quinces, 143. 

Radishes, 83, 188, 476, 660, 784. 

Rain water, number of inches remaining in 
soil, 68. Quantity and weight of, to the 
acre, per annum, 62. 

Railways in fruithouses, 806. 

Ranunculus, 28, 180, 402, 467, 466, 682, 664. 

Raspberries, 661, 562, 686. Fall treatment of, 
86,188. 

Rnpe, 761, 762. 

1'ed spiders in forcing-house, 686. 

lletarding-house, 23, 116, 121. 178, 876, 400, 
469. How to train Tines in, 876 

Rhododendrons, 181, 229, 231. 

Rhubarb, 184, 661. 

Ridge, and furrow, sash, 16; roof, 864-870. 

Roads in fall , 168. Method of making, 83, 84. 
How to lay out, 276. Variety important, 
277-279. 

Rocks, disintegration, 602. 

Roofe of hot-beds, 863, 364. Ridge and fur- 
row, curvilinear, and flat, 16, 864-870. 
Construction, 866. Rain water on, 866. 
Resistance to hail, 867. Ventilation, 369. 

Root crops, 37. Thinning, 626, 642. Sowing, 
642-644. Distance apart in row, 644. 
Manures for, 644. Earth not ridged for, 
643. Summer culture of, 640, 641. Treat- 
ment of, in September, 46. How to har- 
vest, 147. How to preserve, 188 Soil 
enriched by, 438. Derive nourishment 
from air, 484. Profit of, 486. Followed by 
grain, 487. Cellars for, 148. Time to plant, 
577. Cutting, 289. Culture of, in America, 
462. Cost of, per acre, 448. 

Roots, depth of descent of, 66, 67- Pruning 
of, 11, 809, 168. Of cankered stock plants, 
630. Fatten stock, 463. Prejudice against, 
why, 690. 

Rose, the, natural home, 698. Beauty in 
masses of, 698. Cuttings, time to make 
for greenhouse, etc., 728. Time for, 726, 
780; disbudding, a kind of pruning, 683, 
699. Principles of, 683. Pruning, 698, 605. 
877- According to Paul, 677; close, 679; 

"long. 678; annual, 682; summer, 683. To 
what varieties applicable, 677- Gardens, 
plans for, 666, 667 ; from Jardin des Plantes, 
666; English, 667-670. Plana by author, 
670-672. Seeds, how to produce, 674. 
Seedbeda, 674, 676. Seedlings, 674; 675. 

Roses, 14, 16, 18, 96, 146, 529, 165, 227 Va- 
rieties of. 596-604. Treatment of. In win- 
ter, 181. 182. Soil for, 694. Insects harm- 
ful to, 592, 598. Diseases of. 694. Propa- 
gation of, 596. Sweetbrier, 596. Prairie, 
596. Cherokee, 596. Cinnamon, 697. Moss, 

599. Hybrid China, 699, 600. Monthly, 96. 
June. 696, 697. Wild, 695, 697. Bourbon 
Hybrid, 600. Perpetual. 600, 601. White, 

600. Damask, 600. Scotch, 601. English 
Sweetbrier, 601. Yellow, 601. Boursault, 
etc., 602. Prairie, 602. Multiflora and 
Banksia, 602. Evergreen, 608. Hybrid 
Climbing, 603. Aryshlre, 608. Damask, 
COG. Half-hardy, 604. China and Bengal, 



604. Bourbon, 606. Perpetuate, improved, 
604. Budded. 604. Pruned, 604. Moss; 
606. Scotch, 606. Musk, 60f . China and 
Tea Monthly, 607. Saffrano, 607. McCart- 
ney. 607 Miniature, 608. Noisette, 608. 
How to group, 603. Soil, 606. Suokering, 
to prevent, 606. Dying, to prevent, prun- 
ing. 606. Disbudding and pruning, 698, 
699. Knowledge of families important, 606. 
Downing's list* of, 611, 612; Mcintosh's, 
612-622. Trade sales for, 610. New vari- 
eties of, 670. How to produce, 670. Points 
sought, 678 New varieties affected by pa- 
rent, 674. Pillar and climbing, 609, 680, 

681 . Should be pinned to ground in order 
to break buds well, 680. Weeping, how 
made, 681, 682. Autumnal, effect of sum- 
mer pruning on, 688. Old, now renovated, 

682. Habit of, varies much, 680. 
Rotation of crops, 98, 297, 434-453, 444. Oar, 

481,666. 

Rowen, how to make, 44, 46. 

Rust, etc., parasitical fungi, 479. 

Ruta Bagas, 642, 643. Leaves of, as fodder, 
149. 

Rye, 47. Time for sowing, 488. Seed of, to 
acre, 486, 566. 

Rye grass, value and culture of, 752. 

Straw, value of, 486. 

Sage, Mexican, finest in towns, 661. 

Sailcloth, 108. 

Sainfoin, value and culture of. 751. 

Salads, 876, 661. Fall treatment of, 32, 183, 
262. 

Satisfy , 556. (See " Oyster " plant. ) 

Salt and lime mixture, 203. Destructive to 
weeds, 726. 

Salts, amounts of, in fertile soil, 600. 

Salvias, 8, 629. Summer treatment of, 664, 
661. 

Sap ripened by delay, 810. 

Sashes, revolving, 101, 102. 

Scraping trees, 417-425. 

Scononera, 665. 

Sea-kale. 38, 134, 188, 875, 411, 561. For 
pots, 412. 

Sea-shore, how to treat, 777-779. 

Seed for lawn. 89. 

Seeds, ripe, 37. Autumnal planting of, 32. 
144. How to improve, 476. Deterioration 
of, 477. Germination of,- 145. Cultivation 
of, 626. How to make beds for, 708. Sow- 
ers of, labor saving, etc. , 440 Thinly sowed, 
best, 441. 478. Perfect, only when kept 
apart from similar species, 477. List of, for 
one acre, kitchen-garden, 478. Mixture of, 
with weed seed, 478, 479 Importance of 
freshness of, 479. Of parasites. 479. Drills 
for sowing, 486. Proper depth to sow, 485. 
Germinate soonest when sown as soon as 
ripe, 724. 

Seedlings, treatment of, 706. 

Sedlington, the farm at, 460. 

Selling plants, amateurs warned against, 240- 

Shagbarks, how to harvest, 144. 

Sheep, 898. Growing, in Scotland and Swit- 
zerland, 384. Management of. 630. Merino, 
893. Fattening, 481. Manure of, 460. 

Shrubs, native and foreign, list of, 711, 712, 
765-707. 



INDEX. 



909 



Shutters, 108. 

Silk, value and culture of, 762. 

Skirret, 134, 656. 

8now drops, 465. 

Soap, whale oil to make, 506. 

Soda, essential to vegetation, 470. 

Soil, for plants, 9, 10. Action of atmosphere 
on, 96. Weight of an acre of, one foot in 
depth, 495. Elements of the, removed by 
wheat, 497. Fertile salts in, 600. Classifi- 
cation of, 608. Texture of, 609. Mechani- 
cally improved, how, 609. Chemically, 
how, 609. Clay, 609. Sandy, 609. Effect 
of standing water on, 48. Temperature of, 
49-61,58. 

Solomon's seal, 466. 

Soot as manure, 688. 

Span roof. 15. Advantages and description 
of, 16. 

Sparaxis, 96. 

Spinach. 82, 88, 686, 784. 

Spring, its effect on the mind, 688, 684. 

Spruces. 718. 

Spun, 118, 899. Distance apart, 178. 

Squashes, 88. 658, 664. Summer, 88, 686. 

Squill, 467. 

8tacks, hay and grain, 697, 698. Roping and 
thatching, 699. 

Stall-feeding. 480, 481. 

Stephanotus, 687. 

Stepping-stones, 798. 

8toek, farming, 888-890. Stall-feeding, 480, 
481. Breeds of, 888, 890. Tenweek, 166. 

Straw, hardness of coat of, cause, 600. Rye, 
486 

Strawberries, 262. Planting of, 84, 86, 651. 
Varieties of, 85. To force, 189. 188. 875. 
Old beds of, how renovated. 684. Mulch- 
ing beds with tan, 685. As field-crop, 785. 

Stubble and sod, how to plough. 578. 

■Sublime, the definition of, 779-782. 

Subsoil, 675, 676. 

Succory, 410. 

Surface, irregularities of, obviated in plant- 
ing, 766. 

Sweet Alyssum, 8. 

Sycamore, European, 716. 

Tallies, 41. 

Tank, system. 866. 

Tap, roots, 706-708. 

Tares, culture of, 766. 

Taste, good, 58L 

Teaales, 758, 754. 

Temperature of soils, 50-64. Temperature, 
176. Animal, 211, 212. In glasshouses, 
225, 288. 289. In grapery, 266, 295. 

Terraces, 86, 

Thanksgiving, 219. 221. 

Thimbleberries, fall treatment, 188. Propa- 
gation, 686. 

Throw crooks. 698. 

Tiger-flower, 466. 

Tiles, 67. 

Toads, value in flower-garden. 698, 694. 

Tobacco, culture, etc., 764-766. 

Tomatoes, 408, 666. Treatment of, when ripe, 
87. Plants, 628. Protection against frost, 
188 

Tools, list of, for kitchen-garden, 479. Care 
of, in winter, 214, 216. 



Transplanters, 84. 

Transplanting, when to commence, 156. 

Tkedoold, formula for calculating hot-water 
pipes, 121. 

Tree peony, 227. 

Trees, how to plant, 167-160. How to pre- 
pare for, 90. Varieties of, not to be 
planted in the fall, 160. Removed from the 
forest, 421. Fruit of, benefited by alkalies, 
470. List of native and foreign. 711, 712. 
Weeping, 716. Evergreen and deciduous, 
contrasted, 761. Voices of, 720. Groups 
of, how to make, 762. How to improve, 
768. Thinning, 768. Protection against 
cattle, 768. In corner of, 764. Interior of, 
762, 764. Trees and shrubs planted to- 
gether, 766. For shores near salt water, 
777-779. Boxing roots of, in fruithouse*, 
124. Area occupied by their roots, 707. 
How to protect when newly planted, 224. 

Trellises, for vines, 128 

Trenching, 88, 89. 

Tuberose, 8, 181, 466, 

Tuberous-rooted pelargoniums, 287, 288. 

Tulips, 27, 180. Protection of the blossom of, 
648. Out of blossom. 649. 

Tulip-tree, 714. 

Tupelo, 714. 

Turtles, setting, 688. Consume worms, 756. 
Poults of. 628. 

Turnips, 88, 661, 188, 784. Early. 88. Seed 
sown with grass seed, 706. Thinning and 
hoeing, 442. Diseased, 446. 

Underpotting, 282. 

Undercutting*, 284. 

Urine, 606. 

Vases and urns for flowers, 802. . 

Variety, an Important element in the beauti- 
ful, 880-888. 

Vegetables, fall planting of, 82. Forcing, 
extra early, 817. April sowing of seed of, 
476. Protection of, by fences, 816. Early 
and successive crops of, 660. 

Vegetation fed from the air, 97, 98. Produced 
in sand, 99. Constituents of, gaseous and 
saline, 494. Under glass, 686. 

Ventilation, 96. 97. In greenhouses, 10Q, 101. 
Nocturnal, 102. Essential to fruit-culture 
under glass, 267. 

Verbenas, 8, 11, 14, 26s 96, 227, 298, 629. 

Village-garden, 817-888 List of vines in, 
827, 828. Paths in, 828-826. Fruit-trees, 
826. 

Vines, in forcing-house, 115, 116. Treatment 
in autumn, 116, 117. How to disbud, 178. 
How to prune, 174, 178. On trellises, 182. 
Toung, not allow to bear, 28. Injured by 
exposure to heat, 876 Thinning, 400, 401. 
Rust, 401. Shanking, 401. Equal break- 
ing of buds, 115, 116. Age when planted. 
116. Sulphur mixture for, 116. Methods 
of training, 116, 118. Treatment second 
year, 117. In April. 469. Ornamental. 549, 
660 Flowering, 692. When to plant, 600. 

Violets, 166, 180, 467. Neapolitan, 8, 96, 227. 

Virgilia, 714. 

Wages of laborers, 269. 

Walks, 182. 

Wall, flowers, 180, 629. Skirting the water, ' 
always disagreeable, 777. 



910 



INDEX. 



Walnuts, 144. 

Water, evaporation of, 86, 67. Heat 
nary to convert into vapor, 62. Table, the, 
68, 66, 67. Effect on the temperature of 
soils, 50-64. Supplj of, to stock. 217. 219. 
Removal of condensed, 872. Artificial and 
ornamental, 776-779. Inherent beauty of, 
776 A primary or secondary feature in 
landscape, 776. Skirted by nail, 777. 
Boundary, how to changewell, 777, 778. 
Water in flower-gardens, 788. Works, 788, 
784. Falls, 789 791. Artificial, should fol- 
low nature, 789. Natural, modified by 
rocks, 790 Regular, preponderate among 

Sirpendicular ledges, 790. Broken, 790. 
ow disguised, 788 At Beaver Brook, 789, 
798. When to ornament artificial, archi- 
tecturally, 796. Horizontality of, 796. 
Use ot small quantity of, on estate, 797, 801. 



Never hoe in 



Watermelons, 668. 

Weeds, 441, 449, 667, 626. 

cloudy weather, 691. 
Weeping trees, 716. 
Wheat, kinds of, and time to sow, 488, 484. 

How improved, 476, 477. Grains of, to 

bushel, 476, 477\ Soil for, 484, 487. Thin 

seeding, 742. Depth of seeding, 742. 
WHlow,714, 716, 766, 757. 
Window-gardens, how to make, 242, 

Plants for, 213. Temperature of, 248. 

migatlon of. 244. Cost of, 246. 
Wire fences, 198^ Instrument for tightening, 

194. 
Wood, as crop, 771-774. 
Woods, about house, 774. 
Woodland, how planted, on plan, 774. 
Tear, beginning of the, 5. 



248. 
Fu- 



INDEX TO TREES IN VILLAGE-GARDEN. 



See plan of Village-Garden, p. 816. 



1. White Ash. 

2. Red Ash. 

8. Sugar Maple. 
4. White Oak. 
6. White Pine. 

6. American Rim. 

7. Norway Spruce. 

8. Larch. 

9. Laburnum. 

10. Judas Tree. 

11. Red Oak. 



12. Tulip Tree. 
18. Roses. 
14. English Stan. 
16. Fringe Tree. 

16. Hemlock. 

17. Spruce. 
p. Pears. 

o. Currants, 
g. Gooseberries. 
Q. Quinces. 



INDEX TO SUPPLEMENT. 



PIATBS. 



Grapes on espalier, 840. 

Single eye of grape. 841. 

Spur, end of the third year, 841. 

Spur, end of fourth year, 842. 

Old spur, 843. 

Brackett's method of spiral training. 

Wool-box, 866. 

Cydonia on fence, 881. 



City areas, plans for, 888, 884. 
Plan of trellis on house. 885. 
Plant-box for fronts of houses, 886. 
Plan of city areas, 887, 888, 880. 
Plan of roof garden, 800. 
Front of city house, with vines, flower- 
boxes, and shrubs in front area. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Acclimatization of bulbs, &e., 811. 

Adlrondac grape, 835. 

Allen's hybrid grape, 834. 

Annuals, list or, 810. 

Apples, list of best, 825. 

Areas in cities may be used for gardening 
purposes. 880; plans for laying them 
out, and lists of plants and shrubs for, 
883, 884. 887, 888, 880; back areas, treat- 
ment of, 880. 

Atwood, sheep, 852, 853. 

Avenues in cities, planting of, 878. 

Bedding-plants for flower-beds and city 
areas, lists of, 881, 884, 887, 888, 880. 

Belmont, strawberries cultivated at, 822, 
823. 

Blackberries, cultivation of in New Jer- 
sey, and lists of, 824. 

Boston Common, defective arrangement 
and planting of, 871, 872, 873. 

Boston Public Garden, how laid out and 
planted, 875, 870. 877. 

Brackett's method of training grapes, 843. 

Bucks, stable for, 800; lambs, too many 
raised, 804 ; management when serving 
ewes, 807. 

Bulbs for flower-beds and city areas, lists 
of, 883, 884, 887, 888, 880. 

Bulbs, compost for, 800. 

Burr's (Fearing) treatment of tomatoes, 
821. [813. 

Buswell, £. W., tuberose, cultivation of, 



Cape bulbs, treatment of, 807, 811, 812. 

Carnations, list of, 818. 

Cities, opportunities offered by for land- 
scape-gardening, 870. 

City areas, — see areas. 

Clinton grape, 833. 

Compost for bulbs, 800. 

Concord grape, 834. 

Copeland/s (R. McCleary) hyacinths, list 
of, 810: treatment of back areas, 880. 

Cotswold sheep, 850. 

Currants, 823. 

Cuttings of grapes, 845. 

Crevelling grape, 835. 

Cyclamens, cultivation of, list of, 811. 

Cydonia, how trained on fence, 881. 

Chrysanthemums, list of, 816. 

Dahlias, list of, 816. 
Delaware grape, 833. 
Diana grape, 834. 
Diseases in sheep, 856. 

Espalier, grapes on, 840, 841, 842, 843, 844. 

Ewes, breeding, food for, and care of, 855 ; 
treatment of when lambing, 801 ; dis- 
crimination to be used in breeding, 850; 
time for buck service, 707. 

Evergreens In city areas, 888, 880, 803, 805. 

Foot-rot in sheep, cause of and cure for, 
856, 857, 858. 

911 



912 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Grafting wax, receipts for, 830. 

Grafting of grapes, 846. 

Grapes, how to grow them, 827 ; profits 
of, vines per acre, 828; beet grape for 
general culture, 829; diseases of, 830; 
rot in grapes, varieties most affected by, 
830; list of best six, 833; Hu«eman*s 
list, 835 ; conditions for successful cul- 
tivation, 8-16; soil, situation, 836 ; culti- 
vation of in city areas, 837; how to 
{>lant, 837 ; age of plants, 837 ; on espa- 
iers, 838 : treatment of first winter, 838 ; 
manure for, 838; pruning of, 839, 840, 
841, 842, 848 ; spiral method of training, 
843 ; to what age profitably cultivated, 
844 ; seeds of, 844 ; seedlings, how to 
raise, 844; layers, 846; cuttings of, 845; 
grafting, 840 ; single eyes, propagation 
by, 845 ; grow best near large bodies of 
water, 847. 

Gladiolus propagated from seed, 807 ; cul- 
tivation of. Hat of, 808. 

Grider, B. H., letter on the thrip, 806. 

Hartford prolific grape, 833. 

Hollyhocks, list of. 818. 

Hovey John C, list of perennials. 814, 
815; of phloxes, 815; of peonies, 816 ; of 
dahlias, 810; of chrysanthemum*, 816: 
of annuals, 816; or verbenas, 817; of 
petunias, 817. 

Huseman's list of grapes, 836. 

Hyacinths, how to cultivate in pots and 
glasses, 800; list of, 809. 

Infantado sheep, 852. 
Iona grape, 834. 
IsraeUa grape, 835. 

Lambs, management of when first born, 
861 ; docking of, castration of, 862 ; treat- 
ment when removed from the mother, 

BOO. 

Lambing, period of, 855. 

Landscape gardening, the essentials of, 

800, 80< . 
Layers of grapes, 845. 
Leicester sheep, 850. 

Level surfaces, how to be treated, 875, 876. 
Locke W. H., list of strawberries, 822. 

MacTear (James), list of carnations, pico- 
tees, and hollyhocks, 817. 

Market gardening, profits of, 824. 

Merino sheep, 851, 852; varieties of, 853; 
value of, 853; care of, 853, 854: wrin- 
kles In, 856 ; diseases of, 857, 858; why 
the merino is better than the Spanish, 
870. 

Mildew in grapes, 830, 832, 833 ; causes of, 
831 ; prevention of, 831, 832 ; wild grapes 
affected by, 832. 

Mutton sheep, best variety yet to be found 
869. 

Ornamental trees, suitable for city plant- 
ing, 873, 874, 875. 

Peonies, list of, 816. 



Parkman Francis, list of roses. 819; of 

perennials, 820 ; list of trees and shrubs, 

803, 894, 895. 
Paular sheep. 853. 
Perennials, list of, 814, 815, 820. 
Petunias, list of, 817. 
Plants, variegated for Conservatory, list 

of, 806. 
Plant-box, for fronts of city houses, 886; 

list of bulbs for, and plants in, 888. 
Planting trees, generally too thickly 

planted, 892. 
Phloxes, list of. 816. 
Piootees, list of, 818. 
Pruning of grapes, 839, 840, 841, 842, 

843; spur-pruning, 839. 

Raspberries, cultivation of in New Jer- 
sey, and lists of, 823. 

Rogers, No. 15, grape, 835. 

Roof gardens, how to make and how to 
manage, 890, 891. 

Roses, list of, 818, 819. 

Rot in grapes, 830. 

Seedlings, of grape, 845. 

Sheep, American merino, 849 ; differences 
in wool, 849, 850 ; Southdown, 850 ; Lei- 
cester, 850; Cotswold, 858: fattening 
qualities, 860: weight of fleece, 851; 
merino, qualities of, 851, 862; varieties 
of, 853 ; value of, 853 ; care or, 853, 854 ; 
wrinkles in, 856; diseases of, 857, 858; 
buildings for, 859, 860 ; tagging of, 863 ; 
shearing of, 863, 864; washing. 863; 
treatment during summer, 866; in au- 
tumn, 867. 

Shrubs, lists of, 883, 884, 887, 888, 889, 893, 
894; vaiiegated, 868, 893. 

Southdown sheep, 850. 

Steam, use of in farming, 848. 

Strawberries, cultivation and lists of, 
822, 823; in New Jersey, 823. 

Ticks in sheep, how to destroy, 865. 

Tomatoes, cultivation of, 821. 

Thrip, injurious to the grape, how de- 
stroyed, 898. ' 

Trees, evergreens for planting in cities, 
874. 

Trees, vaiiegated, deciduous, evergreen, 
805; generally too thickly planted, 892; 
relative advantages of planting singly, 
or in groups, 894 ; native the best, 896. 

Trellts, for vines on city houses, 885. 

Tuberose, cultivation or, 813. 

Tulips, propagated from seed, 807. 

Variegated, — see plants and shrubs.' 
Verbenas, list of, 817. 

Wax, for grafting, receipts for. 826. 

Wool, differences in, 249, 850; yolk or 
grease In, 851 ; increased value of meri- 
no, 853, 854 ; weight of fleece per head, 
854. 

Wool-box, 865. 

Wrinkles in sheep, no proof of blood, 
856. 



r 



i 



3 2044 103 115 07 





This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 




LIBRARY OP THE SCHOOLS OF 
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECrURB 

AND 

CITY PLANNING 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 




FRANCES LOEB LIBRARY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF DESIGN 



A F» 

roil LAYINQ OUT 

Of so 







HiiVN- 



A GOUNTirY PUCi 

5 AC«CS. 












-'^ \<^ " ^ '^ ^ ^:" 

> ^ >i .^ A J^^ ^:^ 






M^i 



y^ 



,ly..>»>^ l ~^ i. ^-^ ■?> 




t'/??^V'-^'^~""^-n 



I />///<'/v.* ^ Sfrnyrheiriey . :-_^ 
* ff^cuiuoits: Tm .\ ,2a Asparattus _i 



{ Apples 
Tfnrs 



;>^ ffyelrujitx 



--''^tC-eJl^-*^,^ \ ?^ ■'■'Sfik!].... 'V '^ f^ : /'/7/////' ///»/'.♦' 'tflrrH. I.mFV or drain 



COUNTRY LIFE: 



A HANDBOOK OF 



^grunltnn, fortinillitre, ^ yanbsopt (larbemng. 



BY ROBERT MORRIS COPELAND. 




▼nw AT BBATXB BIOOK FAUJ, THB AUTBOS'S BMISXXOI. 



TITTS JBniTION, JRBVIBBn. 



BOSTON: 
1866. 



PREFACE. 



The practice of the OBefiil arts necessarily precedes their theory 
by a great interval, for it alone can furnish reliable material 
Tvhence principles may be deduced, and rules determined; and 
there can never be a time when it shall cease to be the test to 
which all rules and theories must be subjected. This is pre-em- 
inently true of agriculture,' the oldest of .the useful arts, through 
all its branches, and it is, therefore, in vain to look for a book on 
the culture of the earth which shall be altogether or mainly 
original; all such books, resting on the experience of the past, 
must, of necessity, refer to the past, must recapitulate its discov- 
eries and practice, in greater or less degree. Unless they be 
monographs of peculiar speciality, they must partake somewhat 
of the nature of a compilation borrowing from many sources. 
I wish to acknowledge the ideas, the words, the illustrations 
which I have borrowed; and if I have failed to do this in any 
instance, the omission is not intentional. In some cases the 
views of others are so incorporated with and modified by my 
own, that it is out of the question to preserve the distinction 
between them. 

Stevens (Book of the Farm), Mcintosh (Book of the Gar- 
den), Loudon, Price, Liebig, Way, Gisboume (Essays), Paul, 
Johnston, Boussingault, the journals of various English agricul- 
tural societies, are the European sources to which I am mainly 
indebted ; whilst among American authorities I have principally 



VI PBEFACE. 

referred to Dana, Browne's Muck Book, Text Book of Agricul- 
ture, McMahon, Hovej, Shedd, The Working Fanner, Field's 
Pear Culture, with some newspaper items. Of course there are 
many things within this wide range of which I have had small 
personal experience ; in such cases I have relied entirely on the 
best authorities, applying them as my general experience dic- 
tates. 

In the body of the work I have met some of the popular 
arguments against the course of adopting largely the English 
improved culture, but not so folly as to preclude a few general 
remarks in this preface. Without doubt our common practice 
is just where English agriculture was forty years ago. The de- 
scriptions of English farming, tools, buildings, crops, roads, etc, 
given by Young and other writers of* that time, might be quoted 
word for word to-day, as descriptive of the mass of New Eng- 
land fiums. And if English farmers followed this kind of farm- 
ing forty years ago with profit, and have since improved their 
practice so much as to double and treble their profits, with 
no other change in the circumstances than an increased ou^ay 
of capital and intelligence, it seems to me that it logically fol- 
lows that we can do the same. 

The frequent discussions about high farming seldom lead to 
definite and satisfactory conclusions, for want of a precise and 
accepted definition of the term. High farming in this book is 
the name of that culture which provides for the thorough re- 
clamation, drainf^, and manuring of the land under treatment ; 
so thorough a manuring that a single application will ensure 
ample food to all the crops of the sagaciously planned rotation ; 
which BO arranges the rotation for each field that each crop 
comes at a time when the soil is in the best state to feed it, 
finds an excess of its favorite food, and yet leaves an excess of 
the food most appropriate for the next crop; which looks on 



PBEFACE. VII 

every weed as a thie^ and on the labor expended in securing 
neatness, cleanliness^ and order as certain to increase the final 
profit; and which leads, by intelligent steps, ^m improvement 
in the culture of earth to the jet more profitable and the far 
more noble culture of the man. These steps I have endeavored 
to point out in part. Sometimes I have invited the reader to 
trace them with me, hoping that he may find the result to which 
they lead eminently practical. 

The calendar form, and the general divisions which recur in 
every month, have been adopted as facilitating reference. 

The course announced in the opening pages, viz., to give but 
one method in pases where many are practised, and each has 
warm advocates, may expose me to the charge of ignorant con- 
ceit and dogmatism, but it has been deliberately chosen for the 
convenience and advantage of the general reader, who is not 
supposed to be an adept In any of the departments treated of. 
To him this book is offered as a manual for guidance; it would 
but confiise him if it presented many methods, and lefl him to 
choose between them. I have -myself often suffered from the 
difficulty of ascertaining what was the best way of doing some- 
thing I had in hand, when I had books enough which told in 
how many ways the thing was done, a matter to which one is 
perfectly indifferent when work presses upon him ; and in my 
profession of Landscape Gardener, I have often remarked that 
much of the expense of obtaining answers to the innumerable 
questions put to me on all the subjects treated in these pages, 
might be saved to my employers by a simple printed statement 
of leading principles and rules. The adept likes to decide be- 
tween different methods presented; the tyro is glad to learn 
what his teachers prefer. 

I have tried to make all obscure operadons and descriptions 
more deal* by illustrations, where the eye often reads more at 



VIII PREFACE. 

a glance than in many pages of print, and I here acknowledge 
mj obligations to Mr. A. C. Warren, of Boston, the artist who 
drew the illustrations which form so important a part of the 
book. Also, I would again mention mj indebtedness to J. H 
Shedd, both for the quotations I have made, and for the system 
of drmnage shown upon the plan with which our book opens, 
which was arranged hj him. 

To my friend Frederick Winsor, M. D., of Salem, I owe much 
gratitude for assistance, which none but an intimate friend 
could have given, in revising and correcting my hasdly written 
manuscript But for his aid the short time which my engage* 
ment'with the publishers allowed for the preparation of the 
book would scarcely have admitted of critical revision. 

Bulky as the book is, it does no more than open many ap- 
proaches to an ezhausiless subject, and I lay down my pen 
with a feeling of deep regret that I have done so little justice 
to what is so near my heart 

One word on a point to which many words are given in this 
volume; the spirtt in which one should deal with his farm, his 
flowers, his grounds. Surely it should be that of reverential 
friendship, not of cold and superficial business relation. This 
complex, and beautiful mystery, which we call Nature, surely 
offers us something more than food and clothing ; and, believing 
as I do, that man's ^ life is more than meat," I cannot speak of 
the life of that class who seem to live nearest Nature as nothing 
more than a struggle for that miserable pittance known as a 

With these explanations I leave my book to the reader, ask- 
ing him only to bear in mind the words of a Boston orator, 
who said, ''that a book should be judged not merely by its 
contents, but by the intention of the author." 



PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION. 



Is the prefitce to the first edition of ^Conntry Life," I main- 
tainedy that, in agriculture, experience must govern theories, 
and that any treatise on the subject must owe much of its 
value to the degree in which its rules and principles are based 
upon the results of experience. 

Whilst this is true, we must not allow ourselves to become 
the slaves of experience, which, it may be said, is the con- 
stant tendency of fanning life. To this day, many men sneer 
at book-&rming as theoretical and unreliable, and resist, as an 
encroachment on their rights, those theories of cultivation 
which seem to disagree with the wisdom of the ancients. 

Nothing would have broken down this feeling and resist- 
ance but necessity. When men have a certain result to 
obtain, and to obtain it must use the labor of men and ani- 
mals, and supply tools and machines, they are compelled, if 
the labor is scanty, to try to devise, either methods for getting 
the result without the labor, or to perform the labor in some 
difierent way. If a man's tools and machinery are worse and 
less profitable than his neighbor's, the fact that the result in 
dollars and cents is against him will incline him to copy his 
nei^bor. 

The long war we have passed through has absorbed so 
much of the available labor of the country, and at the same 



IV FBBVACX. 

time increased the value of the prodncts of agricultural labor, 
that fitrmers have been compelled to invent either new ma* 
diines or new crops, and methods of culture. 

As a consequence, we have made vast improvements in 
agricultural machinery, particularly in harvesting tools. The 
mowers and reapers of 1866 are so much better than they 
were in 1859, that the work of haying and harvesting is re- 
duced from severe to easy work, and a man and boy will now 
do the work on a &rm which formerly required half a dozen 
men. 

In Horticulture, new plants and fruits are introduced every 
year : some, upon trial, are proved to be of little value, and 
soon disappear, whilst a few become permanent friends and 
comforts to man. In the cultivation of grapes, there has been 
a great advance ; and not only do we now have very greatly 
improved varieties, but a thousand cultivate grapes to-day 
in place of a hundred six years ago. With these new 
varieties and the widely spreading cultivation, new diseases 
have come, and some men have suffered so severely, that they 
have lost heart, and are inclined to abandon the vine ; but, 
fortunately, man is a persevering animal, particularly when 
eating and drinking are the stimulants to his efforts, and we 
may rest assured that the grape or grapes will yet be found 
which will overcome all obstacles, and be equally good for the 
table and the vineyard. In the Supplement^ the subject is 
extensively treated, and the reader will find there not only the 
best varieties for different parts of the country, but also the 
opinions of eminent cultivators as to the causes and cures of 
the most annoying diseases to which grapes are liable. 

In the Flower-garden, I have introduced many new plants, 
as well as new lists of old friends, and have urged strongly the 
claims of some which I had hitherto neglected. 



PREFACE. V 

In the Agricultural division, I have brought together a large 
number of facts about Merino sheep, and have endeavored to 
urge farmers generally to do more to derive, hj the aid of 
sheep, the full value from their fiums. When we comprehend 
the real benefits which sheep confer on their owners, it b diffi- 
cult to understand why so few persons, comparatively, have 
flocks. The Merino sheep is a proof of what may be done in 
New England to raise the value of agriculture and stock- 
raising. 

I have presented in the Ornamental department, somewhat 
at length, the horticultural capabilities of cities. I do not 
seek to persuade the reader that the citizen can have the 
beauty, the wealth, or comfort of the country; but there 
is undoubtedly a great deal of space wasted in cities, which 
might be turned to good use, and give both amusement and 
real enjoyment to those' who have only a brick house for a 
garden. 

Doubtless the careful reader of ** Country Life" has found 
methods of doing work with which he could not agree, or 
which seemed to him to be better done in some different man- 
ner. To all such let me say, that I never professed to give all 
the ways of conducting the operations incident to a life in the 
country, — only one way, which I was well assured would give 
a good result ; and i^ by disagreeing with me, I have stirred 
the active minds of men to investigate the subject, and pro- 
duce newer and better methods than my own, I have certainly 
conferred a favor on them and all mankind, and may well feel 
satisfied with the labor and time I have expended. 

Hoping that the Supplement to this edition may bring the 
book up to the present time, I leave it once more to make its 
way through the world, trusting that whoever reads it will 
find more to approve than condenm. 



INDEX OF PLATES AND WOODCUTS. 



AqnmridiD,. ; 264 

Asparagns KnJft (Book of Garden),. . 661 

Banks on hiU-fiide, 87 

Barn, groand plan, throe stories, 464 

Barrel fbr liquid manore, 12 

Beaver Brook, Anthor's residence,. .Finis. 
Boiler, Weeks & Ca*8 (Book of Gar- 
den), 728 

Badding Boses, incision in stock, and 

bnd ready (Field*s Pear Culture),. . 781 
Budding; bud in place and wound, 781 

Buds, well and ill prepared, 780 

** good and poor, specimens of,. . 729 

** method of cutting, 729 

Bulb-plantsr, 26 

Canvas cover for greenhouse, 108 

Catch drains, 78, 79 

Conservatory, plan and section, op. 20 

Conservatory bed, 112 

Conservative pit, 168 

" " cheap, 167 

" " section, 286 

" »• end 237 

Curved paths, 826 

Cutting, A, 286 

Dams, two specimens, 786 

Dibbles, 84 

Dibble guaged (Book of Garden),. ... 412 

Ditch before hedge, 767 

Drainage, eHfect on roots, 67 

«' spade, Irish 64 

" pJpc»» J»ylng» 68 

«' trench diagram (Shedd),.. 63 

** trench, section, 60 

Drain-tiles, Joints in, 68 

" and pipes, 61 

" inplaoe, 61,62 

Drains, 66 

^* fbr valley-meadow, 68 

** onhUl-side, 69, 60 

" instruments fbr cutting, 62 

Drains on slopes, 66 



Drill fbr sowing seed, 486 

Dwa.-f fhUt tree, 209 

Espalier, 196 

" fbr fruit house (Book of Gar- 
den), 124 

Espaliered trees (Loudon), 197 

Fall at Beaver Brook, Belmont, Mass., 729 

Flower beds, staking out, 29, 80, 81 

Flower-garden, plan, 726 

Forcing box, 402 

Foroing cover, 414 

Fountain, 800 

Fruit-houses, sections of, ( Book of Gar- 
den, altered), 268,268 

Fruit-house at Everingham Hall (Book 

of Garden), 260 

Fumigating tunnel, 808 

Furrows, ends of, made by dlA^rent 

ploughs, 674 

Grafting, Cleft, 660 

Grafting, Crown, 662 

Gralting Crown, Scion, 661 

GraftiDg, Saddle, 660 

Grafting tubera of Tree Peony (Book 

of Gardeu), 664 

Grafting, Whip or Tongue, 669, 660 

Grspery, plan and section, op. 121 

Greenhouse, plan and section, op. 9 

" roofb, span and curvilln- 

«"•, 15 

Grounds of J. W. Edmands, 846 

Groups; "planting out "disagreeable 

biurets, 828, 829 

Gutter tanks, 866 

Hay-cover, in use, 686 

Hot pipe, dipped under path, 20 

Hedge, conical, spreading, 768 

Horse hoe, 641 

Hotbed fbr cucumbeis, 852 

Hotbed heated by water; section and 
ground plan (Book of Garden),... 867 

Hot water pipes, 7 

ix 



INBBX OF PLATES AHD WOODCUTS. 



Hooie for fruit in pota (Book of Gar- 
den), 26 

Initial letteia, 1, 6, 96, 164, 224,'280, 
847, 3B6, 466, 628, 687, 668, 722. 

Instroment for peeling Osieri, 767 

Initrnment for stretching wire, 196 

Irrigation, 76 

Kitctien-garden, plan, 191 

Land «et oif with ftering poles, dia- 
gram, 670 

Lateral thrott, effect of, 864 

Layering, 290 

Level 80 

Machine, mowing, 701 

Manger and drinking trough oom- 

bined, 218 

Melon-hoDse (Book of Garden), 862 

Pean, diagram of planting, 426 

Peat drains, 67, 68 

Pit, heated by manure, 864 

Plant basket (Book of Garden), 248 

Plant-ease '* » 248 

Planting trees, 90,168 

Plough, deep tiller, 741 

*' Michigan,.... 488 

" subsoil, 676 

Pot, for Endive (Book of Garden),. . . 409 
" forSea^Kale, »» »» ... 412 

** hinged, for laige plants (Book of 

Garden, altered), 896 

Pot, for striking cuttings (Book of 

Garden, altered), 284 

Potato digger, 46 

Potato, Sweet, tuber and sprout 
(Cours Elementaire d'agricnitnre),. 666 

Pruning, peaches, 299, 800 

" pears, 206 

" vines, 116,117,118 

Rafter to coal pit, with air chamber,. 170 

Rklge and forrow roof, 869 

" " " " in section,.. 868 
Ridge and Ihrrow applied to span 

roof, 867 

Ridge and ftirrow roof diagrams, 866 

Road making, 81,82 

Roots, in deep soil, 648 

Rosaries, of W. Paul, ground plans, 667-668 
" designs for, by Author,, .(m, 672 
** of J. Homer; ground plaib 
and elevation, 069 



Rosary, in Luxemburg gardens, 

ground plan (PanPs Rose Gard.), 666 

Rose, budded, diagram, 604 

Roses, various forms of, 678 

Rose-tree, Dwarf, in flower (Paul), 677 

" *« old, method of ranodeUing, 

" " No. 18,(Paul), 682 

Rose-tree, Pillar (Paul), 680,681 

'* '' Pillar, in flower (Paul), 609 
'' " Standard " 678, 679 

" *' Standard, in flower '' 610, 677 
*' *' thick-set with buds. No. 14, 

(P«ul),..., :... 683 

Rose-tree, weeping, in flower (Paul),.. 676 

Rose-tree, Weeping (Paul), 681, 682 

Section of improved pH (Book of 

Garden), 370 

Section of conservatory rafter, 872 

Shutters for greenhouse, 108 

Sleepy Hollow, 686 

Stacks, of grain, 700 

" long, 698 

** roofr for (Steven's Book of 

Farm), 669 

Stacks, round, 697 

Stathels for grain (Steven's Book of 

Farm), 669 

Stratification, of diflferent rocks, 791 

Strawberry house (Book of Garden),. 862 
Supply water to cattle, contrivance to, 217 
Subsoil, unbroken, an obstacle to roots 

(Qisbome), 676 

Subsoiling ; effect on roots (Glsbome), 676 
Tanks, for heating greenhouse,. .. .860, 861 
Throw crooks, for twisting hay rope 

(Steven's Book of Farm), 698 

Transplanter, 84 

Trees, instances of grouping, 762, 764 

" Twice gathered " land, diagram, ... 74 
Ventilation of glass houses; poor,.... 100 
Ventilation of glass' houses; good,. ... 101 
Ventilation of glass houses; by night, 102 

Ventilation of hot-bed, 861 

Village-garden, 816 

Wardian case (Book of Garden), 247 

Waste-way for pond, 794 

Water supplied to cattle, 217, 218 

Window-garden, 241, 242 

Wire fence, 194 

Woodroad, 86 



COUNTRY LIFE. 




CHAPTER L 

N Agriculture, Nature repeats herself. .Each 
year is a repetition of its predecessor, and each 
month but a further development of the plans 
and processes of the last. 

The cultivator of the smallest piece of land 
performs, on his scale, the same operations with 

the farmer whose acres are numbered by 

scores, or with the gardener whose gardens and greenhouses 
have cost thousands of dollars. 

In preparing a handbook for the instruction of one class of cul- 
tivators of the soil, we must touch upon the subjects which interest 
all ; and therefore, to avoid redundancy, we will select as an exam- 
ple the estate of a person who must in the course of a year have 
occasion to practise every operation of agriculture and horticulture 
which comes within the means of men of moderate fortune. 

I shall proceed to describe month by month a system of proceed- 
ing, based upon the most approved theories and practice of modem 
horticulture, agriculture, and landscape gardening, which will insure 
the largest return in pleasure and money to any one who will 
observe faithfully the directions given. I shall confine myself to 
the wants of men with small fortunes, as our country must always 
be principally inhabited by th}s class. Men of large fortunes need 
no such handbook, as they will seek their pleasure through agents 
whose especial business it is to understand all that I propose to 
discuss. Men with a bare competence need no special book, for 
although they may have a bit of land to cultivate, their operations 
will be identical with those I describe, only on a smaller scale, and 
1 1 



Z COUNTRT LIFE. 

they have but to reduce my advice and remarks to their own 
scale. 

I do not propose to offer to the public advice and directions 
adapted to all parts of the continent. This would manifestly be 
impossible, owing to the great difference in climate. It might seem 
at first sight that differences in climate would only affect the time 
for commencing and concluding operations, and this idea has influ- 
enced all who have hitherto prepared such a work as this ; but the 
view is incorrect. We must not assume that because the season in 
Philadelphia or Bangor is a week earlier or later than in Boston, 
directions prepared for either latitude will apply to the other. It 
is indeed so in a measure ; but special directions are based upon 
special .differences which are affected by slight variations in climate: 
as, what kind of plants will bear outK)f-door culture ; what precau- 
tions must be taken to secure satisfactory crops of various kinds ; 
the length of season that will enable those plants and crops to 
mature. Again, in the tasteful department of culture tliere is a 
considerable difference in the plants that will bear exposure to the 
weather, and consequently in the combinations and effects that are 
possible ; therefore, if we should take the plants or crops advised 
for places four or five hundred miles asunder, and cultivate them 
ourselves, allowing the proper difference in time, so that the season 
shall have advanced to that point that will warrant a commence- 
ment, we should ultimately find that there was the same allowance 
to be made at the end of the season ; and thus a crop which would 
require three or four months for its perfection would be cut short 
a fortnight at each end, a month in the whole. 

Of course the difficulty in preparing a book of this general char- 
acter is only one of size, as by taking room enough the writer might 
consider the whole continent; but the resulting volume would be too 
unwieldy and cumbrous for general use. Nor shall I treat the 
various subjects introduced in a complete and finished manner, en- 
tering into a discussion of the whys and wherefores which have in- 
duced me to assume and maintaii^ the views enunciated, as that 
course also would demand too much space and time ; but shall con- 
tent myself with stating the theories and practice which experience 
and common sense have proved to be the best for people who live 



THE ESTATE. 3 

in a climate like that which exists between the parallels of latitude 
two degrees north and two south of Boston. 

The advice offered is certain, if followed, to give a satisfactory 
result It is prepared for those who wish to learn ; who, knowing 
but little, are ready to follow advice, not to discuss it. All such 
may feel assured that they may unhesitatingly follow these direc- 
tions, and msif confidently rely upon receiving their reward. 

THE ESTATE. 

As a necessary preliminary to the rest of the book, let me de- 
scribe the character of the estate upon which we are to suppose 
ourselves living, and which we are to cultivate. It shall have an 
area of 60 acres, of which about 20 are farm; 1^, flower-garden; 3, 
kitchen-garden ; 11, orcharding for Pears, Peaches, Cherries, Plums, 
Quinces, Apricots, Nectarines, Apples and Nuts ; 6 acres are occu- 
fNed by bams, stables, greenhouse, grapehouse, hotbeds, nurseries, 
and dwelling-house ; the balance is lawn, woods, ponds, and roads. 
The pond, woodland, lawn, and shrubbery are contiguous; the green- 
houses, hothouses, hotbeds, etc., are near the dwelling-house and 
near to both kitchen and flower-gardens. The suiface is uneven. 
By purchase or otherwise the estate has come into our hands 
unstocked, and with its roads, paths, pond, flower-beds, and planta- 
tions in an unfinished condition. We find the roads, paths, orchards, 
and most of the plantations to our mind, but in all other respects 
the place must be renejved, remodelled, and replanted. The plan at 
the end of the book shows a ground plan of this place, and is so letr 
tered and provided with an index that the various operations recom- 
mended may be followed easily and understandingly. 

It is plain that the place just described may properly be termed 
a Ferme omee. Some American writers have seen fit to ridicule 
the use of this term as being inapplicable to our country, and of 
no real slgoificance anywhere. Why they should make such an 
attack it is hard to tell, for certainly no other term sufficiently de- 
scribes a country place that may gratify all the tastes of a lover of 
country life. A mere pleasure place where there is nothing 
for use, and all for beauty, wouki satisfy but few, as most persons 



4 COUNTBT LIFS. 

soon weary of merely eigoying. The man of earnest mind, 
who gladly unbends &om serious work and wanders with the great- 
est satisfaction through lawns and flower-gardens, ultimately craves 
something more solid ; a view of the practical part of life ; a sight of 
the machinery by which all moves smoothly and profitably. Be- 
side the mental gratification derived from a combination of pur- 
suits, there is almost a duty laid upon every one who makes a 
country home, to provide occupation as well as recreation. Own- 
ers of country seats in America, are generally men who have re- 
tired from active business, and by having a farm connected with 
their homesteads, they secure something to do and to think about, 
and thus avoid the evil of mental inactivity. 

Many who would agree with these ideas, may object to the term 
'* ome V' as expressing a regard for beauty too great to be consist- 
ent with the profitable management of a farm. This is an error, 
and one to which Americans are especially prone, — the sacrifice 
of the beautiful to the practical, as though the two. things were in- 
compatible. Under this impression they would lay out their farm- 
roads straight, would strip hedge-rows and walls of nature's profu- 
sion of wild flowers and shrubs, as offending against neatness and 
order ; they would plant their trees in straight rows ; in a word, 
would make every thing as prosaic as the hoeing of com or the 
milking of cows. 

It is a mistake to wish thus to deprive agriculture of the pleas- 
ure which nature throws about it. Even if it is easier to plough 
up to a straight road or wall or row of trees, than to a curved line ; 
what of that, if by planting trees in groups, and curving the 
roads, we can produce beautiful effects in form and color, and offer 
agreeable combinations of wood, grass, cultivated field, and distant 
landscape ? The few dollars a year saved in the one case to the 
pocket, are no compensation for the loss of the pleasant lessons 
which the beauties of naturo must teach every willing mind. It is 
natural that the present generation should imitate their fiithers, 
whose success has been before their eyes from birth. They who 
have been taught that the value of the earth lies in the crops she 
brings, and that those methods are to be followed which will most 
suroly give a large market value to those crops, will adopt unwill- 



COMHENCBlffSKT OF THE fEAB. 5 

inglj any course that seems to diminish the expected profits ; bnt 
they who know how much more precious a worthy mental devel- 
opment is than any increase in the hoard of money, should advise 
all their pupils to cultivate the beautiful whenever it is possible, 
as the most powerful and delightful means of such development. 

COMMENCEICBNT OF THE TEAB. 

Before entering on a description of the work before us in this 
new home during the next year, let us settle the time when the 
agricultural year begins : certainly not in January, when the har- 
vest has long been garnered, and the preparations for the next 
year's planting are already in a forward state ; not in March, when 
the frost fetters of the earth are unlocked, and the &rmer goes out 
to consider what to do first; — but at the end of the harvest Then 
the farmer begins his preparations for the succeeding year. What 
is true of agriculture, applies with yet more force to horticulture. 
January, the first month of the solar year, is not the first of the 
agricultural ; that year ez;tends from harvest to harvest, and we 
must begin to prepare for the next, in its succession, while we are 
yet reaping the fruits of the present year. In the latitude of 
Boston, the year really begins in November, when the harvests 
have been garnered, and nothing of the year's produce remains 
out of doors but a few foot crops, which are to be gathered when 
we are preparing for the spring work. The same principle applies 
to the garden ; only there the preparations must begin earlier than 
on the fium, as bulb-beds should be made, greenhouses stocked, 
and kitchen-gardens got in readiness before the frosts become se- 
vere. Some greenhouse plants should be lifted as early as th6 
middle of August, and almost all by the last of September. 

So, even at the risk of making our system badly proportioned, 
we must begin our description of the work to be done at the time 
when the gardener's year commences, and must take up the farm- 
er's as we arrive at it Therefore we shall date our year, not from 
the end of harvest, or November, but from September, as the 
month in which much of the next year's work is commenced. 
1* 




CHAPTER n. 

GREENHOUSE. 

EPTEMBER. In September our flower-gar- 
dens are generallj in their greatest beauty — 
thase beds at least which do not depend on per- 
ennial roots. The Verbenas, Salvias, Pelar- 
goniums, Heliotropes and other bedding plants, 
have now attained their perfection, and although 
the annuals and perennials which have glad- 
dened the earlier months *are gone, they are* not missed, their 
places being filled with the luxuriant growth of the plants we 
have just named. No month in the year gives such tender 
pleasure to the lover of the flower-garden. In it all the beauty 
of the spring and summer seem to concentrate, and to be inten- 
sified by apprehensions of early frosts, which shall turn color to 
blackness, and fragrance to the noisomeness of decay. 

As the evenings grow cooler, the careful gardener is reminded 
that the next day he must get up the sashes on his hot, and clean 
out his cold houses ; that piles of mould, broken crocks, and pots 
must be collected in the plant-sheds, and every thing put into the 
best condition to facilitate transplanting and repotting. Commenc- 
ing our work with the greenhouse, we will give a description of 
the house, its size and arrangements. 

Our greenhouse A, as shown by the plan, is a two-thirds span- 
roofed house, with a lean-to shed behind, in which potting may be 
done, and where cisterns and fires are situated. It is 60 x 20 feet 
and 15 feet high in the middle. The front wall is 10 inches thick 
and 4 feet high ; every 5 feet in the front wall there is a venti- 
lator, 1 foot square ; this ventilator opens between the two hot^water 
pipes, so that the fresh air reaches the plants only when properly 
warmed ; all these ventilators can be closed and opened at once, 

6 



No. I. 

B, Section of 

Roof. 
6, Supporting 

Posts, 
r, Ventilators. 
df Ropes for 

Ventilators. 
e, Axles of 

Ventilators. 




No. 2 

A, Se<'tion of 
Geeenlionne. 
A, l)<K)r8. 
C, Cellar. 

F, Funiace. 

G, Rafters. 
V, Ventilators 
(f. Coal Hole. 



A, Greenhouse. 

B, Cistern 

C, Ridj^e Board. 
G, Hothouse. 



No. 3. 
1, Man's Room. 
j, Pottint; Shelf. 
K, Walk 
L. Boiler. 

No. 3. 



(f, Supporting Posts, 
e. Table. 

Staging. 
, Shelf. 



(: 




o ^^— ^ o ^-^ o ^~^o 




>V^o\_/oV 




o^^^^o^-^o 







- 'Ml-- « \ .:. ..';.. 

1 .'. «li.. « II Im.kv. ;ii 

. Jilii-- \\ !:»•'• 'U »• r»' • . . .' . • . 

t*y thv ill liiC <>» lJ»« . . • : , •- , . 

' .'" tin* H'^'f i> i-.it 'f i ,1. * .' ■ • 

,itv *>1k>1«' !'► \\'.' !' '» :..' . '* J "' "- 

'jirvA a Ki-h ." .' 1* ■♦«u\>'ii. I r. ., • -,. ' i. 

••• ''.t'<l nillj jv n,i'. f. \. jji«8, I .1 * at • ■ . •' •^' I • ;• • 

•'■jiiu IIU(> a nilciit r oii lli»* \\ ■: ir.v : t-.- i.>i. i..-.' .i, • 

.: ••..«' rin'. -tiKl all il.: wiikKm* -» ••]»t>«il i.: . '• it -4* om t « . . 

v.im'.jw li.'v •><* (iiM'v»n'K»!t 1 I)) iti,... •• ■' ." ■: h 

:l.t -iiMfj. %ng jiofst, el" wiik'h iIhtc ar** tr-., •'; «. -t li • 
]H. • • |ii. . t m^l tit* thu ricLc* lut'l the t».< ki-i.-^ .,t :. . .- .■ \i 
1' • *. tVoni oik; rud there is u phi^s paiii:ii.'., ».»!i(h .-^ :.»., * .u 
iy u.n to ^<* shuL ofr iVom die ix-m, ai'^l heaU'*) iunl r. ►!* .. .;? .11. 
'I » •• Iiaek wall i^ 7^ f'u< • liijrli. ami i-^ iv-o luicL^ ;:m'U ; :t i- .•-..■m*, 
with tlio ex' ■ {iiion of tlie openini^.-. .>hoo n in ihc jiian lor v<i]i.' .uvr 
door^, wim* -ws, etc. huch wall *r'«! t)i«* centre jv)^!-* n-i o:i ^nid 
fitoi.^ n.;-i.!i\.2 feet deep. T» }um>'' 13 heated I7 l*". pip*;^. 
which .niK. the circuit of the in^iihi under the 
side- I'!..: . tables ; eaeh pipe eomcs from th«» fcmr ii t.^immit^a^ 
boiler m!i .!;/ht, a, and then sends oti two branches < 

at ni^ht angles, A, Ix'ndinor at the corn<.TS, and 

f'Tj-Mii^ tflch other at the i'ront of the house oi>- ^ ! 

j>o.-i:r' u,,' U>ileK u^iere eaeh i^ depre2f>ed so as »» j^ 

to return to the boiler below the i>oint of dej>art- | 

ur»\ Thus the Iioum,' is uniformly warmed, ear?i ^ 

«ide recxivinf? the water hot at starting, whilst in each tin* r«' ..; 
vvj*t/*r is cooled equally before returning to the boiler. A bra"- 
»Tpe cHHses the house each side the partition, to make eitculnti' 
JM i»a-«» we wi^^ to haat one part more than the otbt r. J 1. !>.»•<' 
- •'» the lean-to t^hed back of the greenhouse, and i. Mippli^'d w«ft. 
M-»'-h waier fn>m the rain-water ciMern, B, and .vhen ih •!•• : ■ 
!•..■• '^I'OUjiU to keep the cistern full it i> 1 ije'l by tin f«M . ,■« up 
u\ rb wvll. The furnace is partly above and pai^. •• !»«? 



GREBNHOU8B. 7 

the shatters resting on a wheel which in its turn rolls on a rod 
of iron ; the shutters are connected with another rod, which is 
pushed forward or drawn backward by a ratchet-wheel at one end. 
There is another glass window ventilator near the top of this wall, 
which slides bj the inside of the wall in opening and shutting. 
The front side of the roof is pitched at 36^, the back side at 32^ ; 
the roof sashes are whole to within 3 feet of the ridge, where in 
each commences a sash 3x2 feet, which is hung in the middle, 
and connected with a rod, e, which has at each window a ratchet- 
wheel playing into a ratchet on the window ; tliis rod may be turned 
at one end, and all the windows opened or shut at once, or each 
window may be disconnected bj slipping its own ratchet-wheel 
along, and then be opened or shut independent of its fellows ; d is 
the supporting post, of which there are five, of cast iron ; these 
posts support and tie the ridge and the two sides of the roof. At 
20 feet from one end there is a glass partition, which enables that 
portion to be shut off from the rest, and heated and cooled at will. 
The back wall is 7^ feet high, and is two bricks thick ; it is solid, 
with the exception of the openings shown in the plan for ventilators, 
doors, windows, etc. Each wall and the centre posts rest on solid 
stone masonry, 2 feet deep. The house is heated by two pipes, 
which make the circuit of the inside under the 
side plant tables; each pipe comes from the 9SSSSSSSSB 
boiler straight, a, and then sends off two branches 
at right angles, b, bending at the corners, and 
crossing each other at the front of the house op- 
posite the boiler, where each is depressed so as 
to return to the boiler below the point of depart- 
ure. Thus the house is uniformly warmed, each 
side receiving the water hot at starting, whikt in each the return 
water is cooled equally before returning to the boiler. A brand) 
pipe crosses the house each side th^ partition, to make circulation 
in case we wish to heat one part more than the other. The boiler 
is in the lean-to shed back of the greenhouse, and is supplied with 
fresh water from the rain-water cistern, B, and when there is not 
rain enough to keep the cistern full it is filled by the force pump 
in the welL The furnace is partly above and partly below the 




O 8EFT£MBSB. 

floor of the ahed, and the firehole and the ooal are approached hy 
steps. The coal cellar extends outside the huilding, where there 
is a coal trap. I is a chamber for a man to sleep in ; j, the 
shelves on which plants are to be potted, and under which pots, 
crocks, etc., are to be kept. The plants in the greenhouse are 
variously provided for according to their kinds and necessities. The 
table, €, in the centre, is for large plants, and those, like Camelias, 
which do not need the direct light. Under this table is room to lay 
away bulbs, and Fuchsias which, having blossomed in the summer, 
will be allowed to remain nearly dormant until growth reoom* 
mences in spring, and all other dormant plants. On the other 
shelves other plants will be kept, just as they need more or less 
direct light and heat Along the rafters and crossing the glass in 
various places may be trained Running Roses, Passion-Flowers, etc. 

And now for the work I The first of this month thoroughly ex- 
amine the house, — the glass, the paint, the shelves, — scrub all the 
wood-work clean, and thoroughly whitewash all portions exposed to 
mildew ; fumigate with sulphur, to kill red spiders, etc, before the 
plants are taken in ; paint the wood-work wherever water or wear 
has removed the paint, and make sure that no loose joints will ad^ 
mit rain and cold. Collect at onoe leaf mould, good loam, and 
white sand enough for the compost for aU your plants ; lay in your 
broken crocks and whole pots. Continue to pick off dead leaves ; 
prune and repot all the stock plants not bedded in the ground; repot 
all that have outgrown their quarters, and remove the top mould fivm 
the others and add a fresh supply ; begin to take up and pot all 
the cuttings and layers made during the summer. Pot carefully a 
large quantity of Dwarf and Giant Chrysanthemums, Salvias, Car- 
nations, Gillyflowers, Ten-week Stocks, Tuberoses, Amaranths, and 
such other plants as may be just coming into bud, to be got ready 
to exhibit in the conservatory during October and November. Pot 
Neapolitan Violets, Cyclamen, Pansies, Chinese Primroses, Oxalis. 
Repot Heliotropes, Cinerarias, and Callas; separate and repot Mign- 
onette and Sweet Alyssum ; repot Verbenas for last time. When 
they are potted, keep them in the shade fbr a few days, till they 
are established in the pots, and then put them on the shelves in the 



QBBENHOUSB. 9 

greenhoase, from which they will be removed into the conservatory 
before the shelves will be wanted for the greenhouse plants proper. 

It is very necessary to attend to the large plants not hitherto 
renewed and refreshed this month, in order that they may make 
new roots before winter. The cuttings, etc., should be kept in the 
shade for about a fortnight, being watered moderately. As soon as 
these plants are disposed of, plant your Ixias, La Perousias, and 
all tender bulbs in small pots, one or more together, as their size 
shall dictate ; after pottiug, set them on the upper shelves near the 
glass ; water them but little till they begin to show leaves, as much 
water will rot them ; but after they begin to grow, give water as to 
other plants. 

Get all your tender stock plants into the house before the 15th 
of the month, and most of the more hardy ones which you propose 
to show during the season by the 20th, as a single night of severe 
cold, even without frost, might seriously injure the vigorous color 
of their foliage. 

The growth and success of pot plants depend very much on the 
compost used and the method of potting, which should be as fol- 
lows : The earth with which the pots are filled must not be too 
rich, as this tends to over-stimulate the young plant and change 
flower-buds into leaves ; besides, plants in a greenhouse may be fed 
like fires in a furnace ; if we want an increased development we 
can easily get it by watering with dilutions of manure ; or we can 
check the growth, if that be our wish, by withholding the usual 
supply of witter. Plants, whether m the outside earth or in pots, 
derive but a small proportion of their nutriment from the earth in 
which they stand. Various experiments careQilly tried, where all 
the modifying circumstances were controUable, have shown that 
however meagre the soil, even if it be pure-washed river sand, any 
plant selected could be made to thrive or dwindle just in propor- 
tion to the amount of simple or enriched water, or of pure or im- 
pregnated air, which should be supplied. Were there room in the 
present treatise to cite the experiments of Bousingault and others, 
we ccmld prove that the judicious gardener, by studying the con- 
stituent parts of the plants he is growing and the constituent parts 
of the materials which seem most largely to contribute to their 



10 8BPTEMBSB. 

perfect development, can have them as much onder his oontrol as 
the engineer his engine. The experiments made in this matter 
have pertained to out-of-door culture, and were made with the hope 
of rendering the fanner more independent of varieties of soils and 
seasons in getting large crops, and thej have shown most oonclu- 
siveljr that agriculture need not be a matter of chance, but that 
fiirming operations can be conducted with almost the same certainty 
as manufacturing. If this be true on the large scale of farming, 
where the temperature, atmosphere, and rain are beyond control, 
how much more securely can the gardener guide the growth of his 
plants under a glass roof, where all the uncertain elements of 
growth can be supplied with graduated exactness. 

The earth in which we put plants may be considered in the 
light of a sponge which shall absorb, retain, and give out the food 
the plant needs to facilitate its perfect development The essen- 
tials, therefore, are a carbonaceous character, as carbonaceous ma- 
terials are sponges for the absorption of the nutritious gases; a 
loose and porous mechanical texture which will allow the water 
applied to percolate readily to the fibrous roots of the phints, and 
then to drain away quickly if it be in excess ; and a due supply of 
those minerals usually called salts, such as lime, potash, soda, etc, 
which in small but distinct amounts aro all unportant to the forma- 
tion of healthy vegetable tissue. 

Compost for potting.-^Make your compost one-third leaf mould, 
one-thu^ rich loam, one-third river sand ; mix these ihaterials well 
together, and to every bushel or thereabouts (for there is no need 
of special care), a^out a shovelful of lime, ashes, or gypsum. 
Having your material ready, set your pot before you upon the 
potting shelf; fill it about one-fifth with broken crocks * for drain- 
age, as nothing injures plants more than to allow their roots to be 
supersaturated. Mildew, blight, a sickly growth, are all consequents 
of imperfect drainage, and with the single exception of too much 

* Oyster shells are as good ub, and in the opinion of some cultiraton 
better than, crocks for drainage, as the roots of the plant find in Ihem ina> 
terial for food. 



QREENHOUSE. 



ii 



and ii^udiciously applied heat, nothing oftener destroys plants than 
standing water. Were we oilener to think of the lesson which 
nature teaches us in the woods and fields, we should make fewer 
mistakes in this matter. No tree, shrub, or plant, that is a native of 
dry uplands, will thrive or even live when transplanted to a swamp ; 
and the native of a swamp will thrive no better if subjected to a 
corresponding change ; yet we must attribute the respective failures 
of the plants to too much or too little water. Having then the 
pot before us with the broken crocks in the bottom (which are the 
fragments of old and imperfect pots, hammered together till they 
are reduced to pieces varying from the size of a finger nail to an 
inch or more square), cover them about an inch deep (varying 
the depth a little to suit the plant in hand) with your compost ; 
take the plant in the left hand and set it into the pot, being careful 
not to set it deeper than it stood before, and keeping the crown of 
the roots (the point where the roots and stem join), just below 
the top of the pot ; with the right hand, pour in the pi-epared 
compost on eitlier side, occasionally settling the earth into the roots 
with the finger or with a stick, and gently shaking the plant 
that the earth shall be well packed among the small roots. Go 
on in this way till the pot is full ; then take it in both hands and 
sli^tly shake the pot, giving it a knock or jostle against the shelf, 
which will firmly settle all together and leave the plant standing 
steady and even in the middle of the pot Afler this, shower 
itfix>m the rose of the watering pot sufficiently to moisten the 
earth throughout The plant must now be set in the shade and 
watered in the same way daily for ten days or a fortnight, after 
which it may take its proper place on the greenhouse shelves. 
If the plant has been newly taken from the ground, the top should 
be judiciously pruned so as to balance the mutilation of the roots, 
and give it a well-proportioned shape. Cut away all the broken 
roots, and be careful in selecting your pot to get one large enough to 
contain the main roots without much bending. Remember, how- 
ever, that we do not depend upon the old roots for the main support 
of the plant ; for that, we look to the multitude of new and fibrous 
roots, which the treatment just described will cause to spring out 
from all parts of the old roots, and which will rapidly increase till 



12 SEPTEMBER. 

they quite fill the pot So long as the roots are thus makhig and 
filling the pot, the leaves and woodj parts of the plant will increase, 
and there will he no indication of flowering till the roots have oc- 
cupied all the space allotted to them. 

With the compost just described, there will be no need of ma* 
nure-water for awhile, but when the fiower-buds begin to form 
there will be too little nutriment in the earth to supply the new 
and increased demands of the plant, and to secure a satisfactory 
bloom, we must add occasionally a little guano or liquid manure to 
the water. The best way to prepare a liquid manure, is to set upon 
a shelf in some convenient place an old vinegar or other barrel 
that is tight, provided with a fiiucet The shelf must be high 
enough to allow a watering pot or pail to stand under the faucet. 
Li the bottom of this barrel, and just above the faucet, make a 
staging of two sets of parallel strips of wood, crossed at right an- 
gles, upon which the manure may rest, and through which the 
water may run as it percolates the manure. 

In the cut, the dotted lines 
on the barrel show the situar 
don of the staging, which is 
also shown by itself. This 
staging will prevent the ma- 
nure from passing into the fau- 
cet and choking it Fill the 
barrel thus prepared nearly full 
of stable-dung, and tread it 
down well. Pour in water slowly till the barrel is full ; let it stand 
for two or three days before you begin to draw off^. At first this 
water must be diluted to be safely used, — one part manure-water 
to at least three of pure water, — but as the plant becomes accus- 
tomed to it, stronger doses may be given. Such a barrel of ma- 
nure will bear several saturations with water before all its strength 
is drawn out 

If guano is used, put one-quarter of a pound to two gallons of 
water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then use like the water from 
the barrel. If the guano-water is prepared in a barrel, the staging 
must be covered with a fine wire or a cloth-strainer, to retain the 




GBKENH0U8B. 18 

finer particles. This proportion of guano to water is advised on 
the supposition that the guano is of the best quality. Such guano 
is, however, scarcely to be obtained, and consequently the best way 
is to make what seems a solution of moderate strength, and then be 
guided by experience as to weakening or strengthening it 

This application of liquid manure is to be continued only while 
the buds are fonning, as it will, if used after they begin to expand, 
often stimulate the plant enough to turn them into leaves. This 
is particularly the case with hard wooded plants like Daphnes, 
Camelias, etc, to which liquid manure should be applied only dur- 
ing the dormant or growing, not the blossoming, season. It seldom 
happens to Boses or Pelargoniums, as they are gross feeders. 

Surprising as are the effects of liquid manure, they are no more 
than should be expected, for the food of planU must be diluted 
before it can be absorbed by the spongioles of the roots, and such 
dilution is the only chemical or mechanical means to which nature 
resorts for the development of the crops, ^wers, etc., in the fields. 
The power which guano in solution exerts, is greater than that of 
any other manure, and indeed in its dry state it ib likely to injure 
rather than benefit vegetation. In the greenhouse, whether ap- 
plied as we have directed, or put on the surface in powder, no in- 
jury need be apprehended, as the daily watering will in the latter 
case soon carry it below the surface ; but when used on a large 
scale in agriculture, whether as a top-dressing or ploughed in, its 
good effect depends entirely on the amount of rain that falls during 
the season. 

Stock Plants. — As yet we have made no mention of other 
classes of plants which are to be attended to in August 

First, — Stock pot plants. These will generally be Camelias, 
Daphnes, Cape Jessamines, Laurestinus, Lemon Verbenas, and 
other hard wooded plants which grow too rankly when planted in 
the ground, or which if planted out would be liable to ii\juiy from 
sun, wind, and transplantation. The way to treat such plants in 
the late spring or early summer will of course be described when 
we arrive at the proper time. What we have now to do is to take 
them as we find them. Such of them as have outgrown their pots 
2 



14 8EPTB1IBEE. 

and can be repotted, should, before they start afresh to grow, be re- 
moved into pots or tubs a size or two larger than the old. Make 
the drainage as before described; then examine the ball which 
you have taken out of the old pot, and if there are any signs of 
worms, hunt them out and kill them ; remove all dead roots, score 
the sides of the ball a little, if it is much matted together, so that 
in healing the old wounds the plant will naturally throw out new 
fibrous roots from the calluses ; remove the old earth from the top 
of the ball till you come to the roots. Now set it on the earth 
which covers the drainage in the new pot, and fill in between the 
ball and the sides of the pot with the fresh compost, and work this 
in well with a stick ; then shake together ; finally add fresh earth 
to the top of the bared roots till the pot is full. Water and treat 
as in other cases, although it will not be necessary to defer putting 
these plants at once into their final places in the greenhouse. Water 
Camelias abundantly as they start to grow. Give Azaleas les9 
water and more sun. House Euphorbias. An excellent pot for 
such plants will be shown by and by. 

Another class of plants includes those, which, owing to size or 
other peculiarities, cannot be repotted. Li dealing with these, re- 
move the upper earth in the pot down to the roots, and replace it 
with compost They will need manure-water oflener than the 
others. 

Pinch back roses in pots, — make cuttings of Verbenas etc., 
to blossom late in the spring; as the Fuchsias, etc., lose leaves 
give little water and keep in the shade till spring. 

CONSTRUCTION. 

The greenhouse on our estate, as shown by the plan, is a span^ 
roofed house with straight sashes. The use to which any glass* 
roofed structure is to be put should decide its character. A build- 
ing for the growth of grapes or fruit, where only one side is to be 
exposed to the light, may with some propriety be a lean-to house 
(t.e., one of its sides may be a perpendicular, dark wall) ; but 
where plants which should be equally well grown on all sides are to 
be cultivated, the light should be admitted from as many points as 
possible. A distinguished English writer says : ^ Of all forms for 



GBBEKH0U8E. 



15 



a geeenhonse, that of a lean-to is decidedly the worst, and that of a 
8|>an or curvilinear the best." When trained upon walls or trellises 
peaches and vines may be grown to the greatest advantage in lean*to 
houses, but greenhouse plants seldom can, as'the merits of the latter 
greatly depend upon symmetry of form, and this cannot be attained 
unless every part of the plant be equally exposed to light, air, and 
sunshine. 

^ It seems now almost universally admitted that the span or cur- 
vilinear form of roof is best adapted for this purpose ; and the ends 
of the house should front north and south, although under peculiar 
circumstances they may be usefully constructed to face the east and 
west ; the more so if they are glass on all sides to within a foot or 
so of the ground." 

It will be seen that this author uses the terms span and curvi- 
linear as alike distinct from " lean-to," although they are far from 
being so. A span-roof, as we have shown, is ordinarily shaped 
with the sashes and the lines 
of the roof straight. But the 
lines of roof and sash in a span- 
loof may be curvilinear, and 
there may be the same differ- 
ences in the lines of a lean-to 
roof, there being no more re- 
striction to straight lines in this than in a span-roof. 

To appreciate the respective advantages of these different forms, 
we must consider why glass is used for a roof. However much 
artificial heat fire will give, we must, to grow perfect plants, 
depend on the sun for light and heat ; yet the position of the sun 
in the heavens differs greatly in different months. Out-of-door 
plants, in the growing season, have the sun's rays nearly vertical 
for a part of the day, and the vertical rays are the hottest. In 
greenhouses the order of the seasons is reversed, and the growing 
season is at the time when the sun's altitude is low, and his rays 
reladve to the earth's surface never approximate to the vertical 
direction. Our aim must therefore be to arrange our glass roof so 
that the rays shall strike it nearly at a right angle. With a recti- 
linear roof, — ^whether " span " or " lean-to," — some constant angle 
is selected ; such, perhaps, as will secure the perpendicularity dur- 




16 

ing the coldest months, and as the sun increases his altitude, this 
angle will become more or less desirable, and we must then de» 
pend upon the increase in the hours of sunshine, so that a decrease 
in quality may be made up by increase in quantity ; or we can in* 
crease artificial heat But with a curvilinear roof, thisx difficulty 
is lessened, as some part of its changing form will always be nearly 
perpendicular to the line of incidence of the rays. 

There is, however, an objection to curved roofe. They are more 
expensive to build, because of the difficulty with which wood is 
bent to curves without ii\juring its strength. Curved roo& are 
therefore generally made oi metal, which can be cast of any 
strength and shape required. This change increases the expense 
as well as the liability to damage from expansion and contraction 
in a climate of such extremes as ours. 

Still, when a greenhouse is to be built by a person with money 
enough to allow of his considering the best of its kind to be an 
essential feature in economy, a curvilinear span-roof is beyond 
question the best for all plants which Nature intends to be sym- 
metrical. Both these styles of houses may be rendered more 
effective still by the application of the ridge and furrow sash, which 
is described in another place. 

This distinction between .plants which branch in many duections 
and fruit trees and vines, whether grape or flowering, must be kept 
constantly in mind while discussing glass structures, as neglect o£ 
the peculiar wants of the different plants the gardener may wish to 
cultivate, has been the cause of the almost complete uselessness of 
many very elaborate and expensive glass houses. 

A greenhouse is a building in which plants may be stored for 
the winter, and in which a moderate growth may be promoted ; we 
may, if we please, divide the house so that some portions can be 
heated hotter than others, and the plants in it forced more rapidly 
for exhibition in the conservatory, when in bloom ; but as a whole 
building it should be a cold rather than a hot house. 

Some portions of the floors of greenhouses — around the sup- 
porting posts, and at the back walls and ends, may be filled in with 
loam, in which to plant vines of different species, Boses, Passion- 



GREENHOUSE. 17 

Flowers, etc, to be trained up against the glass; but this space 
should never be used for grapes or fruit unless necessity compels. 

I shall treat this subject more freely, when we come to it in its 
proper order. 

In all greenhouses where flowering vines are planted in the man- 
ner we describe, the ground must be forked over in the month of 
September, the old loam removed from the surface roots and new 
added. If this is done early, they will make new fibres and be 
ready ibr a rapid and healthy growth during the winter. 

I shall give no space to the consideration of hothouses proper, as 
we have none on our place. They are chiefly used for growing 
Pineapples, exotic fruits, and orchidaceous plants. Pleasant as it 
is to grow these varieties, it is very expensive and troublesome, and 
not in accordance with a moderate income. Whoever wishes to 
* indulge in this kind of culture must consult more elaborate treatises 
than this. The principles of management are very like those for 
the greenhouse, grapery, and conservatory, only carried to a 
hi^er point- 

2» 



CHAPTER m. 

CONSERVATORY. 

During September there is little to be done in the conservatory. 
This building differs from any of the glass structures already 
described, inasmuch as it is intended for the exhibition of specimen 
flowers, and for growing but few plants, such as flowering vines, 
which may be planted in the earth under the floor, Roses, etc., 
which grow in beds prepared like those of the out-of-door garden, 
or some very large plants, which need room and light rather than 
heat 

It should, if possible, be connected with the dwelling, and open 
out of those rooms most frequented by the family. Li it may be a 
fountain basin for fish, aquariums, or birds, busts, statues. If there 
is room, a portion should be raised a little higher than the rest, and 
be furnished with seats and a table for the convenience of the 
ladies of the family, should they wish to sit there with work or 
books, and enjoy the pleasure which the fragrance and sight of 
beautiful plants must always give. 

Of all things connected with gardening none is so misunderstood 
as the conservatory. We hear the greatest variety of buildings 
called by that name. Sometimes it is that hybrid which necessity 
alone can excuse, a gi-eenhousc where plants grow on the shelves, 
and grapes on the rafters ; and sometimes it is a pit, where a large 
bed of earth is boxed up, in which are planted flowering vines, to 
run over the back or walls of the building, while in the middle and 
front, Roses, Heliotropes, etc., grow ; on a shelf directly in front — 
under the eaves as it were — is a collection of other plants, such as 
are most often subjected to winter culture. 

Both these arrangements, for the culture of plants in winter, have 
their merits, and are very desirable, but neither of them is a con- 
servatory. That building stands in relation to the other hothouses, 

IS 



B Jf?2. 




INDEX TO CONSERVATORY. 

A, Ground Plan. B, Elevation. 

No. I. 



d, groups of plants in pots ; E, beds of plants, as Roses, etc. \ J, j, 
staging full of plants ; A, h^ small beds of Verbenas, etc. ; m, m, posts 
of Conservatory, covered with vines ; n, n, busts and statuary ; o, o, larpe 



statues , p, p, standing baskets of flowers ; R, R, doont ; s, s, ground 
glass windows to house ; x, x, hot-water pipes ; ^, g^ basins for flsh, etc. 

No. 2. 

c. Wall of house ; j, gutter , y, ventilator ; 6, pipes for heating beds ; 
0, o, hanging baskets; v, moulding to connect house and roof. 



i 'III ']**:i. .i.;4 luitln '►• ;, liiic jioi. . .. I ..' u ':, • ,.. 
• Muu. Ir. ufiuM* j>laui-ii'>u><'- plant- 'iia\ !*<• i ... ' '• .: 
win It ii; p''.rtWcliuii. liuu i-u. iiioc lii^ln ii ju at.» «•.(«. • 
..iji.iii\-(I. ami ai'-r t> ir '• M.u»y i-* [ui-*-*-^:. n» hf n i.i.,^ •,•. -' , 
I. U'^ iWivd l»> :i new M-t. Tli«' [>it \m. Ir.i- • •■• •i!> .. 

in [VMUi ni H.)w«t'^ :itul <:h;aai'l"r, tc :];e rA>h-' j :•- ' . 
j'Vl.Ni: '«r''ix.i ii and tin- ;^^•••..Jllllo•l-«^ 

I . .'iMilitr i')ii ari.-L*< t'l.^n our -^ ..h'i ir;;i' p;j--i» • *.'')V i ■ . , 

iiame-i ; lix>'.i iruti ♦'al^.' ;;i^U' and iir-tiikfii ,i> <.. . 
f ' • • -^ lo palm *»ti';«Ti iijfri -or ai !u Ic inr ji I-:;;» 1, i»; :. i: 
.-niindiii;^ litit*. 1 '.Noull not ]>♦» uii'iLM>{«KMl ic# ''"pri. ; h ,i 
JM'T whicf- l««.'I !>> tin* iijo^t hiutibi*- « (•llcction c»t' pliiu.-, .;i ♦ -' . 
I •■<^>rti'iu*'. 1 *.ve divj;'r,n> til • : rt»ii^trucii«>ii oi" tho-c .• ' '• l» 
iM' u.o: 1 *. '* :u>»l cheaply lumhi mitl !• i t ot ; but J do •• -- 

Ir '•.■-! ' .. ■• prai:^e wliich !>' not com * i:<'<l with lilt* a] ^r'nal -.r 
t:.- -•. it.. It, I* '.:"_', l>iJ' iX.-urls to th«' ll^Il:^. rii^-ni"'- <»♦* ti lais-'- •*: 

Ti{.- '^tni.» iljvt Jidiiiin tion ol t!.(5-c, -.MiM, ls?io>M":'; i.'fUiM.;' ■ ,!•- 

-a;/--- >Mpinj:J woiidi-r :.' •};•• '* '• :l: ni».^ ** that tiuui^ijriy •♦i.^^ 
rriiiino » thiiiu- t.y unconitiion nauit-^. 

'I'tw woi'- iii l!ie <'.,a-»'rvato';, ii-.' thi- iiiomh in (iis in / ,• ♦ .!•• ^ 
•j'la.vN-'puse^) to pjuiil. to clean, lo renew the caviii uhoat tl;.. . or.** o\ 
.dlp|jt).f-w t^iaJ. stand in hed'^ . v^h« r»'\ti thi> iii.-{. i- diili'\iit oi ii.ip.*-- 
*ihle. * ■■: ■' :• the pr**>»iirc of Poor or p:» ' ♦ uieni, givt% w):en y«»u 
v^ ^; ■. 'iruii^ ri'irP-WMter. i'liun; uie, vini-*-, rcrnovf all dead or 
•te"T-:*«}«MH ^ - .-, pick oft' ilecavinj; leave.s. thuroutrldy \vriiip^ ail 
• f>i ».i».^, jij)ti -• • that the heating appaiatus i. lu onl. i-. 
l*I.in-> lor ui" coTi'icrMxtoiy should he co'.ceivrri atul ^citlcd on In 
:w in onj'T that tlic flKPTluion nrjy be h.illt, an I t!i. .-(>!' ruav 
, «. pii 'l, and siich flo\vej''"»;i vine-j plant<'d a.s ^ piupn-« ;o 
•'.• * 'iiey rmy luue tif' ^iinuncr to ;:i*ow iv. and may b** 
•-. hto-s<(nn) in tlie winter. 
. • -.J '. '^h oui e-'O- rvatory thr hiM- of Au2:i*-^l or ne»ul!i 
^••1 'MiU'CT, » a> to hav» it ••'»> t rod in hetbrc l'n»-;t <'ona.-. i .• 
a con<»^i vntory aitaclit t! »o the d • v 1. ."-Iio-jm* • u-- 
. .i d» iiinifttvd i»y tht U'tter C in-ihe )':•. x. It i- a -< :! 
' ■» i'liildirc^'. (V>ve. iiicr ihe wiediJW-^ oftli' di«.'tcj-nM» n n»ul ki;,' ». 
I cntcrc i throuj'ti •! i>t*ach wnjuow IVr a 'c ouna/ * '• •. ' 



.X 



u. 1. hi: • 



CONSERVATORT. 19 

as the drawing-room of a fine house to the common parlor or sitting- 
room. In other plant-houses plants maj be cultivated, to be carried, 
when in perfection, into the more light and airj conservatory, to be 
admired, and after their beauty is passed, to be removed, their places 
being filled by a new set. The pit we have described comes near- 
est, in point of fiowers and character, to the conservatory, but is a 
hybrid between it and the greenhouse. 

The confusion arises from our American passion for large, impor- 
tant names; from that false taste and mistaken judgment which 
thinks to palm off an inferior article for a better, by giving it a high- 
sounding title. I would not be understood to depreciate any build- 
ing which holds the most humble collection of plants, and shall, as 
I continue, give directions for the construction of those which can 
be most easily and cheaply made and taken care of; but I do dis- 
like that love of praise which is not contented with the approval of 
the discriminating, but resorts to the fiimsy disguise of a misused 
name, to entrap the admiration of those, who, knowing nothing of the 
subject, gapingly wonder at the "learning" that familiarly calls 
common things by uncommon names. 

The work in the conservatory for this month is (as in the other 
glass-houses) to paint, to clean, to renew the earth about the roots of 
all plants thai stand in beds ; wherever this last is difficult or impos- 
sible, owing to the presence of fioor or pavement, give, when you 
water, strong manure-water. Prune the vines, remove all dead or 
superfluous wood, pick off decaying leaves, thoroughly syringe all 
the plants, and see that the heating apparatus is in order. 

Plans for the conservatory should be conceived and settled on in 
May, in order that the foundation may be built, and the soil may 
be prepared, and such flowering vines planted as we propose to 
have, that they may have the summer to grow in, and may be 
ready to blossom in the winter. 

We should finish our conservatoiy the last of August or middle 
of September, so as to have it covered in before frost comes. The 
plan 'shows a conservatory attached to the dwelling-house on the 
east, and designated by the letter C in the index. It is a semicir- 
cular building, covering the windows of the dining-room and kitchen, 
and entered through a French window from the dining-room and 



20 SBFTEMBBR. 

parlor. The kitchen windows are of rough glass, so as to transmit 
light without looking into the oonservatorj. Its length on> the 
front of the main house is 31 feet; on the kitchen, 15 feet ; on the 
end of the miun house, 19 feet; the depth in front is 19 feet; on 
the side, 15 feet ; the porch is 10 x 10. 

Plate No. 1 shows the ground plan. The whole front floor, not 
occupied bj plants, is covered with alternate flags of purple and 
green slate ; Malone sandstone, or strips of hard pine may be used. 
The outside foundation is a stone wall, 3x4 feet ; above the base 
rises an ornamental brick wall, 3 feet, with ventilators, as in the 
greenhouse, opposite the hot-water pipes, and opening and shutting 
in sections — the curved form of the house making it impossible to 
move all at once ; they are 4 feet apart, and 1 foot square. The 
hot-water pipes and boiler are similar to those in the greenhouse ; 
the boiler is in a shed at the kitchen comer of .the house, and not 
shown in the plan ; the pipes surround the porch, or may cross it 
under the floor. Where' they cross the 
pathway, a^d would be stumbled over if on 

j,-^^ _Q_ its level, they sink on one side and rise 

ni tf ~ again on the other, as in the greenhouse. 

^ Jf No such rise and fall is necessary where 

they cross the entrance from the parlor, as 

the conservatory floor is there sufficiently 

above the level of the parlor floor to let the pipes pass under. 

The smoke flues traverse the walk along the front and return along 

the back of the conservatory into the kitchen chimney. 

Above the brick wall rises a perpendicular glass front, 8 feet 
high, and from the top of this the glass roof springs back to the 
main wall of the house in a curvilinear manner. This gives an 
immense amount of light, and demands a great deal of heat to 
wann it properly. It is ventilated by a revolving sash in the mid- 
dle of the top, and by ventilation through the wall of the house, 
similar to the greenhouse. 

The ground floor is not covered to its utmost capacity, buf is ar- 
ranged so as to give as pleasant an effect as possible. 

Internal Treatment. — d represents groups of plants standing 



CONSERVATORY. ^ 21 

in pots, such as Camelias, Daphnes, Cape Jessamines, Laurestinus, 
Pettosporums, Oranges, etc Thej may be kept here constantly, or 
be brought in when about to flower. . e marks beds of plants, Roses, 
Geraniums, Heliotropes, etc. These beds are 4 feet deep, well 
drained at bottom, then filled in 18 inches with stones, which are 
covered with strips of turf 3 inches thick, to prevent the fine loam 
being washed away ; then comes a foot of oyster shells, charcoal, 
bones ; then a foot of rich loam. The plants growing here are 
never moved, but are not watered during the summer more than 
enough to keep them alive, so that they are virtually dormant at 
that season, but grow and blossom most luxuriantly in winter, ff 
are stagings filled with plants irom the greenhouse, ready to blos- 
som ; a succession may easily be kept up if a little care be taken ; 
hh are beds similar to e, but smaller, and filled with bulbs, Verbe- 
nas, etc. ; mm represent the posts of the conservatory, which, in Na 
2, are shown covered with vines ; nm are busts or any small 
statuary; oo, lai^e statues of a character adapted to gardens. 
Flora, Pomona etc ; pp^ standing baskets of fiowers ; RR, doors ; 
«s, ground-glass windows leading into the house; xx, hot-water 
pipes ; gg^ basins for fish, aquariums, or fountains. 

In No. 2, c shows the wall of house ; y, gutter ; y, ventilator ; 
6, pipes for heating beds ; oo, hanging baskets ; v, moulding to con- 
nect house and roof. 

Expense. — A conservatory of this kind would be a real win- 
ter garden, and would give more pleasure than any greenhouse. 
Water would be supplied from the house i^istem, and could be 
made to serve many ornamental purposes. Such a building would, 
of course, be expensive, but nothing for which money is ordinarily 
expended would give a larger return in satisfaction. As the oon- 
seivatory need not be stocked till next month, we reserve a list of 
plants for it till then. 



CHAPTER IV. 

GRAPERY. 

By referring to the index of our plan, you will find the grapery 
marked by the letter B. It is quite a large building, eighty feet 
long; two-thirds is lean-to, one-third span; 'and it is filled with 
vines. It is divided by two glass partitions into three parts, so 
arranged that the heat may be increased or diminished in either at 
pleasure, thus enabling us to have a succession of fruits at those 
seasons of the year when it is most desirable. The space on the 
floor of the cold grapery, where in greenhouses would be a staging 
for the culture and exhibition of plants, is an espalier on which are 
Peaches, Nectarines, and Cherries. 

The sections of this house have vines in them, respectively two, 
three, and four years old, and are, during this month, in very dif- 
ferent conditions. The central portion is the cold grapery, where 
it is but rarely necessary to have any artificial heat, and which 
ripens its crop in August and September. The left section is to 
be a retarding-house, whose fruit is to be fit for use in December, 
January, or February. The right side is a forcing house, where 
the fruit will be ripe in June, July, or earlier, according to the 
age of the plant forced. For details of this building, a description 
of the border, etc., see the October work for the grapery. 

Forcing-House. — In September, examine your forcing-house, 
clean the sashes, repair glass, paint or whitewash the wood-work, 
and get all things ready for work. As the evenings begin to 
cool, be careful to close the doors and sashes, and if any sudden 
frosts make it necessary, draw the shutters up over the sashes. 

Our vines having been planted three years, we may this year 
begin forcing with vigor. 

Much care should bq taken in a forcing-house, lest being tempted 

2S 



GRAPERY. 23 

by a desire for a large and early crop, which may remunerate us 
for previous outlay, we fofce the vines when young at too early a 
month in the year. A forcing-house, reverses nature's order and 
converts winter into summer ; and in managing it, we must be 
careful to be governed by the corresponding natural analogies. 
Out-of-door plants move slowly from frozen ground and cold air to 
thawed earth and genial temperatures. Therefore, our aim in the 
forcing-house must be to keep it as cool as possible in September, 
without subjecting the roots or vines to a chilL We may begin 
forcing this year at least fifleen days earlier than last In this 
connection, I can do no better than to quote from J. F. Allen's 
treatise on the grape, as there is no more skilful or sncoessftd culti- 
vator of the grape in this latitude. 

^ If it is intended to winter-force, you must not commence the 
process the first year before the first of March ; the second year 
you may begin the middle of February ; the third year, the first 
of February ; and so on every year until you reach the first of 
December ; beyond this you can hardly go, as this allows only 
time to prune and clean the vine after it has gone to rest." We 
shall in this, the third year of our forcing-house, begin to force 
about the first of February. 

Retarding-House. — The vines in the retarding-house are 
ripening their second crop of fruit. Having thinned the grapes in 
August, there is but little to do in September, excepting to moderate 
the growth as much as possible by keeping the house cool when 
the sun shines. It is important to keep the house dry to avoid dan- 
ger of mildew ; shut the doors and sashes as the nights grow cool ; 
if there is any appearance of mildew, dust the vines with flowers 
of sulphur; and shut up tight at night 

Cold Grapbrt. — In the cold grapery at the first of the month 
there will be a little fruit ripening and a little ripe. There should 
be but little, taking it altogether, as a vine two years old is too 
young to be allowed to bear any thing but specimen bunches. It 
is true, that vines of that age will oflen bear heavily if allowed, but 
the final effect of this is injurious, and only tends to weaken the 



24 SEPTEMBER. 

plant and reduce its capability to bear large and steady crops 
hereafter. 

Pinch back fruit and fig-trees in pots, to ripen and improve the 
wood. Having followed the directions for the earlier months (cal- 
endar) of this year, in Augost, or September — 

^ You may begin at the lower part of the cane, and with a sharp 
knife cut dean out all the laterals for eight or nine feet, leaving 
those on the upper part of the cane for the autunm pruning. Be 
careful in doing this not to injure the bud or leaf of the cane where 
you cut, for from this eye your fruit is to come the next summer.** 

If there are any bunches of fhut on the vines, keep your house 
as cool and dry as possible, as this is the only means of pijBserving 
the fruit ; either extra heat or moisture will occasion mildew or 
decay. 



CHAPTER V. 

PLOWER-GABDEN. 

Wb have already said that in September the flower-garden is in 
its most satiB&ctory condition ; we should have limited our assertion 
to the first half of the month, after which time the work of disrob- 
ing begins. Many plants must be taken up, to be removed to the 
greenhouse, and some of the beds must be dug over for planting 
bulbs. 

Bulbs may be planted in any of the autunm months, until the 
ground is frozen, the earlier the better, for many of them will make 
fibrous roots in the fall, and thus be ready to grow more rapidly 
and vigorously in the spring ; and it will generally be found that 
the earliest bulbs to blossom, of a given variety, are those which 
were earliest planted. 

In this montl^ as before, go over the beds repeatedly with knife 
and string, cutting out the old blossom stalks, and tying up the too 
drooping branches of the erect species of plants. Particularly 
watch the Dahlias, which by this time have grown large and top- 
heavy ; a single high wind will prostrate every Dahlia that is not 
well secured, and thus destroy the hopes of a season. The Dahlia 
will blossom every month from July to October, if forced early 
enough, but will give its best blossoms only as the nights grow cool 
and long. 

Bedding Plants. — Gret up the tender greenhouse plants whicli 
are to be wintered before the 15th of this month ; for although 
there is often fine weather till October, there will be an occasional 
frost, which will cut off every tender plant. As you begin to 
transplant; the beds will have a very seedy and dismantled appear- 
ance, and your judgment as a gardener will become apparent in 
the manner in which you conceal the losses made by transplanting. 
3 . 25 



26 SEPTEMBER. 

The more hardy plants, like Carnations, Verbenas, Lantanas, and 
Pelargoniums may remain in the ground till October. In Septem* 
ber we expect the last blossoms of the Perpetual Roses. 

Bulbs. — Overhaul the bulbs collected for the spring blossoms, 
ascertain the number jou have of each variety, and how much 
surface they will cover ; then decide what beds shall be devoted 
to bulbs ; take out every thing in them, unless it be Roses or peren- 
nial roots, dig them over thoroughly, adding a good dressing of 
well-rotted manure. This work cannot be too thoroughly done, as 
upon it depends the satisfactory blossom we hope for in the spring. 
Having prepared your beds, towards the last of the month (25th, 
perhaps), begin to plant, although this may be deferred till the 
first of October. The amount of earth required over a bulb differs 
with the. variety, but none need more than three or four inches. 
Where it is desirable to produce any given effect, say of color, with 
Hyacinths, Tuhps, or Crocusses, lay them out around the bed on the 
surface in their proper places before beginning to plant, with a 
view to producing whatever effects you fancy, according to tlie 
variety ; Tulips and Hyacinths from six to nine inches apart ; Cro- 
cusses, two or three inches ; the larger bulbs fran three to four. 
By using bulbs of well-known colors and character, the most varied 
effects you wish may be produced with certainty. 

Where we wish a succession of bloom, nothing is more easily 
procured ; we have only to plant bulbs of the earlier and later 
varieties. A very pleasant effect is got by adding to the beds some 
Pansies, as they blossom as soon as the snow is fairly gone, and last 
till hot weather. Snowdrops come first, then Crocusses, then Pan- 
Hies, then Hyacinths, Narcissuses, Tulips, Daffodils, Single and 
Double Jonquils, etc 

Planting. — Having laid out the bulbs as described^ 
take a tin tube in the shape of a truncated cone, 6 inches 
long, about 3 inches in diameter at the large end, at 
. the smaller, 1^ or 2 inches ; take the bulb in your lefl 
hand, in your right, the tube ; press the small end down 
into, the earth as far as you wish to set the bulb-— 4 




FLOWER-GARDEN. 27 

inches for Tulips, etc, 1^ for Crocusses, — drawing up the tube, 
you will find it filled with earth as high as it was pressed 
deep into the ground, its tapering shape preventing the eartli 
in the upper and larger end from falling out at the smaller. 
Now set the bulb down at the bottom of the hole, its pointed end 
up. If it is a Hyacinth, shake a little sand over it ; then invert 
the tin tube over it, and the earth removed to make the hole will 
be replaced. This will be found to be the most neat and rapid 
tray of planting bulbs. Any tinman will make such a tube for 
ten cents. 

Tulips. — When choice Tulips are to be planted, a deal of cart> 
must be taken to arrange colors and sizes so that the tallest may 
be in the middle and the smaller towards the edge of the bed. 
Connoisseurs in tulips, who pride themselves on the splendor and 
variety of their bulbs, resort to very elaborate preparation in the 
way of soil, exposure, size of bed, number of rows, etc. ; but this 
is troublesome, and undesirable to the general cultivator, who does 
not wish his whole satisfaction in his fiowers to be destroyed by the 
trouble of taking care of them. The utmost that the Tulip demands 
is to haye the bed in a rather high and airy situation, sheltered from 
the prevalent winds, and on a light rich soil. All other details 
may be arranged to suit the cultivator. 

Hyacinths, — too, have often been made the subject of elabo- 
rate memoirs. Were it necessary to resort to the care insisted on 
by the writers of these directions. Hyacinths would cause more 
trouble than they are worth. It is enough to observe the directions 
just given for Tulips. 

With the other common bulbs we may be still! less particular. 
When the amateur desires variety rather than whole beds of one 
kind, bulbs may be planted singly, or in groups, about the borders, 
among perennial roots, etc. When they are to be planted in this 
manner, it would be well to take with you a wheelbarrow of rich 
mould, and put a spadeful in the place where you are about to set 
the bulb, as all blossom well in proportion to the richness of the 
earth immediately surrounding them. Plant during this month 



28 SEPTEMBER. 

Pansies among your bulbs as just described, or in a bed bj them^ 
selves, or in the borders. The Pansies to be set out are those of * 
which the seeds were planted in June ; by transplanting now, they 
will be enabled to get well rooted and make some growth before win- 
ter. They like a rich soil, and pay well for it Old plants can be 
divided, and cuttings be made. The Polyanthus may appropriately 
be mixed with bulbs to vary effects ; transplant this month. The 
ordinary Polyanthus needs no specially prepared soil. Plant White 
Lilies early this month. 

Late in the month divide and transplant, or reset the perennial 
roots. Make beds for them by themselves, or in common with 
other plants, but endeavor to get, as you easily may, such a suc- 
cession of perenniab as will give some flowers during all the grow- 
ing months, from May to October. Having a greenhouse to sup- 
ply an unlimited amount of bedding plants, it will be well to leave 
gaps among the perennials, in which to set Verbenas, Heliotropes, 
Geraniums, Salvias, so that their successive and late blossoms may 
come in to fill the spaces left by dying perennials. 

Florists' Flowers. — Some writers have indulged in lengthy 
directions for the growth of Auriculas, Ranunculuses, and other 
plants, which I can consider in this latitude only as denizens of 
tlie greenhouse and hotbed, and as such I shall treat them. Be 
careinl now to watch the Chrysanthemums, both Giant and Dwarf, 
for the gaiety of the garden in October and November must 
depend upon them. Tie them well up to sticks, and keep out the 
weeds, and do not allow any perennials or bedding plants to crowd 
them, and thus impair their vigor. Make beds of Picotees and 
Carnations agreeably to directions in July. 

As there are in our flower-garden no beds for the bulbs or the per- 
(^nnials of which we have been speaking, we wiU now proceed to 
make them. 

Refer to the enlarged plan of the flower-^rden, where we can 
have better opportunity to describe the work intelligibly than in 
the narrow limits of the general plan. We will give the method 
of staking out two of the beds and let that suffice for all. 

First, carefully measure the garden and its walks, and lay it 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 29 

down on paper. Then draw on the plan such beds as you know 
will produce a good effect when judiciously planted. Remember 
particularly^ that the prettiness of the shape of flower-beds is not 
of the least consequence, but that all beds should be of such shapes 
as will give a good effect individually or collectively, when planted. 
Make the indentations as large as possible, as they will then be 
more easily kept free from weeds and grass ; avoid sharp points 
for the same reason ; give as much variety to the outline as you 
can, making your curves easy and graceful. 

To STAKE OUT A RouND Bed. — Select a point for the centre, 
where drive a round stake ; take a rope with a loop at the end, 
put the loop over the stake ; hold the rope in the left hand ss far 
from the stake as one-half the diameter of the proposed bed ; take 
a handful of stakes in the other hand ; walk forward at the full 
length thus taken, and put in a stake every three paces. When 
you return to the point of departure, the stakes set will make a circle 
on the ground. 

To STAKE OUT AN OvAL is morc difficult. Decide upon the 
length of the largest diameter, — say 20 feet ; draw this line at 
some scale on paper ; draw another line cutting the first in the mid- 
dle and at right angles. This second line is the short diameter of 
the proposed oval, 8 feet, — 4 feet on each side the long diameter. 
Draw around these lines such an oval as 
will suit you ; at every two feet draw a 
line from one side to the other, at ri^ht an- 
gles with the long diameter : the first line ( 
paraUel with the short diameter. 

Measure these lines and note on each its 
length (by the scale of the first line). Go to 
the garden, and select the spot for the oval ; stake out a long diam- 
eter, A B, 20 feet long, parallel to the path or border on which you 
wish to make the bed ; or, if tliat be curved, connect two points in 
it by a straight line, and make A B parallel to this, and the proper 
number of feet distant from it. Find the middle of the line, 10 
feet from each end, and here set a stake C ; take a tape line and 
pin its ring or end to this centre stake ; measure back on the di- 

3* 





T-y 



30 SEPTEMBER. 

umeter 3 feet to b, where set another stake ; draw the tape firmly 
round this last stake ; follow the tape till you come to the 12 feet 
mark, and fasten the tape at this mark to the centre stake again C. 
The tape will now be fast to the middle stake by both its ends. 
Find on the tape the 8 feet mark, and holding there, draw the tape 
out tight either side the 20 feet diameter ; at this point set another 
Htake a ; your three stakes will now mark on the ground the angles 
of a triangle a b c, and the last-placed stake will mark the centre 
of one of the sides of the oval. Find the 
other side in the same manner. Measure 
the line A B, as in the figure, into two feet 
lengths ; at each end of these points meas- 

s ure out a line parallel to the short diameter 

c a (just obtained on the ground), propor- 
tionate to the corresponding line on your 
plan. When all are staked out, draw up the middle line of stakes, 
and the oval is complete. 

Another method of doing the same thing is described in common 
mathematical treatises, but it applies only to tlie regular ellipse 
drawn on a smootli surface; among bushes or tall herbaceous 
plants it would be impracticable. It is as follows : stake out the 
line A B for the long diameter of the ellipse ; find two points a, 6, 
which shall be as far from A and B respectively, as one-quarter 
the short diameter of tlie ellipse ; fasten to the points a, b, a cord as 
long as the line A B ; press a sharp-pointed stake against the cord, 
so that it may loop about it, and draw it back on the line A B to 
either extremity ; then carry it toward the other extremity in such 
curve as will keep the cord constantly taut, marking out your 
course meanwhile with the point dragged on the ground, and you 

will describe the curve A C B as in the 
c 

^^^^ ^-. diagram. Having dianged the stake to 

AlI. ' . \b the other side of the cord, repeat tbe oper- 
ation and complete tlie ellipse. 
To stake out an irregular figure for a bed, a difierent method is 
followed. 

Suppose it to be the bed A on the plan. Draw as before, on 
paper, a line A B to a scale ; make it as long as the pro|K)j»ed bed, 



FLOWER-GARDEX. 



31 







''f 










f 






r' 


.^ 


rftf 


A 


V 










J 


—B 



d 



i h I 



and let it touch the beds at the points c t. Now on the plan meas- 
are the distance, the outline of the bed and the path at various points 
on the line A B ; these points are a b c d^' etc, and may be any 

distance apart, but 

whatever that dis- 
tance is, note it care- 
iiillj on the plan. At 
these points erect 
perpendiculars, till 
they touch either the 
outline of the bed, the 

path, or the border ; measure the length of these perpendiculars, 
and put these lengths down, each on its proper line. With this 
preparation go out and stake out the line A B as far from the path 
or border as the length of the lines c& and ddf. Now divide A B 
into a b c de, etc, measure out on the ground the lines aa! ccf dd! 
etc (full size), perpendicular to A B, and stake as you measure. 
When this is done, remove the stakes that merely mark the line 
A B, and you have your figure ; and however irregular this figure, 
this is the best way to stake it out There need never be any 
trouble in getting one line perpendicular to another on the ground, 
if you remember the process followed in staking out the oval. 
That method of getting a right angle is embodied in the mathe- 
matical proposition that the square of the hypothenuse of a right- 
angled triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 
two sides. 

To proceed with the work. After string out all the beds, se- 
lect those which are to be devoted ^entirely to bulbs, sAubcfj 
mariced on the index by a star.* Prepare them as we have di- 
rected, and plant to suit your taste The index shows how they 
are planted on our plan. The other beds may be planted at will; 
the bulbs in bunches and groups (see index), the other space 
filled with perennials and bedding-out plants. 



♦ See p. 726. 



CHAPTER VL 

KITCHKN-GAKDEN. 

The kitchen-garden must be closely watched from February to 
December, although September needs as little attention as any 
month. Seed-beds are now to be prepared for the growth of va- 
rious salads for winter and spring use, and to start some early 
spring vegetables. It is not generally known that much spring 
labor with hotbeds could be saved, if attention were given during 
this and the next month to growing young plants of those vegeta- 
bles most in demand in the spring. Being once well stiuted, 
they may be pricked out in cold frames during October and No- 
vember, and being covered with boards, or leaves, will be found 
ready to transplant and grow as soon as the frost leaves the ground 
fit for culturel 

To plant seeds, select a warm, moist place ; fork the land over, 
mixing in well-rotted manure ; rake the sur&oe thoroughly to re- 
duce it to the finest possible condition ; then sow the seeds in drills 
six inches apart, if they are to be covered with hotbed frames fiir 
the winter ; a foot apart if they are to remain in the open ground. 
Spinach should be sowed in long beds, rows a foot apart ; cover 
the seeds about half an inch deep, and roll in well All plants 
intended for early spring culture must be sown before the middle 
of this mc»th, care being taken that they do not get too fbr^ 
ward. If they grow large they are very apt to run to fiowers 
in the spring, before they are in condition for the table. They 
may be retarded at pleasure by several transplantings in the course 
of the autumn. 

Lettuce and Oabbage, the latter for greens and early heads, may 
be started, and kept in firames as we have just mentioned. Salads 
for winter and spring are not as much cultivated in Massachusetts 
as in the neighborhood of New York and Philadelphia. 

32 



KITCHEN^GABDEX. SS 

Earth op advancing crops of Celery once a fortnight, heing very 
careful never to do it when wet with rain or dew, as it causes rust, 
and also never to cover the heart ; treat Cardoon and Artichoke 
Chard in the same way ; transplant and trench Endive and Sea Kale ; 
hoe heds and clear the plants of Sea Kale, Chiccory, and similar veg- 
etables. Watch early Cauliflowers, and gather their heads, as also 
Broccoli, before too much advanced. The earliest kinds of Celery 
may be dug towards the end of the month. Peru and Lima Beans 
will be getting fit for use. Sow seeds of small salads, as hitherto ; 
likewise beds of Prickly-seeded Spinach. Badishes sowed now will 
be ready for the table by winter. Okra must bb used frequently, 
as it will be cut off by early frosts. Any herbs not yet gathered, 
save immediately. As Onions ripen, gather and dry them. When 
the neck of the Onion shrinks, gather them ; lay them in heaps to 
dry for ten days or a fortnight, according to the weather, and then 
house. If the fruit on the trees is troubled with wasps and bees, 
hang some wide-mouth bottles half full of molasses, or sugar and 
water, about them. Many will be caught and destroyed ; they go 
in but are unable to return. 

Fbuits in Kitchen-Garden. — It will be seen by reference 
to the plan that we include many kinds of fruit in this garden, 
such as Strawberries, Currants, Raspberries, Gooseberries, Black- 
berries, and Thimbleberries, Quinces, Filberts, and espaliered 
fruit. These fruits belong to the kitchen-garden only, as they 
are not grown in quantities for the market, but as a table . sup- 
ply, and require an amount of attention not demanded by other 
orcharding. 

Strawbeb^ies. — Early in this month it is a common practioe 
to reset Strawbeny beds ; and when the land is moist, or there is a 
prospect of a wet season, no month is better for this purpose; work 
is now less pressing than in the spring, and plants well started get 
several months to grow, and will bear some fruit in the spring. 
Avoid, if possible, resetting the bed in the place of the old, as all 
plants are benefited by the rotation of crops ; and where Straw- 
berries have been cultivated several years in succession, they are 




84 BBPTBMBKB. 

never so good as on fresh land. In preparing the bed, dig it deep, 
and give a liberal dressing of manure, as it is difficult to manure 
the strawberry crop after it has begun to grow, though no cn^ 
pays better for large supplies of liquid manure during the time of 
setting and ripening fruit Select good, healthj, jear-dd plants ; 
cut off all but two, or at the most three, leaves, and shorten runners. 
Hold the plant in your left hand, taking your dibble in the right 
(the dibble may be the handle of an old spade or shovel cut off 
eight or ten inches below the cross-bar, and roughly pointed, or 
a stout bit of hard wood eight or ten inches long, bent on itself 
at a right angle, and pointed) ; press the 
dibble into the ground about three inches 
which will make a smooth hole; as you 
withdraw the dibble, set the plant into the 
hole. Now re-insert the dibble, first on one, 
then on the other side of the plant, at a 
re-entering angle of about 45^ to the per- 
pendicular hole first made, and press the earth closely up to the 
roots of the plant This is the most n4)id and effective way of 
transplanting all plants of which large numbers are required. The 
rows of Strawberries should be six inches apart and three rows to 
the bed. Some cultivators are now more in favor of a single row 
and no beds ; each row being two to three feet from its neighbor. 
This method allows the fruit to be picked more easily than any 
other, but occupies more room and requires more labor in cultiva- 
tion. 

When it is desu^le to transplant Strawberries or any other 
fruit with extra care, so as not to interfere with their growth, it is 
well to use some one of the English or French 
transplanters, of which a specimen is shown in 
the cut The arm a, is ratchetted and swings 
on a point by and fastens on a tooth c. Lower the 
arm a, and it drops off the tooth c« and opens the 
cylinder at the bottom of the instrument, as 
shown in the cut; now drive the open bottom 
firmly down on each side the plant to be re- 
moved until its upper edge is level with the ground ; take one 




KITCHfiN-OABPEN. 85 

of the stilts in each hand and press them i^>art This bringB 
the two parts of the cylinder together and compresses the eacrth 
firmly aboat the roots of the plant within ; now fasten it in this 
position by letting the ann a, bite on the tooth c. Here the whole is 
in a compact box, and a little lifting strength being applied to the arm 
a, will take the plant, roots, earth, and all out of the ground. We may 
now carry it as far as we please, and having dug a hole the size of the 
cylinder, set it into it, fill in the earth closely about it, unlatch a, and 
drawing the stilts together slightly raise the instrument by an easy 
and slow movement, leaving the plant in the ground. Transplant- 
ing accomplished in this way never checks growth for a moment, 
but is obviously too slow a process to be used on a large scalew 

In selecting Strawberry plants, bear in mind that some varieties 
are staminate, or male, and have but few pistillate or female flowers, 
and consequently are small bearers, whilst other varieties are tfa^e 
opposite. If we get a large proportion of the staminate, our 
trouble is useless ; if too lai^ a proportion of the pistillate, a facU 
nre of fruit often follows from deficient impregnation. The Old Vir- 
ginia or Scarlet Strawberry is largely staminate, and is an early 
though small bearer, rather inferior in flavor, whilst most of the 
seedlings more choice in flavor and size are pistillate. It will be 
well to set about one of the Virginia to five or six of the others in 
order to insure a good crop. 

Where it is easy to get a quantity of young plants for resetting 
beds, we may lai^ly increase the number and size of the berries, 
by never allowing the plant to make unners ; if these are carefully 
cut off, the parent plant will spread over a large surface, the Old 
Vii^ia even covering a space as large as a peck measure and 
bearing in proportion. This kind of culture gives many more 
Strawberries to the acre than any other. 

As to varieties, those that seem to stand competition best are 
Hovey's an4 Walker's Seedling, the Brighton Pine, and the Jenny 
Land. New varieties are offered every year and have their advo- 
cates. Without specially advocating any variety, I am sure that 
these have provedi themselves good on a large soEde. 

Raspbrbbiks. — Baqpbenies should now be well hoed and tied 



36 SBPTEMBfiR. 

up to their sticks. If you have any leisure yoa may cat out the 
old wood which has borne this year, as it is now useless. 

EsPAXiERS. — The espaliered fruit will now mature rapidly. 
Gather the ripening Peaches and Nectarines, and do not leave them 
on the trees till they are perfectly ripe, or they will not keep so 
welL They should be picked when their color shows the practised 
eye that a few days will make them mellow. Take them into the 
house and lay them in the coolest and driest place you have, and 
be particularly careful not to handle or press them, as the one 
removes the bloom, the other hastens decay. 

The same holds good of Pears. No Pear should be allowed to 
fall to the ground, — whether worm-ripe or not, — as it can hardly 
do so without bruising other fruit in its passage, at the same time 
spoiling itself. Pears, even more than Peaches, should be gathered 
three or four dayi before they become mellow. Take them into 
the fruit- room and lay them out on the shelves. The varieties of 
Pears on the espaliers should give a regular succession of fruit from 
the middle of August (o November, by which time the fruit of the 
orchard trees will be ready for use. Of the espajiers there are 
four Nectarine trees, five Apricots, ten Peaches, and twenty-four 
Pears. The Nectarines are Early Violet, Hunt's Tawncy, Boston, 
New-white. The Apricots are Large Early, Brede, Peach, Roman, 
Moorpark ; the Peaches, Early York, White Imperial, two Geoi^ 
IV., Grosse Mignonne, two Crawford's Early, two Late Red Rare- 
ripes, Oldmixon ; the Pears, two Bloodgpod's, Madeline, two Dear- 
home's Seedlings, four Bartlett, three Andrews, two White Doy- 
enn^ four Seckel, two Fondante d' Automne, two Louise Bonne, two 
Beurre Capiaumont, two Duchess, two Glout Morceau. The Fil-> 
berts are Gifford's and Frizzled. 

Melons. — Melons are now in their perfection, and should be 
used every day, as an early frost will very probably cut them off. 
When not done last month, put under each fine melon a shingle, to 
keep it from the ground, or its fiavor will be injured by the 
earUi. The Cantalopes, Musk, Nutmeg, and Green-fleshed, should 
all be ripe now if ever. The ripeness (£ all yeOow melons is 



KITCHEN-GABDEK. 37 

shown by color ; bat those which have a green rind show ripeness 
by a gradual detacliing of the footstalk, so that when raised by the 
hand the vine drops from the melon without resistance. Water- 
melons most be made much of now as they are in their prime. 
Varioos ways' of ascertaining their ripeness are given: when rapped 
with the knuckles they give a hollow sound if ripe, because of 
a hollow interval left by the separation of the inner lobes, which 
have hitherto been all joined, but separate as they ripen. Another 
test is, pressing the melon between the hands ; if ripe there will 
be a slight crackling (as the lobes crack), the same cavity in the 
centre (Bering no opposition to the pressure. Another test is, th« 
decay of the tendril, which will be found on the side of the stem 
of the vine, opposite the footstalk of the iruit, until the latter is 
ripe, when it withers away. 

Pickles. — Hoe careftdly the pickle crops of Cucumbers, Man- 
goes, Peppers, and Martynias ; gather all ripe Tomatoes, and lay 
the best and earliest ripe in the sun to get seed ; the others, not 
needed for cooking, should be allowed to accumulate a day or two, 
being kept dark and cool, to stew for winter use, or for the market 
Be very attentive to the ripening seeds ; gather and dry all you 
wish for the next season, never selecting for seed those similar va- 
rieties which have grown near together, as they will have mixed. 

Pinch off the ends of the Lima Bean runners early in the 
month, as this is the <Hily way to force the vine to mature its seeds. 

Root Crops. — Look over the root crops. Beets, Parsnips, Tur- 
nips, Ruta Bagas, etc; if any stray weeds are to be seen, get them 
out. Hoe the Cabbages wherever the earth seems to have fallen 
away from the stem. Dig your early Potatoes, and lay them in 
hei^s, out of the sun and dew, in a dry place for a day or two, to 
dry thoroughly before putting them into the cellar. Gather seed 
ears of the early Com as it ripens ; dry well, strip back and tic 
together the husks, hang them up where they will be secure from 
rats and mice. Early Peas and Beans are now to be pulled up, 
the vines dried, and the seed threshed and cleaned ; the vines or 
haulm Mill be greedily eaten by cattle if well dried, or they may 



38 SEPTBMBBB. 

be used for bedding. Gather seed of Summer Squashes and throw 
the vines and remaining Squash to the pigs. Dig over the portions 
of the kitchen-garden which have grown these early crops, to be 
ready for new planting. 

Pull up and store away any early Turnips not used, as they wiU 
now be apt to run up to blosscxn stalks, or become hollow-hearted 
and corky. Cut, dry, and tie in bandies, and hang up potpherbs, 
Sage, Rue, Sweet Marjoram, Sunmier Savory, etc, the last of the 
month. 

Gather the Squashes, and pile them in some warm and dry 
place, or shelter the heaps with boards till they are well dried ; 
then sell or store them. A light frost will injure them very much, 
and every bruise is followed by decay. 

As soon as the tops of the Asparagus are fairly yellow, and the 
berries red, cut them, lay in piles in the alleys between the beds, 
and cover with manure ; then dig all in, cover the beds with a 
dressing of well-rotted manure and salt, but do not dig in for foar 
of injuring the crowns of the roots, unless very lightly; if the 
manure is fine it will not impede the Asparagus shoots in the spring. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

OBOHABD. 

Thb orchard now needs constant attention. The earliest Apples 
are mostlj gone, and th^ autumn Apples are ripening. Send out 
every day a man with a barrow or a cart to collect all the decayed 
and ^ wind£dl " fruit for the pigs. Such as is good enough should 
be pared, sliced, and hung up for drying. Our Apples which will 
ripen this month, are Porter's, Gravenstein, Jersey Sweeting, 
Pumpkin Sweet, Maiden's Blush, Nonesuch, Seek-no-further, Scar- 
let Pearmain. They should all be carefully hand-picked before 
ripening, and laid out on shelves; — not barreled unless they, 
are to go to market at once. The sale of autunm Apples requires 
much judgment, as they do not generally keep well, and are there- 
fore hurried into the market until it is oflen overstocked. When 
carefuUy gathered and well barreled, they are in demand for export 
to the most Northern States and to Canada; For carelessly gathered 
fiill Apples there is no such demand. A careful picker, barreller, 
and marketer, will sell his Apples for nearly double the price com- 
manded by ordinaiy Apples. 

Pears must also be well attended ta Go over the dwarfs, and 
pinch back the new grovrth that was not thus checked in August, to 
secure thorough ripening of the wood and save labor in the spring. 
In gathering and storing use the same care directed for the espalier 
fruit. The Pears that ripen this month are Andrews, BuflRim, 
Beurr^ de Capiaumont, Beurr^ Bosc, Beurr^ Diel, Bergamot, Bon 
Chretien Fondante d'Automne, White Doyenn^, Manning's Eliza- 
beth, Flemish Beauty, Napoleon, Bosdezer, Seckle. These Pears 
should aU be gathered at least a week before they are folly ripe, and 
be placed on the shelves of the fruit room, or in baskets and buckets, 
as will be hereafter described (for drawings of which see the October 
work), and kept cool and dark till quite ripe. If ripened thus, 

39 



40 SEPTEXBEB. 

they will be highly colored, firm and juicy, and when well assorted 
will sell for very high prices. When they are carried to market, 
the wisdom of thinning oat the Pears on the trees in June and 
July will be evident 

All the Peaches ripen thb month as they are planted for market 
Our only orchard varieties are Coolidge's Favorite, George IV., 
Crawford's Early (gone early in the month). Royal Greorge, Late 
Red Rare-ripe, Large White Cling-stone, Oldmixon, and Heath. 
Treat them as directed for the espalier fruit in kitchen-garden. 

Our Nectarines are the same as in the kitchen-garden. 

The out-door Grapes will begin to ripen this month ; first Diana, 
then Concord, then Isabella ; late in the month Sweet-water and 
Catawba. Leave the fruit on the vines as long as possible, catting 
only for use or sale. We have no vineyard for wine-making, and 
those who wish to try what is hardly a profitable business in this 
latitude, east of Albany, must consult special treatises <hi this 
subject As the month closes, if there is any threat of freesing 
weather, gather the grapes, and winter-pack them in kegs with 
pretty dry sawdust, or lay them in drawers between layers of cotton 
batting, taking care to keep them cool and dark. 

We have only a dozen Plum-trees, as the curculio, bhick-rot, and 
mildew make their cultivation a discouraging task. They will all 
ripen this month ; Greengage, Coe's Golden-drop, Jefferson, Bol- 
mar's Washington, Magnum Bonum, Damson. Gather this crop 
as it ripens, and place on shelves in the fruit room. It does not 
keep well ; so eat, preserve, and sell as fast as possible. 

Be sure to bud any stocks or branches of Plums, Cherries, 
Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots, and Pears, not budded in August 



CHAPTER VIII. 

NURSERY. 

Here there is little to do if budding was finished last month ; if 
it was not, do it now. Pull out all stocks that seem diseased ; run 
the horse-hoe through the rows that are weedj ; look over the tal- 
lies at the ends of the rows and refresh any that are dim. 

Hie best tally is zinc, on which write with some preparation 
that will not fade, or with a stylus, or wooden tallies, first rubbed 
over with white lead, and written on with black lead pencil before 
the paint is dry. 

In the nursery of ornamental plants, be sure to bud all the 
Roses as soon as possible ; for varieties consult the flower-garden 
lists. Toward the last of the month, divide the tufls of perennial 
roots, so that whatever you wish to transplant may be ready, and 
the rest be making new roots. 

Ornamental trees which you propose to plant this fall may be 
pruned now, if there is time, as it will save delay when trans- 
planting. Go through the rows of trees and shrubs which are 
not to be transplanted this fall, and prune off all side branches, 
suckers, etc., which would interfere with a satisfactory development 
of the plant Every unoccupied part of the nursery should be 
trenched and thoroughly manured, to be ready for planting next 
month. 

Evergreens. — If there are any evergreens that must be trans- 
planted before spring, or become worthless, move them now. Ar- 
bor Vities and Norway Spruces seem oflen not to suffer by fall 
tiansplanting ; but as a rule, no evergreen should be disturbed in 
the fall, except as a forlorn hope, for it is of the greatest importance 
that a tree freshly transplanted should have time to repair the 
damage which its roots have suffered in the removal before it is 
4* 41 



42 SEPTEMBER. 

taxed for any other purpose. Transplanting tears awaj more than 
we can estimate of minute fibres and spongioles, the vital parts 
of the plant) and its first physiological act in its new position is to 
heal these wounds and make good the place of the lost organs. 
The healing! process is to form a callus similar to the callus on a 
^^ cutting " and analagous to the granulations thrown out in wounded 
flesh, where no tissue like skin or flesh is found at first, but a new 
substance that serves to protect the wound against the external air 
and shocks, to shield the new tissues that fi>rm beneath ; so the 
broken root makes a shield of cellular tissue, which is in time ab- 
sorbed or cast oEf to give place to woody fibre and cellular tissue, 
from which roots are emitted in due season. 

To insure the growth of cuttings, gardeners know that they 
must remove most of their leaves and set them in a shady place 
where there will be but little evaporation. So deciduous trees 
being without leaves in the autumn and winter evaporate but little 
moisture even in the sun ; not enough to overtask their roots and 
prevent the formation of calluses after transplanting. They may 
therefore be removed even in the late fall with great advantage ; 
and if this be well done, and the trees properly secured against the 
wind, the formation of calluses and new roots is certain in nearly 
all hardy varieties ; and when spring comes there is an immediate 
resumption of growth ; whilst a tree transplanted in the spring has 
all this reparative process to perform before it can grow. But 
in evergreens, the process of growth begins later in the spring, and 
the demand on the roots for sap continues till spring again ; and 
when they are moved in the faU their vital processes are in full 
activity. The new growth of leaves, young and tender, is just 
formed, and demands the largest possible amount of moisture; 
whilst, if newly transplanted, the supply from the roots is dimin- 
ished, and a demand made (for the formation of calluses) by the 
roots for a part of this diminished supply. Even if the evergreen 
could be moved into the most favorable position, where evaporation 
should be at a minimum and moisture at a maximum, the process 
of healing its wounds and putting forth new rootlets must go on 
very slowly, so great must be the demand of its foliage, under any 
circumstances, in the fall. 



KtTBBEBT. 43 

Suppose, however, the healing process goes on in the roots snf- 
iieiently to keep the tree alive. If it is to withstand the winter 
winds, the roots must have every opportunity to spread and seize 
firm hold of the earth. Even deciduous trees, with their skeleton 
top, are often winter-killed after being transplanted in the fall, 
by being so shaken in the wind that the slight hold of the new 
roots on the earth is broken. How much greater is the danger 
to the evergreen with its thick and leafy top, that opposes a large 
sur&ce to the wind ! But in the spring it needs less moisture, for 
its leaves are then old, and having supplied the U*ee for half a 
year or more, they have performed half their fonctkm, are thick- 
ened and hardened by the deposit of mineral matter in their tissue, 
and therefore work more slowly, elaborate less sap, and of course 
are less exposed to evaporation. 

Prtjnino. — If, however, you are compelled to move evergreens 
in the fall, prune them before setting them in their new place. It 
IB little that can be done to restore the balance between roots and 
leaves ; but you must aim at this ; so cut away as far as possible 
the same proportion of top that you have t(Hm away of roots. Ev- 
ergreens may not be cut back like deciduous trees $ their branches 
are to be thinned out 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE FARM. 

In September the fiumer looks for some little leisure from the 
driving work of the year ; not idleness, but an opportunity to begin 
upon those repairs and improvements which are not indispensable, 
but which will pay well in future. 

Field No. 4 is in grass for the first time. It will depend upon the 
set the grass got last year, and on the kind of spring and summer, 
whether there will be a crop of Aftermath or Rowen succeeding the 
hay. The field was laid down to Grass and Glover with Rye last 
year, and should have cut a heavy crop of Clover. Early in the 
montlv if there seems to be grass enough to warrant it, cut the 
Rowen. If, as is possible, the Clover has come up clean and free 
from any stray Rye, summer weeds, or grass, you may cut it for 
its seed, in which case it should be lefl to stand longer than if to 
be cut for hay. 

Clover. — If cut for Rowen, treat as in summer ; put in the 
mowing machine as soon as the dew is off in the morning. The 
whole of it may be cut before the mid-forenoon, there being about 
two acres in the field. After dinner turn it thoroughly ; at four rake 
it ; put the hay into cocks that will contain about fifty pounds diy 
hay. Cover with hay covers every night and during damp weather. 
Leave unopened until an examination shall show whether it is 
cured and fit for the mow ; if it is, the covers should be removed 
during the heat of the morning, and the cock be turned over, to 
allow the bottom to get thoroughly dry. Then haul to the bam ; 
salt slightly. This Rowen will prove the most agreeable food to 
your milch cows during late winter and early spring, and will cause 
a larger fiow of milk than any other kind of hay. 

Clover-Seed. — But if you wish to' have clover-seed, the crop 



THE FARM. 45 

must be treated differently. Let the grass stand till nearly ripe seeds 
show at the bottom of the head ; it will not do to wait longer than 
this, as the head continues to grow long after, and the lower seeds, 
which are the best, would ripen and fall before any others would 
mature. You may now mow this like Barley, or crcuile it and tie 
in bundles. In either case, cure it like a grain crop ; carry to the 
bam, and either thresh immediately or put it on the mow to be 
threshed hereafler. Another method of saving seed is to use a 
machine which can be carried through the field and will take off 
the heads, which must then be collected, dried, and threshed. The 
stubble may be pastured, or be cut for inferior hay or for bed- 
ding. 

The ornamental grounds now need their last cutting for the 
season. That part of the lawn which was cut but once for hay 
wiU now yield its crop of Rowen, which must be treated in all 
respects like the Clover, excepting that it need not be left in cocks 
to make. The Clover leaves being very fragile when dry, break 
readily and are lost if the hay is turned frequently in making ; and 
it is to avoid this that we cure it in cocks. Some fanners are of 
the opinion that all hay is better made in this way. 

Rowen. — The Rowen from the lawn is to be made like any 
other hay, and stored in the barn for the cows in spring. The 
grass on the rest of the lawn, and about the borders, flower-gardens, 
and house, is, as it has been at each previous cutting, similar to 
Rowen, although somewhat less nutritious, owing to the repeated 
cuttings, and is cured in the same way. 

Field No. 2 is in Roots. Its area of 8 acres is divided into 1^ 
acres Carrots, 1 Ruta Bagas, ^ Parsnip?, ^ Flat Turnips. Noth- 
ing need be done here but to go over the field occasionally and pull 
out any weeds that have come up since the last hoeing. If the 
weather is very dry and the roots seem to suffer, let the brook into 
the catch-water drains, and allow it to stand long enough to satu- 
rate the ground thoroughly. Before the water is turned in, run 
the horse or wheel hoe through the rows to loosen the soil. If 
there is no water for irrigation, hoeing will be of service. 

The lawn south of the hall door was planted with early Potatoes, 



48 SRFTSMBBB. 

water has injured them, repair thoroughly. Make the drains now 
in Field Na 1 for next year's crop. 

It is very strange that our farmers should be so remiss in the 
matter of irrigation, when no natural aid is as powerful if implied 
with judgment In a climate where frequent rains remove all fear 
of drought, a supply of water by irrigation would seem superflu- 
ous ; and yet it is in England, where such a climate exists, that 
irrigation has been carried to the greatest perfection. How much 
more then should we gain in this often scorched region ! 

The necessity of drainage has forced itself upon our agricultural- 
ists, and altliough it is exceedingly rare to find a farm thoroughly 
drained, it is no less rare to see a farm where something of the 
sort has not been done. 

The theory is very simple and obvious. It is important to has- 
ten the approach and prolong the stay of warm weather as much 
as possible. We know that a wet board becomes wholly heated 
much more slowly than a dry one, as the water must first evapo- 
rate. So earth saturated with moisture will not become warm 
enough to germinate seeds readily, till the surplus water is re- 
moved ; sufficiently at least to leate the surface freely exposed to 
the heat of the sun's rays. Evaporation is a rapid process, if we 
consider the vast amount of water daily converted into rain-clouds ; 
a slow process when we wait for the drying of a submerged or 
saturated field to an extent that will allow the plough and seed to 
be applied in spring. This delay i? most seriously felt in late sea- 
sons, when under the most ^vorable circumstances farmers find 
barely time enough to prepare for the cvop. The surplus water 
may in this way shorten the season a fortnight or even a month. 
Again, in the fall, the early rains — colder than the soil — will 
collect in the very places whence the sun could hardly remove the 
water in the spring, and will inevitably chill or decay the roots of 
the yet immature crops ; thus cutting the season short at this end 
another fortnight or month. This time lost from the season will be 
enough to destroy tho<e crops which can mature in this latitude 
only by having the full amount of heat which our late springs 
and early winters afford. Besides this shortening of the growing 
season, there is the utter impossibility of ploughing such lands m 



TBB FABU. 49 

tlie aaftanm to expose them to the beneficial action of the winter 
frosts. 

All this difficultj may be removed by judicious drainage ; and 
no mcmth is more favorable to the making drsuns than September^ 
when we usually have some weeks of steady, dry weather, which 
evaporates the sur&oe water, and enables us to judge where drains 
are most needed. 

" To determine the actual degree of cold produced by the evapo- 
ration of one pound of water from the soil, is rather a complicated, 
and not a very certain, operation ; but scientific reasons are given for 
an approximation to this result — that the evaporation of 1 pound 
of water lowers the temperature of 100 pounds of soil 10^. That 
is to say, that if to 100 pounds of soil holding all the water which 
it can by attraction, but containing no water of drainage, is added 1 
pound of water which it has no means of discharging except by evap- 
oration, it will, by ihe time that it has so discharged it, be 10° colder 
than it would have been if it had the power of dischar^ng this 1 
pound by filtration ; or more practically, if rain, entering in the pro- 
portion of 1 pound to 100 pounds, into a retentive soil which is satu* 
rated with water of attraction, is dischai^ed by evaporation, it low- 
ers the temperature of that soil 10°. If the soil has the means of 
dischai^ing that 1 pound of water by filtration, no effect is pro- 
duced beyond what is due to the relative temperatures of the rain 
and of the soiL Mr. Dickenson, the eminent paper-maker, who 
has several mills and a landed estate in Hertfordshire, has deduced 
from a series of observations which are, we believe, entitled to 
great confidence, .that of an annual fall of 26 inches of rain, about 
11 are filtered through a porous soil. The jv^hole of this 11 
inches (and probably more), must be got rid of by a retentive soil, 
either by evcqxiration or by superficial discharge. The proportions 
in which each of these will operate will vary in every case, but 
this will be a universal feature — that these 11 inches will retain 
in undrained, retentive soils, except during some accidental periods 
of excessive drought, a permanent supply of water of drainage, 
which will be in constant course of evaporation, and will con- 
stantly, produce the cold consequent thereon. Retentive soils 
never can be so warm as porous, for a simple reason. Every 
5 



50 SEPTEMBER. 

one knows, or may know, that if into two flower pots, with holes in 
the bottom, are put respectively equal . portions of gravel and clay, 
equally heated to any point short of torrefSsustion, and if equal 
quantities of water are administered to the surface of each, water 
(water of drainage) will run from the gravel long before it begins 
to run from the clay. Gravel can hold by attraction much less 
water than clay can. At the time when each is saturated by water 
of attraction, and neither holds any water of drainage, evaporation 
will begin to act upon the water in each, and will act most strongly 
in the vegetative period of the year. The cold produced will be 
in proportion to the quantities of water evaporated respectively, 
and wiU, of course, be greatest in the retentive soil. We will re- 
serve a farther cause of coolness in retentive soils, which is also 
connected with evaporation, till we have spoken of the depths of 
drains." 

" The temperature of retentive soils is very much raised during 
that period of the year in which vegetation is active, by fhe 
removal of water by drainage." 

" Many experiments have shown that in retentive soils the tem- 
perature at 2 or 3 feet below the surface of the water-table is at 
no period of tlie year higher than from 46^ to 48^, that is, in agri- 
cultural Britain. This temperature is little affected by summer 
heats, for the following short reasons. Water, in a quiescent state, 
is one of the worst conductors of heat with which we are 
acquainted. Water warmed at the surface transmits little or no 
heat downwards. The small portion warmed expands, becomes 
lighter than that below, consequently retains its position on the sur- 
face, and carries no heat downwards. To ascertain the mean heat 
of the air at the surface of the earth, over any extended space, 
and for a period of eight or nine months, is no simple operation. 
More elements enter into such a calculation than we have space or 
ability to enumerate ; but we know certainly that for seven months 
in the year, air, at the surface of the ground, is seldom lower than 
48^, never much lower, and only for short periods ; whereas at 4 
feet from the sur&ce, in the shade, from 70® to 80** is not an unu- 
sual temperature, and in a southern exposure, in hot sunshine, 
double that temperature is not unfrequently obtained on the surface." 



TRR FAHM. 51 

** Now let US consider the effect of drains placed from 2 to 3 feet 
below the water-table, and acting during the seven months of whinh 
we have spoken. They draw out water of the temperature of 48°. 
Every particle of water wliich they withdraw at this temperatiKre 
is replaced by an equal bulk of air, at a higher, and frequently at 
a much higher temperature. The warmth of the air is carried 
down into the earth. The temperature of the soil, to the depth to 
which the water is removed, is in a course of constant assimilatibn 
to the temperature of the air at the surface." 

** From this it follows, necessarily, that during that period of the 
year when the temperature of air at the surface of the earth 'is 
generally below 48°, retentive soils, which have been drained, are 
colder than those which have not" 

" There are no satisfactory British experiments with reference to 
the surface-heat of the earth. Professor Leslie's only commence 
at 1 foot below the surface. Schubler's experiments, made near 
Genoa, in the year 1796, are strictly superficial. His thermome- 
ters were sunk in the soil only to the depth of l-12th of an iu^h. 
In that sunny clime he found the mean heat of soil, at that depth, 
to be at noon for six successive months, 131°. If that were his 
mean heat for six months, we cannot doubt that it is frequently 
obtained as an extreme heat in the hottest portion of our year; in 
England." - :' 

" Mr. Parkes gives temperatures on a Lancashire Peat Moss, but 
they only commence at 7 inches below the surface, and do not 
extend to midsummer. At that period of the year the temperaturt? 
at 7 inches never exceeded 66°, and was generally from 10° to 
15° below the temperature of air in the shade, at 4 feet above the 
earth. At the depth of 13 inches, the soil was generally from 5° 
to 8° cooler than at 7 inches." 

'^Mr. Parkes* experiments were made simultaneously on a 
drained and on an undrained portion of the Moss ; and the result 
was, that on a mean of 35 observations the drained soil at 7 inches 
in depth was 10° wanner than the undrained at the same depth. 
The undrained soil never exceeded 47°, whereas afler a thundei- 
storm the drained readi^ 66°, at 7 inches, and 48° at 31 inches. 



53 8BFTBMBBB. 

Such were the effects at ^ early period of the year on a black 
bog. Thej suggest some idea of what thej are, when in July or 
August thunder-rain at 60^ or 70^ falls on a sur&ce heated to IdO**, 
and carries down with it into the greedy fissures of the earth its 
augmented temperature. These advantages porous soils podsess by 
nature, and retentiye soils only acquire them by drainage.'' 

How then shall we best get these advantages by the aid of 
drains? how deep shall the drain be in the soil? and how wide apart 
on the sur&ce ? That some absolute depth is right for average 
soils is self-evident, whilst different quahties of soil will vary this 
depth and distance. 

We should not forget, in considering that the reasoning in the 
foregoing and following quotations is applied to England and Soot* 
land, that the facts and deductions from them are equally ap- 
plicable to America. The depth of the drains below the surface 
in all ordinary cases depends upon these two considerations : from 
what depth does water prefer to arise to the sur&ce by evapora- 
tion, or to descend into subsoil drainage, and how much does the 
escape of water by natural evaporation affect the temperature of 
the soil 

Gareful experiments have shown that the heat necessary to 
convert 1 pound of water into vapor by sun evaporation is just as 
great as to convert it into steam over a fire, and that the fire heat 
contained in 2 or 3 ounces of coal is that amount 

By consequence, then, were all the water which fidls upon an acre 
of land in a year, 40 inches or 4,040 tons, to be so removed, there 
would be for each day 11 tons, which would consume the heat of 
32 cwt of coal per hour. We know that all this water is not so 
removed, but all that is removed by evaporation consumes heat pro 
rata ; and the amount we know, under aU circumstances, is large, 
whilst in saturated land it is enormous. 

Bring before your imagination an acre of close clay land, neaity 
impermeable by water ; in its natural condition, this land, in eariy 
spring, is unapproachable for its saturation ; by degrees it dries, 
and is meagrely tilled, the crops feebly budding^ into life are not 
only grievously choked and poisoned by the standing water, but 



THB PABM. 58 

also the heat, so vitaUj necessary to their rapid growth, is taken 
awaj at the rate of 24 cwt of burning coal per hour, whilst the 
plants are half frozen." 

^ It has been proved that the heat of a pound of water in a stale 
of steam would raise the temperatul*e of 1,000 pounds of water 
one degree, and consequently the heat abstracted to convert one 
pound of water in the soil into steam, reduces 1,000 pounds of 
earth one degree, or 500 lbs. two degrees, and so on." 

Besides this abstraction of heat by evaporating water, another 
solid objection should be considered : th&t water is the best of nai^- 
oonductors of heat If a kettle of water is heated below, it sooa 
boils by the rising of the lighter hot water to the top, and the falling 
of the heavy drops at the top. But if a fire were made on top of the 
kettle, it would never warm, as the hot and light particles are at 
the top, and cannot ascend and allow new cold particles to have 
access to the fire. 

^ Apply this to poor land lymg exposed to the heat of the sun, 
the warmth of whose rays may penetrate into the ground only so 
fittt as the water evaporates and reduces its leveL But although, 
so poor a conductor, it is a very rapid radiator, as we have seen. 
Were the soil warmed, we will say to 60^, and the water at isiny 
depth, not over two feet, to 40^, the water would rapidly abstract 
the heat and rise into the air, carrying away with it as is above 
seen the warmth of thousands of pounds of soil." 

But let the land be readily permeable by water and it becomes a 
carrier of heat, not a remover. Supposing the water to be that <^ 
a warm thunder-storm, say warmed to 70®, it will run down into t]^e 
soil to the drains, carrying that warmth and imparting it on its way ; 
or, supposing the upper stratum to be warmed to 70® or 120®, the 
water which falls upon it instead of standing thero, awaiting to 
absorb heat enough to evaporate, and so cooling the soil to its 
dead loss, now runs through it, abstracting much of its heat, and 
eanying it down to the subsoil, and, of course, as it gradujally cools, 
hnparting its heat to the soil. 

We are thus brought to the edge of the question of how deep 
drains are to be. Set a pot containing a plant into a saucer full of 
water ; at first the water will rise as high in the pot, or owing to 
6» 



54 8EPTKMBEB« ^ 

capillary attraction a little higher than, the water ,in the aauoer. 
The top of this water is the water table ; from this point it rises 
bj evaporation through the soil till it appears at the top, and is 
thence discharged into the air. 

Observe how largely heat must be abstracted to make the water 
thus escape ; and it is for this reason, though perhaps not knowing 
how to explain it^ that gardeners object to plants standing in water. 

So, too, whenever water stands in soils it assumes a level which 
we call the water table and from its top it will rise to the sur£M» 
bj evaporation. How low ought this water table to be, to reduce its 
injurious action to a minimum ? Experiments have shown that the 
Wilier in the soil, from its surface to a depth of not less than dO 
inches, is colder by several degrees than below that depth ; or in 
other words, the evaporation acts upon the water to that depth, and 
consequently cools the water and the earth holding it; below that 
depth it does not affect it materially ; only water enough rises to 
supply the roots of plants, which will descend if the strata is opai to 
the water level, if it be even 4 feet below the sur&ce. Not less than 
30 inches should be the depth to the top of the water table, and as 
much lower as circumstances will admit, until we arrive at 4 feet, 
where the temperature seems to be about the same with water at 
much greater depths. At first, we might suppose that deep drains 
would not remove the water with rapidity after a rain, but, on the 
contrary, in lands drained at different depths, the drains 4 feet 
deep begin to run the soonest and stop the earliest, showing that 
the Hood about the roots, immediately after a shower, is the water 
of evaporation, condensed and checked, together with the water of 
saturation, not the rain. For instance, Mr. Parkes relates, p. 
153, Royal Ag. Soc. for 1844, <" that on the 7th and 8th Novem- 
ber, rain fell by guage to the depth of ^f^ of an inch. On the 
9 th, he inspected some drains on Mr. Hammond's fiurm, and found 
tliat after a rain of 12 hours' duration on the 7th, in a nine-acre 
piece, the drains 3 feet deep were just dribbling, whilst in a four^acre 
hop ground adjoining, the four-feet drains were already exhausted." 

Mr. Hammond states that after the late rains Feb. 17, 1844, a 
drain 4 feet deep ran 8 pints of water, whilst another, 3 feet deep, 
ran 5 pints, although placed at equal distances. 



TH£ FABM. 55. 

There are cases, tindoubtedlj, where shallow drains should be 
joined with, if not substituted for, deep drains. On very plastic 
clays, dig a hole into the soil, and permeate its bottom with small 
holes, and arrange so that water shall gradually weep through its 
sides. At first it will rapidly disappear through the bottom, but 
slowly small particles of clay will wash down, and form a film or 
paddle over the bottom, after which no water will escape. In all 
days which will so puddle, you will observe that much of the 
water must be removed by surface drains and shallow drains, as the 
deeper the drain the more chante there would seem to be for pud- 
dling. This is not, however, true, in its fiill application, because 
another feature in clays may be improved in connection with deep 
drains, namely, cracking, We know that a clay field will contract 
under the sun's heat, so as, in many cases, to make during suouner 
leaUy fearful fissures. 

As the rains return in the autumn, the clay absorbs the water, 
swells, and refills the cracks. But if the field was thoroughly 
and deeply dramed, this rain water will be conveyed into the 
drains all the more rapidly for the fissures, and that which was its 
curse, becomes its blessing ; the clay will close more slowly and 
perhaps not at all, giving the desired opportunity for ploughing, 
snbsoiling, and sanding, by which the clay may be made exceedingly 
fertile. When shallow drains shall be used for deep is a very nice 
question, and can only be settled by a professional and experienced 
man. The depth of drains seems to be settled, at any rate approxi- 
mately. Let us now consider their distance apart. 

Water can only get into drains by gravity ; and just as certainly 
as it seeks its own level it also seeks the lowest point to which it 
has access and for which it may run. Let A be a section of a 
field i0 be drained. Imagine the 
drains, 6 &, to be made at no matter 
what distance, apart, but 4| feet 
de^. The water will at once es- 
cape into the drain, being pressed, 
into it by the. weight of the mass 
overhead. This will be foUowed by the drops overhead up to the 
top of its water table, which directly over it or ac(jacent may be 




56 8BPTEMBBB* 

reduced to 4 feet ; but at the same time the water will tend to these 
two drains from both sides, as is shown by dotted lines. £xperi* 
ment has shown that in ordinary soils the water needs a slope 
of about one inch to the linear yard to overcome friction ; in very 
porous soils less will do ; in very retentive, more will be necessary. 
To lower the water table in the centre of our land at a to the de- 
aired depth of 4 feet, we must have our draind distant from the 
centre 18 feet, or the drains 36 feet apart I have said very 
light soils will allow the drains to be farther apart. The distance 
will be affected also by the slope of the land, which may so slope 
that tlie water will move rather in the line of steepest descent through 
the earth, gradually approaching the surface, than laterally into the 
drain. B is a hillside ; the arrow shows the line of steepest de- 




scent, and the inclination is 1 foot in 20 feet, or 1 inch in 20 
inches. Now to overcome friction, we must allow 1 inch to the 
yard, or 3 inches in 20 feet, for the drains. But the natural slope 
here is 12 inches in 20 feety or four times as much, and the inclina- 
tion is therefore four times stronger to run to the surface at a 
lower part of the hill than to the drain. If the drains are made 
diagonally to the hill this is somewhat counteracted. I only men- 
tion these cases to show the need there is for judgment and cau- 
tion. But some one may object Uiat land thus drained at every 
40 feet with drains 4 to 5 feet deep will be too dry, and plants 
will perish. The following cut shows some Wheat plants whose 
roots were carefully traced when growing freely in open mould ; 
diey penetrated 5 feet. Indian Com has been traced 7 feet; 
Parsnips 5 and 6 feet. Thus will be seen the enormous advantage 



THS FARM. 



57 




oi that treatment of soil which gives the plant 5 feet to feed in, 

rather than 6 inches, and also that 

where the plant has room it will 

push down through the warm soil 

to the water table, and there get 

water much warmer than were it 

standing one foot above. 

No one ever saw crops dry up in ■ 
deep-drained and well-tilled land, 
whilst all of us have seen it in land 
where hard pan is within six inches 
(Mr a foot of the surface, — as is shown 
by the wood cuts, pp. 575, 576. These 
roots must find all their food and 
moisture within this shallow soil, 
which is soon warmed by the sun and dried out 

Experiments have shown that all land not decidedly sandy is 
benefited by underground drains; some have found that even 
sandy and dry land was improved by them, as they seemed to serve 
as conduits to admit moist air to the roots of the plants, and allow 
the moisture of the subsoil to rise more freely to the surface. It 
is therefore claimed that the principle is of universal application. 
I will not press it to that extent now, but simply assert that all 
springy, rocky, deep, wet, and low lands should be drained. The 
rule laid down by English farmers is, a drain every 40 or 60 feet ; 
but this distance is to be varied according to the judgment of the 
cultivator. 

The sur&uses to be drained will be either side-hills, undu- 
lating, high and level surfaces, or low and level surfaces. In 
the first and last cases, the adjoining land being higher, experi- 
ence teaches that the surplus water, to some extent, runs into 
the place we wish to drain from this higher land near by. We 
must therefore find an outlet for our drains. The best outlet 
is a natural brook whose high-water level is lower than the bottom 
of the drains we are to make. If the high-water level is higher 
than this, we must still be content, for brooks fall rapidly from their 
lugh^water mark ; and if at the highest fiood our drains do not 



58 



8BPTBHBSB. 



work well, we may rest assured that as the flood lowers they will 
dmw the water from the land more rapidly than it could flow off 
if we had no drains and were compelled to rely on the natural 
drainage. If no such brook can be found, look for the nearest 
pond which is ordinarily lower than th^ bottom of our drains ; and 
if no pond can be found, ascertain the lowest point which is under 
our control on the farm, and there make a pond, first digging out 
all liie loam, etc, and then, if the bottom is hard pan, cutting 
through it to some open gravel or sand stratum below. The water 
discharged into this will soak away ; or if we do not open upon a 
sand stratum we may make an artificial pond. 

Having found a point of discharge, dig a main drain as wide as 
is requisite for the rapid removal of the water, and as deep as the 
surface will allow at the end most remote from the outlet ; if the 
distance is considerable, the drain will be very much deeper at the 
outlet, as there should be about 3 inches fall in 100 feet of drain 
to insure the water's overcoming any slight obstacles to its flow. 
If the distance to be traversed by the main drain is very long, 
so that by starting at 3 feet depth and dropping 3 inches to the 
100 feet it would sink lower than the outlet, the upper end 
must be made more shallow, or there must be less drop in 100 
feet 

To render this description more intelligible, consult the accom- 
panying diagrams. 

No. 1 represents a 
piece of land bound- 
ing on a brook and 
surrounded by high 
land. The farm does 
not include the whole 
of the high land, as 
shown by the boun- 
dary fences xx; aiB 
the brook. Now dig 
the main drain 6, 500 
feet loQg; start it at 
No. 1. ^6 upper end y, 39 




THE FARM. 



69 



inches deep; sink 3 inches to the 100 feet, which gives at the 
lower end 54 inches in depth. Dig the other main, V from the 
brook back, 150 feet ; at the commencement, 49 inches deep ; 
at the outlet, 54 inches. Now dig at the foot of the hill, and fol- 
lowing its curve as shown by the diagram, a drain c c c c, no- 
where as deep as the main drain by at least 2 inches for every 
100 feet that the main drain is distant from it This drain should 
be as a general rule not more than 30 feet from the base of the 
hilL At various intervals cut cross-drains d^ from c c c to the 
main, B, which, starting from the bottom level of c c c, shall sink 
gradually so as to enter the main above its bottom level. The dis- 
tance between these cross^drains will vary according to the char- 
acter of the surface, its unevenness, wetness, and level. As has 
been said, 20 to 60 feet is common practice, and they may be 
fiurther or nearer as necessity directs. 

When you can conveniently, enter the side into the main drains 
at an acute angle, for the flow of the water should be facilitated 
as much as possible, and every rectangular turn obstructs it more 
than an acute angle. Also, enter them above the bottom if possible, 
that the water may reach the bottom of the main afler a slight fall. 

But if our surface Were a side-hill it should be treated as in dia^ 
gram No. 2. Here it is necessary to retard the flow of water, rather 




60 8SPTSMBBB. 

than increase it, as the rapid running may destroy the sides of the 
drains. 

Under these circumstances the best plan is to carry the drains 
diagonally to the slope of the hill, taking care, however, that they 
follow the slope sufficiently to prevent the waters settling into the 
earth on the lower side of the drain, making the land below each 
drain more " soggy " than if not under-drained. 

As before, A is the brook ; B, the main ; c, the side-hill drain ; d^ 
the cross-drains ; x x fences ; y the heads of the mains. ' Where 
one main empties into another, as at 8, much care must be used to 
protect the receiving main, that it may not be destroyed by the 
friction of the running water, which may undermine its side and 
cause it to fall in. 

The third case of drainage is a nearly level field with no hill- 




sides near. Treat this like No..l, only carry the drain c across 
the upper end, — and perhaps down the sides of the field, — to re- 
ceive any water that may be in the adjacent land. In most cases/ 
however, this can be dispensed with, as the main and cross-drains 
draw the water thoroughly enough. 

Having fixed upon the lines of drain, de- 
cide upon the materials with which to make 
your drains. These are as various as the 
means and inclination of proprietors. The 
best way is always the most economical ; we 
will describe it, and then mention other 
methods. 

Dig the drain the requisite depth, narrow- 





THE FABV. 61 

ing fixmi top to bottom, like a truncated wedge. The earth is to 
be thrown all to one side. Now take the pipe and collar, or 
horseshoe sole tile, or plain horseshoe tile, which comes in pieces 
1 foot to 14 inches long, and may be bought at Albany, N. Y., 
Worcester, Manchester, and Boston, Mass., or Exeter, N. H. 
These tile vary in diameter from 1 to 6 inches, and proportionately 
in price. 

If you use the sole tile, which has, as 
shown in the cut, a solid bottom, having 
made the bottom of the drain smooth, lay 
down the pieces of tile end to end, bringing 

the ends together. It is obvious that the _ _ 

bottom of the drain must be made level, Q^^mm^^) 
smooth, and hard, and below frost, so that 
neither heaving of frost nor unequal hardness of bottom, may ever 
disturb the tile after it is laid ; for if it is disarranged, the ends of 
the pieces will not come opposite each other, and will interrupt 
the flow of water, so that the drain will ultimately be choked 
and rendered useless. 

If the tile without the sole is used, it must be laid on a board or 
plank to prevent the running water from wearing the bottom of the 
drain, which would cause the tile to sink and the mud to rise into 
the cavity of the drain and choke it. 

The tile being Imd as directed, a section of the drain will be thus. 
Pile over the top of the tile stones about the size 
of a man's fist, — if they can be procured, — to the 
depth of 4 inches ; they must be laid by hand ; 
shoveling them in would break the tiles. To expedite the work 
the stones should be piled at the side of the drain opposite the 
earth removed in digging ; and if they are placed close to the edge, 
the man who lays the tile can fill in the 4 inches of stone as he 
goes along, a boy standing at the side of the drain to hand the 
joints of tile and any stones that may have rolled beyond reach of 
the man. When 4 inches of stone have been thus carefully laid 
in and wedged about the tile, 8 inches more of larger stones may be 
thrown in with a shovel. Then return the earth dug out until the 
6 



V 



62 



8EPTSMBER. 




drain is full and heaped a few inches higher than 
the adjacent surface, to allow for settling. 

The cut shows a section of the drain ^en 
completed. Brush, straw, tan or sods may he 
laid over the tile, or even coarse gravel, or loam ; 
or you may use broken stones to insure the most 
perfect drainage. 

Shnilar drains may be made without any tile, 
using different sizes of stone, beginning small and gradually in- 
creasing till within 18 inch- 
es of the surface. These 
are called blind drains and 
answer very well for many 
years, but are apt to choke. 
The " V drain " is an hn- 
provement on absolutely 
blind drains ; the wood out 
shows its structure ; having 
cut as if for tile, select rather 
flat stones and lay them to- 
gether at the bottom, edge 
to edge, their lower ends 
resting on a board or plank ; 
on them fill in with stones. 
Drains may be made with 
brush, laying in bushes and 
branche.^ of treeS| their huts 
up stream; these sooner 
or later decay or choke. 
Lastly we come to the 
instruments to be used in 
making the drain. The 
accompanying instruments 
are the English instruments 
for cutting drains ; the 
workman's feet never ap- 
proach within 8 or 10 




THE FARM. 



63 



inches of the bottom of the drain, which does not need to be more 
than 10 inches wide for the largest size drain pipe, and not 
more than 2 inches for the usual inch pipe, which is compe- 
tent to drain off all the water in the soil, and conduct it into the 
mains. A 2 inch pipe with a fall of 3 inches in 100 feet, and a 
Telocity of .895 foot per second will discharge 11,400 gallons a 
day." 

The following is quoted from J. H. Shedd, Civil Engineer, 
of B<^ton r — 

^ The accompanying diagram shows the lines that may be followed 
in forming the cross section of a trench from 2^ to 6 feet deep, and 
to admit a pipe from 1 to 8 inches inside bore. The 
full lines represent the sides of the trench ; the YZ'tlffZlsfk 
horizontal dotted lines are at certain distances from ' ^ *'** 
the bottom, as represented by the figures opposite 
each, at the side. The figures above each repre- 
sent the width of opening at the surface for a 
trench of that depth ; the widths are given in feet 
and hundredths ; to reduce the decimal to inches, 
divide by 8 ; the result will be inches, nearly. The > 

vertical dotted lines show what earth must be re- .1 
moved in order to increase the width at bottom to 
receive the larger sizes. Suppose a trench is to be dug 4^ feet 
the number 




opposite 4^ is 1.42, 
or 1 foot 5 inches, 
which is the width 
of opening at sur- 
face. 

" If the trench is 
to be 3 feet deep 
it need be opened 
only 1 foot wide at 
the top, and with 
proper tools it can 
be carried down to 
a width of about 2 inches at the bottom, though, of course, the 



64 



SRPTBMBBB. 



foot of a man cannot oome within 6 or 8 inches of the bottom ; 
in which case the pipes are laid bj a man, walking on the surface, 
at the edge of the trench, who lifts the pipe, piece by piece, 
with a kind of hook made for the purpose, and lajs them carefuUj. 
in the trench, as shown by this engraving." 

An Irish spade, Na 2, shown in the following cut, is thought, bj 
some, the best instrument : — 

^ As it is not necessary to the convenience of the woikmen that 
the sides of the trench be carried down any nearer vertical than 
is represented in the engraving, they may be opened and carried 
down in the same manner, for each size of the pipe, until the sides 
have approached so near, that a pipe of 
the size required can be just passed be- 
tween them ; the cut may then be carried 
down vertically to the depth required. 
This allows much earth to remain which 
would be thrown out if the sides were cut 
straight down from the width opened at the 
top to the width at the bottom. A skilful 
woii^man will dig the trenches with ease 
in this way, after some practice, though it 
may be a little troublesome at first. I am 
now having trenches dug, in which the 
opening at the surface is even less in width, 
for the required depth, than is here given." 
"• The labor of one man, in a day of 10 
hours, varies very much under different 
circumstances." 

" 1. In hard, gravelly, and clay soils, 
where picking is constantly necessary, a 
man will throw out only from 3 to 5 cubic 
yards in a day." 

'^ 2. In ordinary clay and gravel, with an 

occasional use of the pick, he will throw 

out about 10 cubic yards in a day." 

^'3. In loose earth, without picking, or in shoveling after the 

pidsing of another, as in railroad excavations, a man throws out 

15 to 18 cubic yards a day " 




THE FARM. 



6d 



"Id the first case, a yard, or 27 cabic feet, will be removed for 
25 cents, by a man who works a day, of 10 hours, for $1." 

" In the second case the removal of a yard will cost 10 cents. 
This will be the basis of our estimate of the cost of cutting 
trenches, from the fact that most soils which need draining may be 
classed under this head." 

" In the third case, 1 yard will be removed for about 6^ cents. 
The solid contents of earth removed &om a trench 100 feet long, 
of sufficient width at Jbottom to admit the smallest sized pipe, and 
of the depth as shown, is as follows : — 



Depth. 
2 1-2 feet 


Cubic Feet. 
127.5 


Cubic TMds. 

4.72 

6.46 

8.43 

.. ...10.67.1 

13,17 

15.93 

18.94 

22.22 


Oost. 
. . .fO.47 


3 " 


174 


... 0.65 


3 1-2 '« 


227.5 


. . . 0.84 


4 " 


288 


. . . 1.07 


4 1-2 " 


355.5 


... 1.32 


5 " 


430 


... 1.59 


6 1-2 " 


511.5 


... 1.90 


6 " 


600 


.... 2.22 



To this must be added the cost of tools, trimmmg, and superin- 
tendence." 

" The quantity removed by increasing the width at the bottom of 
the trench, so that it may admit pi^ of the larger sizes, is very 
slight, being only 1^ cubic feet in 100 feet length, on increasing 
the width to 3 inches at the bottom. Quantity removed by in- 
creasing the width to 4 inches is 4| cubic feet ; to 5 inches, lOf 
feet ; to 6 inches, 20J feet ; to 8 inches, 45 feet ; and to 10 inches, 
79i feet. 

The increased cost being, for the 3 inch width, ^ cent ; for 4 
inch, 2 cents ; for 5 inch, 4 cents ; for 6 inch, 8 cents ; for 8 inch, 
17 cents ; and for 10 inch, 29>cents. 

The amount of earth removed by widening the trench for a 
larger pipe, is the same in every case, without regard to depth." 

Drains have been dug by Mr. Shedd the past season, in stifi, 
hard pan, 4 feet deep, for 27 cents a rod — which you see will 
reduce the cost materially below the estimate hitherto given. A 
large number of very valuable tables of cubical contents and costs, 

6* 




66 8BPTBMBEB. * 

are given bj Mr. Shedd, in the Report of the Maine Board of 
Agriculture, pp. 251-2. 

For such drains as I have just described to jou the best conduit 
18 drain tiles or pipes. There are three kinds : the horse shoe, a, 
the sole tile, b, the pipe and collar, c; a 
needs a board or something under it to keep 
the soft under-fioil from squelching into and 
filling it ; 5 is the next best, but c is bj far 
_ the best of alL a and b are both liable to 
^M^^HB^iy^ be disarranged ; thej are laid end to end, 
and for ordinaiy drainage 2 inch pipes are 
amply large ; should one end of any pipe, from any cause — extra 
pressure or softness — get tilted or shoved one side, the flow is in- 
terrupted, and soon the whole drain would choke and become worth- 
less. This is obviated by the pipe and collar. These are round, 
and the joint covered with an earthem collar large enough to admit 
the two ends of the pipe and leave ^ of an inch all round for the 
free entrance of water ; the pipes rest in them, and are supported 
at the two ends and unsupported in the middle ; the middle is, how- 
ever, immediately filled under and compacted with silt and mud. 
Perhaps some one will doubt that enough water can get into these 
joints to do the work. They are a foot apart, and offer openings 
which, making a reasonable allowance for rough ends, are not less 
than ^ inch square. But listen to experience : — ^ 

Gisbome says, " This scepticism is natural, but on each point we 
are able to offer them abundant consolation and conviction. We 
have seen hundreds of drains wrought in the manner we have 
described, and in no instance where the land contained water of 
drainage have they failed to run freely. We never heard any one 
say they did not" 

The rationale of this escape of water through small pipes is ap- 
parent at once if you refer to the wood cut, which shows the dis- 
tance apart at which drains are to be laid. The pipe laid 4 feet 
deep — in a soil whose natural water table is 1 foot below the sur- 
face, has the pressure, of course, of all the water which may be 
over it. If water over the pipe is near the outlet into the pipe, it 
receives a proportional pressure, and the water in the land to be 



THE FABM. 67 

drained is forced into the drains with a pressure proportioned to its 
distance £rom the drains. The pressure of water, to the foot per- 
pendicular, is 6^ ounces to the square inch, and the water is 
forced into the pipe with three times that pressure, and having 
once entered into it, escapes with the greatest rapidity. Mr. 
Parites mentions a pipe, 1^ inch bore, laid down over 350 yards, an 
experiment, through an unctious, plastic clay, which disch^ged one 
gallon per minute during 76 days, when all the water seemed 
removed from the soiL Mr. Shedd calculates that, in a drain 200 
feet long, laid with tiles 13 inches long and 2 inches diameter, the 
amount of aperture at the ends of all the pipes will be 184 joints, 
or 110 square inches, for the entry of water, whilst the outlet of 
the pipe is 3 inches ; thus the opportunity for the entrance of water 
IS 37 times greater than for its discharge. The discharge wiU be 
rapid enough, however, as has been seen. 

In laying the pipes at convenient points, such as junctions of 
side with main pipes, it is well to sink a cesspool, rising to the 
sur&oe of the ground, and covered with a movable cover. 
These cesspools can be occasionally opened and examined, and the 
condition of the drain tested. 

Tile drains are sometimes choked by the roots of trees and 
branches, and by deposits of iron in very ferruginous soils ; the 
use of the pipe and collar reduces the danger. Pipes and collar are 
more expensive than horseshoe or sole tiles, but more than enough 
better to pay. The cost of tiles in England, allowing a fair price 
to the maker, is $4 a thousand feet or pieces, or ^ of a cent a foot ; 
and it is a discredit to our makers that we have to pay so much 
more. Tiles are made in various parts of the country, and in 
time will be supplied at reasonable rates. 

In peat lands where drains are to be made, another plan is some- 
times followed. Peat turis cut and dried in the sun become as 
hard as coal, and may be used under water much like bricks with- 
out softening or losing shape for a long time. ^^ a 
A drain may be cut in peat land as in A : take 
out all the turfs to a with a peat-cutter, and lay 
them by the side of the drain to dry as if for 
burning. 





68 8EFTEMBBB. 

The work is begun bj cutting the top sod, which should be re- 
moved bj an ordinary spade ; then the peatxsutter is used, cutting 
across the end of the drain working backwards, and taking the turf 
out smooth, like pieces of cheese. The top-drain (down to a) maj 
be wide enough to allow a man to stand in it, and must then be 
about 4 cuts of turf wide. The drain bemg dug as far as a through 
its whole length, leave it till the peats cut out are dry enough for 
fuel. Then send in the cutter ; let him, standing in the drain, dig 
out one turf, the width of the cutter, exactly in the middle of the 
tinun, down its entire length. As the nuiterial is very soil and 
oozy, and will probably settle in if not prevented, let another man 
. follow, and taking the dried peats from the side 
P^ of the drain lay them across the top of this new 
cut as in B. Then cover with the top sods first 
cut, then with sand, gravel, or peat, to the full 
height. Across drains thus made, bridges should be made at inter* 
vals for teams to cross ; otherwise the drain may be crushed in. 

Open Drains. — No drain is so poor as the common open one, 
dug like the others, but not filled. It is constantly collapsing, 
sliding in, being undermined by muskrats, etc. Indeed,, covered 
drains should have wire nettings at the discharge hole, to prevent 
vermin from getting in and choking them. 

For all ordinary tile drains, a diameter 

n of 2 inches for side and cross drains, and 

mOI amjL JLm ^ ^ ^ inches for the mains, is enough. 

litfi^i 9^Sm^ Where drains cross each other, the juno- 

U ^*^" should be in T or elbow joints, which 

are supplied to order from the tile works. 

Irrigation. — Whibt standing water is very injurious to un- 
drained land, the benefits of water, when properly applied in the 
process of cultivation, are wonderful. In America, capital has so 
rarely been applied to farming, that the good it can do is but little 
known. If our farmers have a few spare dollars, they are -much 
more ready to devote them to building unprofitable railroads, to buy- 
. ing wild lands, or to shaving notes, than to improving their farms ; 



THB FARM. 69 

though this last is the best speculation thej could enter into, inas- 
much as their farms are entirely under their control, and will, if ju- 
diciouslj improved, pay a rate of interest that increases every year. 

As I have said, water when it stands in land, delays the matur- 
ing of a variety of crops, and yet the fanner can have no greater 
advantage than water — so under his control that he can apply or 
withdraw it at pleasure. 

The staple crops of that latitude in New England to which these 
pages apply, are Grass and Roots, and upon the amount of that crop 
depends the value of our farms, the net profits of our cultivation, 
and the general prosperity of the country. These crops are subject 
to serious fluctuations. When cut short it is generally by drought, 
sometimes by too much wet. For the latter, we have seen the 
remedy ; now for the former ! 

If any firmer with large fields of Grass and Roots could turn on 
water when he pleased, he could in times of drought secure his 
Grass from danger. In the late autumn he could so apply it as 
to stimulate and keep green the late Grass fields ; and by allow- 
ing it to flow freely over the surface during the spring, or by en- 
tirely submerging the surface, he could remove frost and start the 
Grass early. The same is true of all other crops ; Grain, Com, 
Roots, all suffer from uncertain moisture and changing temperature, 
whilst they might by the aid of well-controlled water be culti- 
vated with the certainty of manufacturing. 

In treating of the culture of plants in greenhouses, I spoke of 
the value of special manures in a liquid form. In Agriculture 
their value is no less, yet from our liability to protracted droughts 
that value is often unattainable. Peruvian Guano, for instance, 
has a power to stimulate and support vegetation without injuring 
(as some falsely suppose) the soil, which is second to no manure ; 
and yet, being a dry and highly concentrated powder, its benefit — 
when added to the surface as a top-dressing, a compost, or to be 
ploughed in — is oflen imperceptible. It must be diluted to be 
absorbed by the roots of plants. Were water under our control, 
we could effect this dilution at will; we might top-dress with 
guano, and then let in water, which would immediately soak the 
manure into the roots. The benefit to any one crop — whether it 



* 70 8BPTEMBEB. 

wero Grass, Bye, or Wheat in the month of June, Com in Augnst, 
or Roots in September — would more than paj the cost of simple 
irrigative works. We might by such an application to grass-lands 
in July after haying, when the hot sun bums up the roots and pre- 
vents the growth of Rowen, or to the young Grass and Clover which 
follow a grain crop, secure a second crop equal to or larger than the 
first, and count our profit by tons of Hay and bushels of Grain or Com. 
In England, this has been done ; and in the neighborhood of 
some large cities, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and others in Great Britain 
and on the continent, where sewage is attainable and can be used fat 
irrigation, Grass crops have been cut 4, 6, and 8 times in the year, 
and to the amount of 20, 40, and 80 tons to the acre. A report 
made to Parliament states that by the application of sewage water 
the annual rental of land near Edinbui^h has been increased from 
$8 and $50 per acre to $150 and $200 per acre ; and that poor, 
sandy, sea-shore land has been raised in value by this means alone 
from an annual rental of 50 cents to $75 and $100 per acre. It 
is stated, that by the application of sewage water, the rent of land 
near Milan has been raised fixxm a merely nominal value to $40 
and taxes per acre. 

^ In 1826 the Grogs of the Craigintinny meadows near Edinburgh 
was let for $120 to $150 per acre, whilst portions belon^ng to the 
Earl of Moray brought $285 per acre rent. Remember that this 
is because the frequent application of sewage during the season, 
gives such crops of Grass that it may be cut three or four times in 
the season." 

^ Some lands at Willesden in the county of Middlesex were cut 
four times in one year. The first cut gave four tons to the acre, 
the second 8 tons, and the fourth 12 tons of Italian Rye Grass.** 

^ At Ashburton where liquid manure has been used for the last 
fifty years, land thus treated produces Grass a month earlier, and is 
valued at $40 to $60 per acre a year, whilst the same land not thus 
treated is considered worth only $6 to $8.** (Essay by G. Dr3rs- 
dall Dempsey, published in Weales' Series.) 

In applying pure water the largest benefit is got where it is al- 
lowed to ran over the surfiuse in a slow current ; the next, where 
it stands but a few hours at a time, and where the under drainage 



THE FABH. 71 

is complete enough to 'remove all soakage at once ; the leasts but 
still a marked benefit, is got from water meadows, where the water 
18 allowed to stand for many days, or even weeks, before being 
drawn off. In low meadows, which are flowed all winter, this ap- 
plication of water is very beneficial, as it keeps out the frost,, pre- 
vents the early growth of coarse grasses, and fertilizes the earth by 
dissolving valuable materials in the soil, and carrying them directly 
to the roots. But if such meadows are kept under water after 
v^etation fairly begins, the injury exceeds the benefit, as the 
coarse and sour grasses start which will choke out the better quali- 
ties after the stagnant water is removed. A distinguished English 
writer on .^riculture has the following on the effects of irrigation : — 

^' It is a commonly received opinion that the elementary food of 
plants is contained in a state of solution in water, and that no plant 
can exist ¥rithout a supply of it in a greater or less degree, in a 
dense or rarified state." 

" Without some degree of moisture )he roots of Grass become 
withered and perish, and too great a depth over them (t.e., the roots 
of grass, except aquatics) is equally &tal to their existence. Stag- 
nant water on Grass lands encourages the worst and kills or dis- 
oourages the best kinds. Water in motion, whatever the depth may 
be, is less injurious than if quite at rest, and the shallower the 
CDirent and the quicker the motion over the turf, the more the 
latter is excited into luxurious growth.*' 

^ Many different opinions are held to account for this result : 
that is, the luxurious growth of Grass under a thin flow of water in 
motion. One supposes that a nutritious food is deported by the 
water in its course, and the greater the quantity in transition, the 
greater the deposit. This idea rests on the presumption that min- 
eral or decayed vegetable substances float in the water, and that 
they are intercepted by, or lodged among, the leaves of plants. This 
may be partly true ; but when it is observable that where there is 
the greatest quantity of sedimenty the Grass grows least, and where 
there is no visible sediment whatever, the growth then is strongest, 
we must attribute the luxuriance to some other cause than the de- 
position of substances from the water." 

^ As early and as heavy crops are obtained by using the purest 



72 8BPTEMBBR. 

water, as by that which is full of all manner of impurities ; not 
but land is enriched bj deposits of decomposed animal and vegeta- 
ble matter, and which would be strongly evident in the future 
grcwth of crops of Grass or Corn. Yet for the temporary purpose 
of irrigation, perhaps the most transparent water is the most effi- 
cient. It must be borne in mind that heat, light, and air are indis- 
pensable agents in the development as well as maturation of plants. 
If they be kept in a low temperature, secluded from fresh air, or 
kept in darkness, they are inactive, or hinguish and die. Applying 
these facts, while considering the effects of irrigation, we may 
safely conclude that the energies of the plant are excited by being 
protected from the chilling night air, while they enjoy a higher de- 
gree of heat, generated by the motion of the current ; and at the 
same time, are not excluded firom the direct action of solar light" 

^ Nor can a thin covering of water be said to deprive the plants 
of the necessary portion of air. The agitated portion of the former 
mingle with the latter air, so that there is an intimate connection, 
which enhances by mutual influence the effects of both." 

^ From these observations it would appear that irrigation pro- 
motes the development of grass by its instrumentality in affording 
protection from cold air ; by its generation of heat, and by its free 
admission of every ray of light. It moreover thickens the sward 
by increasing the number and inducing the simultaneous production 
of leaves, rather than by exciting the premature production of 
stems. By such effects, irrigation is said to be a sweetener of the 
turf because there is a thick and equal growth of leaves at the 
bottom. The deposit of warp or mud contained in most river 
water, possesses fertilizing properties, proportioned to the soil and 
other substances from which it has been obtained, and it must be 
valuable in the same proportion for the permanent improvement of 
the land ; but where the object is a quick succession of grass, mudi 
deposit injures the herbage, and sharper streams have been fbund 
better adapted to the sur&ce." 

I shall not now proceed with the subject of liquid manures as fit 
for the growth of plants, but leave that for another month, to which 
it more properly belongs, while I proceed to describe the prepara- 
tion necessary for the diffusion of water over the surface. 



THB FARM. > 73 

Irrigation maj be effected in .several ways : 1st, when the farm 
is bounded bj a brook, river, or pond which is safficientlj above 
the fields to be irrigated to have a flow over and through them to 
their lowest part, whence the water may be conveyed away into 
another field, or into some outlet for drainage. 

2d, where water can be dammed up at the mouth of a brook 
which passes through any fields, and by flooding back, may make 
a water-meadow which may be drawn down at will. 

3d, where damming will flood back a stream till it swells high 
enough to be conveyed by drains to the land to be irrigated. 

4th, where water is forced by hydraulic rams, or by windmills, 
to an elevated point, whence it may be distributed over the surface. 

The first'of these methods of getting water is evidently the most 
economical and simple, the works needed being merely gates and 
sluices, which will enable us to check the current, so that by open- 
ing the sluice gate the water will run in the desired direction. Even 
under these circumstances it is desirable that the field should slope 
gently from the watery side to its farthest boundary. In such a 
field, as soon as the water is admitted into one end of the leading 
drains it will flow without delay to the other, unless its path is 
obstructed ; and by resorting to simple devices we may spread it 
as widely as we please. I shall quote again from the author last 
cited a description of one method of constructing works for irriga- 
tion. 

" Let us suppose there is a field of moderate size, say six or eight 
acres, which is intended to be irrigated ; from the upper to the 
lower end there is a fall of five or six feet ; across the upper end 
an open ditch is made, banked on both sides so that it will hold 
water to stand one foot higher than the surface of the meadow ad- 
joining. Into this ditch the water is admitted from the river, either 
by a weir or dam across, or by an open duct cut from a point higher 
up the stream, which saves the expense of making a dam, which 
might be otherwise inconvenient. A supply of, or inlet for, the 
water being thus secured, the next operation is laying out the 
leaders, inclined tables, and catch-drains. We cannot convey a 
clearer idea of the manner in which the surface of the water mead- 
ows should be laid out, than by supposing that the whole was 
7 




74 SBPTBMBEB. 

ploughed lengthway aod laid into twice-gathered lands or ridges 
of eight jards each." 

The wood cut shows a field twenty-four yards wide. A land 

or ridge twice-gathered is shown by laying this oui in three lands, 

each eight yards wide. Now run the first furrow down through 

the centre from x to 2/, and return on the 

other side of the fiirrow thus made from 

xf to x; and so continue till the whole 

land is ploughed ; this will leave the middle 

higher than the sides of the land. Repeat 

the process with b and c, and the field upon 

completion of ploughing will be thrown into 

three ridges and four hollows. 

"Along the crowns of the ridges (x to a/), water-leaders (c, on 
plan, p. 75) are made, diminishing in width from the main at 
the top to where they terminate near the receiving ditch at the bot^ 
tom; the catch-drains are shallow and narrow at top, but are 
made gradually wider and deeper at the lower end. It will be 
easily conceived that when the water is admitted into the leaders 
from the main at top, either by withdrawing sluice-gates previously 
fixed, or by removing thick heavy turfs, used as stoppers, the water 
will flow along till the leaders are brim full and running over on 
both sides along their whole length. It comes down the slopes, 
faUs into the catch-drains, and is carried off into the bottom ditch, 
and from thence again on to the river." 

" An attendant, shod in water-tight boots, keeps an eye on the 
action of the leaders, to see to the equal distribution of the water, 
and by raising or depressmg the edges over which it flows, or by 
introducing a stopper of thick turf into the 'leader, regulates the 
flow of. water in every part If there be a fiill supply of water, 
the whole meadow may be irrigated at once ; if not, one part may 
be done before another. It should be well understood that the more 
copious the supply of water, the quicker it flows over the surface, 
and the sooner it is let off the more effectual is the process, and 
the more rapid will be the growth of the Grass." 

"When the surface of the meadow is undulating, the first oliject 
to be attended to is, whether the hollows can be dried by catch- 



THE FABM. 



75 



drains ; if so, the leaders must be made straight, or winding along 
the highest part of the knolls, whence the water will flow down the 
slopes to the catch-drains in the hollows." 

" Where there are different levels, or where the leaders, from 
being too long, act imperfectly, the irrigator throws his catch-drains 
into divisions, by which the whole becomes more effectually watered, 
in consequence of an accelerated motion being given to the water. 
Where, however, the plane of the surface of the field presents a 
considerable descent, the leaders and 
catch-drains, instead of being car- 
ried straight across it, are cut in an 
angular direction across the line 
of descent with such an inclma- j 
tion as will best favor the gradual 
though certain discharge of the 
water; for in some situations the 
declivity of the ground is so great 
as to render it necessary to make 
leaders at certain distances^ below 
each other, to catch the water at 
different points of the fall and thus 
prevent its too rapid passage." 

A, river ; B, head ditch to receive 
the water; c, leaders to conduct 
water ; d, catch-drains ; E, ditch to 
conduct water back to river; •x^ 



The drains may be made perma- 
nent, or may be shovelled out anew 
each time we plough the field. 
When once it is laid down to grass, 
the drains may be grassed like the h 
rest of the field. 

When level land is irrigated ac- 
cording to the methods just de- 
scribed, it must be very much ridged 
in ploughing to insure a flow for the water from the leaders into 




76 SEPTEMBER. 

the catch-drains. But level land should never be irrigated unless 
the under drainage is very good. 

Flow meadows or water meadows are made by damming anj 
brook that crosses a meadow, — perhaps even a ditch, — making 
the dam high enough to flow the water back not less than a foot, 
— better two feet, in cold regions, — over the whole field. The 
water should be deep enough not to freeze to the bottom ; for 
should it freeze to the sward, a rain or flush of water might raise 
the ice suddenly and tear up the grass with it. 
• The method of irrigation by catch-drains just described would 
be very expensive on steep hillsides, or on very undulating sur- 
&ces, and is said by some who have tried it not to convey the 
water to all parts of the field with sufficient rapidity. 

Another system better adapted to such surfaces, and recom- 
mended by its very simplicity, shall be presently described. 

My readers may object that expensive works for irrigation and 
draining are well enough adapted to the rich lands and men of 
England, but would be less profitable or possible in the more sterile 
and cheap lands and on the small farms of New England. The ob- 
jection would have weight to' superficial thinkers only; for irriga- 
tion has been most efiective on the steep and seemingly sterile 
hill-sides of the West of England and Scotland. 

In such places, comparatively little reliance has been placed on 
the water in' summer, when all brooks and springs are liable to be 
dried up ; but in late autumn and early spring it furnishes grass 
for pasture. It is turned on, as die season grows cold, and running 
slowly in a thin sheet over the surface from one catch-drain to the 
next, by its motion, as has been observed on a preceding page, it 
keeps the ground over which it runs warmer than the uncovered 
soil, and thus keeps the grass growing until the cold becomes suf- 
ficiently severe to freeze running water to the sod ; then the water 
is shut off, and the icy covering partially protects the grass till a 
thaw, when the water is at once turned on, be it a spring or a win- 
ter thaw, till again frozen, or till cut off by drought. 

Thus in the early month of January (corresponding to our March) 
the running water warms and protects the Grass roots, and the 
young and tender herbage grows rapidly, furnishing early feed. 



THE FARM. 77 

Travellers have been astonished in visiting the farms where the 
practice prevails^ to see verdant hill-sides at a season when all else 
is brown and bare. It will be seen that it is a reasonable practice, 
and after Nature's example. Call to mind any bleak, unsheltered 
hill, where a brook runs during fall, winter, and spring, and you 
will remember the green line of grass that marks the course of the 
water, long after winter has seized all other green places, and 
long before spring has proclaimed itself even in the most sheltered 
spots. And this early coming and later stay of vegetation is not 
the only gain ; for where pastures and hill-sides are naturally sterile, 
or covered with moss and sour vegetation from having been too 
long pastured, a stream of pure wiiter turned so as to trickle over 
the sur&ce, is fojmd to sw.eeten the soil, banish moss and rubbish, 
and produce short, sweet herbage with the same certainty that a 
top-dressing of wood ashes brings out Clover on every soil. 

£ngland is not the only country where this practice has been 
followed with great advantage. There are many farmers among 
the Swiss Alps who have irrigated for years without knowing of 
any similar practice in other countries. These farmers, finding 
their supply of water in the streams that come from the glaciers, 
on the very edge of which they live, have converted land that was 
not worth fencing, into land that cuts six and eight tons of hay to the 
acre. Their system of irrigation is as follows : — 

Having decided upon the size of your " catch-meadow," lay off 
the hill by the level into lines a, marking them as you go by stones, 
stakes, or sods raised with the spade ; the lines may be at such dis- 
tance apart as you please, and however near together they may 
start, the vaiying inequalities in the field as the lines of level are 
followed across its face will make any close parallelism between 
them impossible. Next dig the leaders x ; these will be tapped 
at jT, to draw the water into the catch-drains. Beyond the last y 
the leaders x become catch or watering-drains themselves. Now 
from points equally distant^ or at such distances apart as you please, 
on the line of the first catch-drain, draw straight lines crossing all 
the lines of level, a, previously laid out at R, to the farthest ex- 
tremity of the field. 

Then take a spade, four to six inches wide at the pmnt^ or a 
7* 



78 



8BPTEMBER. 



plough invented far the purpose, which cuts and throws oot a strip 
of tnif four inches wide, and dig or plough along the lines of 
level, a, until they are all thus dug out Tour field is now divided 
hj a series of small ditches. To ensure the water's running 




through these with sufficient rapidity, their inclination m&j he 
varied as seems best Now with spade or plough, cut the 
transverse lines of drains i<thus dividing the field into irregular 
quadrilaterals. The b set of lines are the leaders through which 



THE FABM. 



79 



3 
-J 


B 


'4z i 


r^ 


C 


i==5 




cr^* 


1 





water may be supplied to the top, bottom, or any part of the field 
at will by inserting into the mouths of the catch-drains pieces of 
sod cut to fit them exactly, thus blocking out the water when and 
where we please. 

A section of such a field would appear as shown in cut C, 
where a a and c c are the catch-drains shown before. Cut £ 
shows the intersection of catch and cross-drains. 

The peculiar ad- 
vantage of this sys- 
tem — apart from the 
ease and rapidity with 
which it can be car- 
ried out is the cer- 
tainty with which the 
water is conveyed off 
the surface or to dis- 

o, eftteh<dr«iDS ; 6, erou-dnini j «, >topg of turf. tant poiutS of the field 

irrigated. The levels once established, there need be no expense 
in clearing drains every year or two, for at such intervals the spade 
or the ditch-plough should run along at the side of the old drain to 
cut a new one, the sod or earth turned out of this being used to 
stop up the old drain. 

I have ui^ged these two matters of drainage and irrigation at this 
length, because they are the two surest methods of raising the 
rental of all our farms, and because there is no land too poor to be 
benefited by one or the other ; and neither is so expensive that any 
&nner should be terrified. Remember that the English farmers, 
few of whom are fortunate enough to own the farms on which they 
live, are obliged to get the profits of their investments in permanent 
improvements during the continuance of their leases ; and yet most 
of these improvements are made by tenants who hire their whole 
&rms, either at their own expense or by paying interest on money 
advanced to them to make such improvements, by their landlords 
or government These Bums are often hundreds of acres in ex- 
tent, and are leased at rentals, varying from one to fifly dollars per 
acre, and averaging $12 to $15 per acre, with rates and taxes 
in addition. 



80 SXPTBUBES. 

How much more reasonably, then, may such improvements be 
made by our farmers, who are not obliged to get the returns from 
their, investments in a few years, but may enjoy them for life with 
a right to transmit them to posterity. 

September is the month in which to undertake these improve- 
ments; there is generally more leisure then than at any other 
period of the farming year ; and the work once begun should be 
prosecuted as long aa the weather allows. Drains may be dug 
even in winter, although if they are to be covered, it is well to 
guard the bottom from being affected and softened by frost 

It will be observed by referriug to the plan that the whole 
estate is underdrained, and the farm irrigated whereyer low enough 
to command water, different methods of irrigation being tried in 
different fields. 

The simplest way of locating the drains, is to 
use a level much in vogue among masons. 
Three strips of wood, two of which are about 
12 feet long, the other of any length, are jointed 
together to make a huge A, thus. Cut and 
joint them so that when the instrument rests on 
the points A and C on a level floor, the bar £ D 
will be perfectly horizontal which may be tested 
as follows : insert a pivot at B ; and find the middle of £ D ; sus- 
pend from the pivot a. plumb line B x; y, marks the middle of £ 
D, and if the instrument stands level on its legs A C, the line 
B X will cut y. If this is not the ca5;c, adjust A and C till it is. 
Now going out into the field set the leg C on the point from which 
you wish to start your level for the first catch-drain and move the 
leg A, till it rests in such a position as to make the line B a? cut 
y, when the points A and C must be on the same level. Drive a 
stake or raise a sod to mark these points ; remove the leg C to the 
point whero A rested, and repeat the process. With such an in- 
strument, an intelligent man can lay out the catch-drains for a field 
of many acres in a day. 




CHAPTER X. 

ORNAMENTAL. 

It is but little work to keep in order ornamental grounds on 
which the work has once been thoroughly done ; but we have a 
deal of such work to do for the coming year, and must be at it as 
soon as possible. 

The avenue has been but roughly made ; so with the roads to 
the bam. The farm-roads, the paths in the flower-garden and 
those to the grapery, farm-house, and kitchen-garden are finished. 
All other paths exist only on the plan. The pond extends no 
farther than is shown by the dotted lines ; the side-slopes of the 
main avenue are unfinished ; the bridges only temporary ; and be- 
yond the woods there is no ornamental plantation. 

Our attention should first be given to the avenue, as being both 
the means of access to the estate, and as the object which gives 
the first impression to visitors or occupants. It passes through a 
gravelly soil with a top stratum of gravelly loam to the depth of 
18 mches. It enters, as shown by the topographical lines of the 
plan on the crown of a ridge, .^ ^p 

which has su£Bcient slope in^^ , ^^ 

^^\ LoMin r^^ 

either direction to carry off fe^ -• - • • ' "","y^^^"2I "llllll] ^^^^ 
water rapidly either by the 

snrfece of the road, or through drains below, and was made as 
follows : the road was excavated 2 feet deep and 15 feet wide ; 
the loam, the first 18 inches, was carted off to fill up inequalities in 
the surface of the lawn wherever it was needed, and to bank the 
avenue at those points along the hill where there were cuttings. 
The gravel was dug out 6 inches deep and laid up in piles at the 
road«side. When the men who were di^ng had advanced some 
few rods, another set began to make the avenue. They first laid 
in by hand stones about the size of a double fist to the depth 

81 




82 SEPTEMBEB. 

of 6 inches. In the middle, a V drain, as to be described, was 
made as the stones were laid. On top of these stones and thor- 
oaghlj covering the drain was laid 15 inches of smaller stones, 
as shown in the cut, alwajs keeping the stones at least 8 inches 
higher in the crown or middle of the road than at the sides; 
over these stones enough of the gravel already piled beside the 
road was laid to make a covering to the road-bed 24 inches deep, 
and this should bring the centre of the road on a level with the 
surface of the surrounding soil. This gravel was. thrown upon the 
road by the shovel, and one man in the road, with a long-toothed 

iron rake, distributed the 
• gravel equally over the sur- 
face, always drawing toward 
; him the loose stones out of the 
' gravel, and repeating the op- 
eration with the next gravel 
^^^^£z. thrown on, thus spreading 
it out, layer, over layer, and 
leaving the surface of the road covered with fine gravel dear of 
stones. 

If this work is carefiilly done, travel and the acticm of wheels 
passing over it will force the fine gravel down among the stones 
beneath, pressing the small stones of the upper layer in their turn 
more compactly into those below them, and so on to the bottom. 
A few mbnths' wear will suffice to make this avenue firm and com- 
pact, and will insure dry, good driving at all seasons of the year. 
It can freeze only 4 inches deep, and will of course thaw and dry 
rapidly. 

Roads freeze just in proportion to the amount of water that 
stands suspended in their material. l£ this is all loam it holds 
water like a sponge, and freezes and thaws accordingly ; if all 
gravel, it holds less water and freezes less ; if but 4 inches of it 
is gravel, it holds scarcely any water unless frozen during a rain. 
This is so, because, — 1st, there can be no standing water on a 
crowned surface ; all that falls and is not at once absorbed runs off 
immediately into the gutters, and so is carried into the natural or 
artificial drainage of the surrounding sur&ce. 2d, a soriace thus 



ORNAMENTAL. 88 

made and crowned is hard and compact, like a house roof, and 
absorbs hardlj more water than a roof; Sd, the little that may be 
absorbed will trickle rapidly into the more open stones below, and 
will thence find the drain in the middle of the road, which is quite 
out of the reach of &ost, and will convey the water into the pond 
or other receptacle where it discharges. 

After this road has been used some six or nine months, put on 
about two inches in depth of screened gravel. That first put on 
will have been lowered by pressure about that distance and can be 
forced no farther, so that this dressing will be final 

Where roads cross low places, as ours crosses the island, it is 
weU — if the road-bed is higher than the ordinary level of the neigh- 
boring water — to crown the bed a little, but less than the surface of 
the drive-way, say two inches, and lay on each side a tile dnun, or 
stone drain, of 1 to 3 inches discharge, instead of the single Y dnun, 
and then fill in as directed above. 

Roads made in this manner consume considerable time and 
money, but are, nevertheless, the cheapest roads in the end. 

The manner in which roadmaking is practised, even in the 
neighborhood of Boston, where roads are better than in any other 
part of the United States, is very unscientific « The men whose 
office it is to first make the road (County Commissioners, etc), 
fearing to startle the tax-payers and voters by presenting a high 
estimate for the cost of making roads, allow the work to be done 
in the most indifierent way. They content themselves with skim- 
ming the soil down to the gravel, and then shovelling from the 
sides of the road a few inches of gravel to crown it a little in the 
middle, and finally covering the whole with a very thin dressing of 
gravel This method does tolerably well where the road-bed is 
hard pan and the surface drainage is good, although even then, 
frosts and thaws, and the oozing of water from springs in adjoining 
high lands, make mud of disgusting depth in winter and spring ; 
but where the road-bed is not hard pan, but soil or loamy gravel, 
or where it traverses boggy land, thid method produces roads vile 
beyond description, except in midsummer or early autumn, although 
better than most roads in the Western and Southern States. 

Even now, some of the towns and cities in the vicinity of Bos- 



84 SEPTEMBER. 

ton, — Cambridge for instance, — pursue this or a worse sjstelki, 
and thus subject tax-payers both to the first <!o8t of the road, 
and to a large* yearly bill for repairs. 

The important and vital requisite to the possession of good roads, 
is dose attention to good drainage. It is to the standing and soak- 
age of water that all our bad roads are due. 

Footpaths. — Our footpaths, like those in the flower-garden, 
to the greenhouse and grapery, should be made like the avenue, 
only narrower, for it is important that they should be dry at all 
seasons. But the paths that traverse lawn and woods, like those 
on the south of the house, may be made much more simply. It 
will be enough to dig off six inches or a foot of the t<^ soil, and 
replace it with gravel, crowned about 1^ inches in 6 feet Even 
less than this is sufficient for paths that go through woodland or 
other places little visited. For them, either dig out 3 inches and 
fill in with gravel, or merely dig out and invert the sod, and cover 
with looBfi to kill the grass and weeds. 

Indeed, the rural beauty of all decidedly retired places, is sadly 
marred by the appearance of trim gravel walks. Where wild 
flowers and blossoming shrubs, free songs of birds, the murmur of 
the brook, or the plash of water on the bank of pond or river, fill 
us with a feeling of solitude, we dislike any appearance of man's 
labor or artificial improvement At the bottom of all our hearts 
is an appreciation of the exquisite character of simple, natural 
beauty, and an admission that nature far excels man in producing 
beautiful effects with earth, grass, trees, and water. If we are 
strolling through secluded meadows, and beside unfrequented 
waters, in natural woodlands or forests, however much we may 
enjoy the beauty or the delight of discovery, there is an additional 
interest to most of us, in the ^t that others have enjoyed the same 
' pleasures, as we know by the herbage bent beneath the tread of 
man or beasts, by a rough seat, or by any similar evidence not out 
of keeping with the surrounding natural objects. But if our way 
lies through a thickly settled country, where artificial life is coa- 
stantly forced upon us, where all walks are formal and gravelled, 
all gardens trim and hedged, fences straight, and trees in formal 



ORNAMENTAL. 



85 



lines, it is an additional pleasure to come upon a spot where nature 
seems hardly to have been disturbed, where the path we follow 
seems to have been made by loose cattle, or is a wood road, too 
httle used to be regularly made, and so left to wind in and out to 
avoid a standing tree or projecting rock. Such roads, with their 
three tracks, two wheel ruts, and between them the path for the 
feet of men or animals, overgrown with grass and spangled with 
White Clover and Butter-cup, or gay with Asters or Golden-rod, 
are an unfiling source of delight to all true lovers of nature. 

Let us practise, on the lesson they teach when we make paths 
through ornamental grounds; paths are merely for convenience, 
and should never attract attention in any other way than as being 
well adapted to bring out the irregularities of the surface, and the 
views of the landscape. 




CHAPTER XL 

BANKS. 

It was directed that a portion of the loam dug fran the road-bed 
should be carried to points where banks are to be formed. In the 
construction of banks more mistakes are made than in almost any 
other branch of ornamental improvement The rule for our guid- 
ance is, to make all banks such as shall conform to nature's practice 
under similar circumstances. Nature never mfikes terraces except 
on an immense scale, as shown in the banks of rivers where the 
stream has worked from one level to another; and man should 
never make them except from necessity. The banks about a house 
should not be disguised by artifice, to conceal the fact that it has 
been raised above the surrounding surface, but should be made to 
assume natural slopes, because such slopes are more pleasing to the 
eye, more easily made, and can be preserved at less expense. - 

Whenever circumstances compel us to set a building on a hill- 
side so steep that the observer fears lest a jostle should slide the 
building from its place, we ought to throw out such a bank as will 
broaden the base on which it seems to rest, and thus remove the 
feeling of insecurity. If it be necessary to break the bank into 
two or more to economize material, or for some other imperative 
reason, the necessity justifies the act ; but under no circumstances is 
such an arrangement beautiful. It is always hard and formal, and 
should be avoided. 

When a bank is to be made, consider the natural sur&ce of the 
adjacent land. If it is to be laid up about a house, observe the 
slope of the surikce on which the house stands, and try to give 
your bank the same slope or one in harmony with it Thus, B is a 
house on a hill-side. If the bank slope to a, as shown by the 
dotted line B a, it is harsh ; if to 6, it is more harmonious ; if 
to c, it is perfectly so, and is confluent with the natural slope of 

86 



BANKS. 



87 



vj^ 




,.j.. 



the hill, as shown 
by the unbroken line 
ending at C. The 
eye then rises along 
the slope to the top 
of the bank, and then 
easily takes in the 
whole house. More- *" 
oyer, such a bank and 
slope give grace and 
dignity to the house. 

Or again, suppose 
a road to be cut across 

the ^e of a hiU, thus. A, road; B, top of hill; C, bottom. 
The bank,/c, is harsh; /rf is better; huife is harmonious, and* 
confluent with the genersJ slope of the liill. 

If banks or slopes must be, they cannot be made too well, as they 
are to be grassed^ and perhaps planted with shrubbery ; the follow- 
ing is the method in which they should be made, without exception. 

Decide upon the slope ; if you are to make n bank fill up within 
2 feet of the line of slope, and parallel to it ; add 2 inches of 
oyster shells, old bones, or similar manure ; then fill up 2 inches 
above the top line of slope with rich or well-manured loam, to 
aDow for general shrinking; tread freely to prevent subsequent 
shrinking. When it is perfectly firm, rake the surface thoroughly 
with a long-toothed iron rake, and then 8ow seed and beat or roll 
in. If it is to be sodded, fill up with well-packed loam to the line 
of slope, then cut thin sods, not over 2 inches thick, and cover 
the bank ; beat them thoroughly, to press their roots well down 
into the earth. Water occasionally if the weather is not dry ; if it 
is, water every day, till the sod has begun to grow ; then give it a 
few doses of manure-water, and gradually cease to attend to it. 

If a slope is to be made on a hill-side, cut down to the line of 
slope you propose to maintain. If in so doing you come to the 
hard gravel, dig it off at least 18 inches, and replace it with 
such material as was directed for the bank. If, however, you do 
not oome upon gravel, trench and thoroughly manure, then sod and 
grass as above. 



CHAPTER Xn. 

LAWN. 

The lawn is divided into three parts : one west of the house and 
drive ; one south of the house and north of the path ; and one south 
of the path to the woods. The last is to be treated like ordinary 
grass-land, and has ahneadj been laid down to grass ; viz., Red-top, 
Timothy, and White and Red Clover. The portion west of the house 
is already in lawn, but that south of the avenue is to be laid down 
this fall. It has been cultivated this year in early Potatoes, which 
were dug late in August For some years it was in grass, and had 
been pretty well exhausted. Last year it was ploughed and sub- 
soiled, with a Michigan plough, to the depth of 18 inches, and 
the rocks and large stones were removed. In April it was dressed 
with compost, — 8 cords to the acre, — which was weU though 
lightly plougheji in, care being taken not to disturb the sod inverted 
last fall. It was then planted with the Potatoes as mentioned. 

Remembering that we are undertaking to make a permanent 
lawn in a climate naturally dry, we must spare no pains in doing 
the work thoroughly. First, make the drains shown on the plan 
by red lines, laying them with tiles 3 to 4 feet deep. Now cart on 
not less than 4 cords to the acre, of the best manure we have. 
Spread the manure no faster than it can be dug in ; at the same 
time and rate spread common plaster, not less than 600 pounds to 
the acre. Having made these preparations, 
trench the whole field 18 inches deep, or 
j otherwise thoroughly subsoiL 

The process of trenching is as follows: 
The parallelogram, a, b, c, d, is a field; 
open a ditch at one end 18 inches deep, and 
2 feet wide (a e, /c), and carry the earth 
dug from it to the edge of the other end of the field, and there 

88 



LAWN. 89 

pile it up in the space within the dotted lines. Then open another 
trench or ditch (e, y, A, /), and throw the earth into the first trench 
(a, e,/, c), mixing well the manure and plaster, and thus continue 
till the whole field has been dug over. Th^ earth piled at 6, i, k, 
dy will fill the last trench, and complete the woiic. 

Spread over the sur&ce, as a top-dressing, 200 pounds Peruvian 
Guano to the acre ; then rake with a short-toothed iron rake. 
Sow and roll in the seed, using double the quantity usually recom- 
mended to the acre for laying down grass-lands, of Red-top 
(2 bushels), Timothy (20 quarts), White Clover (8 pounds), and 
Yellow Clover (8 pounds). White Clover is very liable to be 
winter-killed the first winter ; so, to save seed, you may defer sow- 
ing it till late winter or early spring, when it may be sowed on the 
sward. Add to this Vernal grass (1 bushel to the acre), w^ch 
will give a peculiar fragrance at every mowing. Roll thoroughly. 
Other combinations of grass seeds are given hereafter. 

This work should be done in August, and must not be left later 
than the first fortnight in September, otherwise the grass will not 
set well before winter. 

8* 



CHAPTER Xm. 

TBBES AND 8HBUB8. 

8takb oat the places for ornamental trees and shrubs which are 
to be planted this fall, and have the holes dug, well prepared, and 
fiUed in to the top, for this will save much tune when jou come to 
plant 

For trees, dig holes 2 feet deep, 4 feet in diameter. At the 
bottom JOU msLj put well-rotted manure 6 inches deep ; but by 
no means let it come within 6 inches of the roots when planted. 
It is for food to the tree in the second year, when we want rapid 
growth. 

The holes for most shrubs need not be 
more than 3 feet in diameter, and when 
well dug, should be from 12 to 18 inches . 
wider at bottom than at top : and the bottom 
should be well loosened with spade, pick- . 
axe, or bar. 

As selecting the places where we are to 
plant trees must be preliminarj to digging the holes, let us give a 
little thought to the principles which should guide that selection. 

Mr. Downing, referring to the difficulty of grouping trees, and 
in advising persons who were not well skilled in making plantations, 
and yet wished to produce the charm of variety and irregularity 
while they shunned stiffness and formality, mentions approvingly 
the practice of a man who went out with a basket of Potatoes, and 
threw them up into the air with various degrees of force, and then 
planted a tree where each Potato had fallen. This he asserted 
would produce better irregularity than is likely to occur to unprac- 
tioed planters. 

I think this scheme most injudicious, and that it would be pro- 
ductive of barbarous results when followed. 

90 




TREES AND SHRUBS. 91 

Nature seems never to fail in producing beautiful groups, 
whether they be looked at in winter, summer, or autumn. In 
spray, in full foliage, or in autumnal coloring, her trees are always 
beautiftil, always seem just fit for their place. It very rarely 
hi^pens that any of her groups, with which man has not meddled, 
seem badly arranged. 

Why it is that so very few of man's plantations escape criticism, 
and so very few of nature's are open to it, I know not, unless it 
be that the Divinity of nature is so powerfiil in its control over 
the mind that we tacitly admit it to be irreverent to criticise her. 

Selecting the most beautiful group of trees that we are ac- 
quainted with, let us study it, and seek the causes of its power 
over us. They are many — irregularity of outline but one among 
them ; variety of species gives variety of form, of spray, of leaf, 
of top, of color. Whether in spring or fall, all are there,' and 
each contributes so largely to the beauty of the whole, that we 
could not remove one without the risk of destix>ying the beauty 
of all. 

The most attractive groups are not those in which but one or 
two varieties are found, but those where there are several kinds of 
trees with shrubs intermingled. For there is to every tree a char- 
acter, and an individuality which is most clearly brought out by 
contrast. 

The form of the Elm is very graceful ; it is very much and very 
finely divided; and its spray -and smaller branches are almost 
always somewhat pendant. The grace of the tree is proverbial. 
The Hickory is also graceful ; not a branch or a twig of it is 
straight, its whole spray is full of irregularity, and yet its expres- 
sion is contest and resistance rather than grace and pliancy. It is 
one of the hardest and toughest of woods, and this character i^ 
shown in every branch. 

The Oak is very different from these. When it is relieved 
against a clear evening sky, where every branch, however small, 
is sharply defined, we see but few absolutely straight lines, an^ yet 
the character of the tree is angular, rigid, unyielding, though never 
stiff, — from that quality it is redeemed by its dignity and reserved 
force^ — still it is never in any sense pliant or graceful 



92 BEPTBUBBB. 

The Aflh is made up of straight lines, is stiff, and is rarely pos- 
sessed of any pretensions to grace; at the same time a perfect 
Ash is a most beautiful tree. 

The Horse-chestnut has its own peculiar, stubby branches, its 
uniform shape, its dense shade ; is, in a word, a cabbage on a stick. 

We might, were this the proper place, easily set forth the varie- 
ties in form of all our common trees, and trace them to their 
('iuises ; but it is needless to enlarge upon facts that are patent to 
every lover of nature. And the varieties of form are not more 
marked than those of color and character of foliage. From £ver^ 
greens to Oaks and Maples, there is every shape and shade of 
leaf, and the satisfactory character of an artificial plantation will 
depend, mainly, on the judgment with which varieties are combined. 
An old writer (Gilpin) on Landscape Gardening, laid it down as 
a rule, that satisfactory planting could only be attained by masses 
of trees of the same kind, because many of a kind were necessary 
to give the character of the individual to a group. This is true 
where trees are to be planted over many acres ; but where a man's 
arboretum is confined to a few specimens or groups of trees, he 
would lose all the plefisure derived from variety and from agreeable 
contrasts of light and shade, the graceful with the stiff, the spiry- 
topped with the horizontally branched, by following such a course. 
Besides, nature, as has been said, rarely makes a group of a single 
species. There may be a prevalence of one kind, as in some 
of our meadows of the Bed Maple, but the stem of the Whi^e 
Birch will gleam through the green leaves ; in some part of the 
group will be the dark color of the Pine, Hemlock, or Cedar, — a 
single tree it may be, but enough to tone the whole ; — at another 
point will project the rough, contorted, but horizontal branches of 
the Swamp White Oak ; the edge will be thick with shrubs of 
every form and color, — Viburnum, Cornel, Clethra, Black Alder; 
while running thtough and over all, will be the feathery festoon of 
the Virgin's Bower, the glistening leaves of the Horse Brier, the 
crimson stem of the changing Woodbine, and the gold of the Ivy. 

Study every natural group you see, and make yourself master 
of its beauty and the causes of it, and you will not only find that 
its variety and irregularity are wonderful, but that the system by 



TBEE8 AND 8HRUBS. 98 

which it was all developed can be followed as well as analyzed. 
It is the result of careful studj and well-planned planting ; and 
although the greatest carelessness seems to prevail, we see that 
nodiing could be removed without injuring the whole. Everj 
tree-stem has its own peculiar beauty of lichens and mosses. The 
rocks are green, golden, or brown, as the rain is frequent or rare ; 
the flowers are light or dark colored, as shade or sunlight needs 
ooDtrast Every part is perfectly balanced. This may be the 
work of chance, but it is a chance which is perfectly uniform in its 
action, which may be reasoned on and predicted, and reduced to 
tabular views; a chance — if a chance — that has proceeded by 
rule and regulation from the earliest period of man's observation 
till now. 

It is not my intention to inquire why God makes beauty ; he 
does make it, and that most lavishly, and without regard to the poe- 
nbility of man's ever being benefited by it The depths of unex- 
plored forests, unopened mines, and unfathomed seas are all aglow 
with beauty, grace, and variety ; and no appreciative mind but 
must always be full of delight at the manifestations of love shown 
in this peculiar regard for the beauty which may be given to the 
most common objects, to recommend them to man's attention when 
discovered ; and one must be awed too by the certainty of the 
careful and deliberate design and plan which influenced the con- 
oeptbn and development of every object in nature. 

§hall we then who wish to reproduce such beauty, to imitate the 
Master^s workmanship, to make plantations that may communicate 
to us and to our neighbors the same pleasure and instruction we 
derive from God's planting, resort to the blindest of chances, worse 
than dice or lottery ? 

I do not mean to say that Mr. Downing advised the Potato ex- 
ercise as a general or the best practice, but he mentions it with such 
commendation that men of- ordinary judgment, and a slight ac- 
quaintance with the art of planting, will be very much inclined to 
adopt the plan. That some A or B might by chance have been 
successful in this way is true ; but it would be mere chance ; and 
it is to be regretted that Mr. D. should have mentioned it with 
any hint at favoring it, for several persons have quoted such a plan 



94 SEPTEMBER. 

to me, and it maj be oflen found in print, as an infallible gaide in 
making an effective plantation, whilst in reality it is the merest non- 
Aense. 

Our rules, therefore, for planting are : studj well jour material ; 
then studj the outlines of ail the best natural groups you know ; 
make carefiil notes of the way in which the varieties are combined, 
how near the trees are to each other, how often nature has planted 
them close together, how often within a few feet of each other, how 
often at the distance of 20 or 30 feet See where she has intro- 
duced a mossy rock ; how she has drawn attention to some points 
by a mass of Woodbine hung on a projecting branch or twined 
round the nodding top of a Cedar, or swinging from the pendant 
branches of an Elm. See how she has given a rounded form or 
great angularity and prominence to a group by relieving against a 
Willow or Maple a picturesque Hemlock or Hackmatack. Make 
yourself master of aU this ; draw it out on paper ; and then, so 
far as you can, reproduce the effects you like best by transferring 
them by eye or measurement to the ground to be planted. Do 
not expect to satisfy yourself or to escape the sage criticism of 
those who» very like, cannot distinguish a Cat Brier from a Gilly* 
flower, cannot name one in a hundred of the trees, shrubs, and 
flowers which surround their homesteads ; or of those who do every 
thing by rule and line, and see beauty in graceful Hemlocks 
clipped into hideous resemblances to lions and cocks ; who admire 
the straight line only, and would regularly curve, or straighten ahd 
enclose with a stone wall, the wild and indented margins of our 
ponds and streams ; who worship Lilacs, Snow-balls, and Carna- 
tions, but are quite indifferent to Viburnums, Cornels, Fringed 
Gentians, Wild Roses, Clethras, and Cardinal flowers. If they 
condemn your efforts to reproduce Nature and to imitate her pro- 
fuse, graceful, and irregular variety, they are simply to be pitied^ 
and their comments are to be despised. What you have done will 
become more beautiful, more and more like nature, every year; 
and will, as soon as it has had time to grow, give delight to every 
one who can appreciate Nature herself, and can see in the woHl 
of a man the spirit and intention which guided him, though im* 
jierfectly expressed. 




CHAPTER XIV. 

GREENHOUSE. 

ICTOBER. There will be but little new work 
in tlic greenhouse in October. The planU 
jM^jtu^fl from the ground last month may now be 
Uikim from the shade and arranged on the 
shelve H and platforms which they are to oc- 
cupy during the winter. When ypu arrange 
^„ them on the tables, set the largest in the mid- 
dle, and graduate the others according to size, 
80 that the mass of foliage may slope regularly down to the edges 
of the tables : place on the shady side those plants which thrive 
best out of the direct sunlight In front and on the hanging 
shelves those small plants are to be placed which need direct light, 
and which, not being rapid growers, will not interfere much with 
each other. 

If any Monthly Roses, Verbenas, Pelargoniums, Lantanas, 
Chrysanthemums, or Carnations, still remain in the garden, they 
must be removed at once, otherwise there will be no time for 
them to make new roots before the beginning of winter. Cut 
down Achimenes and gradually dry them up. 

Prepare thumb-pots or pans, and sow in them seeds of Lobelia, 
Nemophila, Nierembergia, etc, which will be wanted in the spring 
to hang from the roofs of the greenhouse, conservatory, etc ; set 
these pots and pans on the sills of the windows, or anywhere near 
the light Do not neglect the bulbs mentioned last month, but plant 
at once those that wei-e not then planted ; and if any planted have 
fturly begun to grow, give them water, though very sparingly at 
first Pot Ixias and Sparaxis if not already done ; set Cinerarias, 
Neapolitan Violets, and Daisies into frames. 

Keep most of your plants cool and rather dry, as they will then 

95 



96 OCTOBBB. 

make more hardy roots and growth than if over-stimulated ; all the 
Camelias need abundant water, and Chiysanthemums liquid ma- 
nure. During all warm and dry weather keep the saahea and ven- 
tilators open, and allow the air free access during the night as well 
as the day, but avoid any thing like chilling the plants. It is not 
necessary to resort to artificial heat at present 
^ Use water rather sparingly, though frequent syringings will be 
very beneficial, for water thus applied comes in the most natural 
form in which plants can receive it Rain is important to outxif- 
door plants, not only as a supply of water, but because it sets leaves 
and twigs in motion as it runs over them, and washes away dust, 
and insects and their eggs. 

Aeration. — The system of ventilation in our greennonse 
furnishes air both in sufficient quantities dnd in the moat natural 
way. 

One would naturally suppose that plants are benefited by the 
motion of their leaves and branches, and numerous experiments 
have shown this to be true ; for where currents of air have been 
used to ventilate greenhouses, the plants have- been more thrifty 
than where air has been admitted without regard to its course 
within the house. 

In a dwelling-house the whole object of ventilation is gained by 
securing a constant supply of iresh air without any anno3ring 
draughts. But ^ ventilation ** does not properly describe the true 
system of admitting air to plants in greenhouses, where the current 
or draught is essential to the welfare of the vegetation. 

A distinguished vegetable physiologist explains this matter as 
follows : '^ Ventilation is the process of letting the external air at 
once into the forcing-house ; and aeration is the art of keeping the 
air of the forcing-house in constant motion by currents of warmed 
fresh air. The importance of aeration cannot be over-estimated ; 
it is the one thing which now requires to be secured in order to 
render our artificial climates natural. Man's reason must tell him 
that a plant condemned to pass its life in a still atmosphere, is like 
nothing so much as a criminal condemned to pass his life in an 
everlasting pillory. In order to secure motion in the vegetable 



GRBBNH017SE. 97 

kingdom, currents of air are made to do Ihe work of the muscle, 
limbe, and volition, of animals. 

*^ It is not at all improbable that in addition to the mechanical 
effects of motion in assisting the propulsion of the sap, it may be 
important that the stratum of air in contact with the leaves of 
plants should be incessantly shiAed, in order to enable them to 
procure an adequate supply of food, for we find that water in mo- 
tion, when used for irrigation, feeds them better than when stag- 
nant 

^ Leaves are constantly abstracting from the air the very minute 
quantities of carbonic acid (and other gases) which it contains. 
When the air moves quickly over their surface, fresh supplies of 
that food are incessantly presented to it, and the operation of ab- 
straction may be much facilitated ; while on the contrary, if the air 
is stagnant, the absorption of carbonic add (and other gases) may 
be much slower. 

*^ Perspiration is another vegetable fiinction which must be main- 
tained in healthy action. The quantity of water that flies off from 
the sur&ce of a plant will, other things being equal, be determined 
by the rapidity of the motion of air passing over its surface. 

^ In an absolutely still air, perspiration will be reduced to its min- 
imum, and it will increase, within certain limits, in proportion to 
the quickness with which air sweeps over it If the motion of the 
air is thus favorable to the two great operations of feeding and 
perspiration, we shall find that it is equaUy needed, day and night, 
for inspiration and feeding go on principally by daylight, whilst 
perspiration or exhalation continue during the hours of darkness. 

^ A good system of aeration must be constcmtly in action.^* 

To make this more clear, it may be well to mention here one 
of the great vital principles of agriculture. 

It is generally supposed that, given a good soil, plenty of water, 
and snnshme,all plants derive the materials for their organic growth 
directly from the earth. This view is well enough for general pur- 
poses, but it is by no means strictly true. The vegetable portion 
of plants — in which is not included the water of their tissues or 
the mineral matter conveyed by water into the tissues and held 
there in suspension only to be detected by the ashes resulting from 
9 



98 OCTOBBB« 

the oomplete oombustkm of any plant — is deriyed prindpallj 
from the air. The earth is needed as a place from which to grow, 
and in and upon which the plant, bj means of its roots, may per- 
form its vital functimis ; but the larger part of the structure of the 
plant is supplied in a mysterious manner by the air. 

Without delaying for a scientific explanation of the causes and 
reasons of this wonderfiil fact, we will consider a few familiar in- 
stances, which will prove conclusively the truth of the statement 
In any of our country towns it is easy to find lands covered with 
woods, which within the memory of the present generation, have 
been cultivated till they were worn out ; t.0., so drained of those 
constituents which plants derive from the earth, that no crop could 
be got from them that would pay the cost of cultivation. These 
lands upon being abandoned by man, soon began to grow up in 
wood, — here and there little Pines or Birches or Cedars started, 
— and in ten or twenty years the fields were quite covered, and in 
forty a fair yield of wood could be cut from them. The wood 
being cut and the land ploughed and cultivated, good crops can be 
again got for some years. These lands were not manured by any 
thing but air and water, and yet not only have the trees grown, 
but their leaves, shed from year to year, have fertilized the soil ^ 
beyond the fertility any soil acquires by the slow disintregation of 
its mineral constituents during a term of years, — an operation 
analogous to the increase of moneyed capital, which yields an an- 
nual interest, till ultimately it is doubled and more by the accumu- 
lation. 

It may be said that this proves nothing more than that land, 
which without manure will not yield crops for food, does yet con- 
tain the elements of vegetable growth necessary to develope the 
forest. But it will not be said truly. 

It was stated at the beginning of this treatise, that agricultural 
operations are not changed in kind but merely in degree, by being 
conducted on different scales ; so that we may fairly reason from a 
single plant to whole crops. Now experiments have been cardully 
tried by men distinguished in agricultural science, which have 
proved conduaively that, be the crop what it may, about three- 
fourths its vegetable bulk is derived from the air. Pure sand has 



GREENHOUSE. 99 

been confined under glass receivers, and in it seeds have been 
planted, which have been watered with pare distilled water, no 
manure being applied, and jet these seeds have germinated and 
made a veiy considerable growth of vegetable matter ; showing 
that apart from the stock contained in the seed, the nourishment of 
the plant was derived from the air. 

It is not claimed that a healthy vegetation capable of maturing 
food for animals has been produced under such circumstances, as 
there are certain chemical elements, not to be found in common 
air, with which a plant must be supplied, in order to yield food for 
man ; but simply that such experiments prove both that plants de- 
rive a large portion of their substance from the air and water, and 
should therefore have enough of both, and that the growth of 
woodland under the circumstances mentioned above, is mainly at^ 
tributable to the food supplied by the aur. 

Another striking illustration of the truth of this position is found 
in a ooounon agricultural operation : fertilizing land by green crops. 
Given a piece of land too poor to be worth cultivating ; weigh out 
die manure you apply, and sow Clover seed ; the Cbver will grow 
for a year or two and cover the land more or less generously ; at 
the end of the second year plough in the topS and roots, and leave 
them a short time to decay. You will find that the land is permar 
nently enriched, so as to yield a remunerative crop if cultivated. 
If the crop of Clover ploughed in added nothing more than the 
weight of manure first applied, plus the material it abstracted 
from the soil, the subsequent crops would be no greater than if the 
manure alone had been ploughed in and left, and the &rmer would 
be poorer by the cost of cultivating his Clover ; but the reverse is 
the result whenever the experiment is tried. 

Thus it is clear, first, that air is necessary to plants, and full of 
the elements of organic life ; second, that it must be constantly re- 
newed and shifted by winds and currents, or else stationary plants 
would soon exhaust the supply and cease to thrive ; third, that a 
leading principle of success in plant culture is aeration. 

Currents of air judiciously admitted, give additional efficiency 
to the use of the syringe. Syringing washes violently away in- 
sects and their eggs; but instinct teaches insects to avoid those 



100 



OCTOBER. 




parts of the plant in the line of usual currents of water, and thus 
escape. J£, however, currents of air strike the plant on various 
sides, instinct again leads the insects to shun these new currents, 
and the two fluids, air and water, being applied sometimes together, 
sometimes apart, both cannot well be avoided. 
The old method of admitting air by sliding sashes in the top and 

front of the house, is unfavorable 
to this general diffusion of air, as 
the accompanying diagram shows. 
In this section of a greenhouse the 
sashes slide at x and a/ ; the cur- 
rent admitted at a/ naturally warms 
a littie as it enters, rises and goes 
out at Xy affecting the plants but 
very littie ; as it is cold and rapid, 
and blows above the warm pipes a, it does not mingle with the 
warm air or sink much, but rather blows across and out at the top. 
The hot air is blown in the line of the two lower arrows, and goes 
through and under the staging for plants ; whilst those standing on 
the table in front, or trained up against the glass feel but littie 
warmth. Whenever air is admitted, it comes in nearly as cold as 
the outside atmosphere, strikes the overheated foliage, which it 
chills rather than cools. Now if our system is followed this can 
never happen. Again, where bat comes as in the preceding diagram, 
no current really affects the leaves so as to give them the motion 
described as so beneficial. The truth of this will be seen when we 
consider the condition of the house before the admission of the 
outer air. The whole house is warmed so that a thermometer at 

the level of the eye, shows enough 
heat to need air. If the tempera- 
ture is thus high at the level of the 
eye, what must it be at a, whither 
all the hot air is tending by natural 
laws ? to remedy this we admit air at 
x^ ; this serves to cool down the front 
of the house too much, and only makes 
the upper part hotter. Open the sash 



--> 



OREBNHOUSE. 



101 



Xy and the hot air will rush out for a few minutes until the air at 
0^' begins to fill the current, when it will no longer sink, the temper^r. 
ture in its neighborhood having been lowered too much to feel any 
difference between its own weight and that of the entering air. The 
current however is strong ; it is a draught, and the air comes in at 
3cf and goes out at x, making a curve {jf x) through the house, 
giving no aeration, but cooling one part verj much without relieving 
the rest 

Now observe our plan. In a lean-to or span-roof house, we 
carry up a brick wall for 3 feet at least : every 5 feet we open a 
ventilator between the hot 
pipes a a; now if the house is 
too hot) by opening the venti- 
lators X and xfy we let a stream 
of cold air, — not upon the 
tender foliage, but on the 
hot pipes, where it is at once 
warmed, and rises in four di- 
rections; perpendicularly by 
the natural laws of equilib- 
rium in fluids, and diagonally ^ 
by the power of the draught 

When the upper sash is 
opelied at c, these different 
currents converge toward that 
caning, making currents 
throughout the house, which from their various directions, must 
thoroughly search every part of every leaf, and, although gently 
and almost imperceptibly, yet surely, set all the leaves in motion. 

The diagram, however, only shows how air may escape by open- 
ings above, made by sliding or revolving sashes. Revolving sashes 
are fqr some reasons the best, for others the worst ; standing at an 
angle with the roof when open, they are very liable to be broken by 
the wind; and yet must often be opened in windy weather. To obvi- 
ate the need of either sliding or revolving sashes when but a slight 
current is wanted, or during high winds, the back wall of a lean-ta 
or the ridge of a span^roofed house should be carried up from 2 to 4 
9* 




102 



OCTOBEB. 




feet above the sashes ; then there should be ventilators, a a, in this 
wall, above and below the sash, closed hj sliding doors ; these maj 
be more or less opened, and will admit air slowly and without 
danger from high winds. 

With ventilators thus arranged and of sufficient size, there is no 
need of sliding or revolving sashes ; the roof may be made whole, 
and breakage thus avoided. To secure nocturnal ventilation, 
where the current moves slowlj, these ventilators may be slightly 

opened, or others made as 
shown in the cut ; a a being 
closed, open b; the air will 
enter a^ x and creep slowly 
along in the direction of the 
arrows. It will take this course 
because it will constantly cool 
faster along the walls and the 
glass than elsewhere, and the 
warm air will rise to supply 
its place. It must be remembered that all the air we propose to 
supply to these houses is thoroughly warmed by the hot water or 
steam pipes before it reaches the body of the house, except when 
admitted through a a, and this entering into the hottest part of the 
house, warms before it reaches the plants. 

Greenhouses and other glass structures built in this manner, 
with attention to these various details, are more expensive than when 
built in the old-fashioned way ; and it is true that in the old and 
iU-arranged houses good plants are grown, and that gardeners are 
a dogmatic set of men, unwilling to adopt improvements. It is 
also true that dwelling-houses with unventilated rooms heated by 
air-tight stoves, allow some children and adults to grow and live 
and are less costly than houses built with the most improved appa- 
ratus for heating and ventilating. 

Cold. — Sometimes very cold nights occur in October (in this 
latitude), particularly toward the last of the month. Such nights, 
however, are foretold by the character of the day preceding. It is 
enough when they are anticipated to put up the shutters and cover 



GREENHOUSE. 



103 



the roof with straw matting. Various arrangements are resorted to 
for covering the glass with straw, cloth, etc Our plan is as follows : 

For the front make wooden 
shutters that will fit accurately 



IS 



'f&^''^r 




between the divisions of the 

windows. The cut shows the _ 

inside of such a shutter made jj^'^fi i ' 

of White Pine and painted 

boards, and screwed on to two 

cross strips 4 inches wide, and about 3 inches shorter at each end 

than the shutter. The appearance of a window without, and of 

one with this shutter is shown ; c c c, common iron buttons screwed 

to the window casing a. When you wish to put up the shutter, 

torn the buttons out of the way, set in the shutter, which must fit 

tight, and secure it with a turn of the buttons. During the day 

these shutters should be piled on the border in front of the house, 

the lowest resting on pieces of joist that it may not freeze to the 

ground. 

To cover the roof expeditiously, another plan is resorted to : 
take straw matting or sail cloth, in as large pieces as you choose 
— enough to cover the whole roof, if you please; every 3 feet 
ak>ng one side, insert eyes 



that will just fit over the 
heads of spikes or hooks se- 
cured to xthe top of the sash 
just above Uie gutters ; fasten 
the opposite side its whole 
length to a moderately heavy, 
straight roller. This roUer 
must be heavy enough to de- 
scend along the roof by its 
own weight, taking the cloth 
with it, unless prevented. 
Into each end of the roller 
screw a pulley wheeL Car- 
ry a cord through and over 
the wheel a, at the ends 




104 OCTOBER. 

of the roller, and back again through a pulley at c, lead it to £, 
where it passes through another puUej and drops through the 
roof to /, within the house, where it is fastened. 

Now suppose the sail roUed up at the eaves of the house a as in 
diagram ; if you wish to cover the glass, go to / (within), and pull 
on both the ropes ; you will draw up the roller toward e c, where 
the ends of the ropes are fastened, unrolling the sail as it rises, 
and have only to pull equaUy on both ropes to insure the rising of 
the roller at an equal rate at both ends. Of course the rope must be 
secured at^ when the sail is quite unrolled. To uncover the glass, 
loosen the ropes at/, and let them pass slowly through the hands 
as the roller descends by its own weight, rolling up the sail as it 
goes. These protections will be enough till the weather becomes 
decidedly cold. 

If bad luck overtakes you before the fires are lighted, and the 
thermometer in the house falls below 32^, be very careful in the 
morning not to allow the sun to shine on the plants ; keep the 
shutters and sail-cloth up, and syringe the plants with cold water ; 
this will take out the frost, and probably prevent any great 
'injury, unless the cold has been sufficiently severe to burst the 
tissues and sap-vessels, in which case nothing can be done but to 
cut back the plants, and as it were start afresh. 

While speaking of the greenhouse in September, I said, in dis- 
cussing the causes of failure and success, that injudiciously applied 
heat or moisture are the chief causes of the frequent failures to 
grow a completely satisfactory collection of plants. » 

Some portions of every greenhouse, however perfect its arrange- 
ments, will be hotter than others, owing to the way in which it is 
visited by the sun's rays, or to the natural rise of heated air, or 
to the location of the hot-water pipes. By ascertaining these 
places, and judiciously arranging varieties, gardeners might grow 
hothouse plants in greenhouses with some success, though not sat- 
isfactorily, for hothouse plants need not only great but steady 
heat 

And in order to provide for the culture of some such plants, 
although we have no hothouse proper, our greenhouse is so divided 
as to allow the heat in one portion to be increased above the tem- 



CONSBBYATORT. 105 

perature of the other, and this smaller part will answer all the 
purposes of a hothouse in fact Here we have some Orchids, 
although we make no attempt to grow such a collection of Orchids 
as need pecuh'ar treatment and a separate house ; in this part of 
the greenhouse we start cuttings and stimulate young plants for 
the greenhouse and conservatory; whilst there are some plants 
which never leave it 

I shall give some lists of plants adapted to the hothouse, con- 
servatory, and greenhouses, not pretending to give all that may be 
cultivated, as we have not room enough for a fail collection, but 
such as are beautiful and will prove satisfactory if well cultivated. 
Some of the plants included in this list will live in all our glass 
houses, others in but one or two of them. In the case of plants 
not usuaUy cultivated, directions are given. 

Orchids need a great deal of heat in the growing season, with 
abundance of moisture. Some are air-plants, and need only blocks 
of wood to grow on ; some should have baskets in which are va- 
rious rough substances, as bits of peat^ stones, charcoal, etc., to 
nourish and support the roots, but no earth ; others need pit cul- 
ture ; some will exist in a greenhouse, but all are better situated 
in the hothouse, and should be grown as hanging-plants. The 
range of heat, and the respective seasons for maximum and min- 
imum heat, show how well we can accommodate the varieties 
included in the list 



Block, pot, or basket Barkeria Spectabilis. Max. heat, 60^ to 650 ; min. 
450 to 370. Growing and blossoming season, January to July. 

Pot. Cattleya (varieties). Max. heat, 75° to 80°; min. 56© to 65o. 
Growing and blossoming season, February to August Food, the loose fibres 
of peat, sphagnum, lumps of wood and stone. 

Pot Caelogyne. Moderate temperature. Ordinary food. Growing and 
blossoming season, April to October. 

Pot Cymbidium. Max. heat, 76® to 80^; min. 55© to 60®. Growing' 
and blossoming season, August to September. Food, twigs, loam, and leaves ; 
abundant moisture. 

Basket Dcndrobium Speciosum. Max. heat, 55^ to 65^; min. 45^ to 
55®. Growing and blossoming season, February to May. Many varieties, 
needing various treatments ; bears the coolest temperature of any. 

Basket. Lyeaste. Max. heat,65<) to 70^; min. 55® to AO®. Growing and 



106 OOTOBER. 

bloMoming season, Febroarj to March. Abundant moisture ; well-drained, 
peatj soil. , 

Block, pot, or basket. L»lia. Moderate temperature. Growing and 
blossoming season, November to Janaarj. 

Pot. Mormodes. Max. heat, 70^ to 80<' ; min. 55^ to 60^. Growing and 
blossoming season, October to November ; food, very rough, fibrous peat, 
sphagnum, charcoal, well-drained. 

Pot. Odontoglossum. Max. heat, 65^ to 70° ; min. 4i° to 50*^. Grow- 
ing and blossoming season, September to October. Similar treatment to 
last. 

Block. Oncidlnm. On blocks well syringed ; easily grown in pots ; treat 
like last; rather cool ; well watered when growing; dry at season of rest 
Growing and blossoming season, May to August. 

Pot Peristeria. Max. heat, 75° to 80° ; min. 55^ to 60^. Growing and 
blossoming season, August to September. Stronger and richer soil ; ample 
pot room. 

Pot Saccolabium ; abundance of heat and moisture when flowering; at 
other tunes dry. Plenty pot room. Growing and blossoming season May to 
August 

Pot. Stanhopea ; moderate temperature. Growing and blossoming sea- 
son, June to August. Treat like last 

Pot. Zygopetalum. Max. heat, 709 to 75° ; min. 65° to 70°. Growing 
and blossoming season, November to February; light, fibrous soil, well- 
drained. 

Such Orchids are easily managed if attention is given to their 
times of growth and rest, as only at the growing season do they 
need extra warmth and moisture ; at that time the temperature >in 
the night should never fall more than 10^ below that of the day. 
Their bulbs or roots should never be allowed to remain in a tem- 
perature much lower than their minimum, even if in a dormant 
state. If in flower at a season when the sun is very hot and bright, 
they should be shaded, as the direct rays injure the blossom ; it is 
true they are natives of the tropics, but they grow for the most 
part in rather shaded spots. The highest degrees of heat show 
what the temperature must rise to during the flowering season ; the 
lowest, what it must never fall below. 

Bulbs. — Bulbs of various species are great ornaments of the 
green and hothouses, and should generally be started in the latter. 
To be perfectly successful, they require rather more care than is 



OBEENHOnSE. 107 

generallj given. Gardeners generally laj the pots oontaining 
bulbs that have gone out of blossom under the table or on their 
sides, until that time next year when they are to be started again. 

Bulbs have certain seasons for growth and rest, and they indi- 
cate the approach of the former by a heightened color and glossi- 
ness, swelling of the crown and starting at the eyes. The season 
of rest follows flowering, when the leaves decay and the plant be- 
comes practically dead for ornamental purposes. At this period 
they may be kept more cool, but not cold, as all tropical bulbs need 
a good degree of heat even when dormant ; and they should by 
no means be laid aside as soon as out of blossom, but should have 
abundant heat and moisture until the leaves are well matured, and 
if checked sooner, the bulb suffers. 

Pots for bulbs should be of different shape from ordinary pots, 
narrower and deeper, for the bulb roots to descend. A bulb 3 
inches in diameter should have a pot 10 inches deep and 5 inches 
wide at top ; other sizes in the same proportion. 

The foUowing are good pot bulbs, not including the garden 
bulbs, Hyacinths, etc., which are great additions to the beauty of 
the greenhouse, and may be used according to directions yet to be 
given. 



Amaryllis, 


Griffinia, 


Massonia, 


Cobiirghia, 


Hypoxis, 


Oxalia, 


Cydamen, 


Iris, 


Sinningia, 


ErioBpermam, 


Ixia, 


Sparazis, 


Gesneria, 


Japan Lily, 


Stramaria, 


Gladiolus, 


Lachenalia, 


Trichonema, 


Gloxinia, 


La Peyroosia, 


Tropaeolum. 



For most bulbs, soil as follows : rich loam, well-rotted cow ma- 
nure, one-eighth river sand. The compost should be heated just 
short of combustion, to kill eggs and embryos of worms. 

PoCdng as follows : put in drainage material, and cover it with 
a handful of charcoal ; fill to within about an inch of top with 
loam, varying the depth according to size of bulb ; sprinkle on a 
little sand or charcoal dust ; then set in the bulb, and fiU in round 
it with loam. As before said, water but little till the leaves show, 
then give more water and heat 



108 OCTOBER. 

Some delicate bulbs may be grown in sand mixed with a very 
little cow dung, stimulated with guano-water. 

Other plants proper for hothouses will be found in the following 
list, though some of them may be exhibited in the greenhouse or 
the conservatory during the time of flowering. 

The greatest care must be observed in the hot part of our green- 
house lest we violate natural analogies. It will be proper to shut 
up this part of the house earlier than the rest, po as to retain more 
of the sun's heat, and the temperature may now fall lower than 
at any other season. 

The months of September, October, and November will be a 
time of rest, as it were, during which the vines that had grown too 
luxuriantly, and were cleaned and pruned in August, will ripen. 

All those plants which showed blossoms in the spring, and 
which we do not intend shall blossom during the winter, may be 
kept for the present in the greenhouse, to be brought into the hot- 
house for forcing as spring approaches. During the present month 
ventilate well and water sparingly, syringe rarely ; and remember 
that the ease of our future task in managing the plants depends 
upon keeping them as cool and hardening them as much as possible 
now. Many gardeners make sad mistakes by keeping the heat 
too great during all the cold months ; the lower the temperature 
outside, the higher it is raised inside. All you need is to keep it 
uniform, and slowly increase it toward spring. It is unnatural for 
most plants to blossom in the fall, whilst all feel a natural impulse 
after the turn in the year. 

Many plants that are native of hot countries need much less 
heat than some natives of more temperate regions ; the difference 
depending mainly on their wood, whether it is hard or eofl and 
succulent Ericas, for instance, came from the Cape of Good 
Hope, but many or most of them may be allowed to experience 
several degrees below 32°, whilst other plants from the same coun- 
try, as Pelargoniums, are destroyed by much less cold. 

A word here on the treatment of Ericas. They must be brought 
into flower in the hot part of our greenhouse, but may be kept 
very cool after flowering. This family of plants has the reputa- 



OBE£MHOU8E. 109 

tion of being difficult and shy ; but is very eaailj managed under 
uniform treatment. The majority of heaths prefer a sterile soil 
upon dry bottom; the best material for their compost is dry 
and well decomposed peat mixed with sharp sand ; the most vig- 
orous varieties like an admixture of strong loam. Water in gen- 
erous quantities is most important to their healthy growth ; rain- 
water is best, soft well-water next ; but water containing mineral 
matter is injurious. In potting, do not make your compost very 
Ane ; it is a common mistake. Early spring, just before the com- 
mencement of a new growth, is the best time to repot Shift into 
considerably larger pots ; for soil, mix largish pieces of turf, say 
an inch square, with very fine peat and sand, and use the mixture 
both for potting and shifting. This, if well drained, and with a 
free supply of light, air, and water, will insure good specimen 
plants. They are readily grown from cuttings, which should be 
taken in spring. As the Ericas rarely seed, cuttings are the only 
reliable means of propagation. The proper treatment of their cut- 
tings is described in an old number of the Gardener's Magazine^ 
by a former gardener at Winship & Co-'s, as the practice of 
the Messrs. Winship at their nurseries, Brighton, Mass. I have 
condensed the following from his verbose description : " In July 
if the plant has made a good growth, cut the young shoots off 
the parent plant, about an inch long, with a sharp pair of scis- 
sors ; remove the leaves from its lower half; after the leaves are 
removed, cut its end square close to the joint with a sharp knife, 
and a quick, clean cut. Prepare a pot, of that size which will best 
suit your bell-glass, by filling it half full of broken crocks, the rest 
with fine sharp sand ; water the sand and smooth its surface ; into 
this set the cuttings, making a hole for them with a sharp-pointed 
stick. Water gently, to settle the sand, and cover with the bell- 
glass. Keep constantly moist. Some kinds will root in three, 
some in six months, and others in less time. When rooted, put 
in thumb pots in sandy peat, or in a compost of decayed leaf mould 
and one-third sand. Set the pots in coal ashes, in a frame under 
glass, or on the* upper shelves of the greenhouse ; shade during the 
heal of the day, and keep moist for two or three weeks ; after this, 

10 



110 



OCTOBER. 



cool and harden. According to the habit of the plant is to be the 
future pruning and culture.,, 

Plants which need earlj culture in the hothouse if thej are to 
' flower well, are : — 



Achimenes, 


£iiphorl»a, 




.ffiflchynanthos. 


Francisoea, 




Aphelandrs, 


Gardenia, 


Passiflora, 


Begonia, 


Gesneria, 


Pharbitis, 


BiUbergia, 


Hibiscus, 


Philiberda, 


Cactus, 


Hoya, 


Poinsetda, 


Caladiam, 


Ipomea, 


Portlandia gnmdiflova, 


Charianthas cocdniu. 


Ixora, 


Quisqualis indica. 


Clerodendram, 


Jasminnm, 


Stephanotis, 


Combretam, 


Lantana, 


Strelitzia, 


Eranthemam, 


Mandeviila, 


Tillandsia. 



In the greenhouse, as before said, the treatment is to be much 
more cool and dr7 than in the hothouse. During this month keep 
well ventilated in dr7 weather ; shut up early. The plants which 
will make a good stock for the greenhouse, and which may be 
shown in the conservatory when in blossom, beside those already 
given, are as follows : — 



Abelia, 


Coronilla, 


Abutilon, 


Cosmelia, 


Adenandra, 


Cuphea, 


Amphicome arguta, 


Dielytra, 


Anagallis, 


Diplacus, 


Aotus, 


Dolichos lignoBus, 


Aphelexis, 


Erodinm incarnatum, 


Astelma, 


Escallonia macrantha, 


Bejaria, 


Fabiana incamata, 


Bourardia, 


Fuchsia, 


Browallia, 


Gazania, 


Burtonia, 


Gnidia, 


Calandrina, 


Gorteria, 


Calceolaria, 


Helichrysnm, 


Ceanothus, 


Iberis semperflorens^ 


Chenostomia, 


Lantana selovii, 


Chorozema, 


Lapageria rosea, 


Cineraria, 


Lechenanltia, 



6BEENH0U8E. 



IIJ 



Lobelia, 

Loddigwia, 

Maheniia, 

Malva, 

Manrandya, 

Maraltia, 

Nieremberg;ta, 

Pdazgoniam, 

Petania, 

Philibertia, 

Prixnala, 

Rhyncospermam jasminoides, 

Raellia, varieties, 

Russeliajancea, 

Salvia, van., 



Selago, van., 

Sphenotoma gracille, 

Sprengelia incamata, 

Stadmannia australis, 

Statice, vara., 

Stenocarpas canninghamii, 

Stylidiam, 

Satherlandia fhietesceiu, 

Taamannia, 

Teopea specioaiBimea, 

Tbanbergia, 

Torenia, 

Triptilion spinosam, 

Vaccinum cocineum, 

Veronica. 



Roses in varieties. — Verbenas, Chrysanthemums, Rhododen- 
drons, Viburnum, Azaleas, Lauristinus, Deutzia, Gytisus, Alyssum, 
Calystegia, Acacia, Genista, Mignonette, Gilliflower, Wallfower, 
Ten-weeks Stocks, Hydrangea, etc. 



CHAPTER XV. 



THE CONSERVATORY. 



The conservatory is to be treated like the greenhouse. Keep 
it cool, yet above frost The plants in pots must be watered 
rather oftener than those in beds. In bright weather syringe fre- 
quently. 

TI^ beds of the conservatory are made by raising a border, a a^ 
one foot above the level of the floor ; under the floor drain thor- 
oughly with 18 inches of loose stones, B, laying under them a 
drain, d, which will quickly remove superfluous water. As a pre- 
caution, it would be well to lay a flue or hot-water pipe, c c, 
through this drainage, which could be connected with the boiler, 
as there are times in our veiy cold winters when the earth 
about the roots of the plants is cooler than the air, and the 
growth of plants may thus become feeble and spindling. Many 
plants very desirable for such bedf^, but rather belonging in the 

hothouse, are especially liable 

to such injury. Over the 

^"■^ drainage stones lay a course 

of turf, E E, to prevent the 

loam from washing away; 

over this fill to within 3 inches of top with rich, light, yellow 

loam ; after planting, cover the top with a light dressing of good 

dark loam. 

No plant should be set in this bed with its roots in the close ball 
made by pot culture ; they must be opened out. When all is com- 
plete and the plants set, plant ?ome Lycopodiums, Sedums, etc, 
among the other plants, to cover the surface with their delicate 
foliage and make a perfect bed of green, out of which the other 
plants shall rise. After arranging the beds and grouping the 
plants, follow previous directions. 

118 




CONSE&YATORT. 



113 



RUNNERS FOR POTS AND WALLS OF CONSBRVATORT. 

Billardiera ovalis, Mimosa prostrata, Smilax, vara., 

Brachysema, vars., Passiflora, vars., Sollya,.var8., 
Clematis Convolvolns, Rhyncospermam jasminoideSjSwainsonia galegtiblia, 

Jasminnm, Tan., Rodochiton volabile, Tacsonia, vars., 

Kennedyia, vara., RoscJis, Tropeolum, vara., 

Mandevilla soaveolaos, Rosteria, Zichya, van. 





PLANTS FOR BEM. 




Good variedfis of 






Calceolaria, 


Heliotrope, 


Perpetual Roses, 


ChiysaDtbemnm, 


Hydrangea, 


Ptetunia, 


Cineraria, 


Lantana, 


Salvia, 


Calystegia, 


Lemon Verbena, 


Steevia, 


Coronilla, 
Cuphea, 


Lobelia, 
Mimonette, 


Thun'bergia, 
Verbenas. 



PLANTS TO PLACE ON TABLES 



may be selected from both the cold and hot parts of the green- 
house. 



TO GROUP ON THE FLOOR IN POTS. 



Acacia, 


D^bne, 


Magnolia, 


Agave, 


Brithronia crista galli 


Oranges, 


Aaalia, 


Genista, 


Pittospomm, 


Bragmansia, 


Lanrestintis, 


Poinsettia, 


Camelia, 


Lemon, 


Rhododendrom, etc 


Cape Jessamine, 







It is more difficult to keep such a conservatory in good condition 
than ordinary houses, because more is expected of it. It is em- 
phatically a showhouse, no propagating or cultivating being done, 
with the exception of the plants in beds. As these last must re- 
main till worn out, careful attention must be given to secure a good 
succession of blossoms. 

The conservatory ought to be during the winter like a vast 
bouquet, only the more beautiful from the size, which admits of 
combinations impossible in any bunch of flowers. Where there 
is a well-arranged greenhouse connected with the estate, it is not 
very difficult to keep up a good display ; but without it it is im- 
10* 



114 OCTOBBB. 

possible, and the so-called oonservatoiy becomes one of the anom- 
alous glass houses before referred to. 

The heat must be more decided and constant than in the green- 
house; otherwise plants brought from thence full of vigor and 
blossom will be checked, their flowers will dwindle, the whole plant 
wiU become stunted and sickly. 

To make our conservatory all we have described, we must start 
the fires earlier than in the other houses, and rely less on the shut^ 
tars and sail-cloth. The number of plants which will make a fine 
show under glass in October will be less than afterwards. Gilli- 
flowers. Salvias, Amaranths, the Dwarf and Giant Chrysanthe- 
mums, and other annuals and perennials, with Roses, Heliotropes, 
etc., will make a good show; the shelves and tables should be 
filled with these &11 flowers, and some may be placed among the 
groups of evergreens (now out of blossom) on the floor, to brighten 
them. 



CHAPTER XVL 

OBAPERT. 

The retarding-houses must now be more carefully watched than 
before. Shut up early at night to retain sun warmth, and yet ad- 
mit air abundantly during bright, sunny days, to keep the temper- 
ature low. J£ there should come a period of decidedly cool weather, 
start a little fire under the boiler ; but delay as long as possible ; 
give the fruit trees but little water, to ripen the wood. 

The vines in the forcing-house should now be pruned, as they 
come into a nearly quiescent state. Before pruning, remove the 
ripe and ready-to-fall leaves. There are several systems of prun- 
ing and training vines. 

When a vine is carried up the whole length of the rafter, its 
upper end is of course in a better atmosphere than the lower, and 
consequently tends to ripen its fruit sooner. This would be no 
disadvantage where the finit is grown for private use, and a suc- 
cession is desirable, were it not that the fruit above grows large 
at the expense of that below, owing to the tendency of the sap to 
ascend, thus strengthening the upper eyes, and giving them all 
they can use before it lingers and settles in the lower eyes. 

To counteract this tendency, various methods are resorted to ; the 
most common being to take down the vines and lay them in a hor- 
izontal position, in their dormant season ; there they are kept till 
all the eyes have " broken " equally, when they are again fastened 
up to the wires.. In this way equality of size is more nearly at^ 
tained, while difference in temperature gives the desired succession 
in time of ripening. 

Where fruit is grown for the market another plan is sometimes 
followed, which is to carry the main cane up a certain distance, and 
then bend it as nearly as possible at a right angle, and carry it 
along the whole length of the house. This of course keeps all 

115 



116 OCTOBER. 

the bearing part of the vine in the same temperature, and insures 
a nearly uniform supply of sap to all the eyes. But the practice 
has its disadvantages, such as the unequal length of cane in the 
dijflferent vines before they are bent, and therefore rafter training 
is usually preferred- 

The methods of pruning are more various than those of training, 
and each method has something to Tecommend it. We practice 
spur pruning. 

This being the second year of forcing, and the fourth of the 
vine's age, it will perhaps be well to state the proper method of 
pruning from the time of planting the vine. 

The system for the forcing-house and the cold grapeiy differ a 
little from the retarding-house. 

Pruning. — The vine is generally first started in the hotbed, or 

in the pit in pots, so that it will have attained some length by the 

time the spring sun has thoroughly warmed the border. Early in 

June, having the vine in a pot with 3 or 4 feet of top, plant it 

in the border, and take in the top through the wall opposite the 

rafter upon which it is to run. The warm, rich border will stimulate 

to a rapid growth ; allow it to grow without stopping, even after it 

has reached the top of the house, when it may be trained along 

the back wall, pinching off its end a few weeks before cutting 

I back. Pinch off at the first bud any lateral shoots 

that appear, and all tendrils. When the vine is 

v^ within a quarter of the whole length of the rafter, 

begin to prune ; cut out the lower laterals close to 

V j^ the wood, being careful not to injure the bud or 

«-hJ ^d eye at the base of the lateral ; and thus continue 

. , p ^^ to cut as the wood ripens. In this diagram A is 

/ « ^ the main stem of a vine \aaaa^ laterals ; h b, first 

*^*^^ cut ; c c, second cut As winter approaches, and 

the leaves fall from the vine, cut it back to d, three 

eyes from the bottom. 

In December paint the vines with a mixture of sulphur and soft 

soap ; untie them from the wire on the rafter and lay them down on 

their sides, covering with mats, etc, as a thorough protection against 



GRAPERY. 117 

frost. In the coldest weather some little fire must be kept in the 
ibrcing-house, lest frost prevent the early swelling of the buds in 
the spring. During the earliest months of the year, do not let the 
sun heat the house, but keep it rather cool till April ; then grad- 
ually uncover the vines. The buds will soon begin to swell, 
and just as they are breaking, tie up again to the rafler. The 
vine will now have this appearance. As it begins to ^ 
grow, all the eyes will push out shoots; allow the end if 
shoots to grow at will, but pinch off the laterals at the l j 
second pojnt or eye. The first eye of the lowest lateral-"^ - 
may be allowed to bear a bunch to test the fruit After these 
laterals aro pinched they will break the last eye and start again, 
and after each pinching they will repeat this process at the bud 
nearest the end till fall. They must be pinched back every 
few weeks during the season. When the main brandi haa 
reached the top of the house, stop it, and continue to stop each 
new growth it makes from the leading bud. Nip all the laterals 
at the first bud, as last year. The diagram shows the appear- 
ance of the vine after this ; a a a^ first lat- 
erals lefl as buds last year ; 6, new lateral ; 
e c c, points at which first laterals are again 
stopped; d d^ first pruning new laterals; 
ffj second pruning of same ; e, vine stopped 
at top of house; g^ final cutting back of 
vine. 

In the fall cut back the leader to about one- 
third its length, and all but the two spurs to 
the first eye, as last year, leaving the two 
lower spurs and the eyes above for the next 
year. Treat through the winter as before. In the spring of the 
third year the vines will swell their buds in March ; begin heat^ 
ing the house with fir^ the middle of February, and increase the 
heat in I^Iarch ; follow the same system as last year, only you may 
allow each spur and eye to bear one bunch of grapes. This brings 
the vines to the fourth year, which is the age of our vines. 

In October, if the wood is well ripened and the leaves are fall- 
"igv give the final pruning. Cut back the leaders two-thirds of the 





118 OCTOBER. 

length of the rafter, and ail the laterals of ihis year's wood to the 
eye, the spurs of last year to the first eye, those of the year 
before to the second, as shown in the cuL The spurs should 
range about 8 inches apart on the cane. When 
this system is pursued for a number of years, the 
spurs become unwieldy; in which case eveiy other 
one may be cut back to the stem, thus forcing 
out a new shoot; or at the end of ten or twelve 
years every other vine may be cut back to the 
bottom, which will develope the latent eyes and 
give a new cane for the next year. You will lose 
one year's crop from every vine thus treated, and re- 
new the vine. It is the practice of some growers to 
train up a new leader beside the old for a year 
or two before that is cut down ; but it is poor econ- 
omy, for although there is then no entire loss of crop, 
the grapes are few and poor, while the growth of the new wood is 
liable to be feeble and spindling. Another system of pruning, by 
which a new cane is got each year, is called the long cane re- 
newal system. 

As has been said, this pruning also applies to the cold grapery, 
\nih the single exception that the vines should be started later 
in the spring. 

By thus cutting back close to the main stem, the eyes are started 
early, those nearest the leader being the first to start It is then 
a natural inference that in the retarding-house a difiPerent system 
of pruning must be followed, the object there being to delay growth 
as long as possible in the spring. Directions for pruning in the 
I'etarding-house will be given in the winter. 

There is yet another method of forcing grapes, which may be 
l>ractised in any ordinary greenhouse, or to still better advantage 
in a forcing-house ; viz., in pots. Grapes grown in pots generally 
ripen earlier than those grown on rafters. The temperature of 
t)ie earth about the roots of the vines in pots is the same as that 
vt the air about the leaves, and thus the whole plant is equally 
simulated. The roots of the vines on the rafters are in the bor- 
der outside, and cannot be affected by the heat of the house unless 




IxNDEX TO (JRAPEKY. 

A, RctardinK House; B, Cold Grapery; C, Forcing House; 
Room ; E, Boiler ; F, Ci^tern. 



D, Potting 



.K V : I • 

•»»• . -nj ' i- * . j!*«" ,♦.•"! »,' ') ' 
;t •• .'I' * 'V .-. I .''i 1 . ' : ny \< <- 
' .1 ' !^ )• -Jiui'i].. •! ; .«:i ; ..* «• « 
r * !i*' :•- :. ''irvl} ^^ f :• ':!■■ '.• i'"- '.' 

» » 1 nincij ,t]\' to '-'^ ■^■•••" V •*: u 
? »- — r VT'T. ♦*' ••.» (•' — wi 
« J -i •!» ' • li'^-t X ••• •, Ut i . .!7'- • 
..;. . ! . ill 'i.])ii'ii .. iiin? »■ 't""- " • 

'V '.(••'(•I ill ^<"! * \^'^ j l(;(- \\i'.' -i ' 

'\ r I'l'j.in- y :-l.n. ll -in f.>r ♦' 
in'' !• -- tl'ijn a ?. •< in «Ii:iTinM»r, — : • 
\sv j.r*'! \A, ll iji}x«'»i witli iMMi r '•••;;■ 

''•!•' tbi. |/oL •< o -' JI-' ; .NUiiiO (.:!' 
• •" .■ \«' . I '..-^ ; :» oiN. c •'.•.(. ; jM-iij . 
jiiil'.-M,:' ., ^ ')j> ii '.. o • fi\f tf- ' 
.■ »•• .-Ii -ft»{^ U. '■ (i jm:uU • t/ tlt» 1; M 

III *"-••, •' ..I.. • I'nr plUiu vlll ' • 
f-ri'i. ■! to .'- . I .J l.-('t !*•' / ^ >r . \' 

ill.»n'iii:r ii" j» ''!'*i->i.al l<'ili-lM(»t .'• 

It the plji''i i' lu 'm »«r<*t' ' « -1 \ . • 
p".' «- I it« if. !)••.• ' .'. '. 'I'li.' 1 tit'T . 
- "il"*.l a( .'iiiottn I ii;ij« . 



: > !»♦» *r. l«>\v»'.l ill otir /i ;!■>(-. v. I i*j" ■ • >."'';• liit 1 < I'lin,' 

• 'i\)n \. i^li t*'<' li' .. »i^)ri()!i. ^ 

V r» *v' i- tJi- r-Mfr.T.v : A, p I ii.'.i -.-••. li /'oul nrr .. r, : «. 
' »rr i'>:-l 'MiM' ; i ♦.'•!)••.» !i«r '»i.'i' '-♦•:• \l ' ""i r; T, «'i-. • 

Th** rU'V \V,;M nl A i> 1 !• f<" i I-^jj 'j.* t?V)lit "i . " t 

1'.' i •. -i.ie. i; •- »(» f^w.t wiir, i; t;«MM h ^ in ♦•►.Mil : . 

lh<' n-. . I. , 1* f<M I af tin- ImvU. (' i- 12 i't'( w'u]'\ ].. j 
•i I'L J t'» • t in *\. Ji. ui w!ii ■ '2 U.-^^t I^ bri- L. 2 f.- « -j • 



GBAPEBT. 119 

the border is vaalted ; thej may be thoroughly protected from frost, 
bat caanot be warmed to any considerable extent, and are conse- 
quently less stimulated than the cane and leaves, and do not con- 
tribute as largely as the latter require. 

Vines which are to be grown from pots are started from cut- 
tings — or better, fit)m eyes — which are induced to grow as much 
as possible the first year, to insure strong plants. When the leaves 
have all fallen, prune to nine inches in length ; keep them through 
the winter in some dry place well protected frt>m frost. In Jan- 
uary or February shift them for the last time into larger pots, — 
not less than a foot in diameter, — thoroughly drained, and filled 
with earth well mixed with rather coarse old turf. Allow as many 
shoots to grow as can conveniently be accommodated in the place 
where the pot is to stand; some cultivators retain four or five 
branches, others but one or two ; perhaps one cane is as much as is 
really judicious. Stop it about five feet long ; as often as it starts 
afresh, stop it, and pinch off the laterals. 

In September the plant will lose its leaves, and should be 
pruned to about 3 feet long for a 12 inch pot, 4 or 5 feet for 
a 15 inch pot, every additional inch in the diameter of the pot 
allowing an additional half-foot of cane, although the ultimate 
length must be regulated by the space allowed during forcing. 
If the plant is to be forced early, set the pot over the flues or 
pipes late in December. The culture of potted vines will be de- 
scribed at another time. 

Description of Grapery. — Having explained the practice 
to be followed in our grapery, I proceed to describe the building 
itself Refer to the ground plans and elevations on next leaf, in 
connection with the description. 

A B C is the grapery ; A, retarding-house ; 6, cold grapery ; C, 
forcing-house ; D, shed for boilers, etc. ; E, boiler ; F, cistern. 

The back wall of A is 16 feet high, the front 5 feet high, of 
which 2^ is solid, 2^ glass, as in the greenhouse ; the building is 
12 feet wide. B is 20 feet wide, 6 feet high in frt>nt, 14 feet in 
the middle, 9 feet at the back. C is 12 feet wide, 13 feet high be- 
hind, 4 feet in frt)nt, of which 2 feet is brick, 2 feet glass. The ar- 



120 OCTOBKB. 

rangement for yentilaldon through the wall at the side and top is the 
same as in the greenhouse and the conservatory. The back wall 
of C is 2 feet thick, 6 inches of the distance being an air chamber. 
The back walls of A and B are 1 foot thick ; all front walls are 1 
foot thick ; side walls to glass, 1 foot ; above glass, posts, and win- 
dow sashes, 6 inches in the rough, worked down enough to look well 
without losing strength. E, the boiler, will be described hereafter. 
F, the cistern, collects the water from the roofs ; there is a well in 
the shed which can force water into the cistern at need. 

The heating is done by means of 4 inch iron pipes, which are 
carried round the inside of the different buildings, just as in the 
greenhouse, only that the hot water may be carried into either di- 
vision of the house without warming the rest any more than would 
be done by one-half the leading and returning pipes through the 
grapery, as the water is carried either to the forcing or retarding- 
house. The heat derived from this amount of pipe is not enough 
to much affect the cold grapery ; it does not do much more than 
take the chill off the air at those seasons when this part of the 
house is intended to be dormant. 

The smoke is carried in a brick flue shown by dots, into a flue 
which runs under the walk in the cold grapery, through to the far- 
ther end of the forcing-house, and thence up the chimney. In 
order to allow the pipes free range about the house, without the 
extra expense of bends, elbows, etc., the sill of the door is raised 
so as to be reached either from without or within, by two steps, 
under which the pipes pass quite out of the way. 

On all sides of the forcing-house, grapes are planted. The bor- 
der is at one end and in front, and takes the roots of the vines in 
those parts of the house ; at the back and the inner end vines are 
planted in the floor of the grapery, which is a regularly prepared 
border, and is enriched annually with liquid manure. There is a 
table on the right of the walk, on which vines in pots are placed 
for forcing ; and over the whole course of the pipes is a narrow 
table, on which strawberries and some early vegetables may be 
forced. The vines are brought into the house through cylindrical, 
oblique holes, 6 inches in diameter in the front and side walls, 
just between the foundation and the first course of bricks. The 



6BAPEBT 121 

hot-water pipes are 1 foot finom the vines, along the front and back, 
6 inches at the ends. Under the middle table is a mushroom bed. 

The arrangement of the retarding-house is similar; but the 
front shelves may be used to start hothouse bulbs, and low grow- 
ing plants for exhibition in the greenhouse and conservatory. 

The cold grapery has vines along the sides and ends, and one 
row in the middle near the walk ; but the immediate front is occu- 
pied by an espalier, on which are grown Cherries, Peaches, Ap- 
ricots, and Nectarines. 

It is a very nice matter to heat such a building as this, for it is 
difficult to calculate how large a boiler, or how many feet of pipes 
are necessary. A formula is given below by which the necessary 
calculations can be made. 

The amount of heating sur&ce of pipes to be allowed, depends 
on the number of cubic feet of air which are to be heated per 
minute, and on the difference between temperatures within and 
without* Upon the number of feet of pipes depends the size of 
the boiler ; and the efficiency of the boiler is determined by its 
shape, setting, and the distance between the furnace bars. Messrs. 
Tredgold and Hood, in England, have made the most reliable 
calculations on this matter, and their directions are accordingly 
quoted, as follows : — 

" If,** says Mr. Tredgold, " the cubic contents of air to be heated 
per minute be multiplied by the number of degrees it is to be 
wanned, and the result be divided by twice the difference between 
the temperature of the house and that of the surface of the pipes, 
the result will be the feetof surface of iron pipe required. 

^ Thus, if 1000 cubic feet per minute are to be warmed, and the 

extreme case is supposed to be that when the external air is 20^, 

the house should be warmed (to) 50° ; and therefore the air is 

wanned 30° ; and with water (within) the surface (of iron pipes 

which contain water) will be 190° when the water boils, but only 

180° in its average state ; therefore, 

1000x30 30000 „.- , . - „ 
jnr-7^ — ;r7rr=-7..^x-= H^ feet of surface.' 
2 (180—50) 260 

Mr. Hood gives another formula for ascertaining the number of 

feet. He says that 1^ cubic feet of air must be heated for each 

11 



122 OOTOBBB. 

square foot of glass in the building. Multiply 125 by the differ- 
ence between the proposed maTimnm temperature within and the 
temperature without, and divide this product by the difference be- 
tween the temperature of the pipes (average of surface 180**) 
and the proposed temperature of the room or house ; then the quo- 
tient thus obtained, when multiplied by the number of cubic feet 
to be warmed per minute, and this product divided by 222, wiU 
give the number of feet in length of 4 inch pipe, which will pro- 
duce the desired effect If 3 inch pipe is used, the number of 
feet of 4 inch pipe must be multiplied by 1.83 ; if 2 inch pipe is 
used, by 2. 

The number of feet of pipe being thus obtamed, the correspond- 
ing boiler sui&ce may be ascertained from a table of proportions 
given by Hood as follows : — 

^ When the difference in temperature between the pipes and the 
air to be heated is 140«* (pipes 2W — air 60®), 

Borlkee of boiler exposed to fire. 
3 1>2 square feet will heat 
5 1-2 sqaare feet will heat 
7 square feet will heat 

and 80 on ; the figures of the 4 inch column being increased one- 
third to give those of the 3 inch, and doubled for the 2 inch. 
'^ Again, when the difference in temperature is reduced, say to 120® 
or 100®, a boiler of the same size as above will heat one-sixth and 
one-third more than when at 140°." , 

A Formula for Calculating Size op Boiler. — Take the 
cubical contents of house, and to every 100 feet allow 10 square 
inches of boiler surface, and 1 square inch of fire grate. 

Much depends upon the distance between the pipes at their 
junction with tlie boiler ; they should not be less than 16 inches 
from centre to centre of 4 inch pipes. 

When, the boiler is not more than 18 inches deep, it is best to 
lead the flow pipes from its top, and insert the return pipes as near 
the bottom as connection can safely be made. The main feeding 
pipe frx>m the boiler, which has to supply several drculating pipes, 
should be no larger than they, unless more than 4 pipes are to be 



eh pipe. 


8 inch pipe. 


Sinehpipe. 


200 


266 


400 


300 


400 


600 


400 


S33 


800" 



OBAPERT. 



123 




Vertical transrene section of same boiler. 



served, as the rapidity of the current in the feeding pipe will be in 
proportion to the demands on it. 

The forms of boiler are various, and almost every cultivator has 
his favorite. One of the very best 
was exhibited by Weeks & Ca at 
the Crystal Palace, London. It is 
a saddle-shaped pipe boiler, — the 
diagram will explain itself. The 
fire is made on the lower set of 
pipes, which serve as furnace 
grates. The return water passes 
through them, consequently they 
are always ' kept below the fus- 
ing point of coal and iron, so 
that they never clinker or bum 
out. 

A, view of boiler from above ; 
B, vertical transverse section. The connection between the top and 
bottom pipes is made at the back in A ; the supply pipes are led 
away from the top of the back side ; the cold water is returned at 
«(A). 

Those vines in the cold house which are carried from floor to 
ridge widiout any support from a sash, may be tied to a strong wire, 
fastened below to a post in the earth and above to the ridge. The 
trellises for vines along the rafters are made thus : At intervals of 
4 feet along the under side of the rafter carry out iron rods a few 
inches long, with an eye at the end ; provide curved strips of iron 
a foot in length, ^ inch wide, ^ inch thick, pierced with three holes, 
one for each rod. Through the eye of each rod and the middle 
hole of each strip carry a wire and fasten it above at the top of 
the glass and below near the entrance of the vine stem. A wire 
of the same length is to pass through the side holes on each side 
of the first, and fasten as that was. Yon have now a trellis in 
front of the rafter along its whole length, which may be taken 
down very easily if the eyed rods are so put up as to be quickly 
detached. 

The espaliers for firuit trees are curved back enough to spread 




124 OCTOBER. 

the branches well out to the light. Fruit grown in a cold grapery 
will not be forced very much out of season, but may be expected 
from a month to six weeks before that grown in the open ground 
is ripe, and has besides the advantage of being thoroughly pro- 
tected from insects, if properly cared for. 

The patterns of espaliers differ nearly as much as those of boil- 
ers. The cut shows a very good kind. The tree being grown 
with a single stem till it reaches the top, 
when branches are allowed to develop, 
and are trained down over the sides, thus 
getting, besides a thorough spreading out 
to the sun, the advantage of 'the delay of 
sap, and consequent formation of fruit buds 
*" in the place of the leaves which preponder- 
ate in more vertical branches. 

When fruit trees are cultivated in a grapery where vines are 
planted in the floor and fed from the bed there prepared, the roots 
of the trees should be confined by borders of slate or other mate- 
rial within certain limits ; their soil must be prepared for them, 
and when it is exhausted must be renewed, or liquid manure must 
be supplied. 

Grape Borders. — The only part of the grapery yet imde- 
scribed is the borders, which in the estimation of most cultivators 
arc the very foundation of all success, — the alphal^et of grape cul- 
ture. From the many minute directions given I quote the advice 
of J. F. Allen, of Salem, already referred to. 

Some of the very best English cultivators of the present day 
are of the opinion that thorough draining at the bottom, and subscr 
quent filling with the best of loam, is all that any grape border 
needs, and that the future stimulation and growth of the vines is 
to be effected by copious supplies of liquid manure. This course 
is rational, cheap, and in accordance with the views I have al- 
ready expressed. 

Mr. Allen's directions are as follows: — '* The border should be 
20 to 30 feet wide ; if but 12 feet can be had, the vines must be 
set farther apart If the soil is a good loam, begin at one end and 



GRAPERY. 125 

trench it: mark off 10 feet the entire width ; throw out the soil 
2 feet deep ; if bones or the carcasses of animals can be had, cover 
the bottom well with them ; if these are not readily procured, 
slaughter-house manure may be substituted. Mark off 10 feet 
more of the border, and cover this manure with part of the soil 
£rom it. Upon this put an inch or two of oyster shells or old lime 
rubbish mixed with broken bricks ; over this put some soil from 
the border, then a good covering of cow manure, upon this a 
alight covering of loam again, followed with a good portion of 
oyster shells or the substitute, and over this a thick covering of 
stable manure well rotted ; dnish with a thick covering of loam. 
The whole length is to be made in this manner, in alternate 
spaces of 10 feet eaoh trenching. After it is finished, the 
border should be 3 feet 6 inches deep; it will settle to less 
than 3 feet in a few months. The proportions recommended for 
this border are ^ loam, ^ bones or other strong manure, ^ oyster 
shells or lime and brick rubbish, ^ rotten stable manure. 

" Before planting the vines the border should be spaded over to 
mix well the top substances, being careful not to disturb the strong 
manures at the bottom, as these substances when decomposing 
would destroy any of the roots of the vine with which they came 
in contact. Should the soil be poor, decrease the proportion of 
loam and increase the manure, and use the top soil of a loamy 
pasture. If the soil is very poor and unsuitable, use the following 
compost : ^ top soil of old pasture, ^ bones, ^ oyster shells, ^ rot- 
ted manure ; throw these materials together and leave them till 
decomposed ; then throw loosely into the trench. Those of my 
borders which have the most slaughter-house manure and offal 
continue as they ever have to produce the best firuit." 

Very few situations in this country need other drainage than 

loose stones. 

11* 



CHAPTER XVn. 

FLOWER-OABDEN. 

If the bulbs were planted last month, there will be oompara- 
tivelj little to do in the flower-garden. 

All beds which are nearly emptied of their annuals and bedding 
plants, should be manured and dug over. Wherever enough flowers 
are left to make a pleasant show, pains should be taken to preserve 
them as long as the frost will allow. 

During this month the flower-g^en must depend principally on 
Verbenas, some perennials, Gilia, Alyssum, Candy-tuft,* Migno- 
nette, Giant and Dwarf Chrysanthemums, of which the variety is 
80 great, that with* a little care in selecting colors, th^ summer flow- 
ers will hardly be missed. Some late flowering bulbous roots, if 
sheltered at night, will still be in blossom, as Tuberoses and the 
other autumnal bulbs. 

The monthly Roses in the Rosary will continue in blossom till 
winter, and in the shrubbery, the St Johnswort, Cinque-foil, Tam- 
arisk, Daphne, and Wigelia Amabilis, together with the White 
Snowberry, Scarlet Winter Green, parti-colored Euonymus, red- 
leaved and redder berried Barberry, and the black berries of the 
Privet, will help to disguise the rapid approach of winter. Any 
bulbs not planted must be got in as soon as possible. The peren- 
nials now claim attention, and the borders and beds not devoted to 
bulbs and bedding plants, should be stocked with a good variety of 
them. The beds in front of the conservatory, and those in the 
middle of the garden, should depend entirely on annual planting 
of bedding plants, bulbs, and flowers from seeds, which are certain 
to give a satisfactory bloom ; besides, it is desirable that the flowers 
here should be of a low habit of growth, sure not to exceed a cer- 
tain size ; and we obtain this desideratum by using Verbenas, He- 
liotropes, Salvias, etc, with which we may secure just the effects 

126 



FLOWEB-OARDEN. 127 

we fancy, assured that one part of the bed will not overtop the 
others. In the border beds this is of no consequence. They back 
upon hedges and shrubbery, and do not depend entirely on their 
own beauty of color, form, etc, for the gratification they can give ; 
the eye will certainly wander over them to the hedge or shrubs 
beyond, and will blend all into one agreeable or disagreeable whole. 
Were all the plants in these borders of a uniform size, they would 
lose the charm ot variety and grace ; but by mingling different 
perennials, annuals, and greenhouse plants, their effect in connec- 
tion with the shrubbery, is the most charming that can be imagined. 
Perennials as a class are more satis&ctory than any other fiow- 
ering plants^ for when once planted they are no trouble for years, 
beyond digging over the beds and occasionally cutting down 
the stools to reduce them to a convenient size. If the varieties 
are well selected, they will give some flowers during every month 
from April to October, one variety coming forward as another 
goes to seed. The following list gives the names of a few varie- 
ties for each month, with the height of the flower stems just before 
they blossom : — 



Name. 


Month. 


Early or late. 


Sise. 


Color. 


Anemone, doable 










" and single, 


May, 


early, 


6 in. 


pink. 


ThAlictram Ane- 










manoides, 


u 


<r 


6 in. 


white. ' 


IJTalaria (Bell- 










wort), 


« 


late. 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Solomon's Seal, 


ti 


t€ 


tt 


white. 


Trollina Enro- 










pens. 


u 


t€ 


tt 


yellow. 


Colambines, 


« 


tt 


tt . 


variety. 


Saxifirage, 


« 


early, 


I 1-2 ft. 


white. 


Pedicnlarifl, 


tt 


late, 


1 ft. 


variegated. 


Yiolets, 


« 


early. 


6 in. 


several. 


Moss I^nk 










(Phlox), 


« 


tt 


Sin. 


variety. 


Polemoniam Rep- 










tans, 


it 


late. 


tt 


blue. 


Primula, 


M 


« 


I ft. 


yellow, red. 


Corydalis, 


U 


early, 


6 in. 


red. 



128 



OCTOBBB. 



NaoM. 


Month. 


BulyorUte. 


Sas. 


Ookr. 


Dialytra, 


May, 


early. 


I ft. 


pink. 


Fulmonftria, 


« 


late. 


6 in. 


purple. 


Peony, 


tt 


tt 


1 to 2 ft. 


red, white. 


Dog-tooth Violet, 


•* 


early, 


3 in. 


yellow. 


Delphinium, 


K 


late. 


18 in. 


blue. 


Hellebore, 


« 


tt 


I ft. 


white, blue. 


Doable Butter- 










cups, 


« 


early. 


6 in. 


yellow. 


Lysimachia Nam> 










mularia, 


U 


late. 


lin. 


yellow. 


LilyoftheVaUey, 


U 


late, 


3 in. 


white. 


Iris, 


« 


whole month. 


Yarioos, 


all colors. 


Double Ragged 










Robin, 


« 


late, 


I ft. 


red. 


Houstonia, 


« 


early. 


3 in. 


blue, white. 


Pentstemon Ova- 










ta and Atropu- 










reus. 


June, 


hwe. 


2ft. 


yellow, purple 


Soi^wort, 


tt 


eariy, 


1 ft. 


red. 


Hairy Phlox, 


it 


late. 


6 in. 


red. 


Purple Lupine, 


tt 


whole month. 


Yarions, 


many. 


Peony, 


tt 


tt 


€( 


tt 


Double White 










Rocket, 


tt 


early. 


1 ft. 


white. ' 


Phlox, varieties. 


tt 


whole month, 


Yarioos, 


several. 


Scarlet Poppy, 


tt 


eariy. 


6 in. 


red. 


BUckbeiry Lily, 


tt 


« 


1 1-2 ft. 


yeUow. 


Yellow Lily, 


tt 


tt 


2 ft. 


tt 


Canadian Lily, 


tt 


U 


6 in. 


red. 


Yellow Day Lily, 


it 


lat». 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Double Larkspur, 


tt 


« 


tt 


blue, white. 


Crane's Bill. 


tt 


early. 


tt 


purple. 


Cucumber Root, 


tt 


tt 


6 in. 


white. 


Senecio Aurea, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Spirea (sorts), 


t« 


whole month, 


various. 


all colors. 


Garden Pinks, 


tt 


early, 


1ft. 


pink. 


Polemonuim, 


it 


early, 


Sin. 


white, blue. 


Campanula 










sorts. 


It 


whole month, 


1 ft. 


tt tt 


Antirrhinum, 










sorts, 


it 


tt 


It 


variety. 


Lychnis, 


tt 


late, 


I ft. 


red. 


Venrain, 


€« 


eariy. 


1 1-2 ft. 


blue, parpla 



PLOWEB-GARDEK. 



Nant. 


Month. 


Early or late. 


Stae. 


Odor. 


Aoonite, 


June, 


early. 


1 1.2 ft. 


blue, white, purple. 


Perennial Flax, 


« 


tt 


6 in. 


glorious blue. 


Evening Primrose, 


<t 


tt 


1 ft. 


yellow. 


Indian Hemp, 


tt 


tt 


II 


white, pink. 


Spiderwort, 


li 


whole month. 


If 


white, blue. 


Asphodel, 


u 


late. 


2ft. 


white. 


Fraxinella, 


July, 


whole month. 


II 


white, blue. 


Penstemon, 


II 


early. 


I ft. 


white. 


Monarda, 


K 


late, 


1 to dft. 


red, purple. 


Evening Primrose, 


tl 


whole month, 


II 


yellow. 


Sedam, 


tt 


early. 


6 in. 


white. . 


Vervain, 


« 


whole month. 


1 to 3 ft. 


blue. 


Veronica, 


CI 


If 


II • 


tt 


Doable Lychnis, 


l< 


it 


1 ft. 


red. 


Cbelone, 


« 


early, 


II 


white. 


Dracocephalam, 


it 


whole month. 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Anterhiunms, 


ft 


tt 


various. 


various. 


Perpetual Pea, 


it 


whole month. 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Hibiscns, 


ti 


early. 


tt 


various. 


Mallows, 


« 


II 


1 ft. 


. white, pink. 


Lilies, sorts. 


(I 


whole month, 


all sizes. 


various. 


Blue Catananche, 


Augost, 


early. 


2 ft. 


blue. 


Famitorj, 


II 


late. 


I ft. 


pink. 


Orange Qalliardia, 


it 


early. 


2 ft. 


orange. 


Hemerocallis, 


It 


late, 


tt 


white, purple. 


Dtanthns, 


tt 


early, 


I ft. 


various. 


Lobelia, 


tt 


tt 


2 ft. 


scarlet. 


Chinese Lychnis, 


« 


late. 


I ft. 


orange. 


Willow Herb, 


<i 


early, 


2 ft. 


pink. 


Tacca Filamen- 










tosa, 


C( 


early, 


tt 


white. 


Phlox, 


tt 


whole month. 


tt 


many. 


Blazing Star, 


« 


late. 


tt 


blue. 


Coreopsis, . 


tt 


whole month, 


" 


yellow. 


Cassia, 


« 


early, 


3 ft. 


II 


Asters, 


II 


whole month, 


all sizes, 


various 


Golden Rod, 


tt 


late. 


various. 


yellow. 


Ladies Tresses, 


tt 


tt 


6 in. 


white. 


Orchis, 


tt 


whole month, 


6 in. to 1 ft. 


various. 


Asclepias, 


It 


whole month, 


2 ft. 


many. 


Achillea, 


tt 


early, 


1 ft. 


white, pink. 


Coreopsis, 1 


September 


early. 


2 ft. 


yellow. 


Achillea, 


tt 


tt 


1 ft. 


white, pink. 



180 




OCTOBER. 






Nune. 


Montli. 


Swly or Uto. 


Hm. 


Ooior. 


Asten (sorts), 


September, 


whole month, 


aUsiies, 


many. 


Golden Bod, 


« 


" 


(( 


yellow. 


Gentian, 


(( 


it 


1 ft- 


bine. 


Eapatorinm, 


a 


early. 


yaiioas. 




Blazing Star, 


tt 


whole month. 


3 ft. 


pniple. 


Globe Thistles, 


it 


tt 


tt 


« 


Chiysanthemnm, 


tt 


late, 


yarions, 


▼arioos. 



Some of these continue to blossom during October, till severe 
fitMts destroy all vegetation* 

All perennials may be transplanted without fear of injury, for 
they have a multitude of fibrous roots ; but though they will bear 
rough usage, no class of plants is more grateful for kindness and 
care. By means of transplanters they may be moved even when 
in blossom without being affected at alL 

To insure a satisfactory flower-garden, that portion of it which 
is chiefly devoted to perennials must have open spaces, in which 
annuals and greenhouse plants may be set. Our list shows that 
during the early summer perennials are abundant, while they di- 
minish in variety as the season advances; thus being precisely 
adapted to supply the need of flowers before the time arrives when 
annuals and greenhouse plants are in perfection ; viz., July, Au- 
gust, and September. 

The arrangement of perennials as respects size, form, and color, 
must depend on fancy, only observing the general rule to place the 
larger plants toward the back of the beds which are near the 
shrubs, and in the middle of open beds which are not connected 
with taller objects, with such variations as will prevent monotony 
of effect. 

Much of the satisfaction derived from such a garden as ours, de- 
pends on the judicious selection and grouping of shrubs. Through- 
out the season you may have some shrub in blossom ; and by their 
flower, and the color of their leaves or berries, they fill the gaps 
among the perennials. 

Neatness is essential to the well-being of the flower-garden; 
the more orderly the borders, the more complete the absence of 
all signs of decay, the greater the satisfaction we feel. Neglect of 



FLOWBR-GABDEK. IBl 

this spoilB the richest collection of flowers, while its careful observ- 
ance renders the most meagre collection beautiful. 

As soon as the frost cuts any plant down, remove it, as its black- 
ness is disagreeable. Dahlias touched hj frost should be cut half 
way down only, so as to ripen the tubers. 



CHAPTER XVra. 

KITCHEN-GARDEN. 

The work for October in the kitchen-garden is a continuation of 
that described for September. 

Lettuce plants which are to be headed for winter, may now be 
pricked out into the hotbed frames, and covered at night with the 
saahes. Cabbages for early spring must be planted in frames, and 
for a short time be kept under glass and watered gently, to enable 
them to get well rooted ; when that is done, the sashes must be re- 
moved, and the plants kept cool to harden them. The plants 
should be set down to their leaves in the earth, as the stem is tlie 
most tender part ; if weU watered and set low, they will need no 
outside covering tiU the end of November. 

Such Cauliflowers as are showing their blossoms should be shel- 
tered from rain and frost by some leaves broken down over their 
heads. Ripe Onions, if not gathered in September, may be pulled 
and left on the ground to dry ; late in the month the Onion Pips for 
spring use are to be gathered, or left covered with Pine branches 
till spring. 

There is a variety of Onion resembling the Potato Onion, grown 
near Philadelphia, which once planted goes on year afier year 
without replanting ; the bulb throws up its seed-stalk and ripens 
its seed, and at the same time produces a new bulb by the side of 
the old one which is all ready for the next year's growth, and, if un- 
disturbed, wiU surely produce another crop of seed and another 
bulb. 

Cabbage and Broccoli now need theur last attention in the way 
of hoeing. 

Bank your Artichoke Chard, Celery, and Cardoons, but never 
when wet, even with dew. Cut the Parsley well back to force oat 
a new growth, and transplant enough for winter use into the frames. 

139 



KITCHEN-GAllDEN. 133 

Finish gathering Pickles. Any melons not larger than the fist 
should be picked for mangoes. 

As the frosty nights approach, cover enough Tomatoes for daily 
use, with cloth or straw ; a very light covering will enable them to 
defy early frosts. If the frost comes sharp enough to cut off the 
vines, gather all fruit of sufficient size, and lay it in a warm and 
sunny place, covering at night ; if thus treated it will all ripen and 
prove good, though not so high-flavored as when ripened on the 
vines. Tomatoes may be kept in this way many weeks afier the 
.vines are gone, they being much more tender than the fruit. 

Treat melons like Tomatoes. Watermelons may be kept till 
Christmas. 

Cut the heri>s down to the lower leaves or stems, to be ready for 
next year. 

Transplant Currants and Gooseberries, pruning the old wood 
from both ; the rust or mildew so common on the fruit of the lat- 
ter, is often avoided by removing old wood and letting light and 
air into the middle of the bush. For full directions see Summer. 

If the Raspberries were not pruned last month, see to them now. 
Last year's wood is now worthless, either for growth or fruit- 
Prune Thimbleberries and Blackberries, and make new planta- 
tions. 

For Espalier fruit follow the directions of last month. Filberts 
frill soon be ripe and show it by the gradual opening of the husk, 
and the brown color of the nut 

Where there is a demand for Salads, Cress, Mustard, Rad- 
ishes, etc., during the winter, sow them now in very warm borders, 
dt in frames. They will need close care and attention, and must 
be protected at night. Just as soon as the weather grows decidedly 
cool, frames must be kept over those in the borders. They may 
be sowed in boxes and romoved to the grapery on the approach 
of cold weather. 

Large Onions may be planted for seed, in order to get it earlier 
and in greater abundance than is possible when we plant for this 
purpose in spring. The beds should be well dug and trenched, 
about 4 feet wide, and 18 inches apart ; set the Onions in the bot- 
tom of the trench, and cover with 3 or 4 inches of earth. Cover 

12 



184 OCTOBBB. 

the beds with a light dressing of leaves or old mannre for the win- 
ter ; they will start in April and begin to grow in May, and as soon 
as they have attained their full height, should be tied up to stakes, 
as the head is very heavy wh^i fiill of seed ; the seed when ripe 
should be dried a day or two and kept in paper bags for use. 

£ndive, though rarely grown for the Boston market, is a very 
excellent vegetable ; it should be blanched from time time as it is 
wanted for use ; this may be done under endive or flower pots, by 
eartiang up, or by covering with boards or straw ; the first is the 
best method. The same is the treatment of Sea-kale : see here- 
afier. 

Dill, Alexanders, Skerrits, Rhubarb, and Sea-kale should be 
sown, as their seeds are very slow to germinate, and will come 
forward more surely and quickly in the spring, if subjected to the 
action of the winter's frost. 

Make the Mushroom bed in the forcing-house and others in the 
cellar of the bam or house. Mushrooms to be productive must 
be kept warm and moist, but not wet. When not kept in this con- 
dition^ the bed is unproductive, though not spoiled, for the applica- 
tion of warmth and moisture will rouse its activity again. 

Many methods for making Mushroom beds have been proposed. 
The simplest is that of Mr. James Galbraith, described in the 
Working Farmer of November, 1854. *' The Mushroom may be 
successfully cultivated in dry cellars, provided the temperature 
ranges from 50° to 55°, or thereabouts. 

^ The mode of culture I have practised is simple, and sure to 
produce an abundant supply. 

^ Let the groom or coachman collect the horse droppings in the' 
stable, and let them be deposited every morning under a dry shed, 
open in front, facing the sun, to be thoroughly dried. Hang an 
old fishing net over the pile collected, to keep off chickens or 
other animals that might break the droppings to pieces, as they 
should be dried as entire as possible. The material collected in 
the shed should be turned over every day, to prevent fermentation 
taking place. 

^ Construct a frame of boards, say 30 x 4, 2 feet high behind and 
18 inches in front, or smaller in the same proportions, if thought 



KITGH£N-OARDEN. 185 

best. When there is enough dry material collected to cover the 
bottom of the frame two or three inches thick, put it in and tram- 
ple it all over to make it solid. 

^ Repeat the same process as you collect material, until the bed 
is complete. Lay 4 inches of light vegetable mould on top. In 
the course of four or five weeks there will appear in the mould 
something like white threads running all through the mass. When 
this takes place, water the bed moderately, and cover it with dry 
Grass cut from the lawn, as it contains but few seeds to shake out 
and grow in the bed : it is better in this respect than common 
Hay. 

"• Water cautiously.. In a short time the bed will become an en- 
tire mass of spawn, and continue to bear for twelve months, pro* 
vided the cellar is not too damp and cold. Should the materials 
heat in the process of drying, or afterwards during the process, all 
will prove abortive." 

A bed of this sort is, as the writer truly says, a mass of spawn. 
Beds may be made in hotbed frames ; the bottom being filled in 
with dry, heating manure, which is to be well trampled and lefi 
till the violent heat is abating ; then cover with two or three inches 
of -earth, in which spawn is to be placed. The bottom heat, with 
moisture, will cause thb spawn to increase rapidly, and the bed will 
yield Mushrooms for a long time. 

Spawn for planting may be prepared in many ways. Make a 
brick of cow and horse manure ; into this brick put a small piece 
of spawn ; lay the brick in a warm place, and in a short time it 
will be foil of spawn. << Spawn " is the white radicles of the mush- 
room plant, which may often be seen in the earth of old pastures, 
where horse droppings have dried. 

There are many varieties of fungus that are edible, a few that 
are poisonous ; the rest are disagreeable rather than injurious. 

The ** gills " of a fungus are the thin leaves seen when it Is 
turned over, filling the concavity of the lid with their paper-like 
bbes, which radiate as the sticks of an open umbrella. Their 
color varies with the variety of fungus, being pink in the Mush- 
room. 

In gathering Mushrooms, be careful to twist them off in the 



136 OCTOBER. 

ground at the root, for if any of the stem is left it will decay and 
fill vrith maggots, which will destroy the other Mushrooms as they 
begin to grow. 

Beds may be made by raising a wedge-shaped pile of well- 
trampled and rich manure ; leave it till it heats ; by inserting sticks 
into different parts of the pile, and testing their heat when with- 
drawn, you may learn the temperature of the bed. Cover it with 
loam, and in that plant spawn ; cover all with straw. Keep thor- 
oughly moist, and in a few days the spawn will fill the loam, and 
the Mushrooms begin to grow, and they will continue to appear for 
six months or a year. Examine the bed frequently, to gather 
the fungi, and prevent their over-growth and decay, and Uie conse- 
quent incoming of maggots. If the bed yields more than enough 
for daily use, make catchup. 

So few Mushrooms are grown for our market that we may be 
said to know nothing of them. Many market gardeners near 
London have several acres at a time in different stages of growth ; 
and before leaving the subject I will quote the method of cultiva- 
tion followed by such gardeners, it being very successful : — 

" The essential points to be regarded are : proper material, good 
spawn, moderate temperature, uniformity of humidity according to 
the state of the bed^ or crop, — as while the spawn is running, and 
until it is desirable that the crop shall appear, they can hardly be 
kept too dry. Afterwards they require a greater amount of moistr 
ure, and this, particularly during the winter, in a tepid state. 
Darkness has by some been deemed essential, but experience has 
shown that larger, better colored, and more healthy Mushrooms are 
grown in the light. London market gardeners cart home ftx>m 
London stables long manure ; the short material is shaken out of 
it, and the long, stringy part is kept for covering, as well as for 
forming the interior of the ridges. The manure is not allowed to 
heat before it is put into the beds, if it can be prevented, for pre- 
viously heated material does not produce so fine Mushrooms ; the 
fresher the horse dung is, the longer will the crop last If this is 
properly attended to, it does not signify what kind of mould is 
used for surfacing the beds. The short manure is to be piled in 
wedge-shaped ridges, or fiat, square beds, the shape being a matter 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 187 

of fancy so long as provision is made for the rapid removal of 
rain water; the middle of the bed, varying in size according to 
the ultimate size of the bed, is made of the long and coarse strsfwy 
manure, which, as we have just said, is covered thickly with the 
short manure, and this again with loam. When the interior tem- 
perature of the beds gets down to 80°, they are spawned with 
pieces of spawn about two inches square, placed one foot apart ; 
the bed is then covered with earth two inches thick, which is to 
be well packed with the feet or a spade, then carefully watered. Tlie 
more compact the bed, the better the Mushrooms ; compactness, 
and green, unheated manure constituting the secret of successful 
Mushroom growing. Beds made in this way ought to be watered 
but rarely, if the weather is reasonably moist, and when watered, 
if possible, use liquid manure. 

'^ Cover the ridges, after making, with straw or mats, and examine 
frequently ; when well made they will bear abundantly for two or 
three months." 

Constant reference has been jnade to artificial spawn. It may 
be made in the following manner : gather horse droppings, sheep 
or deer dung, and lay in a dry place ; then chop in a hay cutter 
straw or fern leaves ; — not a large quantity, but enough when 
mixed with the manure and clay or loam to give the mass consist- 
ency; — mix together the manure, stubble, and clay or loam till the 
mass is about as pasty as grafting clay ; spread the mixture evenly 
over a warm floor, to the depth of three or four inches. When 
about half dry, cut it into bricks of a convenient size ; let the 
bricks dry a little more, and then make holes an inch deep into 
their upper ends, into which put pieces of spawn the size of a 
walnut ; now cover the holes with more of the mixed material. 
The bricks being prepared, pile them in small stacks against each 
other, and cover with fresh, hot manure, putting on enough to keep 
the temperature of the mass at 50° to 60° degrees, too much heat 
or cold being fatal to Mushrooms. In a few days the spawn will 
have ran through the bricks in aU directions, making the stack a 
mass of spawn. Now open the stack, take down the bricks and 
lay them in a warm and dry place ; here they may be kept for 
years as a supply for forming Mushroom beds. 

12* 



138 OCTOBKB. 

If you have not spawn to begin with, collect from cattle on dry 
food 2 parts cow dung, 1 part horse droppings, 1 part sheep, deer, 
or pigeon dung ; dry under cover, and break them till they will 
pass through a half-inch sieve ; mix all together, and lay the mass 
closely packed and trodden in a conical heap ; keep the tempera- 
ture at about 60°, by coverings of litter, mats, or manure. In 
about four weeks the spawn will begin to form, and in a short time 
the heap will be filled with it. This spawn may be kept a long 
time in a dry place, or may be made into bricks as just described. 

I have gone thus folly into the method of producing this escu- 
lent, because it is so easily grown, and is capable of so many uses 
in its simple form or in catchup. Few persons are aware of the 
profit attendant on its culture, or how completely the grower may 
convert it into a salable form by making catchup. 

Espaliered ti^es are to be treated as they wero last month, the 
fruit being carefully gathered and disposed of. 

You can begin to prune as socm as the leaves &1L 

During the month be sure to select and store all the seeds not 
yet gathered for spring planting. 

Whenever a crop is removed, dig the ground over and leave it 
rough and unraked, that the frosts of winter may mellow it and 
kill the eggs of insects and the seeds of weeds. 

Cut down all decayed stems and branches of the herbs, culinary 
or medicinal, — all the half-shrubby kinds to the old wood; tlie 
herbaceous perennials, like Rue, Sweet Marjorum, etc., to the 
ground. If the beds are old, spread and dig m carefully a light 
dressing of manure well rotted ; where they are too much covered 
to admit of this, dig up the alleys and scatter some of the loam 
over the beds, together with a top dressing of light manure. 

Well-rooted plants of all the herbaceous and half-shrubby herbs 
may be planted early in the month in beds, borders, or rows, care 
being taken to enrich these beds, etc, well, before planting. 

Beds of Horseradish may be made by planting small pieces 
of the root of old plants. 

Peas sowed in the last of October and November will come up in 
the spring ten days earlier than if sowed iil the spring, but not so 



KITCHEN-OARDEK. 139 

thickly ; as an extra earlj crop it is worth while to plant some. 
Pot, the first of October, strawberries for forcing, and if they start 
well give a shift by the last of the month. Remove figs in tubs 
to the cellar or shed, and cover at night those which are standards 
or are on the espalier. ' They will not need covering with earth 
before November. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



ORCHABD. 



The fruits which demand attention this month are Apples, 
Pears, Quinces, and Wakiuts. I will first give directions for har- 
vesting the Apples. 

The first of the month, overhaul the stock of barrels, and if the 
number is deficient, purchase more at once ; be sure that there are 
enough heads and hoops. When all Ls ready, begin to gather the 
fruit as soon as ripe, and by no means wait till hard frosts set in ; 
the slightest skin of ice upon standing water should stimulate to 
the greatest exertions. It is very true that the leaves of the trees * 
protect the fruit against frost, but it is not all protected in this way, 
and if frozen, however slightly, it is likely to decay very rapidly. 
Apples when ripe readily come ofl^ in the hand if gently turned 
round, and should be led on the tree until they will do so, unless 
the near approach of winter renders immediate gathering necessary. 
When the fruit is ready for picking, carry ladders of different 
lengths into the orchard, so as to prevent any necessity for beating 
or shaking off the fruit. Cleai* some place on the ground large 
enough for a heap which would fill several barrels; cover this 
space with dry straw or old hay. Fasten a hook of iron or wood 
to the handle of each basket, that it may be hung on the tree or 
ladder, so as to leave both hands free. Let your pickers under- 
stand that it is a fixed law that every apple, small or large, is to be 
picked by hand. Every basket as it is filled, must be carefully 
emptied at the appointed place, by being laid on its side and slowly 
turned, that no apple may be bruised. It facilitates this labor and in- 
sures greater care in handling, to have one person with an extra bas- 
ket constantly employed in exchanging the full baskets of the pick- 
ers for empty ones. When one pile of fruit is large enough, make 
another. There will probably be a small portion of the fruit which 

140 



ORCHARD. 141 

cannot be reached by the hand ; this must be shaken down after 
the hand-gathering is done, piled sep^uratelj, and used or sold as 
somi as possible. 

When the day's work is drawing to a close, cover the heaps with 
straw, bay, or hay covers, for the night, and do the same on wet days. 
Leave the fruit for several days, according to the weather, to cool 
and dry. When dried enough, have the barrels carried into the field 
and the Apples put into them by hand, carefully sorted, according 
to quality. Let one man fill the barrels as full as possible without 
crowding, and lay on the heads, which another person should fasten 
in firmly. When this is done, the carts are to be sent out, and 
the barrels lifted into them. Roll them as little as possible ; carry 
them into the fruit room, where they may stand on end or be piled 
on each other. If they must be lefi out through the night, or in 
wet weather, lay them on their sides, and pile them up so as to 
. shed rain, and cover the upper ones with boards. 

These directions may seem unnecessarily minute, but the common 
method of picking all that can be easily reached and shaking off the 
rest, heaping all together into barrels without any care, except to have 
a show of good ones at each end, though it may seem easier than 
that which I have described, will be found in the end not only less 
thorough, but fiir less profitable. For when the Apples are gath- 
ered and housed, nearly aU the expense is over, and is the same 
whether the work has been well or ill done. The carefully picked, 
assorted, and packed fruit will keep till late in the spring, at 
no extra cost, and will then be worth several dollars a barrel 
more than in the autumn ; whilst the Apples carelessly harvested 
not only will not keep till spring, but will conunand an inferior 
price when sold. 

In all marketed produce, appearance has a great influence on 
the sale. Even roots which are clean and neatly loaded and 
packed, will sell better than roots of the same quality put up in a 
slovenly manner. It is natural to suppose that extra care in pack- 
ing would not be given unless the articles were worth it ; and a pur- 
chaser decides accordingly. So that the small difference in trouble 
necessary to assort and barrel apples with care, often makes all the 
difference between aybncy price and the ordinary one, in selling them. 



142 OOTOBBIL 

The varieties of Apples in our orchard are the following : Bald- 
win, Rhode-Isiand Greenings, Boxbuiy, Hunt, and Golden Rus- 
sets, Northern Spj, Belle Fleur, Danvers Winter Sweeting, 
Hubardston Nonsuch, Newton Pippin, Pearmain, Red Gilliflower, 
Ladies' Sweeting, Spitzenberg, Wine Apple ; of these, Baldwin, 
Greening, the Russets, Northern Spy, Belle Fleur, Newton Pip- 
pin, and Ladies' Sweeting keep till very late in the spring. 

Tar trees to catch canker worms, as hereafter described ; con* 
tinue to tar till winter. 

P£ABS. — Pears must be gathered about the same time as Ap- 
ples, aiid their fitness for harvesting is to be decided in the same 
way ; pick into baskets and carry at once into the firuit room, where 
they may be laid, either in heaps, to be afterwards distributed ac- 
cording to variety, or on the shelves in the same way once for alL 
If they are to He on tlie shelves till consumed, lay them just so 
near each other as not to touch* Those laid in heaps may be left 
for a day to dry and cool, and then packed away for winter. 

Divers plans for preserving fruit have been invented, and some 
very expensive fruit rooms have been made, warranted to keep 
Pears perfect till spring ; but the chei^>est and simplest method 
has proved the best One objection to all fruit rooms has been 
that fruit stored in them till spring has been very apt to shrivel, 
and never become high-colored ; but the following method avoids 
this evil: — 

Pack either in champagne baskets or in light, wooden buckets 
with tight covers ; Hinghun buckets they are called in and about 
Boston. If the baskets are used, place the fruit in layers, with ' 
erne thickness of flannel or cotton batting between the layers, till 
the basket is fuU ; then place it on a shelf and leave it untoudied 
till the fruit ought to be nearly ripe. J£ your experience has not 
taught you when this is to be expected, you must examine occa- 
uonally. Fears thus preserved will gain in plumpness, and as 
they ripen each variety will attain the richest color of which it is 
capable* If the buckets are used, proceed as with baskets till they 
are full ; then set them aside, uncovered, for a few days, to cool 
and sweat, after which cover tight and hang up in the fruit room. 



OBCHARD. 143 

These Pears will command the very highest price in the market, 
and many varieties which almost never attain a high color under 
other methods, will in this way become really rich. 

No frait is more widely cultivated than the Pear, and the num- 
ber of varieties is great ; only a few, however, pay for cultivation ; 
and what the desirable varieties are, it is hard to learn, so greatly 
is their flavor influenced by soil and exposure, even within the 
limits of a town. It may be said with truth, that no two cultiva- 
tors agree, as to the best dozen varieties for a given latitude. In a 
iiitnre month I shall discuss the differences in Pears, and explain 
the respective advantages of Quince and Pear stocd^s, and the treats 
ment requisite to produce the best fruit from either stock. 

Our Pear orchard is planted with Bartlett, Beurr^ de Capiu- 
ment, Beurr^ Bosc, Beurr6 diel, Dix, Duchess, Flemish Beauty, 
Fondante d'Automne, Louise bonn^ de Jersey, Napoleon, Rostiezer, 
Sieulle, Seckel, Urbaniste, Beurre D'Aremberg, Easter Beufr^ 
Chaumontel, Glout Morceau, Passe Colmar, Winter Nelis, Beurr^ 
de Bantz, St Gennain. 

Quinces. — Quinces are not so generally cultivated as they de- 
serve ; the bush occupies but little room, and that the least desira- 
ble, is hardy, a superior desert fruit, and generally certain to bear 
a good crop. The Apple or Orange Quince is the only variety 
worth cultivating. The mature tree ought to yield from 2 to 4 
bushels of fruit, which when well harvested is rarely worth less 
than $1.00 ta $2.50 per bushel, thus giving a large profit for the 
small surface under cultivation. They may be set 8 to 10 feet 
apart, and will soon cover the ground so as to keep down weeds, 
and render, the labor of cultivating slight They have a decided 
enemy in the borer, and must in their early years be closely 
watched ; if during the first few years the borers are hunted out 
and killed, and the earth around the bushes be covered with coal 
ashes, they become thrifty and able to defy the borer in future ; if 
the but of the tree is surrounded with common tea or sheet lead 
for a few inches above and below the sur&ce of the ground, the 
borer will be effectually excluded. 

No fruit is more easily injured in its appearance by careless 



144 OCTOBER. 

liarvesting thfu the Quince ; every bruise on its skin is followed 
bj discoloration and decay, and consequently by slow sale in mar- 
ket. Pick by band and lay in the basket ; remove thence by hand 
into barrels, and afterwards treat like Apples. 

Walnuts. — Walnuts and Shagbarks ripen this month and 
should be gathered as they fall. Afler a sharp frost at night, the 
ground will be covered with them, and we must wait for the frost 
to open the outside shell and let us at the nut ; the Black or Eng- 
lish Walnut is surrounded by a thick and spongy husk or shell, 
which is very hard to remove by hand, as it clings closely and 
stains the skin badly, but it yields readily to frost. 

The husk of the Butternut is thin and clings closely to the nut 

All these nuts when gathered should be carried to a warm place, 
and there spread out to dry ; when well dried, the kernel is oily 
but rich in flavor. 

Nut trees of these last two varieties are easily and rapidly grown, 
and though not so beautiful as the Shagbark, are yet very orna- 
mental, and a few should be cultivated on every even small estate. 

The Shagbark is the staple nut of the Eastern United States, 
and the tree is one of the most ornamental of the deciduous trees, 
and easily transplanted when young, though it does not bear mov- 
ing well after it becomes large. 



CHAPTER XX. 



NUBSEBY. 



In October the nursery demands a large share of attention. 
Trench now wherever you did not in September, and then plant 
stocks for budding and grafting. Make layers of Roses, Honey- 
suckles, and those shrubs which propagate more easily by layers than 
by seed. As a general rule seeds are the most reliable means for 
getting larger quantities and varieties of trees, though the process 
is slow. Many seeds are hard and tough in themselves, or are en- 
closed in some kind of tough shell or stone. Such seeds should 
always be planted in the &11, and lefl through the winter and spring 
to the action of frost, which by its expansive power breaks or dis- 
joints their hard covering, and lets the tender germ and cadide 
start on their upward and downward journey. 

Time and again cultivators have been utterly discouraged in 
their attempts to grow varieties of plants, because the seed seemed 
invariably to faiL Much of this failure is owing to the seed hav- 
ing been planted at the wrong season ; the seed of Roses, Haw- 
thorn, and Buckthorn, for hedge plants, if sown in the fall will 
start in the spring, and make strong growth during the summer ; 
but if planted in the spring they often do not appear till the next 
year, and the nursery man, finding no growth from his seed during 
the first summer, concludes that it was worthless, and probably 
digs the land over and plants other seeds of the same kind ; when, 
had he planted the fall before, or waited till the next year, he 
would have succeeded with his first lot of seeds. 

The stones of Plums and Peaches, and other hard seeds, must 

either be planted in the fall, or be cracked and planted in the spring; 

cracking the stone is rather dangerous, as it is very apt to injure 

the germ of the kernel. Walnuts, Shagbarks, Filberts, and most 

' 13 145 



146 OCTOBER. 

Other nuts are subject to the same laws of plantiiig and gennina- 
tion. 

Acorns, Chestnuts, and Horsechestnuts grow whether planted 
in spring or fall, their shells being so soft as to offer but little op- 
position to the swelling kernel ; but they do better when planted 
in fall, for all seeds are more ready to germinate when first ripe 
than afler being kept for some time and getting somewhat dry. 
You may see in your autumnal walks in the woods Acorns sprout- 
ing under all the Oak trees, even when merely lying on the surface 
of the ground. This natural process teaches us what to do if we 
would be perfectly successful with such nuts. Keep them in a 
box till spring, covered with moist sand, and soak them twenty-four 
hours in tepid water before planting. 

Directions for forming nurseries, seed-beds, etc., will be given 
hereafter. 

Autumn has as great advantages over spring for layering hard- 
wooded plants and shrubs as for planting nuts ; the tongue and cut 
of the layer heal and granulate somewhat during the winter, and 
the whole skin and wood seem to prepare for a ready growth in 
spring. Canker worms will begin to run ailer the first hard frost, 
atid the trees must be tarred to protect them. 



CHAPTER XXL 

THE FARM. 

OcTOBEB is a very busy month on the fann. Continue to make 
and dean out drains, and prepare for thorough irrigation. At 
every leisure moment draw muck and litter to the yard for ma- 
nure. 

During the latter half of the month dig the Roots, beginning 
with Potatoes, then Beets, then Carrots, last Ruta-Bagas and Tur- 
nips ; the latter may even be left till November. 

There is a machine for cutting off the leaves of Carrots and 
Ruta-Bagas as they stand in the ground. Directions were given 
last month for Potatoes and are good now. 

When ready to harvest other Roots, begin as soon as the dew is 
off, in a bright day, pull them out and lay them on the surface to 
dry. A tool much like a spade cleft into four fingers is very 
ocmvenient for raising roots, as it does not break them like a spade, 
and its blades are not pointed like those of a dungfork. 

Beets should be drawn without first cutting the leaves ; lay them 
on the ground long enough to dry off surface moisture, then gather 
into heaps ; twist off the tops, and cut off the tails and small roots 
with a sharp tool. Some English writers recommend that this 
last process be done as the roots are drawn. Our farmers find 
that the leaves are readily eaten by cows for green fodder, and 
when judiciously fed out conduce to a full milkpail. To top and 
taO properly, hold the Beet or Ruta-Baga in the left hand, and in 
the right a tool made from an old sickle or grass cutter ground 
sharp ; one blow will remove the top, another the tail of the root, 
which is then thrown into the heap or the cart. When the weather 
promises to be fine and dry, it is well to leave them in heaps for a 
few days before storing, as they sweat a little, and wiU keep the 
better for the drying. 

147 



148 OCTOBER. 

In harvesting Mangel Wurzel, also^ tunsi off the leaves. 

When the Roots are all thrown into the cart, drive the full load 
into the root cellar, where they may be piled in their proper bins. 
While emptying or filling the cart, do not throw the Boots aboat 
more than is absolutely necessary, for although rough and harsh 
to look at or handle, they decay faster for every bruise. 

The cellar should be well ventilated and drained. The perfect 
preservation of Roots depends mainly on these two requirements. 
Darkness is not so essential as is sometimes asserted. Light does 
not necessarily stimulate growth, nor darkness prevent it ; it de- 
pends much more on warmth and moisture. 

Until the nights become very cold leave the windows open, as 
the exhaling warmth of the Roots will keep the temperature high 
in the cellar long after it freezes outside. 

Root cellars are very important in our latitude, and in making 
them their location should be carefully considered in relation to the 
bam. We grow Roots to feed to stock through the winter, and the 
greater the daily distance over which this bulky material is carried 
in feeding, the greater our labor, the less our profit All new 
bams should be built with a reference to the storage and ti<ansport 
of Root crops. A good plan is to have the stalls for cows and other 
neat cattle in the cellar, if removed from the manure, as it is easier 
to feed with Hay from above, and with Roots from the same level 
with the cattle ; but it is then more difiicult to dispose of the ma- 
nure. By carefully considering all these wants before erecting a 
bam, we can provide for them all in the most convenient and sat^ 
isfactory way. Refer to the ground plan of our bam and see how 
thb is done. 

Barn. — The general (see March) plan shows that it stands on 
a side-hill. The slope of hill from end to end is 12 feet in 100, so 
that much of the cellar is above ground. It is divided into two 
stories, and one story of wood rises over it. The lower, the manure 
cellar, in which are kept the hens and pigs, is 6^ feet high. The 
next story is for | of its length 7^ feet high ; the remaining 20 feed 
being 6^ feet in height, is at the extreme west end, and is devoted 
to Roots, of which it can hold at least six thousand bushels, its area; 



THE FARM. 149 

being 50 x 20 feeU Directly in front of the root cellar is a carriage- 
waj 10 feet wide, extending from one side of the barn to the other. 
Loaded teams may thus enter at one side and leave at the other. 
Two laige sliding doors 10 feet wide give entrance to the root 
oellar, so that a cart full of Roots having entered by the road-way 
may be backed into the root cellar and there unloaded. 

Through the wall in the middle of the root cellar is an aperture 
which may be kept tightly closed by a flap-door, through which is 
laid a railroad that is traversed by a small car. This car being 
taken into the cellar and there loaded with Boots, whole or cut, 
may then be drawn out along the railroad, which extends down 
the centre of the bam, and its load distributed on either side as 
wanted, or carried to the boiler. When the car comes out or goes 
in, the flap-door is let fall and the aperture is closed. The car 
may be stopped in front of the mash-tub, and there have meal 
mixed with the Boots, or take in cut feed, and then run out, and its 
contents be distributed. 

Such an arrangement tends greatly to the economy of labor, 
and also saves material and wear and tear. 

In the south-east comer of the root cellar is a wooden box through 
which the manure of the carriage horses in the stable above may 
be discharged into the lowest cellar. Under the front edge of the 
root cellar are spouts for emptying swill, etc, to the pigs. A boiler 
is set in the comer of the meal storeroom for cooking food, and 
the car can be run directly to it 

In speaking of topping Boots, I said that the tops should be fed out 
to milch cows ; this does not apply to all Boots ; for instance, Buta- 
Bagas, leaves of which some cows will not eat, and which if eaten 
in large quantities generally loosen the bowels overmuch ; if but 
a small quantity is fed at a time, there is no danger, and an in- 
crease of milk. Again, cattle will often utterly refuse to eat the 
tx>p9 of Carrots and Parsnips, while sheep eat them readily. Under 
all circumstances, however, it is better to carry the loads, tops and 
aUy direetly to the bam, and top as you unload. Such leaves as the 
stock will not consume, may then be thrown through the muck-traps 
m the ioor, shown in the plan, into the manure cellar, where the 
]Hgs will eat some and make manure of the rest 

13» 



150 OCTOBER. 

I hav^ said nothing of Potato tops, which are usually dry be- 
fore the Potatoes are dug; in this condition they are called 
^ haulm,'* and may be collected into heaps to rot, or carted to the 
manure cellar as bedding for pigs, or burned, and their ashes spread 
on the spot. 

The Com crop is to be harvested now. If not cut during Sep- 
tember, send your men into the field early in the present month, 
with tools made from old scythes, or reaping-hooks, to cut it all 
about 6 inches above the ground, leaving one hill in six uncut 
As cut, lay each hill on the ground by itself during the heat of 
the day. Early in the a^moon begin and gather five hills ; stand 
them on their butts about the uncut sixth hill, which will steady 
the whole ; this being done, draw all the tops down a little, and tie 
firmly together with a straw rope. Tou will thus stack the whole 
firmly, and may leave it for weeks without injury from weather. 
The outer leaves will wither down, and as they dry will offer a 
perfect water-shed to the rain ; whilst the bulk of the stack is not 
so great as to prevent the ready access of sun and air in &ir 
weather. 

Com thus stacked will ripen thoroughly, dry hard and glossy, 
and the stover will cure into a sweet and good fodder, which will be 
eaten almost to the last but by cows during winter, particularly 
if first cut in a stubble cutter. All com-fodder should be cut up 
before feeding, to insure the thorough decay of those portions which 
the cattle may reject, and which are consequently thrown into the 
manure heap. Were it fed out in its long state, the cattle would 
pick off the leaves and reject the buts, which must then be thrown 
into the manure heap, where they will remain undecomposed for a 
year, their glossy, flinty exterior defending them from fermenta- 
tion and the action of the various acids and gasses generated in the 
manure. 

Many farmers practise a different treatment of the Cora crop ; 
and I will deviate frx>m the rale laid down at the beginning of this 
book, to make a short inquiry into the relative merits of the two 
n^ethods. 

It is the practice of most New-England fkrmers to go into the 
field as soon as the Cora is glazed, and top it ; «.«., cut off the tops 



THE FABK. 151 

jaat abore the highest ear. These tops are stacked in bandies to 
drjy and then stored in the bam for fodder ; and it is urged that 
thus good fodder is made of the tops which cattle wiU eat, while 
the buts which cattle will not eat are left. It is true that tops 
saved in this way do make excellent fodder if not too long dried, but 
it is at the expense of the Corn. The Com is not faVLj ripe when 
thus topped, and depends on the nourishment supplied by the leaves, 
ibr its iull perfection. Cut off these leaves and the grain is cut off 
from some portion of its food. The experiment has been thoroughly 
tried, and it has been proved that Com topped weighs 3 to 5 lbs. per 
bushel less than the same kind of Com in the same field, saved in 
the manner I have directed. Again, by cutting the tops you 
make the bats utterly worthless, whilst under the stacking method^ 
the buts cure with the tops, and will be eaten when cut and fed 
out ; and when cut in the method first given, before it is glazed and 
ripe^ through fear of early frost, more Cora will fill out and ripen 
in the stock uninjured by frost, which would quite destroy it if 
treated by topping. There is a simple reason for this difference. 
The leaves of plants are their lungs. Sap is supplied by the roots 
in direct proportion to the demands of the leaves ; but when it 
first ascends the stem, it is crude and innutritious, as &r from per- 
fection as is unfermented cider or unleavened bread. It ascends 
through the fibres of the stem and spreads itself to the sunlight in 
the sap vessels of the leaves, where it becomes refined and per- 
fected ; it then returns to the tissues, the fmit, or whatever part 
needs it ; unfit before to perfect the Cora, it is now fit and is appro- 
priated by the peculiar sap-vessels of the ear. Beside this func- 
tion of the leaves, they act — how, has not yet been definitely ascer- 
tained — like the exhausting or suction valves in a pump; they 
draw on the roots for moisture, and the roots furaish it, and just in 
proportion to the demand. Therefore, whenever the leaves are re- 
moved the demand ceases. Suppose, for instance, instead of " top- 
ping," all the. leaves above the ears were picked off; no apprecia- 
.Ue demand for sap would be felt above this point, consequently 
none would be supplied. If all the ears were ripe, this would not 
matter, the plant being cultivated for the grain ; but when the Cora 
is unripe it must surely suffer for the lack of those supplies of sap 



152 OCTOBER. 

that are needed to perfect it What is true of gathering the leases, 
ifi equally true of topping, which is merely the same thing more 
thoroughly done ; by either process any farther growth of the Com 
above the lower leaves is stopped. 

It is then plain that the fanner who cuts off the top of his Com 
before the gnun is ftiUy ripe, cuts off the food necessary to insure 
perfection in that gndn, and loses in com what he gains in fodder. 

Return now to the plan I advise. Suppose the Cora to be cut 
at the root at the time when it would be topped under the other 
process, although that would be too early. It is evident that the 
broad leaves will draw up into themselves all the crude sap still 
lingering in the stem, of which we know there is a large quantity 
in the thick and succulent Cora stalks. This crude sap will pass 
through the leaves as it did before cutting, will be elaborated and 
returaed to the ears, and so down through the stem, adding just so 
much to the value and perfectness of the grain. 

I have treated this matter at length because it is of great impor- 
tance to a people who depend largely on Indian Cora. 

Cutting at the but seems to those who have not tried it, more 
troublesome and expensive Uian ^ topping," because it necessitates, 
first, cutting and binding ; then, re-opening and plucking the ears ; 
then, re-gathering and mowing away the stalks ; but if the work is 
done judiciously, it is not as expensive as the ordinary method, in 
pursuing which we must first, cut, bind, stook, and cure the tops, 
then gather and store them; second, gather the ears into the 
wagons as they are driven through the field ; then cut, stook, and 
store the buts, or throw them to the pig8, or burn them in the field. 
Three processes. 

In my method you cut, stook, and thoroughly cure both com and 
fodder ; when once well stooked it may be left until it is conven- 
ient to remove it, without injury to either com or fodder ; the less 
time the fodder is exposed after getting dry, the better for it The 
centre hill which was left uncut may either be cut at first, and all 
the bundles well braced against each other as in stooking wheats 
etc., or when the stooks are opened to gather the ears this hill may 
be cut, and,' if not thoroughly dry, be laid in the sun a short time. 
When we are ready to put the Com into the crib, we send two 



THE FARM. . 153 

wagons into the field, open the stooks, pick off the ears and throw 
them into one wagon, fork the bundles of fodder into the other, and 
drive each to its appropriate place. We thus have but two opera- 
tions instead of three, and have all the fodder together where it 
may be fed out or made into manure. The centre hill is well 
opened and laid in the sun when the carts are first driven round 
the field, and by the time the loose bundles are all collected, will 
be dry enough to be gathered in their turn. 

Continue at intervals of leisure to open and drain ditches and 
collect materials for manure. If any of the much-travelled and 
level roads need gravel, dress them this month, as the long interval 
of open weather before winter will allow the gravel to become 
well trodden, and will insure a firmer and better road than if the 
gravel is spread in the spring. But do not put gravel on roads 
of steep grade, as the frost and rain of winter and spring will 
wash them badly. ^ 

The principal marketing of this month will be Roots, Cabbages, 
and Apples. Where the accommodation for the crops is ample, 
and they ar^ well gathered, it is better not to sell them before 
spring ; the chief part of the expense and labor of the crop is 
over with the harvest, and the increase of price before spring is 
generally large. In the autumn many farmers of small capital or 
inferior acoommodaticms are compelled to sell, and thus the market 
price of green crops is much lower than in the spring, when the 
supply is small and the demand active. 

Cows. — Towards the last of this month the winter milch cows 
will be near calving, and they should have rather more generous 
food than the other cows. Every effort should be made to have a 
large stock of new milch cows in the winter, as then the price of 
milk is largest, and the manure most easily and entirely saved. 

The value of manure depends very much upon the food of the 
stock) as manure is only the unassimilated food of the animals that 
produce, it. Analyses of the various kinds of food have shown 
ibai some are more valuable for manure than others, and that this 
difference of value is in proportion to the elaborateness of the or- 



154 OOTOBEB. 

ganizadon of the different parts of the plant Thus the seeds are 
better than the fruit, the fruit than the straw, the leaves and straw 
than the wood. Rape cake and oil cake, or the pressed seeds o£ 
Rape and Flax, when eaten, produce much more powerful manure 
than the tops of Turnips or roots of Rape or the straw of Flax« In- 
deed, the latter is often found to be poisonous to vegetation. Many 
other examples might be offered in illustration of this fact The 
reason is to be found in the greater amount of concentrated mineral 
and other elements, potash, soda, lime, ammonia, etc, which exists 
in the seed than in Uie haulm and roots, these elements being the 
most valuable constituents of manure. 

It is a well-attested &ct, that the manure of animals fed on grain 
and seeds is much richer than that of those fed on Grass, Hay, and 
Roots ; so that when the animals come into the bam for the long 
winter months, we have within our own hands the means, — which 
we could not have while they were at pasture, — of increasing the 
value of their manure. 

But this is not the only consideration. The Grass on which they 
have been feeding during the summer is always the b^st and cei^ 
tainly the chei^pest food for increasing the milk of cows and the 
flesh of fattening animafe ; of this they are now deprived, and we 
must find something to supply its place. Hay alone will produce 
neither of the good effects of the fresh Grass ; Rowen is better for 
milk but not for flesh ; but Roots and Grain of different kinds, mixed 
with Hay and Rowen increase both milk and flesh. 

We come back then to the subject of milch cows and their food. 
In summer it costs but little to keep them, but the value of milk, 
unless we make butter and cheese, is low, and the manure is badly 
saved. In winter, on the other hand, the cost of keq>ing is large, 
but the price of milk rises in proportion, and the manure is all 
saved, and can be produced of better quality. If, then, we procure 
new milch cows at this season, feed them well, and save all the 
manure, we shall get the largest possible profit from the opera- 
tion. 

Breeds of cattle best adapted to our latitude, and varieties and 
uses of manure, will be discussed in the winter months. 



TH^ FARM. 155 

In September we selected the hogs which were to be killed in 
the winter. Improve the quality of their food as time goes on, 
and keep them warm. 

As the nighte grow cold, the horses should be blanketed and 
should be protected from draughts of air. Fowls which are to be 
killed at Thanksgiving, must be separated from the rest and cooped 
up for fattening. As the days grow shorter and the nights longer 
and colder, it will be more difficult for fowls to find food for them- 
selves, and those which are to be killed must be carefully attended 
ta The great point in fattening creatures of all kinds is to keep 
them always improving, and if they once receive a check it takes 
a long time and much extra care to start them again. Laying and 
stock fowls will need but little attention yet. 



CHAPTER XXn. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



Directions were given in September for preparing holes for 
trees and shrubs, and getting the latter ready for transplanting. 

Transplanting should not be begun till the leaves have either 
&llen or changed color preparatory to falling, for at that time, as 
has been shown, evaporation is at a minimum, and the tree has 
the best chance for a good future growth with the least amount 
of pruning. 

There is a theory that prunmg may be dispensed with, and trees 
do sometimes live which have been transplanted without pruning, 
but they are starved and sickly for years. It is useless to expect 
half the original amount of roots, mutilated, and in a strange soil, 
to supply sap to the same amount of top as before removal ; as well 
might one expect a full-grown man to live and thrive on a child's 
allowance of food. 

There can be no doubt that the best time for transplanting all 
trees and shrubs which can bear our severe winter after a fresh 
removal, is the fall, for at that time both the trees and the earth 
are in the best possible condition for a successful operation. When 
a tree is moved, the mutilated roots need both moisture and warmth; 
the tree taken in the autumn from warm earth is set again into 
warm earth, and if this is done early in the season there will be 
time enough before winter for numerous new rootlets to creep out, 
which will give the plant a new hold on the earth and enable it to 
resist the winter winds. The rains of autumn will pack and settle 
the dirt between and about all the fibres, and the tree will become 
firm and steady. Well planted in this manner, it will be found 
by the earliest spring warmth that starts the sap ready to begin 
its circulation and growth quite as early, to say the least, as we 
could possibly think of transplanting in the spring. There is, be- 

156 



ORNAMENTAL. 157 

sides, an accumulation of sap, made by those roots which are below 
frost, which is, as it were, so much capital prepared for the spring 
demand. This sap is what is drawn off from the sugar maple in 
large quantities. Trees and shrubs planted in the autumn gener- 
ally get a start of half a season over those planted in spring, and 
keep their advantage perceptibly for half a dozen years. 

Another advantage of autumn planting lies in the longer supply 
of water before the summer droughts, which renders the tree much 
less likely to be injured by them than if planted in the spring. 

Strongly as I recommend autumn planting, however, I should 
advise its total neglect rather than a poor execution of it. 

There is great ignorance on this subject of tree planting among 
those who ought to be best informed, and none the less that every 
man thinks himself beyond any need of instruction with regard to 
it, and this unconscious ignorance is the means of much waste of 
money and temper. 

Patience, great patience, is the first requisite for a successful 
planter. In fact, the first and the most important acquisition to be 
made before undertaking the management of a country place is 
patience — a large stock of patien(*e. Demosthenes described ac- 
tion as the first, the second, and the third requisite to successfiil 
oratory, so may I say of patience to him who would succeed in the 
culture of fruit, vegetables, or rural beauty. No natural process 
can be much hurried ; and when once a tree is well planted, a green- 
house erected, a grapery stocked, a flower-garden laid out, there is 
need of long and patient waiting, endurance of " hope deferred," 
before the wished-for result is attained. 

Starting then with plenty of patience, dig a hole as directed in 
September, not less than 4 feet in diameter and 2 feet deep. We 
want this depth both to secure for the roots free access to the subsoil 
where moisture is most abundant, and to enable us to fill in at the 
bottom good food for the tree, during the next few years. If the 
holes were dug in September, or if the ground where these are to 
be made has been well trenched and enriched, you need only open 
oat space enough for the proper accommodation of the roots. Ex- 
amine the top of the tree or shrub to be planted, and prune it if it 
needs pruning ; then look to the roots, and if any are broken, cut 

14 



158 



OCTOBER. 




them off smoothly with a 
sharp knife drawn from 
beneath upwards, so that 
the cut sur&ce may point 
downwards, and be left 
like a newly-made cutting, 
all ready to grow. Now 
set the tree into the hole so 
that the part of the stem from which the roots start may be on a 
leyel with the surrounding surface, — just on a level, — if the hole 
was made in September so that the earth at the bottom has had 
time to settle ; a little deeper when the hole is newly made. It is 
well enough to have the stem in the centre of the hole, though this 
is importiuit only when you are planting a row of trees on a line 
which passes through the centre of all the holes. In general orna- 
mental planting avoid rows. Let your assistant steady the tree in 
the hole while you retire a short distance and look at the efiect of 
its top ; recall to your mind its character when full grown, whether 
erect or pendant, and see how your tree should stand to give its 
branches the best chance to develop ite characteristic beauty and 
become a fine specimen of its kind ; and let your assistant turn and 
move it till- it stands to your mind. WhUe he still holds it, get into 

the hole and carefully draw 
out all the principal roots into 
the same relative positions they 
held before transplanting; in 
the same way comb out the 
innaller and fibrous roots. And 
now you will probably find that 
the point whence the roots di- 
verge is higher above the bot- 
tom of the .hole than their 
ends, as in cut A. In this case, 
either take the tree out and 
W shovel in earth enough to make 
a little mound in the centre of 
the hole on which the centre 





ORNAMENTAL. ' 159 

of the tree maj rest, or carefully work earth in bj hand without 
removing the tree, till it stands evenly, all parts having an equal 
bearing. Now let your assistant shovel in earth upon the roots 
slowly, giving you time enough to raise the different roots to their 
proper level ; for although all the roots, if long enough, may be 
brought down to the bottom of the hole, the position is not natural, 
and if compelled will injure the afler-growth of the tree. Cut B 
shows my meaning. Dig the hole widest at the bottom. Fill the 
earth in thus gradually till the hole is about half full, or until 
the wpfer roots are partially covered ; this, and not the semi-fill- 
ing the hole being the importimt point. K the work has thus far 
been properly done, the tree will stand erect and firm without sup- 
port from the hand. 

I do not advise that tedious process of separating and laying out all 
the fibres of the roots which is so insisted on by most teachers, but 
merely direct that main roots and rootlets should be laid and ccnnbed 
out in the same relative positions they held before the tree was lifted. 
Attend to this and to their being carefully covered and surrounded 
with earth, and you have secured the important requisites ; more mi- 
nute and fussy attention will indeed make the success of the operation 
more certain, but not in proportion to the trouble taken, while they are 
pretty sure to exhaust the stock of that invaluable quality, patience, 
possessed by most men ; and when that fails, carelessness begins, 
bad habits are formed, and it is probable that the important steps 
as well as the minudse of transplanting will then be slighted. 

Leaving the tree in the condition just described, plant others in 
the same way until you have many in this half-finished state. 
When the day is so far advanced that there will be just time to 
finish the work, pour one or two paUs of water — varying the 
quantity according to the size of the hole — slowly upon and 
around the roots of each tree ; no matter if it is raining at the 
time ; this water has nothing to do with supplying moisture to the 
tree ; its use is to separate the little rootlets from each other, which 
it does better than a hundred fingers, and with no draught on your 
stock of patience, and to draw down and pack close the finer par- 
ticles of earth about each fibre. When the water has drained 
away, throw back into the hole the earth remaining at the side ; 



160 OCTOBER. 

when it is all returned you may gently tread it down. Observe 
that hitherto neither the foot nor any instrument has been used to 
consolidate the eaitli, for the effect of treading or any other pres- 
sure would have been to injure the rootlets ; but now there is so 
much earth between the foot and the roots, that they cannot be in- 
jured by pressure, while they will get all its benefits. 

If these trees do not thrive it will be because of some unavoid- 
able accident They will not even be hurt by the winter winds, 
though some of the taller ones with large tops may need the sup- 
port of a stake, which should be driven in within an inch or two 
of the stem, before any earth is thrown on the roots. If it is 
driven afler they are covered, there is danger that it will bruise 
the larger and tear the smaller roots. 

These directions will not be repeated. They are to be followed 
in aU cases and for all trees and shrubs, unless some physical ob- 
stacle prevents, which must be met when it occurs, and cannot be 
foreseen. 

The autumn planting so strongly recommended is not for all 
trees indiscriminately. Evergreens, as I said in September, should 
never be planted in the fall, unless from necessity ; no stone-fruited 
trees ; none that are but partially hardy ; no natives of any lati- 
tude where vegetation commences earlier and lasts longer than in 
ours (although there are some exceptions to the rule), should be 
planted in tlie fall. But it is the time to plant almost all our de- 
ciduous trees ; I have found the Hickory, Red Maple, Birch, Beech, 
Magnolia, Larch, Three-thorned Acacia, English Ehns and Oaks 
are apt to die when planted in the &11, as are the European Larch, 
Ash, Laburnum, Beech, and Chestnut. 

It may seem to one not familiar with our ornamental trees, that 
these exceptions cut off nearly the whole number ; but a glance at 
the list of trees offered at any first-class nursery, will show that 
the varieties mentioned above as exceptions are but a small part 
of the list ; and many of those I except will not die entirely if 
well planted in the fall ; they are sure to spring anew frwn the 
root, but the top is apt to be winter-killed. 

And once for all, it is better to plant any of the excepted list in 
October, with the care just insisted on, than in spring in the com- 



ORNAMENTAL. 161 

moiiy careless method. I i*epeat that the later in the fall the tree 
is planted, the greater the danger of its being injured or killed. 

Manj tilings are to be considered in making plantations, whether 
large, or small, the neglect of which materially detracts from the 
beautj of the plantation. In another month will be found some 
lists of the trees and shrubs most desirable for this purpose. 

OCTOBEk'S HARVESTS. 

When we think of the glowing woods and purple lights and 
mists of October, it seems impossible that the analysis and descrip- 
tion of this month's work can be contained in meagre words and 
miinteresting narrative. No month is so full of rich and varied 
attractions, and none offers gratification and satisfaction to the di- 
verse tastes of so many admirers. 

Theoretically, October should be a sad month, for then the har- 
vests are mostly gathered in, the fields are bare of the summer's 
verdure, the woods in the first stages of leafy decay, the birds gone 
or going to more genial climates, the garden rusty and full of seedy 
or ftostrstricken flowers ; every thing telling of the departure of 
genial summer and the approach of chill winter. 

How opposite to this is the truth ! Now the farmer's heart over- 
flows with the consciousness of his wealth. The rent roll of the 
lai^st land-owner, the stocks and bonds of the richest broker, the 
ships and warehouses of the most princely merchant, can never 
give their owners such an overflowing and contented feeling of 
well-rewarded labor, as the crowded barns and granaries, and well- 
stocked linters and folds give the farmer. He has labored hard 
through the summer's heat, has cast many and anxious glances at 
the donds and winds, has listened with strained ear for the creak- 
ing of ponderous wagons loaded with hay, as his experienced eye 
read the threats in the gathering clouds. But now under his own 
roof are gathered the accumulated and condensed rays of the sun 
and breaths of summer zephyrs ; the earth's fatness and its increase 
have contributed to make him rich. As he stands on his bam 
floor with the last rays of the sun just giving the contented faces 
of Ae cattle enjoying their evening meal or chewing their cud, 
u* 



162 OCTOBER. 

and hears the rhythmical beating of the milk on the empty pails, 
or its muffled sound as the n^id stream is lost in foam, harmonizing 
with the quiet cooings of pigeons' or the occasional drowsy remon- 
strance of some hen or chick crowded on the well-filled roosty his 
heart cannot fail to overflow with gratitude and thanksgiving for 
God's goodness and nature's bounties. The undeniable signs of 
wealth on all sides give him more positive satisfaction than any less 
iangiUe property can awaken in its owner. The miser to enjoy 
his hoard must lock his door and chink the gold pieces together, 
else half his pleasure is wanting. Bare ownership never rewards 
men ; the reward is in seeing the possession, and showing it to 
others. The well-filled crib, the high-piled hay-stack or bay, the 
low of sleek cattle, the peaceful bleat of sheep, all reiterate in 
tones unmistakable to us and to our neighbors, our prosperity and 
thrift, and bear constant witness to our summer^s work. 

Go to a farmer at such a time if you wish him to contribute to 
any worthy cause, and you will scarcely be refused. 

And it is not the farmer only that October cheers and delights. 
To the eyes of all who love nature, it offers, not decay and death, but 
a rich display of her choicest beauties. Every tree is now decked in 
its most glowing attire ; it seems as though aU the sun's warmth and 
the earth's rich fatness had been collected and absorbed, only to be 
returned infinitely increased and improved. The air feels its duties 
enlarged, and is changed into blue and purple mists, that envelop all 
the hills and fill the valleys. Nothing is as it was. The hedgerows 
that all summer long have been the home of the cat bird and the 
thrush, and whose floral beauties have hidden their heads in the thick 
verdure and shadow from the too ardent caresses of the sun, are now 
radiant with the yellow Golden-rod and the purple Aster ; in the 
brown meadows these flowers are almost put to shame by the rare 
blue of the Gentian. Rising from the meadows through these 
flower-mists of Asters and Golden-rods, gaining intensity of color 
as it reaches the Birches, Maples, Chestnuts, and Oaks, blended to- 
gether and yet made more brilliant by the purple atmosphere, the 
spirit of Beauty in color grows more and more wonderful and mag- 
nificent, till the splendors of the earth rival those of the sunset It 
seems as if a consciousness of the long sleep of winter now near 



ORNAHBNTAL. 163 

at hand had roused the material world to show its gratitude to its 
Lord and Master for his constant care and kindness — for the gentle 
rains and winds of spring — for fiie hot and stimulating suns of 
sununer — for the bounteous harvests of autumn — into one reikmnd- 
ing hallelujah, in whose song the voice of the smallest flower is not 
lost, though blended with the mighty tones of forest and mountain. 

His heart must be dead who can walk the woods and fields now, 
careless or unconscious of the beauty around him. 

The harvest of the farmer is nearly over, and although 



" like coals of fird the apples 

Glow among the withered leaves/' 

he has little more to look for. But now is the very high noon of 
the harvest of beauty, which beginning for the true lover of nature 
in the Violet and May-fiower of the spring, has been constantly 
swelling by brook and river, in the deep valley and up the hill- 
sides, all summer long, till now its fully ripened field is spread 
oat over every foot of the earth's surface, and only waits the sickle 
of the reapers, who may cut and store away in their memories 
seed-grain which shall feed their minds in all the years to come, 
and growing and swelling in them, shall make them fit to partici- 
pate in all the bounties that God so lavishly pours upon his children 
through Nature. 



CHAPTER XXm. 



GREENHOUSE. 




OVEMBER. The work of the Greenhouse 
in November is a continuation of that for 
October. All plants should by this time 
have been housed, for the mo8t hardj cannot 
withstand the frosts which maj come any 
night. It will not be necessary to start fires 
at present, unless we have a long cold rain- 
storm, or a cold " snap." 
This month and the next are the true winter for nearly all the 
plants in the houses. 

Such plants as have been carried in to blossom (Chrysanthe- 
mums, etc.) are of course in their glory, and must have abundance 
of air, sun, and water ; all other plants are to be watered very 
sparingly, and aired often enough to keep them hardy and vigor- 
ous ; there will be a constant tendency to decay and mildew, which 
can be prevented by fresh air and the immediate removal of any 
dead or dying leaves, twigs, etc Water only when there is a 
promise of bright weather, evaporation being slow in the present 
half dormant condition of the plants, and large supplies of water 
being likely to drown the roots. 

Be veiy careful that no cold finds you unprepared. In Novem- 
ber there are often ten days or a fortnight of perfect weather, the 
true Indian Summer ; but the nights are often very much colder 
than would be expected from the warmth of the days. 

If there are any bulbs now going out of flower, as Tuberoses or 
exotic bulbs, which are not to be stimulated during the winter, 
cover them with dry sand or moss, and lay them away in a warm, 
dry place, till spring. 

Shut up the sashes early in the afternoon ; put up the shutters 

164 



QBBBNHOUSE. 165 

and let down the cover for the glass by the time the sun is fairly off 
the house. In this way you may keep a deal of warmth through 
the night. 

The gardener's judgment about keeping up his supply of flowers 
is severely tested in November and December. No good collec- 
tion need ever be destitute of flowers ; but our chief reliance must 
be on the common sorts, and principally on those that were taken 
from the flower^arden ; Roses, Heliotropes, Chrysanthemums, 
Verbenas, and the early-laid Pinks. It is difficult to get much 
variety beyond this. Cinerarias, Callas, Violets, Cyclamens, Pe- 
largoniumis, Nemophilas, should be shifted, as they fill the pot with 
roots ; water the Azaleas sparingly, and give Oranges and Lemons 
but little water till they grow. Camelias need abundant water, 
and occasional showering or washing of leaves, to remove dust 
As the Carnations thrust up flower stems, tie them to sticks ; set 
Pelargoniums near the glass, and bring Tenweek Stocks into the 
bouse near the glass ; keep Spring Roses in cold frames. 

/ka in almost every house many plants are kept for the purpose 
of bedding out in the spring, and others for forcing in early sum- 
mer, one or more good pits should be made to contain them. 

I will describe several kinds of cold or conservative pits, in 
which plants may be kept either dormant or active. They should 
be made about November, to be ready for plants when first re- 
moved from the garden. 

The chief obstacles to wintering plants in pits, is their liability 
to be harmed by vermin, and the difficulty of regulatmg light and 
heat 

A Cheap Pit. — Select a piece of ground sheltered finom the 
prevailing winter winds, and rather level, but with natural drainage 
enough to prevent water standing within 3 feet of the surface. 
Mark out a parellelogram of the proportions 2x3, the length 
running east and west if possible, the width never exceeding 6 
feet ; 4 is better for convenience in managing. Dig this parallel- 
ogram 3 feet deep, and throw the earth out ; into the bottom of 
this cellar, and within three inches of each comer, drive into the 
earth a 3 x 4 joist ; those on the back, 5^ feet long, on the front 



166 NOYSMBER. 

4^ ; this will leave them 18 and 6 inches respectively above the 
surface of the ground To these posts, on the inside all round, 
nail inch boards from the bottom of the pit to the surface of the 
ground ; this leaves a space 6 inches wide between the boards and 
the sides of the cellar ; fill this space with oak tan or manure, well 
trodden or rammed. Now nail inch boards to both sides of the 
joists above ground, and fill the space between with well rammed 
tan. You have now a pit the top of which slopes to the south or 
east. Nail across the top grooved strips of wood, at such distances 
as to receive the edges of sashes and shutters. 

The construction of the pit within will differ, according as the 
plants are to be kept over in pots or not. 

If in pots, cover the bottom of the pit 6 inches deep with stones 
(having first underdrained, if the natural drainage is bad) ; over 
them put 1 foot of oak tan, or coal ashes, into which plunge the 
pots up to the brim ; this may be done any time before the first 
frosts. 

The objects to be sought are dryness, ventilation, and warmth ; 
the first to be secured by drainage, natural or artificial ; the second 
as foUows : cover the firames, as you would a hotbed, with sashes, to 
slide in the grooves before mentioned ; in the early morning and 
late aflemoon keep the sashes dosed, but open them partly in the 
middle of the day until settled cold weather comes. At night 
cover the sashes with mats held in their places by boards ; you 
wiU thus keep a moderate, uniform temperature in the pit Just 
before winter, drive down a post 2 feet from each comer of the pit, 
and on a line 2 feet from the ends \ set those on the back up a 
little higher, and those on the fit>nt a little lower, than the parts of 
the pit-roof nearest them ; board up the outside of these posts, and 
fill in between these boards and the pit with well trodden leaves. 
Bank outside of all with leaves or long manure, as high as the 
shutters and mats. 

The cut shows a section of the pit. a, interior of pit ; B, comer 
posts ; c, inside boarding ; d^ outside boarding above ground ; e, 
sashes, etc ; f, second set of posts ; ^, boards on outside of these ; 
H, tan or leaf filling ; t, outside bank. 

When winter is about to set in, lay the shutters over the glass, 




GREENHOUSE. 167 

over them straw matting, over the mattmg leaves or straw 6 inches 
deep, sloping all to the 
lower side ; cover the whole 
with loose boards to shed 
rain. Make openings from 
the outer air into the pit by 
thrusting a handfol of straw 
at intervals of about 3 feet 
through the covering into 
the pit ; they wiU act as ventilators, the air passing up and down 
the straw. Whenever, during the winter, the outside temperature 
rises above freezing, and promises to stay so even for a few hours, 
uncover the whole top and open the sashes, so as to change the 
air. Before closing the pit in the fall, strew over the surface 
of the earth plenty of poisoned meal or bread, to destroy any 
vermin that may burrow in. When the pit is opened during the 
vnnter, examine it, and remove any decaying plants or dead ver- 
min, and water very slightly with tepid water, but not unless the 
earth in the pots is very dry. 

As spring approaches, the coverings may be gradually removed, 
till the weather allows the plants to be treated as if they were in 
an ordinary hotbed. 

The success of the pit depends. mainly on good drainage, gradual 
hardening of the plants during the fall, and as frequent admission 
of air and light through the winter and spring as possible. 

If the plants are put directly into the earth instead of pots, the 
pit must be managed differently. 

First fill in 6 inches of loose stones, then 1 foot of oak tan, or 
compact short manure ; over this 1 foot of rich loam. As early 
as the middle of September plant in this loam Geraniums, Helio- 
tropes, Verbenas, etc. Treat like a hotbed ; give air and water 
often enough to properly ventilate and stimulate the plants. When 
they seem to be well rooted, and begin to make a new growth, give 
all the air possible. Keep the sashes off whenever the nights are not 
too cold, and gradually reduce the water to a minimum ; be careful 
that they are not touched by fro^, and if necessary cover at night 
with mats or shutters ; the aim being to harden the plants slowly, 



168 



NOVKHBER. 



and by checking their growth to throw them into a dormant state. 
From this point treat as if they were in pots. 
An excellent conservative pit may be made in which to winter all 
kinds of plants, if we have the control of a small amount of heat. 
Such a pit should be a permanent structui-e, and will therefore be 
rather more expensive than the one just described. I do not mean 
what is oflen called a conservative pit, in which flowers can be pro- 
duced during the winter, but one where plants can be ventilated and 
kept in a more healthy condition than in a close pit The objection 
to the pit before described, is that it is unsightly and clumsy, and 
destitute of abundant ventilation ; the one now to be described can 
be in any portion of the ground without offending the eye or the ^ 
nose. There are few or none like it in this country, but it is com- 
mon in England, and recommended by the best English authori- 
ties. 

It is 6 feet wide, 3^ feet high behind, 2^ feet high in front, with 
hollow brick walls, the air chamber thus left being a better non- 
conductor than 9 inches of solid brick, beside affording a means 
for ventilating and heating. Length such as you please. The pit 
may be either wholly or partly above ground. Its site is a matter 
of some importance, to secure ready drainage and convenience in 
warming. It would be well to have it near the greenhouse, the 
dwelling-house, or the bam cellar. The cut shows how it could 
receive warmth from dung, and more, if necessary, from hot-water 
pipes. If the plants to be preserved need 2^ feet in the clear, dig 2 
feet additional of cellar. Cover the bottom with coal ashes to absorb 

any water that may 
fall through. Carry 
up the walls, b 6, 
on the pigeon-hole 
system; t.e., lay 



t;r[ f them so as to leave 
• an open space every 
other brick, the size 
of the end of a brick. When you reach the surface of the ground, 
c, begin to carry up either a solid brick wall 9 inches thick, or a 
double wall ; in the latter case, let the air chamber connect with the 




GREENHOUSE. 169 

pigeon-holes below, so that the air wanned by the lining or the fire, 
may ascend into the air chamber. Carry through the walls near 
the floor, and thence by an elbow to the surface, pipes, g^ 3 inches 
in diameter, and 6 feet apart, with a movable cover, to admit out- 
side air to the bottom of the pit, the chill being taken off in its pas- 
sage through the lining in the chamber d^ and the warming being 
completed by contact with the hot pipes. Build the outer wall, 0, 
of solid brick, 2 feet from the inside wall ; cover d with a lid 
shutting down tight. The heating pipes are shown at A. Build 
a floor, t, about on a level with the surface of the ground, 
of crossed strips of wood, making an open work, through which 
water spilled at any time will fall to the coal ashes below and be 
absorbed ; on this floor the pots are to be set. 

No provision is made for aeration, as no cold air holes are to be 
allowed above the surface in severe weather ; at other times the 
sashes may be raised enough to allow confined air to escape ; but 
fresh air* will be admitted through ft whenever the valve which con- 
trols it at the top is open. 

The chamber between the brick walls at d being filled with well- 
trampled, unfermented stable manure, the heat from this will spread 
through the pigeon-holes in the wall 6, and suffice for all but the 
most severe weather ; this filling must be changed as oflen as it 
loses'its heat. When d is full, shut / and cover it with boards 
and straw. The pipes h h are to be connected with the house fiir- 
nace or boiler or range, or with the boiler in the gi'eenhouse, or 
the smoke-fiue of some constantly used chimney may be carried 
under the fioor. The sashes are movable, and in cold weather 
covered with shutters and mats ; the latter must be large enough 
to cover and lap over the joists. 

When the preservation of the plants is the sole object, it is well 
to let the pit face the north, that the plants may not be too much 
heated and stimulated to grow ; but if a gentle, early growth is 
desired, the aspect should be toward the south or east. In summer 
the sashes can be removed, and in spring the heat can be regulated 
by admitting air. 

No heating pipes or flues would be necessary, if the depth and 
width of d were so increased as to hold a large body of manure, 
15 



170 NOYEMBEB. 

which must be remoYed and renewed, as often as it loses its heat. 
The outer air should always be introduced into the bottom of the 
pit, that it may be warmed before it reaches the plants. Remember 
that perfect dryness is essential to the success of such a pit. 

Many of the half-hardy plants can be carried through the winter 
in a pit thus managed, with but little manure, and that seldom re- 
newed ; the half-hardy Roses ofien live through our winter with 
only a covering of straw, and Pelargoniums and Verbenas can en- 
dure a considerable degree of cold. 

Span-roofed cold-pits made in this manner, cost but little more, 
and like all span-roofed buildings, they are better when light and 
air can be admitted ; but during our severe winters they are pro- 
tected with more difficulty. 

By the use of a peculiarly made rafter, additional wannth maj 

be secured. The cut shows a section of such a 

rafler ; i is a shoulder where the sash rests and 

^ slides ; c is another shoulder where a wooden 

' shutter slides ; a button, a, keeps it in place. The 

- air chamber, 2 inches deep, between h and c, is 

a better protection than an additional shutter. 

November is the proper month for cleaning 
and mending hotbed frames, making new ones, 
and getting them all ready for spring. Hotbeds may be made as 
simply as one pleases, and at a very small cost. The rough and 
cheap kinds answer very well, but require more care and watching 
than the best We have several varieties on our place, which will 
be described hereafter. 

Many half-hardy and even quite tender plants may be safely 
preserved till spring, by freezing them up. Surround them with 
rough deal boxes, leaving the top open until violent freezing 
weather comes on. When they are well frozen cover the tops and 
exclude light and air till the spring is so far advanced as to remove 
danger of hard freezing ; then gradually uncover and fliaw them 
out. In many cases it is not so much the freezing which destroys 
life, as the alternation of frequent freezings and thawings ; this 
may be prevented in the way described. 




CHAPTER XXIV. 



CONSEBYATOKT. 



Thebe is bat little to be done in the conservatoiy this month. 
The general management is the same as in the greenhouse ; but as 
more plants are in blossom than in that house, there is need of more 
heat, lest they be checked and their buds damped off. All that is 
necessary, however, is to keep a mild and uniform temperature, 
water moderately, and give no general syringing except on bright 
days. 

The Camelias are swelling their buds considerably, and if the 
gardener has shown due attention, there will be a good general 
supply of flowers. 

In no month is a beautifiil ooUection of flowers more cheering 
than now, when the glow and beauty of October are slipping away 
to join the by-gone glories of summer. The trees have lost their 
leaves, and the occasional Aster or Golden-rod to be met with in 
our walks, only renders the contrast of naked trees, sere and yel- 
low leaves, frost-burnt grass and deserted garden, more sad. 

There will still be beautiful days, and during the true Indian 
summer, when the skies are full of warm, vague lights, and a mys- 
terious haze clothes every thing and penetrates everywhere, we 
shall bask contentedly in the sunshine ; but such days will soon be 
gone. They are the last lingering kisses sununer is giving the be- 
loved earth ere she goes. They are indeed beautiful, yet always 
sad. Nature seems tearfully bidding good-by to the loveliness 
that lingers in the land ; and as in our memories the pleasures of 
the past are most prominent, and veil with their rosy light and 
pleasant indistmctness the sorrows, the painful experiences, the 
days of sickness and misery, so is the face of the earth suffused 
with the exhaling memories of spring and summer ; the trees and 
rocks and grassy meadows are all bathed in rare purple and golden 

171 



172 KOYEHBER. 

lights, and covered and penetrated with mists and vapors, which 
seem to clothe lovingly and sympathizingly the trunks and limbs 
that have stripped in preparation for their coming contest with the 
winter storms. 

But these tender and precious memories are still those that rise 
as good-by is spoken. As we stroll through the woods, our feet 
rustle in fallen leaves. We look out through naked stems and 
branches over wide views, which but a few weeks ago were hidden 
by thick, leafy curtains. No birds fill the air with cheerful songs, 
though an occasional partridge whirs away before us, or a quail 
rises to find more secret cover. The busy squirrel hastens fix)m 
tree to tree with quick leap and sharp bark, eagerly gathering the 
remaining nuts for his winter's store. Before our walk has been 
carried to half its former length, the shortening day and setting 
sun remind us that home-life and firelight must take the place of 
the prolonged rambles of the summer that is gone. 

In such days we receive peculiar delight upon entering a well- 
filled conservatory, whose fresh, green leaves, bright fiowers, and 
delicious fragrance beguile the senses, and together with the warm 
sun and still air, induce the belief that summer has not gone, but 
has only come in &om the fields without, where she was commdn 
to all, and yet had about her something of the unapproachable and 
grand, to our hearts and homes, that nearness and daily familiarity 
may make us more intimate with her workings, and unlock to us the 
secrets of her growth and perfection ; and, by bringing us closer to 
her may awaken or strengthen our love for her wonders and beau- 
ties, and bring us into sympathy with the floral loveliness so lavishly 
spread on all sides during the growing year. 




o 

H 



( liAiTt ♦*.' 



'I I 



I. M 



CHAPTER XXV. 

GRAPERT. 

The grapery makes but slight demands on the gardenei^s atten- 
tion during this month ; the retarding-house alone needing careful 
watching, as the fruit there begins to ripen, and in order to pre- 
serve it a long time, a uniform and rather low temperature must be 
maintained. During bright, dry weather admit air freely, to 
sweeten and dry the house, but never, do this when it is cloudy or 
damp. Dryness and uniformity of temperature are now the desir- 
able things. If it were possible to darken the house as soon as 
the fruit is fairly ripe, the Grapes could be better preserved, but it 
would be at the expense of the vines. Disbud the vines, as di- 
rected in February. Grapes on vines, retarded in pots, may be 
preserved by setting the pots into a cool, dark room, as most culti- 
vators attach no farther value to these vines, which, like all others, 
are certain to be injured by prolonged darkness. 

Many ingenious plans have been invented for preserving Grapes, 
and with various success. For instance : cut off the bunch, with 
a bit of the wood, by which it may be hung up in a cool, dark, 
dry place, and kept for a long time without shrivelling. 

The berries, however, lie on one another, and often rot ; it has, 
therefore, been proposed to suspend the bunch by a string, tied to 
the stem, near the small end, thus inverting the cluster, so that 
every berry may fall back from its neighbors, and contact be 
avoided ; cut a long cane with the bunch, and set its end in water, 
removing a section occasionally, to ensure absorption. 

Again: lay the bunches in drawers covering, and supporting 
each with cotton batting ; this keeps them pretty well. Undoubt- 
edly the method given before for pears — packing between layers 
of flannel or cotton, in tight buckets, would be excellent for grapes. 
15* 173 



174 NOYEMBEB. 

But the vines are the best place for them as long as thej can w^ 
be kept there. 

* With a separate house or compartment for each kind of vine, the 
fruit could be better preserved, as different vines ripen at different 
seasons, and need different degrees of heat and moisture to bring 
them to, and keep them in, the best condition. But this is not 
within our means. 

Prune vines in forcing-house, and cold gn^ry, as the wood 
ripens ; also the fruit trees. 

Mr. Allen, to whom I have frequently referred, gives, as the 
best vines for retarding-honses, the following names, and prc^r- 
tions. If the house is small, have fewer vines ; if large, more in 
the same proportion. 



Black Hambargh, 


6 


Canmon Hall Muscat, 




MixBcat of Alexandria, 


S 


White Hambnrgh, 




Zinfindal, 


1 


Escholata Muscat, 




Black Lombardy, 


5 


White Nice, 




Wortlyhall SeedUng, 


3 


Bed Lombardj, 




Tottenham Park Miucat, 


1 


Queen of Nice, 




Syrian, 


3 


Bowker, 




Black Damascus, 


I 


Bishop, 




Black Prince, 


I 


Black Portugal, or Ferran, 




Old Black St. Peter's, 


1 


Prince Albert, 





Tempebatube. — To ensure the right temperature in all our 
houses, during November and December, it is necessary to watch 
the thermometer closely, and have the fires ready to kindle at a 
moment's notice. Our climate is treacherous in these months, and 
we often have several days of unexpected and severe finost, fol- 
lowed by many of mild and charming weather. 

Now, and in future, it is very important to preserve a standard 
and uniform degree of moisture in the house ; and the only accu- 
rate means of determining moisture and warmth is the hygrometer 
or double-bulbed thermometer. By this instrument you may easily 
ascertain the precise amount of heat and moisture present in the 
air at any one time. To understand it, and its use, we must revert 
to the general laws which govern the atmosphere. 

The evaporation which goes on so rapidly beneath a summer 



GBAPSBT. 175 

SOD, is water assuming the form of vapor, and rising in accordance 
irith the general laws of gases. Grases do not generallj, when 
mixed together, form a single gas, but only a mixture, like sand and 
water. Thus the vapor, in the air, spreads itself bj its own elastic- 
ity, dependent on its temperature, or is carried about in currents 
of moving air. The amount of vapor which a cubic foot of space 
can contain, depends solely on its temperature ; although the time 
required to fill that space with vapor, from water of the same tem- 
perature, depends on the density of the air in it, by which the ex- 
pansion of the vapor is retarded. If air, containing all the vapor 
which its temperature admits, be chilled in any degree, a part of 
its vapor will be changed into water, in a state of very minute sub- 
division, which will float like dust in the air ; this is fog, mist, or 
cloud. If the air is at 70^, but contains only as much vapor as 
might be held by air of 57^, ' it is plain that mist would not be 
formed until the air was cooled down to 57^. The degree to which 
air must be cooled, to make the vapor in it turn to water, is called 
the dewpoint ; and the dewpoint evidently shows the quantity of 
water in the air. 

When the dewpoint is high, and the air is by any means forced 
to ascend, and thus by expansion and other causes, to be cooled, 
clouds are formed. The upward motion of the air is indicated by 
the barometer's falling. 

When any surface is colder than the dewpoint, it chills the ad- 
jacent vapor into dew. The simplest exemplification of this 
is seen when a cold surface is held over a steaming kettle, and 
condenses into drops the water which we see in the form of steam ; 
and when a film of water collects on the outside of a glass of 
iced water, in summer, the same operation is repeated, the only 
difference being that the watery vapor has before been invisibly 
diffused in the air, instead of being visible as steam. The cold, 
condensing surface which nature holds to collect a portion of the 
unseen moisture in the atmosphere, as dew, as the surface of the 
earth, and the things upon it Dew fiUls by night, and not by day, 
because the sun-heats prevents the earth from cooling during the 
day, though it is radiating (t.e., parting with) its heat as constantly 



176 NOTSMBBB. 

at one time as at another. All night long the earth gives off heat, 
while it receives none in return, and thus it becomes colder than 
the air that is nearest it, and begins to take heat from the air, %^^ 
becomes at once a cold, condensing surface, and dew is deposited 
on it Remember that cold surfaces become condensers in virtue 
of their power to draw awaj that heat from the air, on which, as 
has been said, its power of containing vapor partly depends. The 
mpiditj with which dew is deposited depends, therefore, on the 
warmth of moisture in the air, and on the difference hetweean its 
temperature and that of the earth ; cold condenses moisture as 
the hand squeezes a sponge, and when either the air or the sponge 
is nearly as full of moisture as it can hold, jbl slight squeeze brings 
out the water. 

Objects with a large amount of surface in proportion to their 
bulk, as is the case with grass and trees, radiate heat most rapidly, 
and are, of course, the best condensers, as may be seen by the 
greater amount of dew on them than on smooth ground or boards. 
In cold nights the dew freezes as it forms, and we have frost 

Independently of the cooling influence of the earth, the atmos- 
phere cools somewhat at night, though its power of radiation is as 
small as its power of absorbing the heat radiated into it 

It is for this reason that a covering of mats in a cloudy night 
protects plants from frost — the mats or clouds acting as a screen 
to prevent the escape of the heat which the earth is radiating, and 
to shut it in about the surface which they cover. 

Understanduig, then, that the power of the atmosphere to con- 
tain watery vapor depends mainly on its temperature, its heat, 
and the amount of moisture already contained in it, we see the 
value of an instrument .by which these two conditions, the heat, 
and extent of saturation, may be ascertained ; in connection with 
the barometer it enables us to foresee changes of weather. The 
hygrometer is a thermometer with two bulbs and stems ; about one 
of the bulbs a bit of cambric is fastened by one end, while the 
other falls into a cup of water, placed just beneath the bulb, and 
thus keeps the bulb constantly wet, and at the temperature of 
water standing exposed in the atmosphere, to which temperature 
the air must closely assimilate before any rain can fall, and this 



ORAPERT. 177 

temperatare may be read off bj the height of the mercury in the 
wet tube, while that in the other tube shows the temperature of 
the air not in contact with the wet bulb. 

So long as there is much difference in the temperatures shown 
by the two thermometers, there will be no general deposition of 
moisture, dew, nor especially rain, for that cannot take place till the 
general temperature approaches the dew point. But the upper 
strata of air may be at this point, and the probability of rain is 
greater or less in proportion to the distance of air thus saturated, 
and cooled from the earth's surface. The air cools 1^° and the 
dew point sinks 1** for every 100 yards that we rise above the 
earth. 

If the barometer is falling while the difference of temperature 
between the two tubes of the hygrometer is slight, it is plain that 
we may expect a change of weather soon, at the surface level ; 
and this will come the sooner if the sky is crowded with cirro 
cumuli clouds, — particularly if the cumuli have flat, bases, — the 
cirrus at such times showing a very moist state of the upper air. 

By the following formula the probability of wet weather may 
be calculated from, the hygrometer, the barometer being examined 
at the sam^ time. When there is a difference of 20° between the 
wet and dry bulbs clouds can scarcely form ; but they form when 
the difference is reduced to 10° or 12°, and then rain may be ex- 
pected, provided the barometer is falling. 

Multiply the diffDrence between Wet Bulb and Dry Bulb by 



40° 


450 


2.3 


450 


500 . 


2.1 


50O 


550 


2.0 


550 


6OO 


1.8 


600 


65^ 


1.8 


650 


70° 


1.7 




above 700 


1.5 



Subtract the product from the figures of the dry bulb in the same 
line, — that is, from the temperature of the air, — and you have 
the dew point When the two bulbs are within a few degrees of 



178 NOVEMBER. 

each other, a very slight commotion in the atmosphere wiU pro- 
duce rain. Thusy suppose 

Dry Bnlb. Wet Balb. 

70° — 65^ = 5° X 1.7 = 8° 
70^^— 8° = 62° = dew point 

To this point the atmosphere will often cool in summer, and 
in all cases where the multiplying factor is 1.1, or when, in 
other words, the thermometers are near the same point, rain is 
threatening, and will fall soon. For the general use of horticul- 
ture, it is enough to compare the two thermometers of the hy- 
grometer, without making a calculation, for this tells accurately 
enough to what extent the air is saturated. 

Thus in the retarding-house in November, we can ascertain at a 
glance whether the air is too moist, or if with the air in the forcing 
house at a given temperature we wish to increase the moisture, 
we can proceed with perfect certainty of success. 

It is also a great assistance, in connection with the barometer, 
to the haymaker, in deciding up<Hi the weather to be expected. 
And it is the general service which the instrument md!y render in 
the hands of a careful experimenter, which has induced me to en- 
lai^e to such an extent as I have, on the subject 

The Forcing-House. — This house needs only to be kept 
clear of all decaying matter, ventilated freely, and kept at a uni- 
form temperature, and, as before said, pruned if the wood is ripe. 
So with the 

Cold Grapert. — Keep the vines here as cool as possible, 
without risk of injury from frost. As soon as the leaves begin to 
fall, early in the month, cut back all this year's cane, excepting 4 
feet ; cut the spurs which have fruited back to the new wood, and 
those which have not, to one eye which may bear next year. 
This is a good time to cut out all spurs that crowd each other, 
leaving the permanent spurs not less than 8 inches apart an the 



GRAPERY. 179 

mxmt iide of the stem. Clean the graperj thoroughly, and white- 
wash the walls, mixing a little sulphur with the wash. Dress the 
vines, as directed for Peaches in February, with the sulphur wash ; 
towards the close of the month, unfasten them from the trellisses 
and lay them down for the whiter, and as the weather becomes 
cold, cover with mats. 



CHAPTER XXVL 



FLOWER-GARDEK. 



November is the last month of the flower-garden for this calen- 
dar year ; now is to be done every thing left unfinished m the pre- 
ceding months. Finish planting any bulbs yet on hand. They may 
be planted, indeed, any time before the frost comes, but will blos- 
som better, if planted early enough to make roots in the autumn. 
The beds should be covered with litter ; common Tulips, Hya- 
cinths, Narcissus, and Crocuses, need very slight protection ; the 
depth of an inch or two of old litter, straw, or leaves, scattered 
over the bed, is enough ; indeed, they are so hardy that they can 
stand the frost without any covering at all, but they flower earlier 
and better if they are covered. The choice varieties should be 
protected, with some well-rotted compost added to the litter. 

You may still, if there is room in the greenhouse, etc, take up 
Daisies and Pansies, Gilly and WaU-flowers, which have not blos- 
somed, for winter forcing. Daisies may be carried through the 
winter in blossom, if transplanted now, with a good ball of earth, 
into a common hotbed frame. As soon as planted, put in the 
sashes, and keep them warm enough to start them ; then admit air 
freely, so as to harden them. From this time, keep the sashes 
on only enough to shut out the frost; cover them with mats 
and leaves on very cold days ; admit air whenever it is possible. 
The Daisies will begin to blossom, if attended to by the last of 
March, and continue till the hotbeds can be removed from around 
them. The same treatment of English Violets and Pansies will 
insure a large yeild of flowers early in the spring. 

Ranunculuses and Anemones in this latitude are very difi&cuit 
to raise, unless protected through the winter in some such way as 
I have just described ; some of the latter are so tender as to need 
as much care and attention as a cold pit 

180 



FLOWEB-OARDEK. 181 

Early in the month, or before the ground freezes, take up all 
bulbs not hardy, as Tuberose, Madeira Vine, Lilies, Amaryllis, 
Gladiolus, etc ; dry them carefully and pack them away in dry 
sand till it is time to start them in the spring. The foliage of 
some of these bulbs will have already perished, while that of 
others will be green unless touched by the frost Allow the tops 
of the latter to dry before you separate them from the roots after 
they are taken up. The sap contained in the tops will settle into 
and ripen the bulbs. 

The Polyanthus is quite hardy in this latitude, but the choice kinds 
flower much more abundantly when covered during the winter. 

Carnations, also, though hardy, are sometimes killed by being 
started in the warm days in February and March, and ought to be 
protected by a light covering of litter. 

Select from your bulbs such as are to blossom in glasses or pots, 
in the greenhouse, conservatory, or dwelling-house, in the spring, 
and plant them or set them into glasses. For this purpose select 
none but the ripest and healthiest-looking bulbs, as any others will 
give a weak and spindling growth, and perhaps prove deficient in 
flowers. The bulbs fitted for such growth are Tulip, Hyacinth, 
Dwarf-Iris, Polyanthus, Narcissus, Crocus, and Jonquil. Regular 
bulb glasses are the best things to use ; set the bulb into the neck 
of the glass and fill with water until it just covers the crown of 
the bulb. If you take a large glass, and cover the mouth with 
coarse wire gauze, you can set into it several kinds of bulbs, which 
will blossom together. 

Protect the tender Rhododendrons, Half Hardy Roses, Mahonia, 

and, indeed, all tender Evergreen or deciduous shrubs, with bass 

mats. Evergreen branches, or straw. For the Evergreens it will 

be enough to stand branches of Pine or Hemlock closely around 

them ; what they need is protection, not so much against cold as 

against the sun's rays in the early spring. Most of the other plants 

should have straw bands twisted around them, but not in thick 

masses, as the straw is liable to get wet, or heat and decay, and 

thus destroy the plant. Standard Roses should be laid down on 

the earth, where they may be held by long forked sticks, and 

covered with straw or leaves, overlaid with branches of Evergreen. 
16 



182 NOVEMBER. 

Bengal and China Roses must be covered either with earth or 
deep litter ; Musk, Noisette, and Ayrshire should b^ well wrapped 
in straw and mats ; Bourbon in light litter ; Hyb. Bourbon, Hjb. 
Chinese, Hyb. Perpetual should be lightly wrapped in straw ; 
Provence, French Moss, Rose Alba, and other garden Roses should 
be pruned and have a little manure piled about their roots and be 
left. Prune all hardy Roses before covering, leave tender kinds 
till March or April. For Rose culture see June and July. 

Examine the borders and remove every weed, and, if possible, 
dig them over, also the flower-beds and borders, so that the 
loosened earth may admit the frost freely, to crumble stones and 
clods, and kill the eggs of insects and the seeds of weeds. Any 
beds that will need manure next summer should have a good 
dressing of long and nnfermented manure now ; this being dug in 
will, during the winter, ferment and decay, and bring the soil into 
fine condition for next season's culture. 

As you will want next spring and summer a variety of compost, 
make into convenient heaps old leaves, straw manure, wood mould, 
muck and clay, or sand. These mixed with lime and ashes will 
make excellent compost, ready for use when you want it. 

Examine the gravel walks, — dig out any weeds that have been 
left, and put on and roll well such gravel as is needed ; the frost 
will mix it with the old stock, and another rolling in the spring 
will give us paths in firstrate order. 

Baskets and all wire-work should be removed now into the tool- 
room for the winter, and the beds enclosed with wire-work be well 
dug over. 

Look over the vines on trellises; clear away dead branches, 
prune off all straggling ends, and tie the vines carefully to the 
supports, lest the winter winds thresh them about ; untie and cover 
with straw or mats the tender Roses and Bignonias. 

Most of the perennials should have been planted in October, 
but it is not too late any time Before hard frosts. I will accordingly 
now give a plan for planting one of our beds with perennials, and 
bedding out plants, to produce an agreeable effect. 

See plan, beds R. The numbers on the plan refer to the 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



183 



heights of plants ; 1 for the highest, and so on. The following is 
the list of plants for those beds : — 



Tbne of Flower. 


aught. 


(Mor. No. Plants. 


No.l. SazifWige, 


May, 


Sin. 


white, 


1. 


UTularis grandi- 










flora, 


*i 


1 ft 


yeUow, 


2. 


Primula, 


« 


** 


yellow, red. 


1. 


Double Ragged 






' 




Robin, 


« 


" 


red, 


1. 


Purple Lupin, 


June, 


2fk. 


blue, 


.1. 


Iris, 


<< 


aft. 


blue, white. 


3. 


Blackberry Lily, 


« 


18 in. 


yellow, 


1. 


Spirea, 


<i 


(( 


various, 


2. 


Lychnis. 


" 


2 ft. 


scarlet, 


3. 


Fraxinella, 


July. 


II 


blue. 




Monarda, 


« 


•• 


white, scarlet, 


3. 


Hibiscus, 


It 


" 


various. 


3. 


LUy, • 


(( 


1 to 3 ft. 


tt 


4. 


No. 2. Solomon's Seal, 


May, 


1 ft. 


white, 


3. 


Columbine, 


tt 


u 


various, 


4. 


Primula, 


** 


" 


yellow, red. 


2. 


Hairy Phlox, 


June, 


6 in. 


red. 


1. 


Canadian Lily, 


« 


II 


i< 


2. 


Garden Pink, 


it 


II 


sorts. 


6. 


Campanula, double 










and single, 


«« 


u 


tt 


3. 


Flax, 


« 


« 


blue and yellow, 


2. 


Double Lychnis, , 


July, 


1 ft. 


scarlet, 


2. 


Antirrhinum, 


" 


1 ft. to 6 in. 


sorts, 


3. 


Lily, 


t* 


II 


II 


3. 


Aster double. 


Aug. 


II 


tt 


12. 


Ladies Tresses, 


(( 


6 in. 


white, 


2. 


Achillea, 


Aug., Sept., 


I ft. 


red, white. 


2. 


Asters Single, 


€t << 




sorts. 


6. 


No. 3. Moss Pink or 










Phlox, 


May, 


Gin. 


red, white. 


2. 


Pulmonaria, 


€t 


II 


purple, 


I. 


Lily of the Valley, 


(t 


II 


white. 


many. 




June, 


•* 


white, blue. 


2. 


Campanula, 


July, 


I ft. 


blue, white. 


2. 



In No. 3 room is to be left for some of the bedding plants. For 



184 



NOVEMBER. 



such a bed, place in the back part near the larger perennials, sev- 
eral roots of Sage ; Mexican and Large Purple. Coming forward 
in the bed, put in Orange Lantana, Heliotrope, Pelargonium (Tom 
Thumb, HorseHBhoe, etc.), Trailing Lantana, and Verbena ; in front, 
along the edge of the path, will be sown Mignonette and Sweet 
Alyssum. 





UKD 


K. 








Time of flowsr. 


Height. 


Color. No. 


Plants. 


No. 1. Pedicalaris, 


May, 


1 ft. 


yeUow, 


2. 


Uvularia, 


it 


" 


" 


2. 


Dielytra, 


tt 


" 


red. 


1. 


Peony, 


" 


** 


red, white. 


3. 


PeAstemon, 


June, 


2^ ft. 


white, 


I. 


Doable Larkspur, 


" 


3 ft. 


blue, 


2. 


Vervain, 


« 


2 ft. 


it 


1. 


Peony, 


t€ 


3 ft. 


white. 


1. 


FraxinellA, 


July, 


2 ft. 


blue, white. 


1. 


Dracooephalom, 


*• 


3 ft. 


pink. 


2. 


My. 


'• 


1-3 ft. 


sorts. 


4. 


Cotonanche, 


August, 


2 ft. 


blue, 


1. 


Galliardia, 


(( 


2 ft. 


orange. 


1. 


Yucca, 


<i 


2-3 ft 


whit«. 


2. 


Hemerocallis, 


i( 


*• 


blue, white. 


3. 


Cassia, 


If 


3 ft. 


yellow. 


1. 


Golden-rod, 


Aug., Sept., 


1-3 ft. 


tt 


2. 


Asclepias, 


(1 « 


2 ft. 


red, yellow. 


1. 


Coreopsis, 


U tt 


2 ft. 


yellow. 


2. 


Chrysanthemum, 


September, 


1-3 ft. 


sorts. 


12. 


Gentian, 


« 


2 ft. 


blue. 


2. 


No. 2. Saxifrage, 


Blay. 


18 in. 


white. 


1. 


Delphineum, 


(( 


tt 


blue, 


2. 


Dodecatheon, 


tt 


" 


red. 


1. 


Soapwort, 


June, 


I ft. 


« 


2. 


Double Rocket, 


" 


*• 


white. 


3. 


Lily, 


tt 


1 to 3 ft. 


sorts. 


1. 


Senecio aurea. 


tt 


I ft. 


yellow, 


3. 


Antirrhinum, 


it 


1 ft. 


sorts, 


I. 


Aconite, 


" 


1 to 3 ft. 


blue, 


2. 


Chelone. 


Jaiy, 


1 ft. 


white, 


2. 


Double Lychnis, 


tt 


I ft. 


red. 


2. 


Perpetual Pea, 


tt 


2 ft. 


(1 


1. 


Fumitory, 


tt 


1 ft. 


pink. 


2. 





FLOWER-OARDEN. 




185 




Time or flower. 


Height. 


Color. No. 


plantfl. 


No. 2. Lobelia, 


July, 


1 ft. 


blue, red, 


3. 


Phlox, July, Aug., Sept; 


,1-3 ft. 


sorts, 


10. 


Coreopsis, 


July, Aug., 


a'ft. 


yellow. 


3. 


Wild Aster, 


Aug., Sept., 


2 ft. 


sorts. 


3. 


Golden-rod, 


«« (( 


2 ft. 


yellow, 


3. 


No. 3. Solomon's Seal, 


May, 


1 ft. 


white. 


2. 


Columbine, 


«( 


6 in. 


sorts. 


3. 


Violets, 


t€ 


i( 


ft 


6. 


Polemonaim, 


U 


tt 


blue, 


2. 


LUy of die Valley, 


tt 


white. 


3. 


Iris dwarf. 


it 


1 ft. 


blue. 


3. 


Hairy Phlox, 


June, 


6 in. 


blue. 


2. 


Garden Pinks, 


it 


tt 


pink, 


3. 


Campanala, 


June, July, 


1 ft. 


sorts, 


6. 


Spiderwort, 


tt « 


u 


blue, 


I. 


Sedam, 


(1 <t 


6in. 


white. 


1. 


Lysimachia Nun 


i- 








mnlaria, 


(( « 


2 in. 


yellow, 


3. 


Mallows, 


July, Aug., 


1 ft. 


white. 


1. 


Chinese Lychnis, 


August, 


1 ft. 


orange, 


1. 


Ladies' Tresses, 


« 


tt 


white. 


2. 


Asters, double, 


Aug., Sept., 


1-2 ft 


sorts. 


12. 


Achillea, 


tt tt 


1 ft. 


red. 


1. 


Eupatorinm, 


September, 


1 ft. 


blue and white, 


1. 


Chrysanthemum, 










dwarf, 


tt 




sorts. 


6. 



Plant among these the same bedding plants as before, using as 
annuals, Candytuft, Gillia, etc ; add, in the first class. Dahlias and 
Hollyhocks, in the second. Tuberose, Gladiolus, Amaryllis, and 
Japan Lily, etc. 

The question arises here of the grouping of these plants in their 
different sizes and classes ; but no rule need be given except that 
of placing the taller ones in the background, that they may not 
conceal the others. In setting out bedding-plants care must be 
taken also to give harmonious effects of color. This subject will 
be more fully entered upon in the summer. 

Here we leave the flower-garden until April and May with their 
soft showers and warm sun and winds shall have cleared away the 
effects of the winter's frosts, and prepared the earth for its work again. 

16* 



CHAPTER XXVn. 

KITCHEN-OARDEN. 

The question of the profit or loss of our kitchen-garden will be 
settled this month, for there will be no more income or expendi- 
ture till another season. 

But first comes a very busy time ; for we must not only finish 
all our harvesting, but prepare for spring work, and look to the 
proper protection of the various crops which are to be kept throu^ 
the winter, either for consumption or spring culture. 

Lettuce, Cabbage, and all small salads m ^frames, are to be fre- 
quently aired, to make them as hardy as possible. As the month 
advances, the cold will become more severe ; there wiU be some 
days when the sashes must not be liAed at all, and must be covered 
with mats. When winter fiurly sets in, cover the sashes with 
straw and leaves, enough to keep out the frost and the early spring 
sun. 

The very first of the month, thin the Spinach plants and the 
Com Salad, so that they may get hardy before winter. Handle 
them carefiiUy, as the leaves are tender, and if broken at all, are 
very susceptible to the frost ; when winter is close at hand, strew 
over them loose straw or branches of evergreen trees ; the plants 
are hardy, but a slight covering will forward the growth of the 
leaves in the early spring. Cover young Onions in same way. 

Earth Celery and Cardoons, etc, in the course of the month, 
but only in dry weather, and make preparations for housing them 
before settled cold weather. The best way is to use one of the 
hotbed frames ; plant the Celery in rows, at the bottom of the 
frame, and fill in carefully to the top with well-packed, just-moist 
sand ; then lay on the sashes ; during mild weather give air, at al) 
other times keep well covered with mats and litter, but ventilate. 

186 



KITCHEK-OABDEN. 187 

It can be planted the same way in the cellar, bat it is likely to 
rot unless kept cool and dry. 

Another way of planting, inferior to the above, but still good, is 
to select a row that runs north and south. Dig the rest of the 
Celery, and bring it to this row. Take the plants which have 
been dug, and lay them closely against the unbroken row, planting 
the roots a little way in the ground. Having laid one row on each 
side the ridge, cover slightly with sand, or dry loam, and lay 
another row, and so on until you have laid all you have, or until 
the ridge is as wide as can be easily managed. Cover the sides 
with not less than 6 inches of loam, laid over with straw, haulm, 
or leaves. Cover the top with litter. Drive down a post at each 
comer of your now oblong mound, and others at intervals of 10 
feet along each side, the tops being about level with the top of the 
ridge. Connect the tops of the posts with a stringer, or wall-plate 
of 2 X S joist Upon this walUplate erect a roof, pitched just 
enough to shed rain ; this roof may be made by nailing boards 
lapped over each other like shingles. The space between the top 
of the ridge and the roof should be filled with litter, and the ends 
of the ridge banked up in the same manner as the sides. The 
Celery and Cardoons are now safe from frost ; and if the ridge is 
opened only at the ends, and closed up again carefully, its contents 
may be taken out whenever wanted, and will be fit to use until 
spring. To avoid the expense of a roof, you can use haulm, or 
straw, thatched enough to shed rain. It is a good way to pack the 
side rows, tops and leaves down, and roots up, as when thus laid 
no water can get into the heart of the plant, and it needs less pro- 
tection. In all cases ventilate like Turnips with straw. 

Cabbages and Cauliflowers are to be preserved in the same way. 
Pull the Cabbages and lay them upside down on the ground, for a 
time, to allow all the moisture to draia out ; pull off the loose out- 
side leaves, and then take them to a well sheltered spot, and plant 
them up to the head ; when planted, cover like Celery. Another 
very good way is to build them up into a few triangular stacks, 
then thatch and cover as before. The worst way is to keep them 
in a cellar, unless it be very cool and dry. If any of them are 



188 NOVEMBER. 

frozen before harvesting, leave them in the ground to thaw, as they 
are more likely to decay if pulled up when frozen. 

Late Cauliflowers and Broccoli will produce heads as long as 
the absence of frost will allow ; break leaves down over the heads 
to protect them against sudden rain or cold. 

Finish harvesting the Root crops, as directed last month. If 
there is not room in the root cellar, the following is the best way 
to preserve them. 

Choose a warm and protected comer of a well-drained field, 
and there make a furrow nearly 2 feet deep, by running your ditch 
plough several times in the same line, north and south. Lay the 
Boots into the furrow in a neatly built triangular stack, throw back 
the earth all over the Roots, to the depth of a foot, and cover the 
whole with straw. At intervals of 4 feet set a small bundle of 
straw on its buts on the Turnips, so that the straw will reach into 
the air through the earth, and will serve as a ventilator, to prevent 
the Turnips heating and growing. Open when you want a supply 
at the southern end, in a bright, warmish day. 

All tubers may be easily and cheaply kept through the winter 
in this way. 

The last Roots to be cared for are the Turnips sown in August 
If left in the ground, freezing and thawing will injure them but 
little, and it is better to have them so, than to put them into warm 
cellars. Very small Turnips often remain in the ground through 
the winter, and start afresh in the spring, if slightly protected with 
straw or evergreen. The same is to be done with those Parsnips, 
Oyster Plants, and Horse-radish, which you do not intend to 
stack, that they may be easily dug. in the spring. All these Rootf^ 
are better off in the ground than stored in cellars. But a better 
way than either is to pack them in sand or coal ashes, in hotbeds, 
as directed for Celery. 

Take up Sea-Kale, Endive, Chicory, Asparagus, and Strawber- 
ries, for forcing. 

At every spare moment continue to dig in long manure and 
haulm, and to dig over, without manure, those beds that do not 
need it. Collect all litter, leaves, and rubbish, and carry them to 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 189 

the hog-pen, if you have no other use for them. They disfigure 
the grounds when lefl on them, and will be blown about by the 
winter winds. See that by spring all the manure gets sufficient 
fermentation to kill the seeds of weeds which have been mixed 
with the heaps during summer. 

Our kitchen-garden covers several acres, and is laid out in 
straight lines and right angles. All I have said about it applies, 
of course, to a garden definitely located, and in successful opera- 
tion ; but I shall now devote a little space to the consideration of 
the general principles which should govern the selection and pre- 
paration of a spot for a kitchen-garden. 

As to selection one must, of course, be limited by the nature 
of his estate; but the liest soil is a deep, rich, sandy loam; 
the best exposure, a hill-side, sloping to the south or east, down 
to level meadow or valley, for here earlier vegetables can be 
grown than on level surface. This is in accordance with the prin- 
ciples referred to in my remarks on the angle to be selected for the 
roof of a greenhouse ; viz., that the sun gives most heat when it 
is most nearly over our heads ; in other words, that any surface is 
most heated by those rays which are perpendicular to it Now, in 
die spring, when the sun is low in the heavens, the surface of level 
ground gets no rays, which approximate to the perpendicular, but 
a hill-side, during the middle of the day, receives rays which are 
very nearly perpendicular, and are, therefore, absorbed, instead of 
being reflected and wasted. 

But this increased supply of heat ceases to be an advantage as 
the summer advances, and the heat increases, for then the level 
land has enough, and the hill-side is dried up. In the fidl perpen- 
dicular rays are again in demand, and the hill-side is again prefer- 
able to the level for gardening purposes. We see at once, then, 
what varieties of crops to grow on difierent surfaces, and how to 
vary our garden culture. The hill-side will give us early Radishes, 
Lettuce, Peas, Com, Cucumbers, Tomatoes, Melons; the level 
ground will follow with later Lettuce, Peas, and Com, Beans, 
Roots of various kinds, Celery, and the later Salads. 

It is well, then, that a kitchen-garden should include both level 



190 KOVEKBEB. 

and sloping ground, but it is vain to expect good crops from either 
unless they are well drained; thorough drainage, either natural or 
artificial, being as essential here as on the fium. 

But the quality of soil, and the character of surface are not the 
only considerations in selecting a spot for the kitchen-garden ; its 
position in relation to the house and the grounds in general is im* 
portant Let it be near the stables and ho^-pens, the framing 
ground and the hotbeds, if there be proper ground in that neigh- 
borhood ; but wherever located, let it be for convenience, and not 
for concealment, as is so often advised. There seems to be a gen- 
eral feeling that a kitchen-garden cannot be in harmony with oma* 
mental grounds, and must, therefore, be removed £rom them, lest 
the sight of it mar our enjoyment of th^ beauty. Now it is not 
only a necessity, but it may be an ornament to every estate, as 
much as the lawn or the flower-garden. What though its arrange^ 
ment be rectangular, while curves preponderate in the other 
grounds ? the two are not necessarily at variance ; the effect of 
each may be much heightened by the contrast which the other pr&> 
sents. The love of the beautiful is oflen developed and the mind 
kept active and appreciative by the stimulus of judicious contrast, 
and a man of taste, who had avoided straight lines, sharp angles, 
and every thing like formality over the rest of his grounds, might 
well display all these in a kitchen-garden, as an expedient for in- 
creasing the enjoyment which he derives from the general grace 
and ease of the place. No better reason can be given for adopting 
such an arrangement in a kitchen-garden, and were it the only rea- 
son it would be sufficient, for I hold that convenience is a consider- 
ation secondary to beauty, and that this is the true order of motive 
in all cases where the means of a proprietor are large enough to 
justify him io gratifying his taste. 

But this desire for contrast is not the only reason for adopting 
the rectangular arrangement Where single rows of trees or es- 
paliered fruit are to be grown, and where much of the culture will 
be on a scale large enough to employ a horse, the permanent lines 
should be straight, if possible ; for curved or irregular boundaries 
are a great^ inconvenience when teams must be frequently driven 
or turned close to them. 



KITCHBN-OARDEN. 



191 



a ' s ' a • B * s 



9 9 , 



1^ ! — 



!'- - 



OfOEX. 

i_ 84Pean. ' 16 Peaches. 

i 6 Plumi. 4 OheniM. 
|L lOGnpM. 4Ilg8. 


i - s 


• 1. In Tk—.-r j1j» V\ 


C„.. ' D, Dwarf oo^ aO. 


1 , reacDflB, mm. 
K, Flam, 4. 
e, Cnrrants, 100. 
g, GooflberriM, 26. 
IZTXX Black and Thimblebetriei. 

11 -StrawberrteB. 


- .. .. 'IiKubH^r^^ - - - -. 



«^^ 



^m 



192 NOVEMBER. 

• 

H6w TO LAY OUT A KiTCHEN-GARDEN. — The spot Selected, its 
preparation is' the next question. 

First for the level portion. Decide how many trees or grape 
vines you wish to have on espaliers, how many standard fruit trees, 
how many dwarfs, and then stake out, just 15 feet within the limits 
of the level portion, a walk, B, not less than 6 feet wide, and sur- 
rounding the square. 

The space between this path and the boundaries all round is for 
a border. From B, in the middle of each side of the square, cany 
in both directions a path also 6 feet wide ; this will ^ve four side 
entrances. Having staked out your paths, dig them out froOi 1 to 
3 feet deep, and spread the eailh on the acyoining ground. Now 
trench the remaining surface 2 feet deep (digging it over, the 
whole depth of a digging-fork, is the best course for those who 
cannot afford to trench) ; throw out every stohe as large as an egg ; 
collect these stones and empty them into the open paths, until they 
are filled within 6 inches of the adjoining surface. Then send a 
nian with a small stone-hammer to lay these stones smooth, crown- 
ing them so that the middle of the 6 feet path may be at least 2 
inches higher than its sides ; as he does this let him break into 
fragments every stone larger than an English walnut, and thus 
smooth the sur&oe still more thoroughly, and bind the whole well 
together. Over his work lay 3 inches of gravel — coarse, but free 
from large stones ; as it is laid in heaps on the stones let a man rake 
it toward him, bringmg along the stones which his rake takes out, 
and covering them with the fine gravel remaining behind. When 
all the gravel is laid, the surface of the path will be perfectly 
unifoim ; then roU it well to bind and harden the whole. Such a 
path will never be troubled with weeds. 

Having made the paths, estimate how long a range of espaliers 
is desirable ; you can do this by multiplying the number of trees 
and vines to be grown on espaliers by 10 ; or, if your limits are 
cbnfined, by 8 feet ; espaliered fruit may be grown as near as this 
without danger of injuring the trees. If there be enough to sur- 
round the whole garden, begin at one corner and 6 feet from the 
boundary ; set posts 9 feet long and at least 3 feet in diameter into 
the earth to the depth of 3 feet, and 8 feet apart, or fasten tbem by 



KITCHEN-OABDEN. 



193 




iron straps to blocks of stone, 
sunk in the ground ; connect 
them by two transverse bars 
2 inches square, the first of 
which may be screwed to the 
posts at the distance of one 
foot from the ground; the sec- '^J 
ond at the same distance from § 
the top of the posts ; now ^ 
fasten to the bars, and perpendicular to them, strips one inch square 
and 6 inches apart ; give the whole at least two coats of dark- 
colored mineral paint If the amount of espaliers decided on is 
not enough to surround the whole garden, put them up on the north 
side first, then on the west, then east, last south. In our climate 
good fruit may be grown on espaliers facing the north. 

It will be well at this stage of proceedings to erect along the 
north and west sides a fence or screen of some kind against cold 
winds, unless the garden is suflSciently sheltered by high woods or 
land in the immediate vicinage, in which case a hedge will answer 
all purposes; make it of thorn if you wish to exclude vermin. 
An Evergreen hedge is best for beauty and warmth, and if you will 
have the kitchen-garden screened from observation, summer and 
winter, nothing but Evergreen or boards will answer your purpose ; 
for a summer screen the espaliers and the foliage on them will be 
quite sufficient Of course something more is necessary if you are 
exposed to thieves. 

The espaliers just described are cheap, and in the opinion of 
many are the best kind ; others prefer iron and wire for material 

They should be put up in all gardens where high cultivation is 
practised, as they give a large amount of fruit in proportion to the 
surface covered, without materially shading the ground. They 
may be made against the dead walls of buildings, garden walls, etc., 
and enable the cultivator to grow many rather tender kinds of 
fruit (even figs), the degree of success varying with the locality. 
By means of them Nectarines, Plums, and any fruit usually attacked 
by insects may be made an almost certain crop. Different kinds 
of insects are troublesome at different seasons, but none for more 
17 



194 



NOVEMBER. 



than a few weeks at a time, either at the flowering season, or during 
the formation or the ripening of fruit ; and at these seasons espaliers 
may easily be covered with mosquito-netting, which, without exclud- 
ing the sun, rain, or air, effectually shuts out all insects 

Our espaliers are of several kinds. Those of iron are made as 
follows : Sink blocks of stone 2 or 3 feet into the earth, out of the 
reach of frost, as for the wooden espaliers, and 9 feet apart ; set 
into each stone ^ uprights " of iron 1^ inch square at the bottom, 6 
feet long and tapering to the top ; tie these " uprights " with top 
and bottom rails 2^ inches wide, ^ inch thick, and pierced so as to 
slide over both the upright posts, and the smaller uprights, which 
are f inch square and 8 inches apart, and of iron, as are also the 
rails. When completed, paint with a proper metallic paint. Such 
espaliers are very costly, and many think that the iron injures the 
trees by its excessive cold in winter and heat in summer. 

Wire, A, makes a better and cheaper espalier. Stones are sunk as 
before, but at the distance of 10 or 12 feet apart, and into them 
are set iron posts, 2 x ^ inches thick, and 6 feet high ; the comer 
posts are to be particularly well secured, so as to bear the strain 
necessary for tightening the wire. 2 feet from each comer post 
sink another stone, to which the comer posts are to be firmly 
braced. 




When all the posts are up, begin to strain the wire ; a conven- 
ient and powerfiil instmment for this, may be made as follows : 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



105 



into a log of wood, C, 18 inches long and 6 inches in diameter, put 
two handles at opposite ends, but not at right angles to each other ; 
through the middle of the log bore a small hole. The wire, ^ to ^ 
inch in size, having been fastened securely to one of the comer 
posts, lead it through all the holes in the same line in the posts ; 
bring its end through the hole in the log, which should be placed 
against the comer post, and twist it once or twice round the log to 
make it firm and tight Now turn the log bj the handles, and 
wind up the wire as tightly' as possible; — and it is possible to 
strain it very hard ; — when it is tightened enough, let an assistant 
drive an iron or a hard wood wedge firmly into the hole in the 
post through which the wire was strained ; this will prevent the 
wire from slipping back when it is unwound from the log, as it must 
be before it is secured by winding it round the post and then twist- 
ing it about itself on the side of the post opposite that on which it 
was strained. When you break it, leave end enough to admit of 
the repetition of the straining process, wheh this may be required. 
The instrament, and the method of applying it, are shown in the 
preceding cut at B. Simple as 
this instrument is, its power is 
immense ; it is on the principle 
of the wheel and axle, and the 
longer the handles or levers, 
(radii of the wheel) are, and the 
smaller the log used (provided it 
be strong enough), the greater 
the power which can be em- 
ployed. Quite large trees have 
been pulled up by its strain, 
when they were used for oomer 
posts. 

Before putting the wire into 
the fence it should be straight- 
ened, which may be done by 
laying the coil upon the ground. 
Fasten a board. A, to a post ; the board is filled with two rows 
of iron pegs, in paraUel lines ; carry the end of the vrire between 




196 NOYSMBER. 

each alternate peg, and fasten its end to a pole or short bar, B, 
which a man holds in both hands ; walking backward, he draws the 
wire through the pegs, straightening it ; a second man delivers it 
slowly from the coil ; C shows a splice in the wire ; B Represents a 
portable straining post for comers, etc, where no good fixed posts can 
be set; a is to be left in the fence, but 6 is to be removed after the 
wire is strained, and be set into another straining post, as a brace ; 
it is put under the shoulder of a, and &stened with a screw-bolt 
through d. 

The espaliers being arranged, trees or vines may be planted in 
the ordinary way, to grow upon them. The common espalier fruits 
are Peaches, Apricots, Nectarines, and Pears, but, as has been said, 
Plums and Cherries, and, in sheltered places, Figs and foreign 
Grapes may be grown. 

There are as many plans for training trees on espaliers as vines 
in houses, but nearly all are varieties of the ^ fen " system, which 
spreads out the branches on the espaliers like the ribs of a huge 
fim. Each cultivator must decide for himself on the best means 
for effecting this, the guiding principle being to cover the trellis 
well with fruit-bearing wood, but to check over luxuriance of 
merely leaf-bearing wood, and to admit sun and air freely while 
you protect fruit and wood from too great heat 

When you desire a luxuriant growth of wood, prune in the fell ; 
when a diminis]pd quantity, in the spring ; and bear in mind that 
summer pruning is one of the means for producing well balanced 
and thrifty trees. Were a thorough system of root-pruning to be 
followed, summer pruning would hardly be advisable, as the tree 
would make only wood enough to keep up a good supply of fruit ; 
this, however, is scarcely possible when espaliered fruit is grown 
in the enriched borders of a kitchen-garden, all the area of which 
must be devoted to some kind of esculent crops. 

Summer pruning differs from autumn or winter pruning. The 
gardener should examine the trees late in June, or early in July, 
and selecting those shoots which seem most desirable, either be- 
cause they will fill a gap or are particularly promising, should nip 
off the end and tie them down to the espalier ; such shoots as by 
their luxuriance overshadow or crowd the fruit and old wood, are 



KITCHEN-6ABDEN. 



197 



to be cat entirely off, and the rest pinched back to about one-third 
of their growth. By tying the new shoots with an inclination 
toward the ground^ you lead the sap to settle in them, and they 
tend to form* fruit rather than leaf buds ; but the theory that gen^ 
eral summer pruning has the same tendency, is not supported by 
the best experinece. 

Summer pruning saves winter work, and saves the fruit from 
being threshed and bruised by the long new shoots shaken by high 
winds. 

As a general rule, pruning has much the same effect at all seasons. 
It is best to prune stone fruits and all other rather tender trees 
towards spring ; but the best fruit growers have not found by obser^ 
vation and experience any other rule for the time of doing general 
pruning than the amount and urgency of the work on hand, thou^ 
trees bear careless pruning better at some seasons than at others. 

Trees for the espalier should be in the second year from the 
bud, if they have been budded, and should be cut back to the third 
or fi>urth bud from the stock. As I have said before, their sub- 
sequent training and pruning must depend on the fancy of the cul- 
tivator. The following examples are taken from Loudon's Ency- 
clopaedia of Gardening, and show the best practice of the best 
English cultivators. 




a, fh« henioff-bone fkn; fr, the Im^lar fkn; e, the stellate fkn; d, the drooping flu; «, 
the navy Ihn; / the horiiontal,* g, the horizontal with screw stem; A, the horfiontal with 
doable stem ; », the vertloal with screw shoots ; k, the vertical with npright shoots. 
17* 



198 NOYEMBBR. 

So much for the espaliers. 

If the garden is small 70a may now plant dwarf trees in the 
outer edge of the border, and alternate with the espaliered trees Inii 
nothing but want of room and 9ub§equeni kigh manuring can ju$- 
tify such overcrowding. 

The proper place for dwarfs and standards is on the opposite 
side of the walk, and around the inside square. The dwarfs here 
should be 10 or 12 feet impart; standard Pears 20 feeti^uirt; 
Peaches, too, may be planted on the edge of this square, 15 feet 
back from the walk, while the Pears need not be more than 10 
feet from it 

If there is not room enough here for aU the fruit trees' desired, 
set a double row through the middle of the square, 20 feet iq>art in 
the row, and 20 feet from each other. These trees should connect 
the entrance paths on the sides by a blind walk ; that is, the land 
between the double row should be used for culture, and to walk 
and cart over at different seasons of the year. 

Having placed the trees, ascertain how many Currant bushes 
will supply the family ; set them opposite each other, but indepen- 
dent of the trees on the two sides of a path, 3 feet back from the 
edge of ihe path, and 6 feet apart ; in a small garden they may be 
set only 3 feet apart ; begin at the comer of an entrance path, and 
follow round to the next comer, or farther, if you need so many 
bushes. Gooseberries may be set out in the same manner. 

Next select the best place for an Asparagus bed. Have it as 
near the stables as the character of the land will admit The bed 
may be made ready for the seeds or roots either in the fall or the 
spring. It is rather a slower process to get Asparagus from the 
seed than from the root, but the fii%t cost is less, and the process 
of^en easier, though beds are better and more speedily productive 
when made from roots. 

Ck^ver the bed with a thick dressing of manure ; then trench 
thoroughly, 3 feet deep, and loosen the bottom of the trench be- 
side ; take care that the manure is well incorporated with the soil, 
and at the same time work in not les9 than a cubic inch of salt for 
p.very square foot of surface. If this work is done in the fall the 



KITCHEN-^QABDEN. 199 

land is left till spring. Autumn-made beds may have a very heavy 
and coarse manure worked into them, as the winter frost will decay 
it^ and take away its harshness. It is well to mix in a large 
amount of broken bones while trenching. You need have no fear 
of making the bed too rich ; Asparagus is a very gross feeder, and 
the bed cannot be thoroughly manured again without being 
remade ; liquid manure and top dressing are the only means of en- 
riching it afler the crop is started. 

The preparation and future treatment of beds will depend upon 
whether it is proposed to force Asparagus at any time, and whether 
the bed is to continue permanent as long as productive. 

Good permanent beds may be made irom seed. Sow the seed 
in 3 drills, 18 inches apart, — the bed to be 4^ feet wide, — cover 
the seed 2 inches deep, — sow it the first of May. When the 
plants have grown 6 or 7 inches high, thin them into straight 
lines, and leave them 12 inches apart ^ Beds raised from the seed 
will need a pint of seed for a bed 4^ x 30 feet. If roots are used, 
160 will plant the same area." 

In transplanting Roots, it is all important that they should 
never get dry, or be bruised. Select only the best Boots, which 
will be well grown, and have an abundance of buds around the 
crown. 

Some cultivators prefer plants two or three years old. Tear- 
lings are quite as good, and as no bed should be cut for two yean, 
the yearling plants will have time to get their full strength. 

The plants may be set in drills or in beds. To make a bed, 
stake out a parallelogram, as long as you please, and 4^ feet wide, 
dig trenches transversely, 3 feet apart, and 12 inches deep ; if that 
depth will allow the roots to be set with their crowns 2 inches below 
the surface, and yet not compress the smaller roots. As &st as you 
set them cover with loam. If you do not wish a regular bed set 
the plants in single drills ; when cultivated by the acre, set the' 
roots deep enough to plough in manure over them. 

As I have before stated, afler-enrichment is to be applied by 
hrking manure into the alleys between the beds, by top-dressings 
of well-rotted stable manure in the fall, which may be very lightly 



200 KOYBHBBB. 

forked in in the spring (great care being taken not to toach the 
crown of the roots with the fork) ; by top-<lressing8 of guano jost 
before rains, or, lastly, by liquid manure, diluted urine or cow 
manure, or guano mixed with water. 

The size of beds will depend upon many local drcumstances, 
but a bed of less than 30 square yards will not furnish a reasonable 
dish ; and a bed of 6 square rods will give two or three bunches 
daily through the season. 

The Asparagus bed being decided upon, select the best position 
for Horse-radish, which will grow in any soil or situation, but well 
repays good culture. A large bed is unnecessary ibr a private fam- 
ily ; therefore, to economize room, choose some strip between the 
espaliers and the fence or hedge, or any other convenient spot if 
you wish to grow Horse-radish to perfection, yoo can imitate the 
English gardeners, who are as particular with it as with Celeiy. It 
is desirable to get long, thick, and straight roots, therefore thor- 
oughly manure and trench the beds to the depth of 3 feet Open 
a trench in the ordinary way, 15 inches deep and 2 feet wide ; 
plant sets 9 inches iqiart each way, keeping their crowns upright ; 
cover with the earth of the next trench, and continue to plant 
When more than one bed is to be made, leave a space for a second 
bed and open the third. 

The sets during summer grow vigorously ; rake off the decayed 
leaves in the autumn ; early the next April lay a foot of earth 
from the unplanted bed over that of one year's growth, and then 
prepare and plant the new bed. In the autumn open the older bed 
at one end and take out the roots as you come to them ; they will 
have a size and perfection that can only be understood when seen. 
Tou may have Horse-radish sufficiently good, however, from any 
ordinary soil, with common planting and care. 

Now select a place for the culture of pot herbs of various kinds. 
'Most of the ordinary herbs are perennials, and must occupy the 
same ground for several years ; therefore as for Asparagus, trench, 
dress, and manure richly before planting. Sow the seeds in the 
hotbed in March ; thin out the plants as they grow, and give air 
enough to make them hardy. As soon as the weather will permit, 



KITCHEK-GABDEN. 201 

set them across the bed, 1 foot apart, in lines 15 inches apart Or, 
sow the seed in the open ground in May or June, but it wiU be 
much slower in coming to a good growth. Cuttings of the new 
growth may be made and set in nursery beds as soon as the wood 
ripens ; as soon as rooted they may be transplanted into permanent 
situations. The beds will last three years or more, according to 
culture, soil, and exposure. There are both annual and perennial 
varieties of Sweet Marjoram and Savory ; the perennial are the 
best, and may be readily propagated by seed, cuttings, or divi- 
sions of the roots. Seed should be sown in the spring, cuttings 
be made in the summer, and divisions of the roots in September. 

Pennyroyal is of similar character, and may be grown in the 
same way. Other herbs, like Basil, Dill, Anise, Caraway, Angel- 
ica, Coriander, Thyme, etc., aro of but little use, and it is not 
advisable to cumber the garden with them. 

Our kitchen-garden is now pretty well stocked with all the 
fixtures excepting Strawberries, Raspberries, and the annual crops, 
an of which will be deferred until the appropriate time. 

The garden being thus laid out, and partly planted, as soon as 
time allows some kind of edging should be put to the w^lk. The 
best is slates. They should be half an inch thick and from 3 x 12 
to 12x24 inches in surface. They need not be more carefully 
cut and made than for roofing, but must be of the best material 
and free from cross grain and waves, so as to be strong enough to 
resist all ordinary concussion. Draw the garden line straight 
along the edge of the path ; set the spade down perpendicularly 
into the edge of the bed, working it backwards and forwards to 
make a space into which the slate is to be set. Set the slate 10 
inches deep into this place, leaving but two or three inches above 
the ground. Set them edge to edge, perpendicularly, and in straight 
lines, then thoroughly press and pack the earth of the beds and the 
gravel of the paths against them. The deep setting will not only 
keep them firm in their places, but will prevent the roots of grass, 
weedi^, or other plants from straying beyond their proper limits ; 
while the few inches above ground give a clean and precise edge to 
both path and bed, and make them look trim and orderly. 



202 



NOVEMBER. 



This is a sufficient description of the method of lajing oat the 
level part of the kitchen-garden. The sloping and irregular por- 
tions should not be treated in this ge<Nnetrical manner, but in a 
more graceful and varied style. 

I shall postpone the description of such a garden to another 
month. 



CHAPTER XXVm. 



ORCHARD. 



The fruit harvest proper is over before November, but if any 
fruit has been leil ungathered, lose no time in securing it 

Thoroughly dig the orchaatl over with long-tined forks, so as to 
leave the earth light and open to the frost J£ manure is needed 
for next year's crop, dig it in now ; you can use long manure, as 
the winter's action will decay it before the young root fibres 
need it As you dig, cover the ground before you with a good 
dressing of the following mixture, — one barrel of oyster-shell 
lime, slaked with the water which has dissolved a bushel of salt 
This prepanition is a very powerful stimulant to apple trees, and a 
great destroyer of insects and their eggs. If orchards were laid 
down to grass, as some are, we should still be obliged to dig up the 
earth round the trees, for a distance at least as great as the spread 
of the branches. The first time the application of this mixture is 
made, two bushels should be used, but afterwards one every year 
is enough. 

Manure the Pear-trees well, as no fruit is more grateful for 
manure, which increases the crop greatly, both in size and number. 
The secret of pear culture indeed, is to give the trees plenty of 
manure and moisture, and to thin out the fruit. If there are any 
gaps in the orchard, made by the death of trees, or other causes, 
set out new trees now ; the earlier the better, as this work should 
have been done in October, if possible. Stone fruits must be left 
till spring, as the winter is very apt to injure them. Cherries may 
sometimes thrive when planted in the autumn, but it is not best to 
try the experiment 

Untie the Figs from espaliers, and wrap the branches in straw, 
and then lay them down on the ground, covering with a little light 

203 



204 NOYEMBEB. 

litter, or lay them down and cover with earth, like Raspberries. 
Treat all tender Grapes in the same manner. Isabella, Concord, 
and Diana do not require this attention ; but many growers think 
they thrive better, and ripen earlier for it When vines are to be 
laid down prune them thoroughly. The system of pruning for 
out-of-door grapes is the same as that for the grapery, but it is not 
customary to prune them quite so closely as when in-doors. 

The first year cut back within three eyes of the old wood ; the 
second year allow three main canes to grow, and spread them out 
on the trellis or wall, fan-shaped. During summer pinch all side 
shoots two eyes beyond the bunch, and as often as they start, pinch 
back. In August pinch off the ends of the growing shoots, so thai 
the wood may ripen well. New shoots will start afler pinching, 
which may be treated in die same manner. 

In the autumn of the second year cut down within six eyes of 
the old wood, and cut out or back, to one eye, aU side spurs on 
what is lefl. The third year allow your three leading canes to 
branch out as much as you please, so as to cover the wall or trellis. 
The lower eyes will all break. Pinch off the fruit-bearing shoots, 
two eyes from the bunch, afler the fruit is set The last eye will 
start again, and must be allowed to grow for a few weeks, and then 
be again stopped. This practice will hasten the ripening, and im- 
prove the quality of the fruit 

By no means pinch back the first time to within one eye of the 
bunch, as, if you do, that eye may start to the injury of the fruit, 
and to the loss of the bud for next year's growth. Stop the lead* 
ing canes in August, as before. In the fall cut off at least half the 
new growth, and shorten in all the side spurs to within two eyes of 
the cane. Continue this practice year afler year until the trellis is 
well covered, then keep well pruned. 

The wood of the grapevine in a few years solidifies ; that is, 
the sap deposits its solid particles in the sap vessels, until they are 
finally filled up, and no longer afford free channels to the sap. 
Therefore when your vine is six or eight years old, in November 
or January it is well to cut back one of the original three canes to 
the but The next spring new canes will start finom the latent buds 



ORCHARD. 205 

on the aide of the old stock, which may be trained and pruned as at 
the beginning. When they are well grown, and fruit-bearing, cut 
down the other old canes, and proceed with them in the same man- 
ner. This practice, in the grapehouses, is called the long cane 
renewal system. 

November is a good month to prepare vine borders for hardy, 
grapes. It is not necessary to take so much care as for those in- 
doors. A deep, well-drained, well-manured loam is good enough. 
In manuring give a large dressing of oyster shells, old mortar, and 
bones. An annual top dressing, lightly forked in, or liquid manure, 
will be the only subsequent Enrichment necessary. Nothing is bet- 
ter for vines than soapsuds, and the suds from the weekly washing, 
if saved, and thoroughly applied, will produce a large crop of 
Grapes. 

Having disposed of your vines, begin to prune Apples and Pears. 
This work will be light if it has been well done before. Be sure, 
in trimming, to cut off all the twigs and branches to be removed 
smooth with their, main stems, and with a clean, upward cut 

In pruning^ always cut about midway between the buds, with an 
upward cut In pruning Grapes the whole intemode (or space be- 
tween the buds) should be left, as the frost is apt to kill the bud if 
too near the cut This danger is less with fruit trees, but it is pru- 
dent to leave half an intemode, when the trees are pruned, in fall 
or winter. 

Have in your mind, in pruning, a distinct idea of the shape 
which you desire to give to the tree. Every kind of tree has some 
characteristic form, to which each individual of the species con- 
forms, with greater or less exactness, and the same is true of dif- 
ferent varieties of any species of plant Thus the general form of 
an Apple-tree is quite distinctive from that of other trees, and yet 
different varieties of Apple-trees have still further peculiarities. 
The Rhode Island Greening, the Hubbardston Nonsuch, and others, 
tend to grow and branch low, and cover a large space. 

The Northern Spy grows tall, but weeps very much, with long 
and switch-like branches. 

The High-top Sweeting also grows tall, but with rather stiff and 
stubby branches. 

18 



206 NOVEMBER. 

It is folly to try to counteract these peculiarities ; they must be 
borne in mind in pruning, and the natural shape of the tree con- 
formed to as much as possible. 

In pruning, cut off all branches which chafe each other, all 
those whose ends strike together, and all suckers which crowd the 
tree. There is a dangerous tendency to overpmne. The leaves 
are the lungs of the tree, and should only be removed enough to 
give the light and air free circulation among the branches, and not 
so much as to deprive the tree of its necessary breath, or the fruit 
and stems of shelter from the too scorching sun. 

The general shape to be aimed at for Apple-trees, is a well-bal- 
anced, rounded or umbrella shaped top, so thinned of small 
branches as to admit light and air freely, but not the direct rays 
of the sun. 

In pruning Pear-trees, a difference is to be made between 
standards and dwarfs. Standards grow tall and are gener- 
ally of iastigiate or birch-broom shape, the branches coming out 
from the stem near together, and running in a vertical direction. 
This method of growth brings the branches too near each other, 
so that they chafe and injure the fruit, and also prevent the free 
access of sunlight, as well as offer great obstacles to the fruit 
gatherer. The branches must therefore be brought towards the 
horizontal position, though not without care, as the wood of the 
Pear-tree is not sufficiently tough to bear great weight of leaves 
and fruit, except with the mechanical advantage which it derives 
from the natural uprightness of the tree. However, to some ex- 
tent it is safe to train the branches into a convenient form, and 
this is to be done by pruning in the following manner. In the 

accompanying cut you have 
part of the stem of a stand- 
ard Pear-tree, with a branch 
A, growing upwards, in its 
natural position. The buds, 
a b Cj if suffered to grow, 
^ will grow into the tree and 

crowd it ; rub them off, there- 
fore, and cut the branch off at e ; the bud, d^ on the outside, will 




ORCHARD. 207 

will then start, and form a branch growingyrom the stem, and less 
vertical than A. When this branch has grown a short time, and 
begins to tend upward, repeat the operation, and you will thus 
gradually flatten it and others in the same manner, as much as you 
please. 

Standard trees are those which, growing freely, attain naturally 
a considerable height and size. They are often inconveniently 
large, and it takes several years for them to mature sufficiently to 
bear good fruit. The attention of horticulturists was early given 
to discover some means of avoiding these evils, and it was found 
that they might be modified by what are now called dwarf trees. 
Soon after the discovery of the arts of budding and grafting, it 
was found that by these arts the fruit of tall growing trees could 
be obtained from small ones of the same species, if the former 
were budded or grafted into the latter, thus reducing the size of 
the tree, and consequently hastening its maturity. For the new 
bud cannot receive from the smaller roots and stem of its adoption 
that amount of sap which it naturally demands, and therefore, 
suiting its demand to the supply, contents itself with what it can 
get, and makes its growth with less material, and thus produces a 
tree of a smaller size. Thus a new kind of tree, the dwarf is 
produced. Experience has proved that these trees have not only 
the advantages above mentioned, but also afford a greater and 
better yield of fruit, proportioned to their size, than that of stand- 
ard trees of the same species, for being less freely supplied with 
sap than is the case with standards, they cease to grow earlier in 
the fall, and consequently ripen their wood earlier, and mature 
their buds and elaborate their juices better, which of course im- 
proves the yield of fruit. Therefore were this the whole state- 
ment of the relative value of these two forms of trees, the case 
would be greatly in favor of the dwarfs, and all growers would at 
once destroy their standard trees, and make fruit and money by 
dwarfs instead. But there is another side to the question. The 
dwarfs have the great drawbacks of being rather short lived and 
very fastidious about the soil in which they stand. Besides, many 
of the choicest varieties of Pear refuse to be dwarfed. 



208 NOVEHBEB. 

To meet the difficulty of dwarfs being shorter liTed, it is weQ 
that every third tree in your Pear orchard should be a standard ; 
it will have room enough, and will be in its prime, when the dwar& 
die. 

To humor their fastidiousness, place dwarfs in a rich loam, deep 
and moist, but not wet ; gravel they abhor, and in a close clay 
they never thrive long. Set them so deep that the Quince-etock 
will be buried from borers, and in time the Pear will throw out its 
own roots above the Quince, and independent of it But fruit 
growera have been most aided in their struggle against these diffi- 
culties by the discovery that trees can both be dwarfed and brou^t 
to early maturity on their own roots. The process i^ as follows: 
Sow seeds of the Wild — but not of the Button — Pear, or trans- 
plant stocks as yet unbudded. In the fall of the next year, move 
them into a new and rich soil, cutting off the tap root ; do the sanrt 
in the following fall ; thus moving the stock three times, the seed- 
ling twice, in two years. The effect of these frequent removab is 
to check the tendency to make long tap roots, and cause a mass of 
fibrous roots to be formed. Grafi or bud at the proper time the 
next year, and in the succeeding spring cut down to the bud ; either 
before or after cutting down transplant to the place where it is to 
bear fruit. Or you may vary the process thus : In the second fihU, 
when the stocks are removed, they may be packed in damp mosa 
and laid away in the cellar ; during the winter, graft them ; the 
next spring set them out in nursery rows again, and the fall or 
spring tifler, do the final planting, as just directed. Pear-trees 
treated in this manner have produced large crops &Ye years from 
the seed, or the first setting out of the budded stock. 

The dwarf has much less waste room than the standard; for as 
fruit grows on the small branches, or only on the ends of large 
ones, the latter loses all the space occupied by its large branches. 
The branches of the former being dwarfed as well as its height, the 
fruit is brought nearer the main stem of the tree, and the strain 
upon branch and stem is much diminished. The system of prun- 
ing recommended for Pear-trees may therefore be carried out to its 
full extent with such trees, without the danger that attends its too 
free application to standards. 



ORCHARD. 



209 




Dwarfe should be grown in pyramidal form, that 
the lower branches maj bear the most fruit, being 
in less danger ai breaking from the weight, than 
those above. This form also occupies less room 
and gives more fruit to the acre. 

Begin to prune as soon as the leaves drop in the 
autumn, and continue the work until spring. There 
is no danger to be feared of canker or loss of 
buds, if all cuts are made as directed, — neatly 
and smoothly, and in an upward direction. Some 
care must be taken, however, with the larger 
branches, to protect the cut surface from the air 
and water, which would cause the wood to decay, 
and send disease throughout the tree. Where the cut b small, 
this surface is covered in the next season, by a natural growth of 
wood and bark ; but otherwise, some artificial application must be 
made. 

Many good receipts for such coverings, are given *in treatises on 
these subjects. The two following are effective ; — 

Melt over a slow fire, three parts of clear resin to one of shellac, 
and apply wliile warm, with a brush. It will harden immediately, 
and be both air and water-proof. This preparation can be kept 
and used at any time, by adding to it as small a quantity of alcohol 
as will dissolve it 

The other receipt, which makes also a good grafUng-waz, is 2 
ounces of common resin, melted over a slow fire, till it is clear ; add 
1 ounce of alcohol, and bottle it ; add enough alcohol from time to 
time, to keep it liquid. When about to set a Pear orchard, dig or 
trench the land thoroughly, even if you are able to plant but a 
very limited number at a time, the profits will be great in propor- 
tion. Cherries do not generally need much pruning, beyond the 
removal of dead wood and clMng branches. They should be dug 
round, but not manured. 

The principles ah-eady stated, apply to the care of all other fruit 
trees. 

Nut-trees need no more care than Cherries. 

Be sure before the winter is over, to haul all the pnmings from 
18» 



810 NOYSMBBB. 

the orchard to the brush heaps, as 70a will be too bosjintlie^nDg 
to attend to it properly. They should be cut into short pieoea, 
readj to use, as thej make admirable ^el for heating boilers. 

The proper pruning of Peach and similar trees, will be described 
hereafter. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

THE FABM. 

On the farm as over the rest of the estate, the last work of the 
seasoQ b to be done, aad it is apt to be done in a huny. 

The remainder of the Boot crop is now to be gathered, and with 
it the harvest closes. 

Send the teams into the manure cellar, dear out what remains 
there, and draw it on to those fields which jou intend to manure or 
to top dress during the winter, or early spring, unless the groundis 
too soft 

If the month prove wet, do not team the numure on to grass 
land, as the wheels would cut the soil badly. Any reclaimed 
meadow, dry enough for grass or culture, where heavy teams can- 
not go while the ground is open, must be dressed after it is frozen, 
when it will bear up the wheels, 

Having cleared out the manure, draw into the cellar as much 
muck, leaves, litter, loam, or even sand, as you have time to collect 
Fill the pig-pens with the same material, to the depth of a foot or 
two, for the pigs to work over during the winter (which they will 
do the better if you occasionally scatter a little com over the sur- 
fiftoe), and as an absorbent of liquid excrement 

Draw into appropriate bins as large a quantity of leaves as can 
be collected for bedding. Neat cattle and pigs do not absolutely 
require bedding, but they are benefited by such care, and fatten 
much better. Farmers who most truly study their own interests, 
are careful to keep their stock warm and well bedded; knowing 
that this is a cheaper way to warm them, than by feeding alone. 

A temperature of about 100° must be maintained in the bodies 
of all the higher animals to secure the performance of their vital 
functions ; and in moderate weather this heat is maintained by the 
furnace within them ; «.e., by the c(^bined action of the digestive, 

211 



212 NOYEMBEB. 

circulating, and respiratory sjstem, which supply and bring into 
contact oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen in such a way as to effect 
slow combustion over the entire body. Food is the fuel in this 
process, better or worse as it contains carbon and hydrogen in 
larger or smaller proportions. In cold weather this vital heat is 
taken from the body by the atmosphere, and must be supplied 
&8ter or be prevented from escaping, if the animal is to be kept 
alive ; just the same thing as is true of the fires in our houses. 

The Creator has provided for this necessity by the warmer cov- 
ering furnished constantly to those animals which live in Arctic 
regions, and periodicaUy to those that are exposed to the winter of 
the Temperate Zone ; and also by the instinct which leads eveiy 
animal to prefer in cold weather those articles of food which are 
the best fuel, or in their absence to eat more freely of such food as 
has less power of maintaining heat > In the case of man reason 
teaches him to increase his clothing; instinct leads him to eat 
animal and fatty £x)d at the proper time. Any excess of fuel in food 
is stored up in the form of fat, and in time of need is again 
absorbed and burned, as are our wood-piles. Of course this is not 
the only use of food, but it is the use with which we now have to do. 

Nature then provides animab with means for resisting cold, and 
unless we are willing that our stock should be worse off than wild 
animals, we must give them in winter more fattening food than in 
summer, — grain, meal, roots, in addition to hay. If we wish them 
to be in better condition than wild animals, we must make it stiU 
easier for them to keep up the vital heat. In no other way can 
fat, the extra fuel, collect on them. But the fattening articles of 
food are the most expensive, and it behooves us to shut in the heat 
given by them and bring the atmosphere about our creatures as 
near as possible to that summer temperature, which does not chill 
them and urge them to eat largely in proportion. 

In short the more heat without the less fuel needed within ; in 
proportion as stock is well housed and bedded will it fatten with 
less food. 

Bed all your creatures well, then ; it saves the covering wluch 
nature gives them. Let none of them show bare knees, hips, or 
back from which hair has been rubbed by the hard floor or staU, 



THB FABX. 213 

Irat let every part of every animal tell the same story of care and 
kindness. Pile up leaves high in the bins, and even make tempo- 
rary stacks of them. 

It is trae that you are thus robbing the soil for the time of its 
natural manure. Leaves are Nature's return, her interest paid for 
the aunmier's crop which she has borrowed from the earth, and the 
profit on the earth's invested capital, and rightly belong to the spot 
which produced them. By their decay beneath the trees woodland 
is annually enriched ; by their removal it is impoverished. But 
one of the laws of agricultural improvement is that man may with 
profit impoverish one portion of his land, if by so doing he more 
than proportionately enriches another. The gain need not be made 
in the same proportion from every rod of land ; the balance sheet 
may be struck for the whole farm. At another time the woodland 
may be attended to, enriched in turn, and the balance restored. 
Therefore be unwearied in collecting leaves from the woods and 
road-sides. The manure made from a given weight of leaves may be 
less in quantity than that from the same weight of any other mate- 
rial used for litter, but it is better in quality. 

Blanket the horses as soon as the nights are really fhxsty ; as 
with bedding the cattle you will both save in food and gain in 
appearance. A horse well blanketed and groomed is not the same 
as when his neglected coat is filled with dust and his shivering hide 
sets every hair on end. Cleanliness and friction are as good for 
his skin as for ours ; their good effects are evident in his appear- 
ance and in his work. See that the cattle, too, old and young, are 
from this time well carded and brushed every morning. 

As the nights grow cold the fowls will go to roost earlier and 
more regularly ; let none of them roost out of their proper places; 
the younger ones particularly are inclined to seek new roosts about 
the stables and sheds ; break up all such irregular proceedings as 
soon as you detect them. Feed regularly every morning — not 
much to the stock fowls, but enough to assure that their, crop shall 
be full once in the course of the day ; in accordance with the prin- 
ciples before recognized, increase the food of the fiutening fowls, for 
all kinds of which there will be a great demand in the latter half of 



214 NOVBMBEB. 

the month ; for stuffing two or three weeks with boiled barley, com 
meal, bits of bread, wOl entirely change the quality of the birdB 
you propose to eat or sell at Thanksgiving. The rapidity with 
which they fatten, when once the process is &irly begun, is almost 
incredible. In all animab this process begins inside ; they must 
store up quite a stock of fistt amongst the muscles, ak)ng the bones, 
around the various internal organs, before the gain is at all iq>parenit 
on the sur&ce ; but when it does begin to show there, the creature 
seems to gain while you look at it 

The greatest benefit will now be found in an abundant supply 
and use of water of irrigation ; the Grass will be kept green and 
sweet long after it would be worthless unless so protected. 

As good opportunities offer, purchase stock to be fiittened in Ihe 

winter. Sheep pay rather the best I shall give you directkma 

and advice hereafter. 

f 

Tools. — On the first wet day collect into the toolbouse all 
the tools, great and small, which belong there ; scrub and poli^ 
them well with sand and water ; oil with any cheap oil such as are 
not to be used again till spring, and hang them up ; mend forthwith 
any that show the least need of repairs ; carry to the carpenter cff 
blacksmith those that are beyond your skill, and do not leave this 
to be done " any time," which is no time. When in good condition 
let them be returned to their shelves. You will find plough-points 
worn or broken, nuts and bolts gone, handles loose, — a thousand 
little things that have escaped notice, or been tolerated during sum- 
mer and fall ; and you should improve your leisure, and by attending 
to these little things, and by comparing the stock of tools on hand 
with the list of last spring, you will know not only what is left 
over from the summer, but also what can be depended on fin- next 
year. 

Where the owner of tools is the only user, they are broken very 
frequently -and mysteriously, but when they are committed to the 
tender mercies of hired laborers, the loss and breakage are fright- 
ful. The best spring supply of shovels, spades, hoes, and scythes 
will present, at the November muster, as sorry an appearance as 



THS FASMk 215 

Falfltaff'B ragged regiment ; hoes without handles, rakes without 
teeth, shorels with broken oomers and centres, scythes gapped, 
snaiths broken, whetstones in pieces. Be courageous and undis- 
majed at the result, and be sure of one thing, by making this No- 
vember examination you will have twice as much next spring as if 
you leave the matter till then. A winter's cold and snows are a 
grange to the memory of &rm servants, and an excuse for all 
losses. No one knows any thing in the spring ; the laborers, dis- 
charged at the close of the last year's work, and now scattered &r 
and wide, are made to father all losses, and bear all blame ; every 
new man will assure you, upon an honor not to be doubted, — be- 
cause not yet tried, — that he never loses, nor mislays, nor breaks 
tods ; he is the ^ new broom." 

Any tools, the wood-work of which was originally painted, must 
be touched with paint wherever they are rubbed. 

Run the hity-wagons, ladders, etc., under the sheds, and wash 
them clean ; then examine, repair, and pamt at once> for here, too, 
" delays are dangerous." Examine, repair, repaint the sleighs and 
sleds, that they may be ready for use when the snows come. . 

Go over the £urm, and repair any fences where loose ends, 
boards, posts, or material can be in any way harmed by the win- 
ter's storms. 

Haul an ample pile of short brush into a shed, for the use of the 
house and fann boilers. There is a double advantage in this ; the 
fium is made dean and tidy, and a supply of the very best fuel for 
boilers is secured, which kindles quickly, bums fiercely, heating the 
b<nler at once, and as soon as the need of fire is over goes out, with 
little or no loss from unnecessary fire. 

As you now begin to feed regularly, if you have Jud in abuH" 
dance boil or steam all the food used, unless it be hay, «nd even 
hay has been found to gain in nutritive quality from steanung. 
The water of boiling or steaming, called " hay tea," when fed out 
to milch cows, increases their milk cheaply and economically, and 
when mixed with the solid food is very nutritious. 

Be sure to feed regularly, let the food be what it may. Remem- 
ber how &int and irritable you become when one of your meals is 
Mayed ; not only are you so annoyed that the food gives less than 



216 NOYEMBKB. 

usual sadBfaction to the palate and mind, but joor digestive or) 
are weak with empdnesa ; and in jour haste to satisfy hunger, yon 
probablj eat too fast, fill the vacuum with half-chewed food, to joar 
discomfort for a long time. Thus the foundations of d7spq>sia are 
laid. Cattle suffer in the same waj when their food is delayed be- 
yond the proper time. 

The same is true of food taken before the accustomed time. If 
you, like a rational being, live on plain but wholesome food, to eat 
a hearty meal ^ou need a good appetite, moi*e than if you were in 
the habit of creating an artificial appetite by stimulating condi- 
ments ; when the proper time comes, hunger is the best sauce ; bat 
if food is placed before you too soon, you feel but little desire for 
it, and do not eat as much as usual. So with the beasts in yoor 
bam, whose only sauce is hunger. If fed before their stomachs 
are ready, they will smell over and reject much that would have 
been eaten with a relish if offered at the proper time. 

See, then, how necessary it is to feed regularly. Feed often. 
Do not allow so long a time between meals that the hungry ani- 
mals gorge like Boa Constrictors, when their food comes. Feed in 
small quantities, that all may be eaten, and no rejected and fouled 
remainder may lie before the animal to disgust it with similar food 
when next presented. Feed late at night ; cattle do not, like men, 
sleep only at night ; whenever there is nothing else to do they 
sleep ; so our dietetic analogy no longer holds, and we need not 
fear that they, like us, will suffer from late suppers. On the con- 
trary it is a weary interval for them to wait from the early supper 
through the long, cold night, till breakfast Go into the bam just 
before your bed-time, and give all the animals a little, if it be but 
a forkful of hay. They will eat it up clean, and go to sleep much 
more contentedly for it. 

I know that animals, like men, may acquire habits of fasting; 
and if you kept animals without any interest in their welfare, and 
without a qualm of conscience, sought (like some keepers of sta- 
bles) to get your money at the expense o£ others, it might — for <me 
season — be for your advantage to disregard the natural require- 
ments of stock placed under your charge. But you keep your 
creatures for their milk, their flesh, their labor or speed, and when 



THB FABM. 217 

the special object for which jou bought them is attained jou dispose 
of them. Consequently it is for your interest to aid the develop- 
ment of those peculiar qualities for which you procured each, and to 
this end all my directions have been tending. If you neglect them 
it will be from laziness, — either that laziness which prevents our 
acting upon our convictions, or that which prevents our being con- 
vinced, when we foresee that conviction brings with it increased labor. 
Supply water regularly ; animals need great quantities of it. 
Water is supplied to our bam in the following manner ; of course 
other methods may be better for other localities. By a stop-cock 
the water can be at once let into the trough before each creature, 
80 that he may then and there drink his filL The advantage of 
admitting water thus is apparent in many ways. Careful milk 
growers have found, fix>m experiment, that a cow's milk is shrunk 
appreciably by her being turned out on a cold day, into a barnyard 
to drink and shiver. 

Horses, too, suffer more from want of water than can easily be 
imagined. Your horse is led out to water at sunset ; from some 
reason he does not want to drink ; perhaps it is but a short time 
since he had his dinner drink; he may be almost thirsty, but 
his instinct is not reason, and hd does not know how to provide 
against a future want ; he does not, like man, drink when he is 
supplied, though he may not need it, but only when his stomach 
cries " give." Hence the old proverb, "Any fool can lead a horse 
to water, but the Devil can't make him drink." He is returned to 
the stable and left with his supper of cut feed or of hay and oats 
before him ; his stomach loaded with bulky food, soon craves water, 
but he must go without it ; not for the few hours between break- 
fiist and dinner, or between dinner and supper, but for 10 or 12 
hours ; and we all know how hard it is to bear thirst 
Withm the bam water is supplied to our cattle as follows : — 
A pipe is brought from a 
spring into a hogshead which 
stands higher than the man- 
gers. This pipe is laid below 
the reach of frost, and when 
it rises to enter the hogshead, 
19 




218 



MOVBMBBB. 



18 endofied in a charooal-filled box 1 foot sqaaFe, and thos secured 
fit»n freezing, bj an excellent non-conductor. Bj the fiuicet kj 
water may be drawn from the hogshead for any purpose. The pipe 
g, leads from the bottom of the hogshead to a set of mangers, and 
is also boxed in charcoal ; the turn-cock n, controls the water in it 

The mangers are douUe and 
^^ V shaped ; the lower part (A 
in the wood-cut) is of 2 inch 
planks spiked together — or 
better of slate, — and is war 
ter-tight. Over this is a lid 
B turning on a rod by means 
of the wheel and axle. The 
upper sur&ce of this lid is the 
bottom of the manger a, which 
is spiked or cemented to the 
trough below. When the lid 
B is down, the manger is en- 
tirely shut off from the water, 
and from it the cattle eat their 
food. When the food is eaten 
and it is desirable to let in the water, turn the cock n; a single 
turn of c throws up the lid B and admits the creature to the water 
in A. When all are satisfied, shut off the water at n; a waste 
pipe at the other end empties the troughs, and the lid is again shut 
down. Thus the work is done quickly, neatly, and under cover. For 

greater convenience in turn- 
ing, the wheel and axle may be 
at the same end with n. Where 
there are several separate man- 
gers, water may be carried to 
each in succession, frt>m the 
same or friom different heads ; 
a water arrangement of a sim- 
ilar kind 13 working most suc^ 
cessfriUy in the bams of Dr. E. 
Hobbs, of Wahham, Mass. 





No. 8, bottom of mangor. 
No. 4, one tide of the trough. 



7 



THS FABX. 919 

Bemember that mineral poisons injure cattle as they do men, 
thoagh not in the same degree, and do not use lead pipes, unless 
bSL the water which has been standing in them can be drawn aS 
before any is offered to jour cattle, either to drink or mixed with 
food. 

Another advantage in not turning cattle out, is the saving contu- 
sions and similar injuries. In every linter there wiU be some cat- 
lie by nature bullies and quarrelsome, who will be sure to try to 
crowd and hook their weaker companions, who are often much in- 
jured in this way ; besides the bullies often keep the more timid 
from the water troughs, even after they have themselves drank 
enough, from mere mischief; and the weaker creature will stand 
shivenng and shaking, till the desire to drink is lost in the wish 
to hurry back into wanner quarters. 

Thajkksqtvtnq. — Taking leave of November, we close our out- 
.oMoor wo^ for the year ; and its end in that part of the country 
for which this book is particularly intended, wiU be wound up and 
celebrated by the annual Thanksgiving. 

And what more fitting dose can the year's work have, than a 
4me and Hearty thanks^ving for the blessings and mercies that 
God extends to all, but to farmers in particular. 

Well may he, looking with overflowing heart at his abundant 
and weU-housed crops and his happy cattle, return hearty and re- 
peated thanksgivings for all this bounty. 

Our Puritan fathers, when they instituted this holiday, little 
thought that they were but following the example of Pagan men, 
set long before the coming of Christ. These Pagans, after the 
harvest was gathered, met for joy and congratulation, and feasted on 
the &t of the land ; but they went £Ba*ther than this ; they selected 
the choicest of the flocks and herds, and offered them in sacrifice 
on the altars of their heathen gods. Let us follow their example ; 
let us remember that though our God is a Spirit, and cares not for 
the flesh of ox and lamb and fowl, and has no need of the tithings 
of com and wheat, he yet claims his share. He has expressly said, 
^ Whatsoever ye do to the least of these, my children^ ye do also 
to me." Let na then select from the best the tithing for God, and 



220 NOVBMBEE. 

divide it among the many poor, who have little to eat or wear ; 
let their hearts, too, overflow with the gladness of the harvest time, 
and their store of comfort and prosperity so swell, that thej may 
truly say, " Our harvest is gathered.*^ 

It is fitting that the farmer and his children, his servants, his 
very cattle, should each feel the glow of enthusiasm, now that they 
pause and look back on the successful year. No more joyful sight 
than the loaded table, the cheerful faces of kindred, young and old, 
the merry games of blind-man's buff, after the table has been 
cleared and set aside. Truly delightful it is to watch the fire as it 
fiashes and flickers through the gathering shades of evening, when 
all draw their chairs around the welcome blaze, and listen to tales 
of the good old times, or recall the hurry of the past summer, when 
man, woman, child, and beast, each seemed nerved with a new and 
resistless zeal to hurry the hay-cart out of the way of the coming 
storm. 

Then remember the poor, the sad and gloomy homes where no_ 
fire lights the hearth, where hungry and half-naked children quar- 
rel over the fragments picked up by the road-side, or sorrowfidly 
begged at the rich man's door ; they sit in no cheerfiil firelight ; 
they tell no tales of the happy past ; their only memory is of sor^ 
row, their best recollection of some fitful time when chance gave 
them food and fire enough for a few days. Remember them now, 
&rmer, whether rich or poor ! If you are rich, you are but the 
steward of a larger bounty ; if poor, you are richer than those who 
have nothing. Go over your stock, select some fatted lamb, some 
well-grown turkey, some sacks of corn, some load of wood, and 
with truly thankful heart take it to those whom our Saviour has 
said " ye have always with you." 

Such a close to the year may well crown it with honor, and save 
you from that mortifying self-reproach which ought to visit " the 
unthankful," when God sends ^ his sun to shine, and his rain to 
fall," on them even as on the thankful. 

Now that the evenings lengthen and the cold drives you to the 
fireside, do not imitate the black bear, who at this season takes to 
his warmest hole, and there sucks his paws for dear life, content if 
he but get through to another spring. Remember that we do not 



THE FABH. 221 

live to work, but work to live ; that the accumulation of wealth is 
not the end, but a means by which you and your children are to 
develop your minds, to cultivate your intellects ; and to cultivate 
them for their own sakes, not for the money they may return to 
you in shrewder management and keener bargains. Your plainly 
spoken mission in this world is to fit yourself for another, — not 
by merely being or doing good, but by expanding your mind, and 
filling it with knowledge, which will in that other world, where the 
puisuit and attainment of knowledge will be the end and the oc- 
cupation of each day, put you on a level with those with whom 
you are thrown, And will enable you to sympathize and advance 
with them. 

Think over the year's work not merely to see how money has 
been made or lost, but how far you have increased your knowledge 
of the wisdom and mysteries of Nature. 

Lay out your plan for the coming year ; go over every field and 
every crop in your mind ; see what is best adapted to each, and 
consider both how you may get the largest yield, and how when 
harvested it may best be used. 

For the next few months there will be but little to say of the 
monthly routine of the farm, and I shall devote the space hitherto 
occupied by these details to a general inquiry into farming, its 
theories, its capabilities, how it may be of the greatest benefit to 
all, and what the country and country life offer to every man. 
19* 



CHAPTER XXX. 

ORKAMEMTAL. 

The ornamental groonds receive in this month the lai»t toaches 
for the season ; for the next few months their beauty, for a certain 
beaaty, thej will have, will not depend upon or arise fixim what we 
can do for them. 

Go over the grounds, and trim and tie up all the ornamental 
shrubs which need attention, as directed in the flower-garden ; snr* 
round tender plants with straw and Pine branches. 

Spread over the lawn and aU ornamental Grass, a good top- 
dressing of the finest and best-rotted manure. It wiU make the 
surface unsightly, but will compensate for this evil in the spring. 
Either before or after this dressing, the Grass should be well 
rolled, as it will thus be kept firm during the winter, and be less in 
danger of being thrown up by the spring frosts. . 

Examine all the roads and paths, and be sure that their snrfiice 
is even and the gutters and drains clear, so that rain and melting 
snow may be rapidly removed without wearing and washing the 
gravel. 

Take up and house aU ornaments which will be injured by win- 
ter storms ; renew any paint upon them, that requires it, early in 
the winter, that it may be thoroughly dry before spring. 

Examine the dams and banks of the artificial water ; at this 
season muskrats are very apt to burrow into them for winter homes, 
and do serious damage by letting in water, which gradually under- 
mines the banks. Wherever there is danger of ice freshets in the 
spring, the banks may be fortified by sinking squared logs along 
the shore, by one end, while the other end rises several feet above 
the water ; the ice will slide against the timber, and be caught by 
it, so as to leave the water free to pass cff without injuring the 
bank. Unless this precaution is taken, the rapid rush of the water 

222 



ORNAMENTAL. 229 

will plough the ioe into the ground, and perhaps wash the bank 
entirely awaj. Mere water freshets need not be much dreaded, if 
the bank is oovered with close, firm Grass, which will shed the 
water like a floor. To prevent injury from freshets, ponds are 
aometimes made large enough to hold this occasional increase of 
water, but this is a poor expedient, which sacrifices the beauty of 
the pond through the greater part of the year ; and quite unneces- 
sarily, as even close sodding is a sufficient protection to the banks. 
Sods laid even as late as November will be very useful in this 
way. 

Planting ought to be quite finished before this time, and if it has 
not been done there is no time to be lost, as during the last of this 
month there will be heavy and cold rains, that will cool the earth 
and prevent the roots acquiring any hold. Trees planted now 
should be well staked. 

The ground is generally frozen up by or before Thaidtsgiving. As 
soon as it is frozen have all the dry leaves raked up, or they will 
be blowing about all winter, and keep the grounds dirty and Uttered. 
If you have enough in the bams and cellar for bedding and ma- 
nure, make a pile of those now collected and cover it with boards 
and branches. Or, better still, if there is any hole or pit about 
the place, fill it with the leaves wetted and matted together with 
the salt and lime mixture ; in the spring they will have been con- 
verted into the best kind of mould for potting and for genenJ 
greenhouse uses. 

Go over all the trellises on which you have had deciduous vines, 
as Clematis, Madeira, Convolvulus, Apios, etc ; cut the straw away 
at the sur&ce of the ground, untwine them from the trellis and 
throw them with the dry leaves. 

The ornamental trees and shrubs may be pruned and trimmed 
into any shapes you please ; but do not prune the tender ones, lest 
the operation should expose them to greater danger frt)m winter 
killing. 

The work is now to be closed for the winter, and during the long 
mterval of frosty weather there will be ample time to lay plans for 
next summer's work. 



CHAPTER XXXL 




GREENHOUSE. 

ECEMBER. The care of. the green and 
and other glasshouses now becomes the gar- 
dener's principal occupation, but it will be 
found enough to keep him very busy. Should 
the first of the month be warm, it maj be 
possible to get along without fires, but only if 
the weather is very clear and bright ; then 
the sun's heat will warm the house so thor- 
oughly, that by putting up the shutters and letting down the covers 
early, we may retain heat enough to prevent frost during the night 
The advice so o^n given that the house be covered with mats and 
shutters during all moderate weather, is ^ penny wise and pound 
fodish ;** for plants are very much injured by darkness, particularly 
in cold weather, and even with the closest covering it is but rarely 
that fires can be dispensed with in December. Start your fires 
every cold afternoon, but do not let them heat the house higher 
than 45^ to 50° at any time in the month. 

Air the house thoroughly on bright and warmish days, and admit 
some air by the sashes every sunshiny day, unless there is a high 
and very cold wind, when all the sashes should be closed as tightly 
as possible, and the house be ventilated and aerated by the opening 
in the front wall, where the air enters upon the hot pipes, and by 
the ventilators in the back wall. Through them no high or cold 
wind can harm the house. 

Carefully examine the plants daily, and pick off decaying leaves. 

Water sparingly, and syringe only on bright and mild days, when 

some air can be admitted. Give little or no water to the Cactus 

&mily and all similar plants. 

In the hot portion of the boose more fire heat must be kept up^ 

224 



OBEENHOUBE. ZZO 

80 that the temperature may never fall below 45,^ and may average 
55^ to 60.^ Not only are the plants here natives of warm dunates, 
but many of them are to be forced into flower in order to take their 
place in the conservatory. Water more freely than you did last 
month, and set pans of water over the pipes that they may send a 
constant and warm moisture through the house. Admit less direct 
air than in the greenhouse, as a chill will be much more severely 
felt than there. Let the ventilators be nearly or quite closed at 
night, unless the weather be very warm. 

The exotic bulbs planted in the fall have now grown considera- 
bly, and must be treated like all other plants in the same stage of 
growth. 

Fumigation. — It may be necessary to fumigate the houses this 
month, to destroy aphides and other vermin which are always 
present, and begin their work on tender shoots and foliage, as 
soon as they start For fumigation take one or more common 
portable furnaces, such as plumbers use; make a charcoal fire 
m them, and set one under the middle, or at each end of the 
stagings ; on the fire lay common leaf tobacco, — no . matter 
how cheap and poor, — it will fill the house with a dense smoke. 
Do this about sundown, and leave the smoke in the house all 
night. 

For aphides a gentle fumigation is enough, but for coccus and 
thrips, you must make a dense and pungent smoke. About 11 a.m., 
the next day, if it be mild and bright, open the sashes as freely as 
is safe, and let the air circulate. 

This fumigation will destroy all living insects, but has little or no 
^ect on their eggs, some of which will hatch in two or three days ; 
80 repeat the fumigation three tiitfes at intervals of two days. By 
the last time, you will probably have destroyed all that would 
trouble you for some weeks. A single fumigation injures the fra- 
grance of the fiowers as much, and renders the house as disagreeable, 
as three, while it does not half do the work. After the last fumigar 
tion, air freely, and syringe well with water which has been stand- 
ing in a warm place long enough to lose its chiU ; this will remove 
all dead insects and feeble leaves. Thorough fumigations early in 



226 DECEHBEB. 

the winter, often suffice for the season. The gardener mast judge 
however, as to the necessity of a repetition. To ftunigate a few 
plants, you may put some charcoal coals in the bottom of a small 
pot ; on this lay tobacco ; invert over it another pot of the same size, 
or a trifle smaller. The smoke will come out through the hole of 
the top pot quite cool. 

Another kind of work should also be done oft^n ; viz., wash- 
ing the pots, were it only to improve the appearance of the house. 
Many gardeners insist that the green and slimy accretions on the 
outside of the pots do no harm, and may as well be left there. 
That the injury to the plant in the pot is small, is doubtless true, 
but such collections of fungi, foul the air of the house, and render 
the task of keeping it clean and sweet much more difficult. Scruh 
the pots clean occasionally, with sand and water. 

Cleanliness is a leading principle in all successftil hothouse cul- 
ture, and it will be found that the houses most infested with mealy, 
scaly bugs, aphides, etc., are those where the pots and plants are 
allowed to become dirty and mossy. 

Bulbs from Seeds. — The last of December is the time to sow 
seeds of Ranunculus, Anemone, Auricula, Cyclamen. When large 
quantities are required, separate beds must be formed and treated 
with special care ; but we need few. Ranunculus and Anemone are 
rather shy. 

Take shallow garden pans, with holes for drainage, and cover 
the bottom with an inch of good potting-earth, from which all earth- 
worms have been carefully removed. Sow the seed thinly over the 
surface, and cover with a shallow dressing of the same earth, never 
more than quarter of an inch ; set the pans where there will be direct 
light and a moderate bottom heat The earth must be kept moist by 
daily gentle watering, through a pot with a very finely pierced 
rose ; the water must fall very gently and regularly. Keep the 
pans always in a uniform temperature and state of moisture. When 
the seeds have germinated and begun to grow, treat like all other 
bulbous plants. They will grow rapidly, and mature in the early 
summer. As soon as the leaves have fairly withered, carefully ex- 
amine the earth in the pans, and pick out all the roots ; many of 



GREENHOUSE. 227 

them will be very smaU. When all are gathered, dry and lay 
them away like the larger ones for planting, in the following falL 
They will begin to blossom the third year from the seed. 

Examine the cold pits as often as the weather permits, and give 
air and light ; remove all decayed leaves, and, if the plants seem 
to be suffering for want of moisture, water gently and slightly, 
tibrough the nose of the watering-pot. Daisies and Neapolitan Vio- 
lets may be brought into the house to flower ; repot Carnations 
coming into bloom ; nip back strong shoots of Pelargoniums, to make 
them stocky, and repot young plants ; water Cyclamens liberally, 
and repot Achimenes and Gloxinia. Head back plants lately re- 
moved from the ground, for reasons already given. 

Persons who have no glasshouses, and wish to grow a few bulbs 
for the early spring flower-garden, need not start them till later in 
the winter, when directions will be given. 

You may now pot out of the seed pans, some Lobelias, Nierem- 
bergias, Gilias, Nemophilas, etc, which are to be suspended in dif- 
ferent parts of the house, from the pillars and brackets, as hanging 
plants. Select for the same purpose some of the fine foliaged and 
drooping Verbenas, and Lantanas. 

Attend to the bulbs in glasses. If you have not put them into 
glasses, do it at once. Bulbs usually grown in glasses may be set 
out in pots, like those previously described for that purpose. Do 
not cover the bulbs to more than half their depth. 

Any Pinks, Chrysanthemums, or bulbous plants, taken from the 
garden, which have ceased flowering, may now be removed, and 
the bulbs left to dry up slowly. Remove the Pinks and Chrysan- 
themums when out of bloom, to the back of the house ; set them un- 
der the shelves, or la a cold pit, and supply their places with succes- 
sion plants, or some taken out of the pits. Water them very rarely, 
the bulbs and Chrysanthemums may be allowed to grow quite dry, 
hot the Pinks will need water and care occasionally, till spring. 

Pot well-started cuttings which are for spring bloom; repot 
Roses which are growing- strongly ; Tree Peonies will bloom in 
spring, if taken out of the garden and potted ; Japan Lilies can be 
set in pots in the cold frames. 



CHAPTER XXXn. 

COMSERYATORT. 

The directions for the conservatory are nearly a repetition of 
those for the greenhouse ; as before said, keep it warmer than the 
greenhouse. 

Daphnes, Pettosporums, and similar plants are coming into 
blossom, and need more water than before ; aU these plants, Ca- 
melias, Azaleas, and the like, are much alike in general char- 
acter, and need similar treatment; they should have a peculiar 
house to themselves. As we have no such house, but are obliged 
to keep them in the conservatory and greenhouse, I will describe 
the treatment of the Camelia, which is the most capricious, with 
some minuteness, premising that the others are to be managed 
similarly. 

Cahelia. — The Camelia can endure a very considerable 
amount of cold for a short time, during the season of rest. The 
thermometer may fall 2° or 3° below freezing, and yet the plant 
be uninjured ; but this tolerance of cold is only at certidn times ; 
when the plant has blossomed and begun to grow, it needs a great 
deal of beat and an abundance of water; — there is but little dan- 
ger of giving too much ; — when it has made its growth and formed 
its flower-buds, it relapses into a dormant state for some months, 
and so remains till vegetation begins again, a period which varies 
according to the time of flowering. The proper time to examine 
and repot such plants is just before the renewal of growth. The 
Camelia generally blossoms very fully, then rests a few days, and 
sometimes a week or two, then begins to make its new growth, and 
needs, as I have said, plenty of heat and moisture. When the 
new wood is formed, the flower-buds make their appearance. 
When they are formed, gradually diminish the supply of water 

228 



CONSERVATORY. 229 

and heat, giving only water enough to prevent drought, till it re- 
oommences its growth. It is impatient of standing water, and 
requires thorough drainage. In the summer, which is usually its 
dormant season, it may be removed from the house, and set in 
some cool and shady pl|u;e, where it is well to bed it in coal ashes 
to insure the immediate and thorough absorption of falling water, 
and to prevent insects or worms from getting into the pot 

As before said, examine its ball of earth just before the roots 
begin to grow again, give fresh loam, and if need be, repot ; it is 
rarely necessary to repot large plants oftener than once in two or 
three years, the time depending on the thoroughness of its drainage 
and the quality of the loam in which it has been planted. Many 
specific preparations of earth have been proposed for Camelias. 
The best and. most reliable is good virgin loam. If this is rather 
tenacious, reduce it with pure sand. The only means of subse- 
quent enrichment is liquid manure, which should be applied, ac- 
cording to the best English growers, only during the season of the 
plant's repose, never during flowering or growing. 

As soon as growth recommences the flower-buds swell ; two, or 
at the most three, are all that should be allowed in each cluster ; 
if more appear, thin them out with sharp-pointed scissors ; if this 
be not carefully done, they will crowd each other off. 

By no means bring them at this season into a very warm house, 
for much heat will cause the buds to fall off; keep them as cool and 
well aired as possible. If they get dusty, sponge the leaves or syr- 
inge very thoroughly. The general health and good treatment of 
the Camelia are proved by its breaking all its buds at once, as it 
starts afresh. It is very apt to lose its lower buds and grow from 
the top only, thus spindling up and becoming naked below. Take 
every possible means to prevent this. Be sure that the supply of 
water is regular and abundant when the buds are developing, or 
they will drop. The other plants named are not so shy or diflicult 
to manage 'as the Camelia, but need the same general treatment. 

Azaleas. — As regards soil, the Azalea, Erica, and Rhododen- 
drons prefer peaty soils, and if good peat can be had, it should by 
all means be used especially for the Ericas. 

20 



230 DECEMBER. 

The varietj of Azaleas is great, and they are a beautiful family 
of plants, whether we refer to the Azalea Viscosa of our own 
swamps, the Azalea Pontica of the flgwer-garden and shrubbery, 
with its many varieties, or to the yet more varied Azaleas of the 
greenhouse. They are easily grown from the seed, from side cut- 
tings, and from grails. " For seeds, the soil is made smooth by 
white sand; as soon as the seedlings have made two or three 
leaves, transplant them to store pots, — many together, — in sandy 
peat The seed pans should be put where they will have bottom 
heat Cuttings are prepared by taking the tops of the young shoots 
when 3 inches long, cutting off the lower leaves, and leavmg the 
upper ; many should be put together into a pot three-fourths full of 
peat, one-fourth white sand ; water gently upon planting, and cover 
with a bell glass ; set in a shady place, where the temperature will 
be from 50® to 60° ; after they have made roots, remove the bell 
glass — during the night at first, and finally dispense with it wholly 
— to harden them ; at last, pot in 2^ inch pots, and keep them 
shady and warm till they are well established, then treat like all 
other hard-wooded plants ;" — like the Camelia, in general they 
bear pruning well, and may therefore be shaped as you please. 
If from imperfect drainage or any other cause the roots become 
diseased, examine carefuUy when you pot, cut away the dead, and 
give the living roots a fair chance. 

The chief objection to the Azalea is its liability to die without 
much apparent cause. It often dies at the surface of the ground. 
Grafting the tender into the more hardy is no protection, as they 
die just above the stock. They are also very much attacked by 
the thrip ; " the best remedy (fbr the latter) is, to prepare strong 
lather of soap and flower of sulphur, in a tub, and to immerse the 
plants two or three times in it, setting them again on their stages, 
and shutting up the house or pit close for two or three days." 
(Mcintosh's Book of the Grarden, p. 684.) At this season, water 
but little till they commence to grow. 

The Oleander is another very fine conservatory and garden 
plant ; it is a strong, free grower, may be got fix)m seeds, or cut- 
tings either of the new or old wood ; the latter root freely when 



CONSERVATOBY. 231 

hung in bottles of water. The trouble with the Oleander is its 
shyness in blossoming. It should be planted in strong, rich loam, 
and when the flower buds appear should stand in pans constantly 
full of water. Afler it has blossomed it should have as much sun 
as possible, and Uttle water, till the spring of the next year, when 
the watering and stimulating should be recommenced. 

A glance at the Oleander shows that three shoots start fix>m the 
growing points, which in large plants are the flower shoots. If you 
would have a plant or a part of a plant blossom freely, rub off the 
young shoots as soon as they appear at the base of the flower buds ; 
all the sap will then be thrown first into the buds, and will conse- 
quently develope magnificent flowers, while three other buds or 
shoots will start lower down on the branch, which terminates in the 
flowers. By carefully attending to this you will not only get much 
better flowers, but will keep the plant in much better condition and 
shape, as without pruning it often becoqies straggly and unmanage- 
able. < 

Cut down the plants every spring, afler flowering. Once in 
three years you must repot. If you cannot obtain pots large 
enough for the entire roots, pare the ball with a sharp knife, on the 
sides and bottom, till it fits the pot ; after repotting set in a shaded 
place, and in a few weeks the roots will form anew. 

By thus carefully watching and managing Oleanders you may 
obtain their full and great beauty. They are great ornaments to 
the garden in summer, whether in pots or tubs, above the surface 
or sunk in the open ground. 

Rhododendrons are quite as impatient of heat as Camelias, and 
need more water while forming their flower buds. They may be 
fireely grown from seed, cuttings, layers, or by budding. Daphnes 
are &eely grown by cuttings, or by grafting on common sorts of the 
same species. In December hang up here, as in the greenhouse, 
the plants which you wish to have pendant from the roof and 
windows. Give Acacias, as they come into flower, abundant water. 

Now is the time for persons who have no lai^ estates or garden 
structures for keeping and growing plants, to do something in a 



252 DECEMBER. 

small way, by which they may secure the delights of flowers and 
plants in winter. • 

Some persons have a knack at making all kinds of plants groTpe in 
the most unfavorable circumstances. I think this is partly owing to 
a magnetic attraction existing between such persons and their plants. 
The plants seem to know that they are loved, that they are house- 
hold treasures, that every new leaf and flower is as welcome as the 
new words and expanding thoughts of a baby to its mother. Ap- 
parently conscious of this, they do their utmost, and in places the 
least adapted for successful house culture of plants, we often find 
stands or individuals equal to the best greenhouse specimens. 

I was never more impressed with this than in the town of Bean- 
fort, near Quebec. The road winds along beside the St. Lawrence, 
and through a village of French people, who have preserved the 
customs of their old French ancestors, and whose houses are repro- 
ductions of the picturesque cottages of Northern France. Their 
climate is very extreme, and the thermometer, for months together, 
is 10° or 15° below zero. The houses are some of stone, some of 
wood, plastered on the exterior, heated only by stoves, and yet in 
the early spring there may be seen, in almost every cottage by the 
road-side, large plants — Roses, Pelargoniums, Fuchsias, some five 
or six feet high, and not in blossom merely, but so filled with 
flowers that the leaves only served like the green in a bouquet, to 
show the flowers to better advantage. 

Apart fvom the singularity of such successful culture under these 
unfavorable circumstances, how beautiful it is to see these, or any 
flowers, in the houses of the poor ! it is a proof that there glows in 
the heart of the occupants a recognition of something in life more 
worthy of admiration than the merely practical and bread-earning. 
A few flowers in tie window, a border neatly trimmed and kept 
in the front yard, a vine trailing over the door, along the eaves, or 
overhanging the architrave of the window, are the best possible 
proof that the dwellers in that house are, whether rich or poor, 
capable of rising above the troubles and cares of life, to the higher 
and better regions of Nature and God. 

We talk often of natural and revealed religion which point us 
to the earth, to the universe with its wonderful mechanism, as a 



CON8BRYATORT. 238 

proof that there is a God, and that no such wonderful elaboration, 
where each part fits into its appropriate place, and where the 
whole machine, subtle, grand, and simple, works so calmlj and 
perfectly, could have existed except by careful design. They tell 
us that the proof is overwhelming that one mind arranged every 
part and detail before the world was started on its career ; and un- 
doubtedly their argument is just and weighty ; but it has not half 
the power that lies in the color and fragrance of the Rose, the 
twinkle of the dew-drop, the flashing, shilling ripple of the brook, 
the calm, holy, and indescribably beautiful reflection along the 
shores of some wooded pond or mountain lake. These are the 
visible manifestations of God. He is the Beautiful ; and when 
we love and cultivate the beautiful, we love and cultivate his plain 
outward manifestation. 

Every flower that blooms, every crystal or water-drop that glis- 
tens, is a proof positive of the presence and all-pervading influence 
of God ; and every heart that is open to the love of a flower even, 
is open to the love of its Maker ; though covered, concealed, unac- 
knowledged, it is there, and sooner or later the simple flower will 
lead its lover to other higher loves. Teach children to love flowers, 
waters, trees, skies ; open their hearts early to all the powerful and 
subtle influences of nature if you would have them noble and 
worthy men and women. 

God might have made the whole earth green ; might have spread 
no varied feast of form and color for the eye, without a change in 
the daily motions of the heavens or in the daily events of life ; 
and yet how different a world would this have been ! how dull and 
uninteresting ! Take color from the forms of creation, and you take 
away a stimulus without which the mind would grow dull, listless, 
indifferent to some of the highest pursuits which now engage it 
The constant presence of beauty is the strongest evidence for the 
immortality of the soul. 

The annual death of the leaves and flowers, and their annual 
resurrection teach an unmistakable lesson. The dewy mornings, 
gentle verdure, and whitening blossoms of May and June, have 
appealed to the noblest and best in man since history's earliest 
record; the rich summer beauty and luxuriance of July, the 
20* 



234 DECEMBER. 

brilliancy of October, have aroused . and ennobled innumerable 
minds ; and we, who in the enthusiasm of youth or maturity of 
manhood reverence and admire the beauty of nature, are worship- 
ping the same outward revelations of Grod, whidi have appealed 
to mankind for many generations. 

The simplest flower, a single bud, the crimson spider that flashes 
about in our ponds and rivers, the sea anemone achored to its rock, 
are all parts of, and necessary to, the whole wonderful beauty of na- 
ture. In beauty there is a law of gravitation ; each atom attracts the 
whole in proportion as it is itself attracted. The simplest object in 
the natural world is as important, as well-recognized by God, as 
valuable to the discerning eye, as the greatest and most impressive. 
Therefore, cultivate a love of the beautiful ; cherish every flower 
you may. Be sure that whoever truly loves a single flower, whether 
in the home of wealth or in the Five Points of New York, has in 
him some recognition of goodness and purity. Never sneer at the 
humblest stand of flowers ; the poorest specimen. The Grerar 
nium growing in the broken tea-pot that stands on the dusty sill 
of a dusty window, in a fever-stricken town, may have a value 
in the eye of its owner and a power of good over hb mind, not to 
be equalled by the rarest conservatory or the most beautiful garden 
of a rich man. 

Do not think that this book is written for the rich, to promote 
their ease and luxury. It will be a greater satisfaction to me to 
awaken the class of d^y-laborers to the value and power of beauty ; 
to show them how they may arouse in themselves and in those they 
bve, an appreciation of Nature and Nature's gifts to her worship- 
pers, than to show the rich how they may get a greater return in 
beauty or fruit for the money they expend on gardens and pleasure 
grounds. I would impress it on all classes, that loving ennobles 
and purifles the soul ; loving is of value according to the nobleness 
of the thing we love ; and he who in his little village-garden grows 
and loves his flowers for their own purity and nobleness, will receive 
a richer reward and get a better — because an inward — growth, 
than he who pours out his money like water to produce rich gardens 
and costly plants, that they may be external and evident proo& 
of his wealth and power. 



CONSERTATORY. 235 

Before we leave these winter months, I hope to show both that 
this is true and that the love and pursuit of agriculture is the le- 
gitimate occupation of the best portion of our nature. 

I have described planthouses fit for men of large means. I will 
now describe a 

Conservative Pit on a large scale, but not very costly to 
make or expensive to support, which will return an unlimited 
amoufit of satisfaction. Such a pit might be erected on the L roof of 
a city house, may be large or small, cheap or costly, according to the 
fancy of the builder. I shall describe it as standing on the ground. 

Stake out a parallelogram 18 x 30 feet, and dig it out to the 
depth of 3 feet ; along the front side and at both ends lay a solid 
stone or brick wall 3 feet high. At the back erect a solid brick or 
stone wall 3 feet high, and above this a hollow brick wall 24 inches 
thick and 20 feet high. In the base wall on the front and ends 
leave openings for ventilators as shown in the plan. In the top 
of the front side of the back wall leave tubular openings 4 feet 
^part, as shown in the plan for top-ventilation. All these openings 
in the walls must have tight covers on the inside, and wire gauze 
covers where they open into the outer air. The top-ventilators 
open under the coping of the top of the wall, which will protect 
them against high winds. In other respects the exterior is made 
like that of ordinary greenhouses ; the glass roof is divided into 
two sashes, the upper sliding over the lower. Refer to the plan of 
the end. e is a door which slides to the right to give entrance ; it 
is 3 feet higher than the floor of the house, being on a level with 
the surface of the ground, and steps which curve to the right 
descend from it to a path (d in the section), 3 feet wide, which 
leads to the other end of the house. On the left of this walk is the pit. 

Pit. — Mark out a parallelogram 9 feet wide x the distance be- 
tween the walk at the foot of the steps and the other end of the 
house ; lay a tile drain and a pipe for heating the soil, through the 
length of this parallelogram ; at each corner drive down firm posts, 
Red Cedar or Locust, or squared stone posts, not less than 3 inches 



286 



DECEMBER. 



square in the clear; to these posts, if of wood, spike doBelj 
matched 2-iDch planks ; if of stone, &8ten bj bolts and iron straps 




SECTION OF CONBERYATiyB PIT. 



Scale. — One-fourth inch to the foot, 
a, a, hot-water pipes; b, table, 8 feet wide; e, plank or slate front to pit; d^ floor of walk 
—■trips of wood or slate ; «, trellis for Tines ; /, graTel underdralning for pH ; g, mrtt, etc., 
in pit, 2 feet deep in front, 8 feet behind. 



CONSERVATORT. 



287 



slobs of slate 1^ inches thick ; carry up the planks or slabs 3 feet 
in front, 4 feet at the back of the ends, sloping gradually to the 
front There is no need of planking against the back wall. Fill 
into the space thus enclosed. 




r I I 1 i: 



F ^ff 



END OF CONSERVATIVE PIT. 

Scale. — One-fourth inch to the foot. 



a, Jbnndation ^U ; b. brick fbandfttion, 8 feet high | e, double irall, 2 foot thick; </, tUed 
'dope for the top of the waU, protecting yentilation tube; «, door, 8 ftet wide; /, BUding 
mat ; g, wooden hue ; A, top sash sUdiog over ; *, lower auh, fixed. 



288 DEGEMBEB. 

Over these stones lay 6 inches of tough sods, over the sods 3 
inches bones and oyster shells, over these 3 inches best loam, over 
the loam 3 inches of bones etc., as before, and 6 inches well-trod* 
den, unfermented horse-manure. Fill up to the edges and slope 
nicely with the best loam you can get Leave all to settle for a 
fortnight or two ; then fill up anew with loam. Into the top of the 
back wall drive a row of staples 4 feet apart ; do the same at the 
bottom, and between the rows stretch coarse wires for a trellis ; at 
the foot of each wire plant a choice running Rose (Safrano Tea, 
La Marque, Cloth of Gold, etc.) ; cut them down within two buds 
of the surface. Over the rest of the pit plant what you like : 
Lemon Verbenas, Bourbon, Tea, and China Roses, Heliotrope, 
Sage, Lantana, Verbena, China Orange, and other and smaller 
plants ; among these Double English Violet, Daisy, Lysimachia, 
Lycopodium. Set the plants in August^ and let them all be small, 
so that as they grow you may give them shapes as you prefer, b 
(in the section), on the right of the walk, is a table 3 feet wide and 3 
feet high, to hold pot plants, cuttings, boxes of Cucumbers, Melons, 
or Strawberries, or any low-growing plants ; under the table carry a 
double hot-water or steam pipe, with a coupling to connect at will 
with the pipe under the pit 

Do not put on the sashes till late in September, and only then 
if hard frosts threaten ; after the sashes are on, leave them open 
and air the house as much as possible ; get what heat is necessary 
from the sun and the use of the shutters and mats, and do not re- 
sort to fires while you can avoid it. Keep the temperature as low 
as 40° to 45°, till the last of December ; gradually increase the 
heat if you cannot otherwise keep out frost, but rely principally 
on the increasing heat of the sun as the days lengthen. 

The plants will begin a slow growth in October, and gradually 
throw out a few leaves and blossoms till January ; in this interval 
water sparingly ; as December grows old, give water lukewarm 
and in greater quantity ; the plants will soon begin to grow vigor- 
ously. During the rest of the season, till warm weather, water 
and syringe as in other greenl\ouses ; keep a moderate temperature 
during the night, and let the sun heat the house thoroughly during 



CON8ERVATOBY. 2S^. 

the day; the plants will soon begin to blossom freely. Train 
the vines on the wire trellises as fast as they grow: they will 
grow the better, and you can give them any shape. 

Here, as in other houses, the plants need fumigating. Once a 
month give a copious watering of liquid manure, made as before 
directed. 

During the coldest weather, connect the pipe which runs under 
the pit so as to warm the earth below, but only in a moderate de- 
gree ; it is not desirable to stimulate growth by bottpm heat to any 
great extent, but to give just enough to keep the roots warmed in 
proportion to the increased heat about the branches. 

As the spring advances, use the front shelf to start cuttings for 
bedding out, and to grow plants for the kitchen-garden. 

Later in spring withdraw fire-heat, and toward the last of April 
give less and less water. By the first of June take ofi* all the 
movable sashes, and entirely cease watering, or in droughts water 
just enough to save the plants from being dijied up. Under this 
treatment they will cease to grow, and will ripen their wood ; when 
this is effected, cut them — vines and all — back as much as you 
judge sufficient to enable them to blossom and grow next season 
without crowding. If any of them do not suit you, this is the time 
to substitute others. Cover the top of the pit with a liberal dress- 
ing of well-rotted manure, and dig it in carefully with a foot or 
hand fork. Afrer August, follow the directions already given ; t.e., 
begin the year again. , 

The fire and boiler-room is not shown here. If tlie dwelling- 
house is heated by hot water or steam, its pipes may connect with 
the pit ; or a simple fine and fireplace may be built at one end 
and instead of hot pipes, a brick fiue, through which all the fire 
and smoke must pass, may be carried along the ends and front of 
the house. Water may be caught from the roof, raised from a 
well, or supplied in whatever way is most convenient ; the fire and 
cistern, are in a small shed at the back of the house. If the cis- 
tern is above the level of the floor, a pipe may be led from its 
bottom to the centre of the house, in order to lessen the labor of 
carrying water. 

The cost of a house built on this plan may be greatly increased 



240 DECEMBER. 

or reduced, at the fancy of the proprietor, and wiU depend on the 
amount of ornament and finish. When present cheapness is the 
grand desideratum, substitute for the . brick walls double wooden 
ones, built like those of an icehouse, with a space of a foot, at 
least, between, into which sawdust is put, or which is back plas- 
tered. Clapboard on the outside, putting tarred paper under the 
clapboards ; inside use tarred paper under sheathing or lath and 
plaster. 

Such a wooden house, 18 x 30 feet, can be built now, and in the 
vicinity of Boston, for about $600 ; a brick house, for $800 to 
$1000. 

A person of small means may think I have hardly made good 
my promise to describe a cheap house, since $1000 for such a pur- 
pose is scarcely more easily spared than $2000. And, of course, 
only those who have some balance of money to their credit caa 
afford any planthouse ; such things are out of the question for men 
whose every moment is spent in struggling for freedom from debt 
But for one who can afford it the first cost named is very small in 
proportion to the return which will surely follow, while the after 
cost of keeping the house will be very small. It is easily warmed, 
not requiring more than 3 tons of coal at the utmost, probably not 
more than 1^ or 2 tons. Most families could manage it without the 
help of a gardener, there being no necessity for potting or starting 
slips, no grape vines to be watched, pruned, and thinned. The 
work is simple, and if you choose, you may carry the plants with 
which you start through many years. 

But beware of one error with regard to this house ; viz., the cal- 
culation that it will pay a portion of its cost, or its running ex- 
penses, by sales of flowers and plants. Professed gardeners may 
do this, but the attempt will only bring to an amateur disappoint- 
ment and annoyance. He will always scrimp himself in cutting 
flowers, lest he may not have enough for sale, and will never be 
satisfied if he does -not succeed in making money out of his house ; 
but if he undertakes it with no expectation of pecuniary return, he 
will get his pleasure without any disi4)pointment, unless it be the 
pleasant one of an unexpected surplus, which may bring in a few 
dollars. 



CONSERVATORY. 



241 




Window Gardening. — A few plants can be effectually culti- 
vated on a still smaller scale, and so as to produce a' very pleasant 
result In any room where a fire is kept up throughout the win- 
ter put up a window-case. A bay window is the best for the pur- 
pose, as it projects and receives sun and light from several sides, 
but other windows will answer. The above engraving repre- 
sents a three-sided bay window, projecting 3 feet beyond the room ; 
if you can afford it, make a double window of this, with a pane 
21 



242 



DECEMBER. 





1 







B 








/.- 








\ 


{ 










1 


sk—l 








/ 


/ 



in the top of each of the two 
outer side sashes, swiDging 
on hinges, so that bj lower- 
ing the inside top sash, and 
opening one or both of these 
swinging panes, cold air may 
be freely admitted to the 
case. Now cut a piece of 
1^ inch planed plank to just 
fit into the window on one 
side, and to project into the 
room as far as jou please on 
the other, where it may be cat 
into any shape which suits 
you. In the cut it is of the 
same shape as the portion 
within the window, so that 
the whole is a hexagon. This 
plank. A, is to be the ceiling. 
Into its four front comers 
sink holes to receive the 
posts, which are to form the 
frame of the window. (See cut, a', post rebated to hold sash.) The 
size of the posts is decided by the height of the window, and they are 
chamfered on the outside to meet the angle of the hexagon, which 
they are to occupy, and rebated on each side deep enough to hold 
the sash. Now construct a framework, B, of 2 x 3 planed joist, just 
the size of the plank ceiling, and with holes corresponding to those 
in the ceiling ; countersink in opposite sides, grooves or cuts 1 inch 
deep and 2 inches wide, 1 foot apart ; into these grooves fit planed 
slats. As the bay window does not reach the fioor cut four 3x4 
smoothed joists, to reach from the floor to the sill. Screw them 
against the four comers of the window. Cut two other posts, c, 8 
inches longer than the first four, and halve their tops, so as to make 
a joint, on which the frame of the floor of the window-case may rest. 
Have a zinc pan made which will just fit the fioor of the case, 
and make a tight joint all round ; its edges must be turned up 2 



CONSEBYATOBT. 243 

inches to prevent any water spattering over upon the floor, with a 
one-half inch waste pipe in its centre, to discharge water into the 
pail below. 

Paint the whole inside wood-work thoroughly, with at least two 
coats of best zinc paint ; when this is dry, put the pan in its place. 
Make two small stagings which will fit into as much of the two 
opposite sides of the case as you please ; they should not be nearer 
each other than 2 feet, and their shelves should be not less than 5 
inches wide, with a rise of 4 inches for all ; or the first 3 inches, 
and each other step two more than the last The number of the 
shelves will depend of course on the area of the fioor ; they may 
be carried straight across or curved concavely ; the latter being 
more pleasing though not (]^uite so well for the plants. Agaiust the 
sides of the window and case you may carry up shelves 1 foot to 
18 inches apart, to the very top. Screw some hooks into the ceil- 
ing from which to hang drooping plants ; they should be hung with 
oords of different lengths, so that when well grown they may form 
a kind of arch with the plants on the sides. Paint stagings and 
shelves before plants are set on them. From the bottom of the 
case hang a curtain to conceal the pail — which must stand under 
the pipe before mentioned — and the various utensils used in man- 
aging the case. 

This case is a miniature greenhouse. It will be thoroughly 
heated by the sun which shines on it during some portion of the 
day, and if enough of this heat cannot be retained to warm it 
through the night, the doors should be thrown open to admit the 
warm air of the room. 

It should be stocked with a variety of plants. Set near the 
posts pots of vines, as running Roses, Smilax, Tropeolum, Wax- 
plant, Solanum, etc. ; on the stagings and in the pan set Gerani- 
ums, Verbenas, Heliotrope, Lantana, Cuphea, Fuchsia ; in shaded 
places, Daisies and Violets; on the shelves, drooping Fuchsias, 
Mahemias, drooping Heliotrope, Lobelia, Nierembcrgia, Gilia, 
eta ; hang up any you please of these last. 

Of course you are not confined to these plants, but they are 
enough to give a good variety ; be careful not to get too many and 
(^rowd the case. 



244 DECEMBER. 

. Suppose all this to have been done early in October ; during the 
rest of the month, and the whole of the next, water sparingly and 
give plenty of air ; do not induce the plants to grow more than is 
quite natural. The sun's wannth will be enough for day and night 
III December set the bulbs in their glasses into the front of the 
c&se ; water sparingly, and on very bright days syringe thoroughly. 
Still keep the temperature low, not highcf by the sun*s heat than 
75** in the day, and at night let it fall as low as 40°. In January 
water more freely and with tepid water, syringe twice a week, and 
keep the temperature at night as high as 50°. The plants will 
now begin to grow. Once a fortnight give weak manure-water. 
Admit air as oflen as the outside temperature allows. During the 
day let the case get as hot as 75° to 80°, and at night fall to 55° ; 
follow this treatment till spring. Your plants wiU be healthy, grow 
strongly, blossom freely. Whenever aphides appear, fumigate three 
times, allowing an interval of two days for the eggs to liatch ; after 
each fumigation, syringe well to clear away the dead insects. 

For your fumigations you may use a small brazier or an alcohol 
lamp with a wire netting supported over the flame, which should 
be as small as possible, that the tobacco laid on the netting may 
bum slowly, and the smoke not be too hot. 

Any severely cold night frost may be kept out by shutting up 
the case, first setting inside a large, lighted solar lamp. Its heat 
will keep out frost 

In late spring take out all plants not trained to the wood-work ; 
set them in a cool, shady place, and reduce their water till they stop 
growing. Do not withhold water entirely, or allow the. earth to be- 
come dry in the centre of fhe pots. When they have thoroughly 
ripened their wood, cut them down to a convenient size. 

In August, or at the proper time for each kind of plants repot, 
ahifling to larger pots if necessaiy ; examine the roots, give fresh 
earth. Put them into the case again in October ; but before doing 
this examine and scrub the paint and wood-work ; stop all leaks ; 
ftimigate with sulphur and tobacco of such strength as will kill in- 
sects and eggs, but not affect the paint. 

A very neat case of this kind can be made when the win- 
dow is flush with the room, as in ordinary windows, especially if 



CONSERVATORY. 245 

the window selected lies between the chimney-breast and the wall, 
so that three sides of the case are made by the chimney-breast, the 
opposite wall, and the intervening window. It is best to have all 
the sunlight possible ; but sunlight is not indispensable, although 
abundant daylight is. For this reason, if not for beauty, it is well 
to have all sides of the case of glass, as the plants thus get more 
light and grow more symmetrically. 

A very neat and pretty case of this kind can be built for $15, 
and stocked for $5 or $10, and once built and stocked it costs noth- 
ing more while it lasts. Its great advantage over plant-stands for 
rooms is, obviously, in the facility it offers for excluding dust, for 
watering, syringing, fumigating, and regulating heat. Such cases 
may be made on the outside of windows, but unless very carefully 
built it is impossible to keep them warm enough. The contrivance 
xms SDggested by the 

Wardian Case,— 'Which is another simple and pretty method 
of growing a few plants in a room. In original theory, the Ward- 
ian case was air-tight, but in practice this is not necessary ; in- 
deed, it is found that by considering the case as a small greenhouse, 
and managing it on greenhouse principles, a more perfect result is 
secured ; the advantage of the Wardian case being in equality of 
temperature and moisture, and in protection from dust, rather than 
in the exclusion of outside air ; the latter being in fact nearly im- 
possible, because air will find its way through the earth and pot. 

It is from badly regulated supply of moisture that room plants 
mainly suffer. Out-door plants are supplied by rains, by winds, 
by local currents of air which bring moisture where it is needed ; 
and the importance of this supply is shown by the stunted and with- 
ered appearance of vegetation during droughts, when a reduced 
quantity of water is furnished by the roots, while none can be ol)- 
tained by the leaves from the air. In greenhouses this diffused 
moisture is artificially supplied. 

Plants taken from the greenhouse into the room of a dwell- 
ing, are at once placed in a very dry air, always drier than that 
out of doors, and in cold weather made still more so by fire; 
heat ; and the most copious watering at the ixx>t will not remedy 
21* 



246 DECEMBER. 

this evil, for the roots cannot do the work of the leaves as well as 
their own, and cannot give the moisture usually furnished by the 
breathing pores of the leaves. 

It is clear then, that the dryness of the air is a cause of the com- 
mon failure in cultivating plants in our rooms. There is, besides, a 
great deal of dust, ashes, and soot always floating in the air of our 
houses. This dust is very fine, and abundant enough to injure plants 
seriously. By shutting plants in close cases from which all currents 
and circulation of air are excluded, this evil of dust, etc., is removed- 

Again, plants not only absorb moisture from the air, but also give 
out a great deal by perspiration, which, in the ordinary course of 
things, is carried off by the winds. The earth also evaporates 
freely under a warm sun or a dry wind. Set a glass jar over a 
pot plant, and this usually invisible process will be demonstrated to 
the eye. The glass is no hindrance to the sun's rays, which warm 
the earth and the plant in the pot and draw up moisture through the 
plant, and also evaporate it directly from the earth. To this mois- 
ture the glass is a hindrance ; it shuts it all in, and as the sun 
leaves, and the glass and the air within it cool, the vapor condenses, 
and runs down the glass to the earth again. This process is re- 
peated day after day, with no sensible diminution of the moisture in 
the pot. Plants have been kept in this condition for many months 
without the addition of a drop of water to the original supply. 

The evident drawback to such a case is the dimming of the glass 
by condensation of moisture, — on the inside, when the air without is 
cooler than that within — on the outside, when the relation is re- 
versed. In either case it may be temporarily obviated by a small 
door in some part of the ca^e, by opening which the temperature 
within becomes the same as that without. 

A beautiful feature of this arrangement is the power the case 
has of regulating the heat within, by the process described under 
the glass jar : the condensation increasing in proportion as the tem- 
perature within rises above that without, and so shutting out the 
rays which would soon make the temperature within too high for the 
health of the plants. As the case cools by the loss of the rays so shut 
out by the veil of mist, the evaporation ceases to supply material 
for condensation, — the veil is withdrawn and the sun looks in again. 



CONSERVATORY. 



247 



In such portable greenhouses the most tender and delicate ex- 
otics, — Ferns, L jcopodiums, etc, — have been grown successfully. 
Unfortunately, the cost of glass and the inconvenience of having 
very large cases in our rooms set a limit to our collection and the 
size of our plants. 

I have dwelt on the effect of the sun's rays on the case and its 
contents, in order id make the process plainer ; but direct sunlight 
is not essential to a perfect case, and by keeping the case out of the 
sun during the greater part of the time, the condensation and con- 
sequent dimming of the glass may be avoided. 

Wardian cases of every shape have been made to suit the taste 
of cultivators. Not only are plants preserved in the best condition 
by these means, but cut flowers may be kept under similar glasses for 
a much longer time than in the ordinary way. In the middle of a 
shallow glass dish set a bouquet in an appropriate glass ; pour an 
inch or two of water into the dish, and cover the bouquet with a 
bell-glass, which will shut down into the water, and make the space 
within really air-tight The flowers will preserve their freshness 
for a marvellously long time.. The cut shows a Wardian case. 
" The stand is 22 inches 
high, and fitted with a 
groove all round, to hold 
the box ; the glazed top 
or cover is 19 inches 
high; whole height of 
case, 4 feet 2 inches." 

The sides are of ma- 
hogany, the bottom of 
pine, 1^ inches thick; 
the upper edge of the 
box is furnished with a 
groove, to receive the 
glass roof, and this groove 
is lined with brass to pre- 
vent the rotting of the 
wood. The roof frame is 
of brass, and is glazed with the very best flattened crown glass ; the 




248 



DECEMBER. 



brass astragals are grooved for the reception of the glass — not 
rebated as in ordinary glazing. The case is 3^ feet long by 2 feet. 
Eyed studs are cast on the inside of the ridge astragal, about half 
an inch in length, to sustain small orchids or ferns from the roof; 
the box is lined with copper, and from one comer a copper tube, 2 
inches long, and furnished with a cock, leads off all superfluou.x 
moisture." 

" One of the panes in the roof is made to draw out, being less 
firmly set than the others in the groove of the astragal ; this is nec- 
essary for the occasional arrangement of the plants, though the 
general arrangement is made by removing the entire top." This 
latter, however, is seldom necessary, as ^^ plants, both in pots 
plunged in moss, and planted out in proper soil, and well drained 
below, have been kept in a healthy state for nine months without 
removal" 




" B is a very elegant plant case, which might stand in a hall, or 
the centre or comer of a drawing-room. An iron or earthen pot. 
with a groove cast in the upper surface, which holds the glass cover ; 
in the middle set an earthen stand, with an iron standard to hold 
Rmall orchids or other hanging plants. It may drain through the 
bottom. C is a wire basket for holding flowers and plants, either 
with or without a cover ; the stand and bottom of the basket are of 



CONSERVATORY. 249 

iron or wood ; the sides of wire outside, and zinc in ; the bottom 
channeled, to aHow the water to pass off by a small pipe. Such a 
movable case is very beautiful, and is easily arranged and cared for." 
Another very delightful and instructive companion and ornament 
for the house or conservatory is the 

Aquarium. — The very general interest in, and knowledge of, the 
aquarium renders it unnecessary for me to enter minutely into a dis- 
cussion of the principles to be observed in making and managing it. 
It must not be supposed that because it is a means of growing aquatic 
plants it is therefore the complement of the Wardian case, where 
we grow land plants, and to be managed on the same principles ; 
for not only is it necessary to introduce animals into an aquarium 
in order to make its plants thrive, but its great purpose is to make 
us familiar with aquatic animals, and they are its main attraction, 
the plants being secondary, though essential. 

An aquarium can be made in any water-tight, open-mouthed 
vessel, but the habits of the plants and animab can be studied 
much better if the sides of the vessel are of glass. 

Water in which aquatic plants ai-e cultivated roou grows foul, 
and its surface is covered with green slime, and this was the great 
difficulty to be overcome in establishing the aquarium. 

In 1842, Dr. Johnson, an English naturalist, mentioned, in a 
work on Sponges, that having placed in a jar of sea-water plants 
and branches of sea-weeds, to some of which minute shell fish 
were attached, he found that not only did the water remain clear, 
but the plants and animals throve perceptibly. In 1845, Mr. 
Ward, the inventor of the Wardian case, announced to the scien- 
tific world that he had succeeded in growing sea-weeds even in 
water artificially prepared. Since that time the attention of natur- 
alists has been strongly directed to aquariums, and some of the 
earlier establishments were so successful and charming as to arouse 
an immediate and wide-spread enthusiasm on the subject, and re- 
cant periodical literature has abounded with articles about it 

The first step was the discoveiy that when the plants introduced 
into jars of fresh water had snails attached to them, or those in 
salt water, periwinkles, the water did not become foul or filled with 



250 DECEMBKR. 

confervie. This attracted attention to these animals both in coo- 
finement and in their native waters, and then it appeared that thej 
are the scavengers of the refuse of the waters ; and a little reflec- 
tion showed the observer that a sea, a lake, a pond is but a large 
aquarium, in which each animal and plant contributes something 
to the support of all, and that his aquarium, to be successful, must 
cop7 nature's. The plants in water supply by their exhalations 
oxjgen to the animals, who in return furnish the plants with car- 
bonic acid ; the decaying vegetable refuse becomes food for snails 
and minute animalcules, which are eaten by small fish, and they, in 
their turn, by large. The whole life of the waters is like an end- 
less chain, which, when broken into parts, is valueless for its origi- 
nal purpose. 

The result of these observations is the rule that the plants are 
the first thing to be established in the aquarium ; that as soon as 
they have fairly begun to grow, snails must be put in, then insects 
and fish. Then we can watch — as it were from beneath the 
waters — the whole miracle of life, death, and reproduction, 
which is perpetually wrought in the unseen depths of ocean and 
lake. 

The beauty of the aquarium depends on the beauty of the veg- 
etable and animal forms within, and as motion lends such an addi- 
tional charm to all things, the fish and other animals are the most 
beaudful and bewitching portion of the stock, and every owner of 
an aquarium is eager to increase this portion. The number of 
plants is obviously limited ; there can be but few species and vari- 
eties even in a large tank, and their beauty is injured by crowding ; 
but it is hard to believe that animals may not be added at pleasure, 
as they occupy little room, and are constantly changing their quar- 
ters. But the laws of animal life are inflexible ; they set a fixed 
limit to the number of animals which may be kept in good condi- 
tion, as they do to the number of persons who can comfortably use 
a room ; and by the same rule ; viz., their proportion to the amount 
of oxygen supplied, whether in the tank or the room. Think of 
the air in a crowded lecture-room, and you will understand the 
condition of an aquarium overstocked with animal life. Within 
its narrow compass the limit is quickly reached, and the first mis- 



CONSERYATORT. 251 

« 

take of all who start aquariums is in overstocking with animals. 
Their shapes, colors, and movements, are so fascinating, that it is 
hard to resist the inclination to put in every one we find. 

I am not at all competent to define these limits, or even to name 
the many wonderftil and beautiful things to be found in every col- 
lection of water. I shall content myself with giving some of the 
results of my experience, and shall leave the reader to elaborate 
these general directions for himself. 

For several reasons, I urge every one who has a little spare 
time and money to make an aquarium for himself. It unlocks to 
the mind a new world, it takes us into the secrets of nature. A 
growing plant is a beautiful sight : its gradual increase, its healthy 
color, its stretching branches, budding leaves, opening flowers, are 
wonderful and lovely ; and the repetition of this process over the 
whole face of the earth, or over a single acre even, is not less 
marvellous ; but we cannot grasp and comprehend it as we can the 
process within our aquariums ; we live in it, we are a part of it. We 
cannot form a miniature earth, which we may watch from without, 
and into which we may successively introduce plants, insects, 
beasts, birds, men, and watch and enjoy their growth and develr 
opment ; for we are ourselves members of the system, and cannpt 
get outside to look at it from afar with observing and discriminating 
eye. But we can isolate a part of this whole, and make a minia- 
ture world of waters, which we may control and keep under con- 
stant observation. It is curious that we should possess this power 
over that portion of the system which ordinarily baffles our obser- 
vation most completely. 

We see the waters about us, sail over them, bathe in them, make 
constant use of them, admire their colors, motions, reflections ; in 
our enthusiasm we call water the eye of Nature, because it in a 
peculiar way lights up her face and gives it expression. But our 
acquaintance is with the mrfaee only. Of the rich beauty and 
wonders of the depths below we get no more than occasional 
glimpses ; yet these, momentary as they are, show us plants and 
animals as delicate, as beautiful as any thing in the land life from 
which they so strangely differ. Our delighted and wondering 



252 BBGBMBER. 

imaginations are at once busy in peopling those unseen depths^ and 
the vain-glorious theory that beauty was made for man's delight 
disappears in the face of the fact that in those waters where man 
can never go there is just as overflowing an abundance of beauty 
as on the land ; a beauty, too, which seems rather intended to es- 
cape human eyes, for the fish or plant is no sooner raised from its 
native element than its life and beauty depart. The great fact w 
hardly modified by the few exceptions in the way of aquarioms, 
which show us such mere fragments of the aquatic life. 

Little as these contrivances show us in relation to the whole, 
that relative little is in itself immense, and is besides so per- 
fect a reproduction of the system of that whole, that we are 
justified in saying that it unlocks to us the secrets of the world of 
waters. 

Make your aquarium. Cover the bottom of your vessel — be 
it bathing tub, water pail, glass jar, or proper tank — with two or 
three inches of clean sand and pebbles, taken from brook or pond, 
or from the sea-shore, if your collection is to be marine ; set in this 
such plants as you please. Suppose your collection to be of 
fresh water ; get stones covered with graceful, exquisite lichens 
and algae ; from the river bring the Bladderwort, the . Pond-weed, 
Duck-weed, Eel-grass; put in at the same time a few snails, 
and fill the vessel with water. You feel that you have nothing as 
yet; the plants are indeed beautiful, but there is nothing that 
seems to you like life. Leave the aquarium for a few hours, till 
the water has cleared ; now examine it. There, swaying on the 
graceful top of that plant, is a group of Hydras, stretching their 
tentacles in every direction in search of food ; from that folded 
leaf starts out the restless crimson spider Hydracula, or the 
water-boatman, which are to the water what swallows are to the 
air ; on that stone is a bryazoda, or a jelly fish ; the snails are 
creeping up the glass with a smoothness of motion curiously fasci- 
nating; look closer and you will see their little tongues, like reap- 
ing-hooks, gathering up every particle of vegetable decay within 
their reach. You find that without having intentionally got a 
single fish or highly organized animal, you have before your won- 



CONSERYATORT. 253 

dering eyes a life and a variety which you may spend hours in 
watching. Now add a few silver perch, bream, or shiners, a 
stickle-back, an eel, or a leech, a gold or silver fish, a water newt ; 
and the circle is complete. 

Add as you please. I cannot tell what is the proper number, 
but your observation may. ' When you see the fish come often to 
the surface, gasping, they are too many for your plants, and some 
of them must be removed. If any have died, draw off the water 
through a syphon, remove the fish, and supply fresh water, and 
repeat this process till the equilibrium of animal and vegetable life 
is established. If green slime collects on the glass, get more snails ; 
they will soon dispose of it. But keep no worms or Crustacea, 
however curious, which are always hiding under the stones or bur- 
rowing in the sand, for they only foul the water, without furnishing 
instruction or pleasure. 

What an immense field of delight and research such a collection 
opens. Already the aquarium has given an impulse to the study 
of natural science, has drawn into these pursuits many who were 
previously repelled by the dry system of the books, the array of 
hard words, that brought up to the mind no distinct images. It is 
teaching us observation, training a faculty that has been sadly 
neglected in our modem systems of education ; and were this its 
only use it would still be invaluable as a promoter of healthy 
science. 

I know of no cheaper and better material for a tank than slate 
and glass. The slate is easily worked for bottom and posts, and 
the joints can be made tight with the best Roman or Portland 
cement, laid on with the smallest sized mason's trowel, or with 
a tin trowel, made to order ; or they may be packed with Red 
Lead and oil, and over this a solution of rough Gutta Percha, 
in common Resin, thinned with Turpentine, may be painted. If 
the ceofient is not kept w^ell moistened while it is setting it will 
crack. 

The cut shows such an aquarium in elevation, a ground plan of 
the base, and an outline of one of the comer posts. When made 
of slate and glass they need not cost moi-e than $3. 

22 



254 



DBCEMBEB. 




It will be seen 
that I bj no 
means look an 
this as a mere 
amusement for 
an idle mind, or 
as a mere orna- 
ment; though it 
is among the 
best and most inexhaustible amusements, and the most elegant 

ornaments, and as 
such is quite in 
place in the con- 
servatory; the more 
so as aquatic plants 
form one of the 
marked features in it. 
These plants, curi- 
ously enough, are no- 
wise particularabout 
the quality of the soil 
in which they grow, but seem to flourish equally well in the richest 
mud and in the poorest sand ; and whilst on land manure and stimu- 
lation are the watch-words of successful culture, in the water 
neither is of any consequence. 

I hope I have succeeded, in the preceding pages, in making clear 
what are the obstacles to successful plant culture, and how they 
may be overcome ; too much heat, too much water, too much med- 
dling, is ruinous to house plants ; yet constant and assiduous pains 
must be taken to ensure healthy and satisfactory specimens. 

It will more oflen be found that plants thrive in the cold rooms 
of the poor, than in the heated houses of the rich, because during 
most of the winter, plants in a state of nature grow little or none, 
all that they need being protection from frost The cool rooms of 
the poor, ill ventilated as they are, furnish more fresh air than can 



CONSERVATORY. 255 

suirive the furnace heat and constant dust of the better class of 
houses. 

With a little judgment and care every one may have some kind 
of plant during the winter, as a link between the pa^t and the 
future, to carry us hopefully over that desert season. 



CHAPTER XXXm. 

GRAPERY. 

Untie the vines in the forcing-house and cold-grapery from the 
trellises, and lay them down on the ground, covering with bass mats. 
In the cold-grapery keep the temperature up by fire and sun, night 
and day, but not much above freezing, say 40°. 

In the forcing-house give more heat ; let the mercury rise in the 
daytime as high as 55° or 60°, and do not let it fall at night 
below 40°. 

The fruit is now ripe in the retarding-house, and must be pre- 
served with care and watchfulness ; some fire will be necessary to 
save it from frost 

These directions will be much the same for the next two months. 
The same temperature prescribed for grapes is suitable for the 
fruit trees in the graperies. They lost their leaves in October and 
November, and should have been pruned then ; if this was neg- • 
lected, do it now as soon as possible. The directions given for 
pruning espaliered out-of-door trees, are to be followed in the 
houses, and further directions will be givc^n hereafter. 

The out-of-door treatment of trained Peach-trees is nearly the 
same with that of Peai^s; any necessary variations will suggest 
themselves to the gardener in the course of practice. I will in 
another place describe the peculiarities of Peach culture more in 
detail. In many parts of New England, where the climate is too 
cold to permit the favorable growth of Peaches in the usual man* 
ner, they may be trained to espaliers with great success. 

It is difficult, in this country, to obtain the best evidence as to 
the relative merits of different houses for the culture of Peaches, 
Apricots, and Nectarines. 

Those persons who have such houses are either the few wealthy, 
who leave their arrangement and management to gardeners, who 

256 



6RAPERT. 257 

being generally men of no cultivation and acquainted with no 
method except that followed in the particular house where they 
worked before, have neither the observation to detect, nor the con- 
trivance to remedy, the defects of that method, and can therefore 
conceive of no improvement on the kind of house they are familiar 
with ; or they are poor men who grow fruit to sell, and must there- 
fore content themselves with cheap houses, and refrain from any 
experiments, however likely to be improvements on ordinary fruit- 
houses or ordinary methods. In short, American enterprise and 
invention have not turned in this direction. 

In England, on the other hand, the culture of fruit under glass 
has been carried to the highest point, and the houses and trees are 
sans reproche in -all those establishments that pretend to take a high 
rank. We must, therefore, examine the English houses and systems 
of planting, pruning, and training, for our models, though different 
cultivators differ ,so much in their methods, that we shall find it dif- 
ficult to select the best from the variety offered to our choice. 

I . shall describe several kinds of houses, either of which will 
prove successful. 

Fruit trees may be cultivated either in tubs or in borders, and 
the treatment differs according to their position. I shall first de- 
scribe those in borders. 

Fruithouses. — The oldest, simplest, and cheapest houses for 
this purpose have been found to be better than any others, if some 
modem improvements are added. These improvements are chiefiy 
in the ventilation, which in the first houses was extremely defective. 

No plants subjected to hothouse culture are so imperious in 
their demands for sufficient pure air as fruit-trees. Some cultiva- 
tors in Europe are accustomed to remove the sashes entirely at 
certain seasons, in order to admit the largest possible amount of 
air. Such a system is, however, rude, ill-judged, and unnecessary. 

The accompanying figure, A, shows one of the earliest forms of 
peachhouse, and originated in Denmark ; it is from 30 to 40 feet 
long, by 9 feet high, and 6 feet wide at the bottom. The top sash 
is short, and slides down over the lower ; the back wall is brick, 
and chambered with flues for hot air ; the frt)nt may be of wooden 

22* 



258 



DECXMBEB. 




posts driven into the ground, in lieu of brick. In front is a hot air flue. 

The trees are planted in the soil e. 
A great difficult j with this house waa 
entire want of good ventilation. The 
trees are planted within 12 inches 
of the hack wall, and are wanned 
by the hot air in the chambers ; thus 
the wall is wanned gently, and the 
house is kept as hot as you please, 
by the front flue. This house nuty 
be improved by adding a stone 
foundation, both as a security against 
frost, and an assistance in drainage ; 
and by making openings throu^ the 
wall, bh; one into the hot air flue below, to warm the air of the 
house, as before described ; the other conveying the hot air away 
out of doors. If the back wall is carried up a little higher, and 
the ventilating tube turned upward, it will be still better. Such a 
house would give large crops of early fruit ; or by omitting the 
fires, it could be used as a cold-house, which would ripen the iruit 
in July and August. 

All plants, however, which are so far removed from the light, 
thrive slowly in comparison with those brought directly to the glass. 

B is another cheap house, but better 
than the last. The trees are here trained 
within 1 foot of the glass, a is a slanting 
roof, either of wood, slated, or of glass. 
This gives the trees good head room. In 
this case, as in the last, the foundations 
and ventilators are added to the original 
plan, and the former may be of wood, 
supported by wooden posts instead of 
brick. This house is wider than the last, 
to allow the extra head room, and con- 
sequently higher at the same pitck The 
pitch must vary in this latitude accord- 
ing to the season of the year when the 
greatest heat is desirable. 




GRAPEBT. 



359 




''C 18 a very good house, heated by hot water. It may be of any 
length ; the pitch is 30°. The front sash and parapet wall are 3 feet 9 
inches from the ground 
to the top of the spout or 
water-gutter. The spout 
serves both as a plate 
to support the rafters 
and also to convey the 
water which falls on 
the roof. The plates 
and raflers are metallic, 
but may be as well made 
of wood. The table trel- 
lising is supported by 
small stone or brick 
posts; the roots of the 
trees on the curved trel- 
lis extend out through the arches of the front wall to the border in 
front of the house. The hot-water pipes 6, 6, are supported on 
brick pillars, and run parallel to the front and end widk, 2 feet 
from the table-trellis. The boiler is in a niche in the back wall, 
and is managed from a shed. The back trellis springs from within 
9 inches of the back wall, and slopes ^ shown in the drawing. 
The whole trellis is composed of iron rods, 6 inches apart" 

"D is a very good span- 
roofed peach house ; 
standards grown in the 
middle ; dwarf varie- 
laes on the sides ; heated 
by hot-water or steam 
pipes (ij a; ventilated 
through the ridge b, by 
also by sliding sashes in 
front, and by openings 
c^ r, against the pipes. 
The sashes are entire, 
but may be made mov- 




2eo 



DECEMBER. 



able. Such a house should have its length running north and south ; 
the sides should be as high as the angle of pitch will allow, to give 
the lower branches abundant room ; the ridge should therefore be 
from 12 to 14 feet from the ground." Span-roofed houses are un- 
questionably the best for fruit trees, and would be in general use, 
if it were not for the iron band of prejudice. In such houses 
Peaches could also be grown in boxes or pots, thus prolonging the 
season. 

'^E is an interior per- 
spective view of a very- 
successful range €3ff 
houses at Everingham 
Hall, England. The 
trees are trained over 
the whole back wall, 
and over the curved 
trellis in front. Grable 
trellises might Y^ set 
up at the ends, or the 
vines carried up the 
raflers; in these two 
ways a large addition 
to the training space 
would be secured, and 
the fruit in these posi- 
tions would be better 
than the rest." The back part of the front trellis should be rather 
higher than given in the cut, although it would then shade the 
lower part of the trees on the back wall ; this is of little conse- 
quence, as but little fruit grows on those branches. 

Cherry, Plum, Fig, and Apricot houses are similar in character to 
those just described, and are to be built on the same principles. 
The trees in them should, however, be principally in tubs, as it is 
always rather difficult to get a perfectly satisfactory assortment, and 
if in the ground it is difficult to make changes and alterations. This 
may be done with ease when the plants are in pots. The plan F, 
is the only one I shall give for this kind of house. These fruits. 




ORAPERT. 



261 



except the Cherries, maj be grown in lower houses than Peaches, 
and the houses should, if possible, be span roofed. 

"House F is very 
much like D ; a,ayajaj 
are the ventilators ; b, 
by shelves for Strawber- 
ries, etc The floor is 
of slate slabs, or strips 
of plank. Sashes may 
slide or not, as you 
please. The side ven- 
tilators are 1x3 feet, 
and should be opened 
and shut all together, c, c, are side lights. J£ the top sashes are 
fixed, the openings in the ridge should be 10 inches wide. The de- 
tails of construction, ventilation, etc., are the same as for the houses 
before described." In all cases I have introduced the improved 
ventilation into the proper place. 

Having devoted as much space to this subject as this month will 
allow, I shall defer a detailed account of the proper treatment of 
the houses till the next months. 




CHAPTER XXXIV. 

KITCHEN-GABDBK. 

There is no call upon the gardener's time in December, in the 
actual garden, if the directions for the last month were carefullj fol- 
lowed. 

During this month, air the spring Salads, Cabbages, etc, when- 
ever opportunity offers. In the middle of mild days, open the 
ridges of vegetables and take out supplies for the family, or the 
market, and then dose them immediately. 

Continue to pile in heaps, for manure, dried leaves and haulm. 
Collect, if the cellar is over filled, a pile of manure in the garden 
for summer use. 

Get the hotbeds in order for spring, and if there are any to be 
built, make the plans and get the materials. They may be made 
in the workshop, and not carried out till it is time to put them to- 
gether for use. 

For directions see January " Kitchen-Garden." Prune Goose- 
berries and Currants ; mulch Strawberries; lay down and cover with 
earth Raspberries ; remove to greenhouse or grapery Figs and 
Fruit trees in tubs. 

At the close of the last month, I said I should describe the proper 
treatment of kitchen-gardens laid out on sloping and irregular 
surfaces, at some other time. I shall hardly find a more convenient 
• time than the present 

Economy and convenience, considerations which are potent in 
tlie kitchen-garden, generally induce us to lay it out in squares and 
rectangles, but these very motives may lead us to arrange a partic- 
ular garden in an entirely different manner. For instance, if it 
were on the side of a hill, it is plain that under the ordinary method 
some of the paths must ascend the steepest part of the hill, and 
consequently be very difficult to make, to keep in order, or use. 

262 



KITCHEN-GABDEN. 263 

And here let me saj, that however desirable it may be to have 
some sloping ground wi^in the limits of the kitchen-garden, the 
whole area should never be of that character, except from necessity. 

Paths — Their Construction. — On the side of a hill, then, 
the paths must not be straight, but must follow the surface, and 
wind round the bases of the smaller elevations, across rather than 
up the hill, — must, in short, follow the easiest line of ascent The 
greatest difficulty in making them — and very troublesome it is — 
is their liability to be washed by rains ; for they become water 
courses to carry away the water from the beds, and the lighter bits 
of gravel are washed off, and they are left rough, stony, and un^ 
sightly. In England, they are often covered with a mixture of 
tar, asphaltum, and gravel, which of course cannot be washed 
away ; but this is very costly, and, besides, the heat of our summer 
sun softens the tar and asphaltum, so that it run^ and sticks to the 
foot in a most annoying way. Another method is to pave such 
paths, and if this is well done, it never needs repairing ; but it is 
costly, and besides seems out of place among grass and green trees. 
Again, such paths have been made entirely of oyster shells, which 
do not wear into such small pieces as to be washed, and which 
aUow water to percolate freely into the drainage below ; but they, 
too, have their peculiar drawbacks. 

No material is so satisfactory as gravel, could the washing be 
avoided. Much may be done by making the path higher in the 
middle than at the sides, so that water can run off laterally into 
small paved gutters. If the hill is very steep, raise bars a few 
inches high to cross the paths diagonally at intervals, and check 
the current as well as turn it to the gutters. Occasional openmgs 
may be made from the side gutters into the grass land, where the 
soil is clayey, boggy, or peaty, for its texture will be improved by 
the gravel washed on. 

Nobody can afford to make such paths poorly. Dig them out 
deep, and fill in principally with stones ; cover with rather coarse, 
and finish with the finest and hardest gravel. Then roll oflen, 
watering freely from the rose of the watering-pot. If the mate- 
rial is good, and the work well done, there will be but little wash. 



264 DECBMBEB. 

These directions apply to oraamental grounds as well as to 
kitchen-gardens. 

Having made the paths, put in the slate edgings for the beds, 
that the loam may not wash out of them into the paths. 

For the rest, the arrangement of the garden should be much the 
same as on level ground, with the exception that all rows should, 
when possible, be carried across the slope, in order to check the 
wash, and collect and save the lighter particles of earth. With 
the same view, strips of grass may be left transversely to the line 
of slope. 

A kitchen-garden is especially for use, must be watched and 
worked over constantly, and, except on very small estates, is to be 
looked at with a purely practical eye', so located and laid out that 
without regard to beauty or variety it may answer best its practical 
purpose. But on a piece of land too small to admit of one por-^ 
tion's being devoted to practical, and another to ornamental pur- 
poses, beauty and profit must both be got from the same land. So 
there arises another kind of kitchen-garden, where economy and 
convenience are no longer the sole considerations that govern, but 
where the arrangement is made with an eye to beauty, the three 
harmonizing like pedestal, shaft, and capital, in a column, or like 
stem, leaves, and flowers, on a plant This garden cannot by 
means of hotbeds, espaliers, and the other appliances which wealth 
commands, produce fruit and vegetables in long succession, and 
most perfect in kind and quality. It cannot show beds rich both 
in foreign and native shrubs and flowers, but must be content with 
few varieties ; and perhaps their bloom will be brief, instead of ex- 
tending through every month of the growing year. Its trees are 
of the commonest kinds, and can soon be counted, but every tree, 
shrub, and flower, is loved and watched with an interest unknown 
on a large estate, and out of this familiar acquaintance will come 
blessed influences over the owner, his family, and his friends. A 
very small piece of ground may do much towai*d furnishing the 
table, still more toward furnishing the mind, if it be used for but 
one purpose. But both may be combined, and while the appetite 
for food is supplied, the equally instinctive hunger for beauty need 
not go unsatisfied. 



KITCHEN-QARDBN. 265 

I reoommend to any person, — however humble his means, how- 
ever narrow his land, — if he must choose between beauty and 
profit, between flowers and shrubs on the one hand, and vegetables 
and fruit on the other, to have beauty. If your garden plot is 
not large enough for both flowers and vegetables, devote it solely 
to the flowers. 

I know that this advice is directly opposed to the common opin- 
ion, which holds that all the land in the possession of a man not 
really rich, should be made " to pay," to feed, or in some way sup- 
port the bodily life of his family. But I hope I have already 
clearly stated that which I shall urge more and more, that the 
chief consideration in managing any piece of land should be how 
it may give the largest amount of beauty consistent with necessary 
convenience and economy. Potatoes and Apples you may buy 
about as cheap as you can grow them, and you will buy them if 
you do not grow them, to keep body and soul together. Beauty 
can only be bought at the most extravagant prices, and if it is not 
cultivated at your home, will hardly be bought ; there is no physical 
appetite to clamor for it, and common economy begins by dispens- 
ing with it. 

I have something more to say about this which you may find 
under " Ornamental Grounds." 
23 



CHAPTER XXXV, 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 



Continue to prune, as directed last month, unless the weather is 
severely cold. Not that the cold would injure the trees in pruning, 
but that the work would be so disagreeable that it would probablj 
be imperfectly done. Be careful to cover the stumps of any large 
branches with the mixture of shellac and alcohol, as it will keep 
out the cold and rain, and prevent any tendency to canker. Aa the 
mixture is fluid, it is easily applied, even in the coldest .weather. 

You will remember that I closed my last month's farming direc- 
tions by saying that I should devote the winter months to the gen- 
eral subject of farming. 

First, let us dispose of the work in hand. The cold will soon 
become severe, therefore take advantage of the sunny days to turn 
the young and dry stock out into the yard, and throw to them, on 
the snow (or if there is no snow, enclose in racks), a supply of Com 
fodder, or coarse Hay. Cattle will eat up in this way a great deal 
of material that would otherwise be valueless, except as bedding or 
manui*e. The appetite is whetted by the cold, and, besides, all ani- 
mals like to have occupation. Nothing b more agreeable to neat 
cattle, in warm weather, than when standing in the shade, or up to 
their bellies in water, to chew the cud whilst they thrash off the 
flies. But the most romantic heifer could find but little pleasure in 
lying down in the snow to chew its cud ; they will, therefore, browse 
round, and pick off the leaves from the Com stalks, chew old buts 
too hard to be even smelled of in the bams, and hunt out the sweet 
stalks among the driest meadow hay. Let them remain out only 
during the warmest part of the day. Do not turn the milch cows 
out at all, if the weather is sharp ; and when, on sunny days, they 
go out) do not let them stay long enough to get chilled. The econ- 

266 



THE FARM. 267 

omj of fanning is now to be practised ; you have harvested the 
crops, now how can you use them to the best advantage ? 

Cut every thing you feed out ; Hay, of course, as it is more eco- 
nomical, and more digestible. Stalks, by all means, as they will 
be more readily eaten, and the refuse, when turned to the pigs, 
wiH, as we have seen, decay more readily. Occasionally throw a 
handful of Com into the manure heap. The pigs will scent it, and 
root for it, and thus work the manure and loam over much more 
thoroughly than when, without any such object, they merely root 
for practice. Shut off the water of irrigation as soon as the fields 
are fairly covered with ice. 

The weather is now both cold and steady, and promises us ample 
time to kill and cure pork and beef; if this is done in cold weather 
they will be sweeter, and keep better than when stored at any other 
time. 

For home use, do not let your pigs get over fat ; kill them when 
they are between one year and eighteen months old. If they have 
been well fed, and have grown rapidly, they will be in the best con- 
dition fox use. Too fat pork, or indeed too fat meat of any kind, 
is most unwholesome food; and although the annual premium 
offered at the county show may stunulate the farmer to get his 
creatures as fat aa possible, and the irrational practice on the part 
of the butchers, who pay the best prices for the fattest cattle, may 
tempt him to gain this profit, yet the practice of over-fattening is bar- 
barous, and unwholesome, and my advice to you is, by all means, if 
you must fatten, to sell the animals to such as like them, and keep 
for your own consumption the more healthily developed specimens. 
I will not here enter into an argument to prove this point; it 
has been again and again settled beyond dispute, and on purely 
i^ientific principles, in treatises devoted to the subject 

As the fowls get fat dispose of them ; there will be no profit in 
winter fattening. Keep them warm, and well fed, and they will 
by regularly through the winter. Vary the food of the sheep and 
cattle you are fattening, occasionally ; it keeps the appetite better 
and ensures quicker development. 

Occasionally look into the fruit room ; keep out the frost, and be 
sure that the barrels are always closed at once, after being opened 



268 DECEMBEB. 

to take oat fruit. Any admission of air is likely to hasten decaj. 
It is very common to open a barrel of apples and keep it open till 
its contents are aU gone. The rotting process is so rapid that the 
owner oflen blames the packer for it, when the fault is really in 
the careless keeping which has produced just the effect that mi^ht 
have been anticipated. The barrelled fruit having been artificially 
preserved for a 8eason,is subjected, when lea^t able to resist it, to 
the very worst influence. Buy sheep and oxen to eat up the crops 
of Hay and Roots accumulated, and sell all poor, dry cows, to be re- 
placed by better. 

Watch the market carefully, and sell fruit and vegetables 
whenever they command a fair price ; do not be deluded into wait- 
ing for a possible increase of price, when you can sell so as to be 
remunerated for your labor and expense. It is a species of gamb- 
ling in which, your articles being perishable, the chances are all 
against you. Pay off all the laborers except one man at the stables, 
a gardener, and a boy. 

Continue the overhauling and repairing of all tools, etc, and 
bring your farming account up square, so as to see the .probable 
profit or loss, for a guide for the next year's operations. 

The next year's work should always be the result of careful de- 
liberation ; and if each day's work is not indeed accurately forseen 
and provided for, yet each must take its place as it comes, as part 
of a methodical whole ; a whole which would not be systematic, 
but only irregular and annojring, if any of the cogs of the great 
wheel of life should not fit into its proper groove as the wheel re- 
volves. 

^ Farming is a dog's life, and is unprofitable in New England at 
any rate." This is the text of all village gossip ; of farmers at 
the stores and in their bams, and too often in their clubs, and at the 
county meetings. It is hinted at directly or indirectly in half our 
agricultural periodicals, and openly asserted in the rest of our cur- 
rent literature. 

Farming kot Drudoert. — Farming is looked upon as a 
necessary occupation, and well enough as a substratum to soci- 
ety, and fiurmers are considered as the raw material for the produc- 



THE FABM. 269 

tion of mechanics, merchants, men of letters, soldiers, sailors, and 
loafers. In their position as fanners they are deserving of pity, 
and they must each and all struggle with all their might to better 
their condition, by escaping fi*om their present life. This may be a 
strong expression of the prevailing opinion, but it is in the main a 
correct one. And this opinion I pronounce to be false and un- 
worthy, though I must acknowledge that the practice of the agri- 
cultural community gives too much ground for it. 

It is true that we have a very difficult soil to cultivate — some- 
times stony, sometimes sterile, — a soil that needs a great deal of 
artificial stimulus in the way of manure, but with the proper 
culture the crops are qn an average larger than on the more favored 
lands of the south and west ; it is a common thing for our farmers 
to get from 60 to 80 bushels of Indian Com, 20 of Wheat, 30 or 
40 of Rye, to the acre. And when this crop is harvested it is at 
its market; so that the cost of transportation is very light, and the 
difference between outlay at the farm and the market-price is nearly 
clear profit. 

We have to work hard for these crops and to harvest three tons 
of hay to the acre is no child's play. It must be done under a hot 
sun, and often hurried almost beyond human endurance, to avoid 
the threatening showers. But when harvested it is worth money 
enough to pay well for the trouble, and when sold, in the form of 
beef or milk, will return an ample profit to the farmer. 

It would be foolish to deny that the chief consideration that de- 
termines a young man in the choice of a profession, apart from 
special taste, is a pecuniary one, and most men will turn from one 
in which the daily gain is small or uncertain. But the daily gain 
is not always a just criterion. Let us look into this matter for a 
few moments. 

A farmer hires his farm servant at a cost of from 75 cents to $1.25 
per day, while he pays the mechanic who comes to mend his bam 
from $2 to $2.50 for his day's work, which is shorter than the 
farmer's. So far the advantage seems to be on the side of the me- 
chanic. But the mechanic's work is one of great uncertainty, 
employed as he is only for a few days at a time, now here, now 
there, now nowhere. The farm servant, on the other hand, is 

23* 



270 DECEMBER. 

employed without variation in price for many months, knows what 
to rely upon, and what vdll be the wear and tear. His net earnings 
may be laid aside with a feeling of certainty that he will get 
renewed and steady employment the next year ; business may be 
dull, mechanics idle, but farms must be cultivated. Then his work 
is, taking the year through, no harder than that of the journeyman 
mechanic, though it may seem so at first sight. The length of the 
summer's day is compensated by the shortness of the winter's one. 

He gets up at 4 in summer, and goes in the clear, cool morning 
to milk the cows and clean the stables; no hard work, surely. 
With a hearty appetite he eats a substantial breakfast, and then 
goes out to plough or dig, sow or reap. Mowing and reaping are 
very hard work; but they are the hardest in farming, and after all 
are no worse than running a saw or pushing a plane all day. Take 
all the working days together, the ten hours of mechanics' work is 
more fatiguing and wearing upon the mind and body than the 
farmers' longer day. You will find it so, farmers, if you change 
and try it. If the farm servants would work fot 10 hours with 
the diligence and perseverance with which good mechanics labor in 
order to receive the best wages, they would do more in that time 
than is ordinarily accomplished in twelve or sixteen. 

I will not pursue this train of thought ; any one may carry it on 
for himself, and however contrary to the general theory, I think any 
person who carefully compares all classes of labor, will find that 
the farm servant's work is no more severe than that of any other 
journeyman. Having decided then on the equality in hard labor 
between farming and other occupations, and having seen that the 
greater wages of the mechanic are balanced by the steadier employ- 
ment of the farmer, we now find on further examination that in 
every other respect the farmer's life is to be preferred. His work 
is healthful, being out of doors in the fresh air, and is agreeable, 
from the pleasant objects it constantly brings before him, and from 
its variety. 

And this superiority is still more apparent when we look at the 
comparative success of difierent occupations. An examination of 
the careers of those who begin life as journeymen in any trade, 
will show us that the percentage of those who ever rise above that 



THE FARM. 271 

condidbn into one of pecuniary ease is extremely small. Sufficient 
means at the outset to give a good education, and a small capital, 
will increase the chances of success, Sut even with this advantage 
the per centage continues small. The risks in any kind of business 
are so great, and the outlay required so disproportioned to any im- 
mediate return, that young men without large capital or peculiar 
opportunities stand a poor chance of doing any thing more than 
gaining a bare livelihood. 

Moreover, when having laid up a small sum he ceases to be a 
journeyman and sets up for himself, his little earnings will be much 
better invested m hiring or buying a small piece of land, and will 
give a much surer prospect of a good return, than if spent in tools 
ibr a mechanic's work, or laid out in stock for any kind of business. 
A little calculation will show that there can be no better invest- 
ment for a steady and enterprising young man, than to buy a few 
acres of land, paying what ready money he can, and giving a mortr 
gage for the rest. He pays no rent or interest to another, but to 
himself; and instead of putting his savings into some outside in- 
vestment, which must always be more or less insecure, he putB 
them into his land, which is mre to give a good return. I recom- 
mend this course to any young man who is prudent and earnest in 
his work, and am certain of his suc^^ss ; for not only is he more sure 
of his interest, but it may be made compound as it were, nay, even 
greater in ita rate of incre&«^, when put into high farming. Rich 
manure, good drains, thrifty young orchards, etc, pay each year an 
increasing percentage on the money inva>«tcd in them. 

To make the previous statement more definite, let us enter into 
a calculation. Whether he engages a farm near a city or in the coun- 
try, he will easily get one for six per cent on its value, per annum. 
Let the farm be worth $3,000, the rent will be $180. The size 
will vary from 10 to 100 acres, according to the locality. Were 
he a mechanic or a day laborer tie must pay at least $50 rent, 
which reduces the excess of rent for the cultivated farm to $130 
per annum. He had $500 which he invests in stock and tools, — 
interest $30, — or whole interest more than a journeyman me- 
chanic would pay, $160. 

This farm ought to net over cost of cultivation $500, besides the 



272 DECEMBER. 

milk and vegetables consumed by the family ; — less rent o^ culti- 
vated land gives $340 for his year's wages, — earned for himself^ 
subject to no master, and in the fresh air. If he had worked as a 
mechanic, he would not have received for wages more than $400, 
with the best of luck ; — $340 less $50 rent of house, gives $290, 
— this goes for household expenses. He will lay up a little of this, 
which invested in his farm will pay tenfold. If he buys his farm 
ui)on mortgage he will pay off the cost of the farm as he saves, or 
he will make improvements in culture, drainage, and stock, that 
will give him every year a much larger balance ; the first year is 
the smallest earning ; and in an ordinary life time, if he be expedi- 
tious, careful, and energetic, he will accumulate $10,000 to $15,- 
000 in money or improvements, besides educating his family and 
living well. Any prudent, industrious, and willing. Yankee can do 
this in New England if he farms as he ought to ; and but very few 
merchants, professional men, or mechanics do more ; and the aver- 
age not as well 

I have considered the question only from a pecuniary point of 
view ; and this is the least important. In the next month, I will 
speak of the higher benefits and advantages of a farmer^s life. 



CHAPTER XXXVL 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

In the ^ Eatchen-Garden *' I said that beauty should be the dis- 
tinguishing feature of every homestead, its aim and spirit, its warp, 
into which may be filled the woof of sundry conyeniences and com- 
finrts. But this is not the practice of the world in general, and it is 
by dispensing with beauty that economy begins. Economy being 
necessary -as well as commendable, it is much practised ; and too 
often it is used as a catch-word by heads of families, as an ex- 
cuse for denying their families something which is not attractive 
to themselves, while they substitute something more to their 
taste. 

That economy which feeds the body well at the expense of starv- 
ing the mind is wretchedly short-sighted. The Bible expressly 
teaches that what can be put on the back, into the purse, or into the 
stomach is valueless in comparison with that which clothes and feeds 
the soul; — that perishing wordly treasures are not to be counted 
with those everlasting possessions, which instead of being left for 
our heirs to quarrel over, are ours forever when once they are ac- 
quired, are in fact the stock in trade with which we are to begin 
the next world. Yet the mass of those who profess to believe in 
the Bible, hurry on to get a little more money and neglect to pro- 
vide for the soul. 

All of which may be very true, but what has it to do with grow- 
ing flowers and other ornamental things instead of vegetables and 
fruit on a bit of land too small for both ? 

Let me tell you how the two things are connected in my mind. 
I have often seen a small house in a dusty street with a bit of a 
garden in front; over its windows and door, pretty vines climbed; 
bright Roses, Marigolds, and Hollyhocks lighted up the dark, sad 
cloud of poverty that hung about the place ; though they were of 

273 



274 DECEMBER. 

no economical value as food, drink, or clothing, thej gladdened the 
minds of the laborers who passed to and from their work morning 
and night. These men and women too closely pressed by want to 
do more than scrape together the wherewithal to keep body and 
soul together, yet find a moment to stop and enjoy the color and 
fragrance, which are to them the best proof of a God who watches 
over all his creatures. Seeing the beautiful things, they sigh for 
time and space to cultivate the same, and thus a spot is kept warm 
and green in the comer of their hearts, ready at the proper time to 
give liberal foothold and nourishment to any seeds of goodness and 
nobleness which may be dropped there. The tendency of the life 
of the poor is to materialism ; it is hard to persuade them that 
there is any object more important than providing for the body. 
Tied down in the din of machinery ; unable to go out into the God- 
made country where the truth might come freely to them, seeing 
their employers and companions seeking those things only which 
bring money, — how can they believe what they hear at Bible-read- 
ings, that these thmgs so greedfly sought are of no real value ? 
But when they see time and labor spent to grow flowers, merely 
because they are beautiful, they perceive dimly that there is some- 
thing precious beside money and the things it buys ; and the throb 
of pleasure in their own hearts as they stand in the beautiful pres- 
ence testifies yet more strongly to the truth. 

Millions of dollars are spent in this country for education, not 
only because it is a help in getting bread, but Because it is right 
that men should be educated. This education is directed to the 
development of other qualities than shrewdness merely, — truth, rev- 
erence, taste ; and to this end no plan is better than to show cliil- 
dren that their teachers value all things for their intrinsic worth, for 
the power they have over the mind for good. What the child sees 
its teachers and parents love and cultivate, he will cherish and 
love. The presence of purity and nobleness in the soul drives out 
impurity and meanness, as water rejects oil. 

Think of this tax-payers and fathers ! If you wish your taxes to 
give the greatest return, surround your children when at home 
with objects and influences which will make their minds best able 
to enjoy and expand, under the teachings of the public instructor. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



275 



If thej see you surround the home with beautiful things, because 
you love them, they will do do too. If they see your garden ar- 
ranged for beauty as well as utility, while all over the homestead 
stem economy occasionally yields to a reverential love of nature) 
and to a sense that the gratification of the eye and the mind is 
quite as important as the gratification of the appetite, they will grow 
up with liberal, generous feelings and opinions, they will be men 
and women who have the best interests of the age at heart 

When discussing the laying out of the kitchen-garden, I directed 
that some paths should be straight and some curved ; these direc- 
tions were not purely arbitrary, but are the result of certain prin- 
ciples. How to make a road or path is settled in a few words ; 
how to lay it out depends upon many considerations. 



~%'jf^^^ 




BmSBfOB or E. 8. rOBLDS, BQ., PBIlfOBOir, «. J. 



CHAPTER XXXVn. 

LOCATING BOADS AND PATHS. 

Starting with the fact that the road or path is to be a means 
of going from one point to another, most men will saj that it 
must plainly be as straight as possible, must be the shortest dis- 
tance between the two points, if such a line of travel is practicable. 
But I cannot think this reasoning correct. I am sure much evil 
has grown out of it. Of course the purpose of a road is to connect 
two places for travel, and of course it does not answer its purpose 
if it is not pretty direct ; but it is possible to sacrifice too much to 
this directness, and the sacrifice is so often made that I consider it 
important to inquire into the matter at some length. 

Though the inquirer is made particularly to determine what rules 
should guide us in laying down roads and paths on private estates, 
I shall first speak of public roads, believing that we may thus ar- 
rive at conclusions which will apply to private roads with even 
greater force than to highways. 

Suppose yourself travelling a road carried as straight as a rail- 
road, but not travelling by steam power; you are walking or 
driving in no more than ordinary haste. For miles ahead you see 
your road ; if your journey is not to be long the end is in sight 
from the beginning, and you measure off the distance, step by step, 
thinking in spite of yourself how slowly you get on, till you grow 
impatient, hurried, fretful. Get what glimpses you may on either 
hand, that provoking vista robs them of genuine variety, and with 
its stupidly familiar face takes away all chance of a pleasant sur- 
prise. It will not let you tarry to enjoy a pleasant side view in 
peace, but is always reminding you of your purpose, and upbraid- 
ing you with neglecting it * If good fortune has put a hill in the 
way too thick or hard to cut through, you are relieved for a moment 
only to see with a more annoying distinctness from its top your 

276 



LOCATING BOADS AND PATHS. 277 

irhole road marked out. Across marshes and prairies such roads 
are necessary and proper ; there is no excuse for their curving, 
and anj deviation from the straight line would be an insult to public 
good sense, as well as robbery of the public purse ; but they are 
never favorite roads to pedestrian or equestrian, unless he belong 
to the cultivated class, who think trotting horses the great delight 
of life. With what relief we turn from them to a road which 
winds io avoid water, or to cross mountains by an easier ascent ! 
how we enjoy the unexpected views which burst upon us at the 
sharp turns, the alternation between the woods or glens that shut 
in about us, and the valleys that open before us, or the heights that 
give us a glimpse of our destination, without revealing all the road 
by which we are to reach it ! We can linger when we like with- 
out a guilty feeling that we are wasting time, and at last are sur- 
prised at some curve to find that it is the last, and has brought us 
unawares to our journey's end. Variety is a great delight and a 
great aid to the traveller ; it refreshes not only his mind, but his 
body; for variety of surface calls into play a different set of 
muscles. 

Another disadvantage in straight roads in a hilly country (mean- 
ing roads which doggedly hold to their original direction and curve, 
— when curve they must, ^- up and down, not right and left), is 
that they lead over the hills in the line of most difficult ascent, and 
90 try man and beast to the utmost ; they call a new set of muscles 
into work. We need not dwell on this point. Every one knows 
how much more easily he gets round than over a hill, and how 
difficult and expensive it is to keep steep roads in repair. 

A rigidly straight road, then, must be disagreeable, wearisome, 
expensive. There is another objection to it, great though not very 
obvious ; it stultifies the minds of those who travel it ; not utterly, 
but surely, the more completely as they travel it more frequently, 
and have less internal resources. 

The fact of its monotony implies this, for we all need the stim- 
ulus of variety to keep our minds active ; we grow stupid, and 
"whistle for lack of thought," when we are shut in by outward 
sameness, and deprived at the same time of books and companions. 
We should return in very difierent moods from a walk through 
2i 



278 DECEKBEB. 

Holland and from one through Switzerland. Men may sneer at 
the idea that scenery modifies character, may instance Swiss Cre- 
tins, and ask where are the Swiss poets ; but the exception does 
not disprove the rule, and poetry speaks in other ways than in 
verse. Though there be boors among mount^ns, and wits and 
philosophers on prairies and marshes, the mass of mankind have 
been, are, and will forever be, refined by quiet beauty, quickened 
by the picturesque, made deeper and stronger by the sublime. 
They are susceptible to these natural influences, though in different 
degrees. The blood colors the cheek and brightens the eye of one 
man quicker than that of another, when they stand together in 
Sight of Mount Blanc, or on the seashore, but depend upon it the 
blood flows quicker in every man's veins when he looks on such 
sights. We are all barometers beneath these influences, and you 
are not foolish but wise to judge of these influences by the more 
susceptible instruments. The folly lies in thinking there is no 
quicksilver in those veins which are more sluggish, or that their 
sluggishness proves the absence of heavenly influences. 

I have gone into this inquiry about the advantages and disad- 
vantages of straight town and county roads thus at length, because 
here is the very stronghold of narrow-minded prejudice ; here is 
the public error which so vitiates private taste. 

No vandalism is so common in New England as that which 
obtains among road surveyors, county commissioners, " selectmen," 
and well-to-do farmers. Possessed with the idea that directness is 
the only virtue in a road, they straighten curves, cut down hills, 
fill up valleys, and rather than swerve from some fixed line, cot 
down noble trees, the growth of centuries, and whose beauty and 
majesty typifies Divinity itself. Trees are sacrificed, every year 
that were the very ideals of perfection of their species, and were the 
pride of the whole country round. The absurdity becomes painful 
when a tree, produced by the concentrated energies of the earth, air, 
and sun, for years, the noblest of its race, as beautiful as Venus or 
Apollo, worthy of daily love and worship, is removed, because 
some headlong milkman or hurried stage driver can thereby save 
a few feet. Generations of milkmen and stage drivers may have 
sprung up and died since it was a sapling, and other generations 



LOCATIlfO ROADS AND PATHS. 279 

would pass away before its natural decay, and yet some astute 
road-maker or officious village dignitary orders its removal, and 
the green head is brought low. Such outrages are barbarous, and 
their perpetrators ought to be known, and their names written in 
the annals of the rogues and scapegraces of the neighborhood, and 
lianded down to the contempt of posterity. 

This public mistake is so prevalent that it influences private 
opinion, and the multitude, who are too ignorant to have any mind 
of their own, or too timid to carry it out, follow the public fashion, 
and accordingly we find in private grounds straight avenues, 
straight walks, straight rows of trees, rectangular enclosures. All 
the variety and grace of nature is ruled and straightened out of 
them. 

111 advised as this treatment is at any time or place, in the pub- 
lic road and kitchen-garden, it seems somewhat excused by the 
plea of business and necessity, but in ornamental grounds even 
that is removed ; there every argument and fancy should favor the 
introduction of whatever may tend to refine the mind, banish 
thoughts of business and money, and awaken emotions of taste, 
and so far from following the leader, every one should be carefiil 
to measure his improvements before he makes them, not by ^' What 
will they say ? " or " What do they do ? " but by what seems most 
akin to the graceful, beautiful, and refined. If he cannot study 
some acknowledged canon of good taste, has neither time, money, 
nor opportunity to visit places improved with taste, and which are 
truly ornaments to nature, let him make the best attempt he can, 
assured that he will be ridiculed by those who are safe because 
they do not infringe upon public opinion, and conscious that his 
discernment will be improved by the effort made, and that if he 
tries faithfully, he will get right in time. 



CHAPTER XXXVm. 




GREENHOUSE. 

f ANU A RY. The greenhouse will demand more 
attention during the rest of the winter than it 
has hitherto done. After the year turns there 
seems a disposition in plants to increased 
j^wth ; the days are longer, there is more 
light and heat to stimulate the tissues, and 
iUiJ xhv sunlight is more magnetic. Be care- 
ful, in your impatience for flowers, not to in- 
crease the heat of the houses too rapidly ; we shall have colder 
weather yet, and we must not get up our greatest heat too soon. 
Water all plants a little more freely, and syringe as often as a 
dear, bright day promises sun enough to evaporate the moisture 
on the surface. From this time till spring warm water may be 
used in watering with great advantage. The small holes in the 
rose of the syringe are the best to use ; and although after fumi- 
gations it is well to syringe forcibly over and under the plants, to 
wash off dead insects, it is generally better in syringing the house 
to throw the shower up into the air, so that it may fall perpendic- 
ularly, and with only the velocity it receives ftom its own weight, 
upon the plants. 

This manual being for the guidance of amateurs and learners, I 
shall now give the general treatment of a large and important class 
of plant<«, to which much of the beauty of well-kept greenhouses, 
conservatories and parterres is due. Geraniums (Pelargoniums), 
are as familiar as household words to all lovers- of plants ; to all 
who wish a few plants in the house, and in some of their many 
varieties are easily cultivated, and sure to give satisfaction. In 
England and our Southern States they will pass the winter out of 
doors, and unprotected, or with a slight covering. There are dif* 

280 



OREENHOUSE. 281 

ferent degrees of hardihood among Geraniums, and this difference 
must be understood to render their culture certain. Some kinds, 
like the CJommon Scarlet, Tom Thumb, and Horse Shoe, are so 
tenacious of life that they may be removed from the garden into 
pots, be cut down near the ground, and left in any outhouse or cel- 
lar where the temperature is above freezing, and they will live, 
and may be set out in the flower beds the next year, to renew their 
growth and beauty. Geraniums vary in their power of withstand- 
ing the sun ; some varieties will not bear our hot sun in summer, 
they neither grow nor blossom well in it I have said in a pre- 
ceding month that as a general rule succulent plants are tender, 
and need more heat than the woody varieties ; but Geraniums are 
succulent or woody, according to the rapidity of growth ; they may 
be exposed to a very low temperature ; when in the flower-garden 
they often stand several severe frosts without injury. On the other 
hand, to ensure that they grow and flower well a degree of heat is 
desirable that would ruin Heaths, and many other hard-wooded 
plants. 

Our limited means forbidding us to give the peculiar culture, 
which makes each plant thrive best, we must be content with so 
managing our small house as to give all a fair chance. 

The soil in which Pelargoniums especially delight is old sods, 
cut and stacked for a few months, and then chopped, with a spade, 
moderately fine. The cuttings and young plants need rather finer 
material of the same kind. In the growing and flowering season 
keep the plants near the glass, and give each room enough to ex- 
pand well on all sides. A span-roofed house or pit is best for 
them ; when they get the sun only on one side, turn them often, 
that they may be symmetrical. Some Pelargoniums bloom but 
once a year, others nearly all the time ; the latter are the only ones 
which should be cultivated in the ground, with the exception of the 
Rose Greranium, whose fragrant leaves are more desirable than its 
flowers. After l^ossoming, or when to be removed to the house 
from the garden, cut them back to within a few eyes of the old 
wood. Such as are in pots should be taken out, their roots pruned, 
and cut out if dead, and they repotted in pots one or two sizes 
S4* 



282 JANUARY. 

smaller. Tliis '' underpotting ** is a rery oommon expedient of 
gardeners to throw plants into flower. Most plants flower from 
their new growth, and a new growth can bt3 stimulated only by new 
roots, and underpotting induces new roots. As they grow, shifl into 
larger pots. Shifting is transferring the plant to a larger pot 
whenever the present pot is crowded, and each increase of size, 
giving new material, stimulates the plant to renewed efibrts. The 
sizes of pots increase slowly, so that the next size affords just the 
room wanted. Afler potting, set them into a cold pit or other cool 
place, where light is abundant, and the thermometer does not fall 
below 40^. When the roots have fairly begun to grow into the 
new soil give much air, to harden the plants ; as soon as the new 
growth is pretty well hardened set on the staging. They may be 
put into larger pots for flowering, as soon as wanted. The ever- 
blooming varieties may be kept in a constant state of growth, or 
remain quiet until the time comes for setting them anew in the 
garden, at the pleasure of the gardener. 

Small new plants generally do better in the garden than old 
stocks, although the latter commence blossoming sooner. If you 
set out old stocks, cut them down just before setting out, much as 
for repotting in the fall; this will ensure a more vigorous and 
healthy growth. 

Pelargoniums may be propagated by cuttings, seeds, roots, and 
layers. The latter is the surest method for nearly all plants, but b 
slower, and only resorted to from necessity. Plants which strike 
easily from cuttings are more oflen increased in this way. 

To make the best cutting of a Geranium (see p. 285) cut off a 
small branch of new wood which has not blossomed, together with 
a bit of the old wood on which it grew ; the old wood at the joint 
is called a heel ; it is full of invisible though active eyes or buds, 
which readily make roots. But good cuttings which grow readily, 
may be got by cutting with a sharp knife directly across young and 
ufiblossomed shoots, below a bud ; remove all the lower leaves as 
high on the cutting as it is to be set deep into the sand or earth ; 
but do not remove any leaves above this point ; do not bruise them 
or allow tbe^n to wilt — with one exception to be made hereafter — 



OREENHOUSE. 283 

and on this account plant jour cutting as soon as possible after it is 
made. This is very important. 

The general soil for all cuttings is white, clean river sand, an 
inch or moi*e in depth, as free as possible from iron and other im- 
purities, laid over such soil as best suits the variety of plant from 
which the cutting is made, so that when they strike and emit 
their roots into the sand, they may work slowly through to the 
earth below, where they will grow in proportion to their strength. 

Many experiments have shown that with' some plants, charcoal 
dust, brick dust, charred turf, bone dust, and' other materials are 
excellent for cuttings ; — almost every gardener has a specific pre- 
paration for the purpose. 

To insure that they shall do well, it is best to make a bed 
like a common hotbed, in whioh there may be some bottom heat. 
To support its leaves the cutting must emit roots, and to this end 
all the collaXeral circumstances must be favorable. The first act of 
a healthy cutting is to form a callus, already described in speaking 
of transplanting ; to the formation of this callus, warmth and mois- 
ture at the cut end are essential ; and by setting the cuttings in a 
hotbed, or by placing the pots and pans containing them on or over 
hot-air or hot-water pipes, a moderate bottom heat is obt^ned. 

Beside being supplied with warmth and moisture, cuttings must 
be protected against too rapid evaporation by bell glasses, or by 
being set in comparatively dark places. The more tender and 
shy plants should have air in only a moderate degree, until roots 
have started ; the hardier need less care. Constant watchfulness 
is indispensable with cuttings of succulent plants, when set in 
warm, damp, and shaded places, lest they damp off; this is a mys- 
terious but common cause of disappointment ; the cutting rots near 
the surface of the earth. 

Before making your cuttings, prepare the vessel in which they 
are to be set ; fill the pot to within 3 inches of its top with broken 
crocks; over these put 1^ inches of such soil as the plant likes 
best ; over this l^ inches of sand or such other material as you 
prefer ; set the cuttings round the edge at a slight angle from the 
inside outwards. Those cuttings always strike most readily which are 



284 



JANUARY. 



nearest the pot ; expenments have proved conclusively that cuttings 
need air as well as moisture, and this seems to be supplied to a suf- 
ficient degree, through or along the sides of the pot 

Better than pots are shallow pans made for the purpose, and 
easily drained. 

The facts about air and moisture led to the following invention,* 
which has proved excellent for its 
purpose : a 48 sized pot (B) is ren- 
dered water-tight by plugging up the 
hole in its bottom with a handful of 
clay (a) ; over this are laid enough 
broken crocks to raise the top of a 
small sized pot (£) level with the 
top of B ; the hole in £ is plugged 
with a cork. Over the crocks and 
around E is filled in soil fit for the 
plant after it begins to grow; over 
this to the top of B, pure sand, in 
which the cutting is set, as in all 
other cases, 1 to 1]^ inches deep, and 
inclined toward the side of the inner pot 
in a warm, shaded place. 

Some plants form calluses slowly ; by partly severing the cut- 
tings some time before using, the cut part will callus like a layer 
before it is removed, and when made into a cutting, will strike 
more readily. The best time for making cuttings of plants under 
glass, in order that they may get well established before the next 
winter, is the late winter and early spring. This rule, however, is 
not without exceptions ; some plants, as £ricas, must be stimulated 
to grow before cuttings are taken from them, as it is their young 
shoots, with or without a heel or bit of the old wood, which are 
needed; and all plants have especially appropriate seasons for 
taking cuttings, which will be noticed in the proper place. You 
may decide whether a cutting has struck, t.e., has sent out roots, by 




Set the whole apparatus 



* Mcintosh, p. 349. 




GBEBNH'OUSE. 285' 

gently touching one of the old leaves ; if the roots have fbnned, 
the leaf will drop at touch, as a new growth has begun ; if no roots 
have formed, the leaf will not come away without twisting. 

Cuttings, as I have said, are the easiest 
vaeans of increasing a stock of plants, and 
they are so easily grown from most plants 
that the ordinary methods seem good 
enough; but however easily they grow, 
the operation is much more rapid and sure 
when they are exposed to bottom heat A 
leading authority in such matters, lays it 
down as a rule that ^' it is not the tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere, but of the soil that 
requires to be raised ; we must first obtain roots, the leaves wiU 
follow." '^ As soon as the cuttings begin to grow, more light and air 
may be admitted to them, and such as begin to push up weakly 
should be topped, and.when fairly rooted, transplanted from sand 
into pots in their proper soiL" As many plants which will root 
fteely in sand, refuse to grow in it, all cuttings should for safety 
be removed as soon as they have fairly begun to grow. Where 
large quantities of Scarlet Geranium are wanted for bedding, they 
should be planted in a dung bed in March, where they will grow 
rapidly. 

I have said there is an exception to the rule that the leaves le& 
on a cutting must not be allowed to wilt before it is set ; it is in the 
case of strong, fleshy plants, full of sap, which may with advan- 
tage be allowed to lie on the table a few hours to evaporate some 
of their superfluous sap. 

" When the object is to get new and improved varieties," seeds 
are sown, which is a simple process, but care must be taken in se- 
lecting seeds. 

The shape of the flower, the substance, size, and color of the 
petals are the points to be preserved and improved, and this is to 
be sought by careful hybridizing or intermixing the pollen of dif- 
ferent plants. 

For the benefit of some of my readers, who may not understand 
this common term, I will give a short description of a process by 



286 JAKTAJtY. 

which varieties of plants are obtained. Every perfect flower has 
a calyx or cup ; this is the green outside, seen to the best ad- 
vantage in the bud when the calyx folds around and encloses the 
rQst of the flower, as the green outside of a Rosebud. The corolla 
is next the calyx, and is what is usually called the flower, and is 
either whole or divided into many parts. These parts are called 
petals, as the red or white leaves of the Rose. Next to the petals 
are the stamens, which more or less in number, are arranged next 
the petals or corolla in all flowers ; they have two parts, the fila- 
ment and anther ; the filament is the long and narrow stem (^ 
the stamen, and the anther is the generally round or oblong body 
attached to the top of the filament, and of a slightly difierent 
color, as the crowd of yellowish, slender bodies inside the colored 
petals of the Rose. Next to the stamens, and within them, is the 
ovary and pistil, or pistils, the central part of the whole flower ; 
the ovary contains the object for which the whole flower grew and 
blossomed ; viz., the seeds or ovules. 

Careful experiments have shown that these various parts of the 
flower are all formed from the some original material, the leaf, 
which is. the source and type of alL The calyx is oflen at first, 
and sometimes throughout the life of the flower, a rude leaf, and 
many instances will occur to every student, where the transformation 
is in process ; the petals are in very many cases interchangable 
with the sepals or divisions of the calyx, and in many plants it is 
difficult to distinguish between them. Stamens constantly change 
to petals, as every one knows who has examined a Pond LUy. 
The ovary, when simple, is merely a leaf folded upon itself, whence 
it derives its Latin name carpel, and a compound ovary is only 
several simple ovaries combined. 

To return, I said the ovary and its pistils are in the centre of the' 
flower ; the pistils surmount or surround the ovary, and have some 
secret communication with its interior and its contents the ovules. 
A plant without a pistil and ovary is barren, seedless. These organs 
alone, however, do not produce seed, except when fertilized by the 
pollen of the stamen. This pollen is a yellowish powder of 
changing character, contained in the anther, which you remember 
I said is attached to the filament of the stamen. At the proper 



GREENHOUSE. 287 

time in the development of the flower, the anther of the stamen 
opens and ejects some of its pollen on to the pistil of the ovary. 
What the precise action is, physiologists do not know ; it is sufficient 
to say that this pollen fertilizes the pistil, and through it gives life 
to the seeds contained in the ovary. 

It was for this the flower blossomed ; soon after the pistil is fertil- 
ized the flower droops, decays, and leaves the ovary to ripen its seed. 

Hybridizing is removing the stamens from a flower before they 
have fertilized the pistil, and then carrying the pollen of another 
variety of the same species to the flower operated on. This foreign 
pollen fertilizes the pistil, as that of the stamens which have been 
cnt off would have done ; the flower dies, the ovary grows and 
produces seeds, the flowers from which will neither be like the 
flower which was artificially fertilized, nor that from which the 
pollen was brought, exactly like neither parent, and yet resembling 
both. In this way all the best varieties of flowers and fruits have 
been obtained, the hybridizing having been sometimes the work of 
man, sometimes of nature. 

By this method you see you can change your Pelargoniums at 
win and in any direction. Let the seed to be propagated ripen 
fully and freely ; gather, dry, and keep it in a cool, dry place till 
March ; then sow it in a rich, light soil in a well-drained pan, 
which is then to be set in a warm place where it will have a mod- 
erate bottom heat. When the seedlings have two leaves, and are 
an inch high, remove them to some place as near as possible to the 
glass ; water but moderately, lest the plants damp off. After a 
week's exposure pot into 60-sized pots, in a compost of rich loam, leaf 
mould, and one-eighth sand ; replace under the glass after potting ; 
as they grow, shift from time to time. During the first summer set in 
a warm, well-ventilated place out of doors, on boards or other dry 
substance ; the next winter keep close to the glass ; do not top or 
manure them. So soon as they blossom select the desirable plants, 
and throw away the rest The plants retained are to be cut down, 
the tops used for cuttings, and the plants stimulated to grow, and 
give more cuttings and finer flowers. 

" Tuberous-rooted Geraniums, and some others, may be propa- 
gated by dividing the roots. Remove all the soil from the roots. 



288 JANUABT. 

and cut them into short pieces with some fibres annexed to each; 
plant the pieces in small pots, which are to be plunged into pits 
with a mild bottom heat, and watered ; as the young shoots appear, 
give air. If many shoots come up, remove all but the strongest, 
never keep more than three ; when these are 3 inches high stop 
their growth by pinching off the end, to induce side shoots." 

The process here described answers for most hard and soft- 
wooded plants. 

Some plants have the power of growing from their leaves alone. 
When the leaf is placed under favorable circumstances, buds appear 
on the edges or along the mid rib, which grow and produce perfect 
plants. The leaf is pegged down upon clean sand, or is kept in 
place by a small stone, then set in a warm and moist place, and 
treated like a cutting when the buds appear. 

The principal plants which grow thus are Achimenes, Gloxinia, 
G^sneria, Begonia, Bryophyllum, Malaxis, Aspidium bulbiferum, 
Nimphea micrantha, Dionea, Mentha piperita ; occasionally Dros- 
era, Portulaca, Cardamine pratensis, Nepeta glehcoma ; also some- 
times Crassula, Aloe, Eucomis regia, Lilium candidum, HyacinUi, 
Squill, Omothagulum thyrsoides, the Ficus elastica, Hoya, 
Camosa, Citrus, Aucuba, and Theophrastus. 

Pinks, Carnations, and other flowers having jointed tubular 
stems, are propagated by pips or pipings : ^^ They are taken from 
young shoots of the current year's growth ; the lower leaves in 
case of the Pink, are stripped off within two or three joints of the 
top of the cutting ; the lower part is cut off dose under the joint 
with a clean sharp knife ; never cut off or mutilate the remaining 
leaves ; the pips ready, press them down into the sand three-fourths 
of an inch, and the same distance apart" If they are too limp to 
set well, lay them in cold water for a few minutes to stiffen. They 
may be covered with bell glasses, or left exposed; they strike 
root readily ; after they have rooted, transplant to pots, frames, or 
the open ground. 

Some plants can be increased with certainty only by cuttings of 
the flowering stems made like pips, just before flowering; such are 
Double Scarlet Lychnis, Double Rocket, and some other border 
plants. 



GRKENHOUSE. 289 

Cuttings of the root are often successfiil when other means fail 

I do not pretend to give full lists of names, but content myself 
with these general directions, and leave my readers to experiment 
for themselves. All common greenhouse plants may be propagated 
in the ways described, or by layers, by grafUng, or budding. The 
following common stock greenhouse plants may be increased as 
first described. 

Pelargonium, Roses, Erica, Salvia, Lechenaultia, Heliotrope, 
Verbena, Diosma, Fuchsia, Daphne, Deutzia, Calycanthus, Clethra, 
Bryonia, Azalea, Cleanthus, Cydsus, Coronilla, Gardenia, Wei- 
gelia, Myrtus, Sedum, Polygala, Steevia, Lantana, Mahernia, and 
many others. 

I give the foregoing only to show how to commence increasing 
a collection ; a few trials will enable you to grow all varieties in 
their proper way. Oleanders, as we have seen, thrive best in bot- 
tles of water, whence they are to be transplanted into small pots, 
as soon as well rooted. 

^ Cuttings of hardy fruit trees should be taken off any time be- 
tween the shedding of the leaves in autumn, and the first coming 
out in the spring ; " the earlier after the ripening of the wood, they 
are cut, the better ; keep them moist till spring, then plant on the 
north side of a wall, where they will be shaded till they have 
rooted. Evergreens may be propagated by cuttings, taking off the 
new growth with a heel of the old wood. Cuttings of partially 
ripened wood of hardy Evergreens, shrubs, and Roses, are found 
to grow best." 

^ It is very easy to send cuttings to great distances without de- 
stroying their vitality, if placed loosely in a tin case, with half a 
table spoonful of water, — more or less according to the size of the 
case, — which should be hermeticaUy sealed." 

Layering is done after the following manner : Lay bare the stem 
by removing the soQ from about the roots of the plant which is to 
be propagated ; select the shoots to be layered ; bend them down 
to the ground to find the point that can be most easily induced to 
touch the earth without breaking the shoot ; in cases of succulent 
and soft-wooded plants, this must be done with great care, as their 
shoots and branches are often broken by being bent. The point 
25 



290 



JANUARY. 



sought being found, begin to cut with a sharp knife on the under 
side of the shoot, upward and toward the middle of the shoot, for 
about 1 inch, thus a, 1, : the cut should always be begun just below a 

bud, so that the bud maj be 
separated fix>m the parent, 
except so fiir as it is attached 
to the upper part of the 
tongue of wood thus made. 
The cut roade^ bend the 
shoot to the ground as in 
Fig. 2. Set a forked stick 
over the branch at b (Fig. 
3), this will hold the whole 
branch firmly to the earth ; 
now carefully remove the 
earth under the cut part of 
the shoot, at a (Fig. 3) ; the 
hole being made, take hold of 
the end of the shoot and bend 
it up as in Fig. 4, leaving a tongue at a, projecting into the hole just 

made. With the hand press earth 
carefully into the space now left at 
a, between the tongue and the old 
wood, also pack earth all round the 
bent portion of the shoot and the 
forked stick, so that the shoot shall 
be kept in its bent position, and the 
tongue remain open. The shoot 
will receive sufficient nutriment 
through its uncut portion, whilst the 
tongue will callus and send roots 
into the earth. After these roots 
have grown considerably, which may 
be told by examination, cut the shoot 
off at 6, and the severed portion wiU 
be a perfect plant 
The season for performing this operation extends over neaiiy 





GBEBNH0U8E. 291 

tiie whole year, on an estate where there is a greenhoase, as the 
plants in the house may be layered while vegetation is suspended 
out of doors. Many plants root so easily from layers, that it is 
not necessary to tongue their shoots, but merely to twist them 
enough to break the bark and the dose connection of the woody 
fibres. Others, again, only need to be laid down and covered with 
earth. A shoot is in the best condition for this operation when its 
upper part is still growing, while the lower has ripened. Still 
shoots and branches of last year's growth may be layered with 
success. 

Some rare and shy plants are layered by bending a shoot into 
the hole in the bottom of a pot which is suspended near by ; the 
shoot is thus brought through the pot to the air above, and earth is 
filled in about it in the pot. All layers must be watered and kept 
rather warm, but they need no shading. ' 

Many herbaceous plants like Pinks, Sweet WilHams, etc, are 
layered in some of these ways instead of making cuttings. Lay- 
ering is much the most certain practice, but is slower and affords 
fewer plants. 

You remember my saying that cuttings of the Grape may be 
made where only a single eye or bud is taken. The theory seems 
to be that each bud is as complete in itself as a seed, and has stored 
in its immediate neighborhood all the food it needs in the early 
stages of its growth, if the surrounding circumstances are made fa- 
vorable. Consequently, in making a cutting it is enough to ptit 
into the earth just so much wood as seems to belong especially to 
the bud, giving the latter a reasonable access to light, air, heat, 
and moisture. 

Buds are the only perfectly reliable source for the propagation 
of any particular variety. Seeds as I have shown may be quite al- 
tered from their original intention by hybridizing, and easy as this 
operation is to man, it is still more easy to nature. Bees, wasps, 
flies are all means used by her for intermingling the pollens of dif- 
ferent plants ; they dive into the flower in search of honey, get 
showered with the pollen of the stamens through which they brush, 
and then fiy to another plant ; if this is a different species, the pol* 
ten they bring will produce no effect on the pistil, but if it is the 



t92 JAKUABT. 

same spedes, but a yariety differing in shape, color, or otherwise, 
the imported pollen when brushed against the pistil, will attach* it- 
self and fertilize it Such natural hybridization is the yearly an* 
noyance of those who cultivate plants of the Squash and Cu- 
cumber family. Melons being the most delicate members of this 
fiunily, their flowers are constantly overcome by the stronger pollen 
of Squashes, Cucumbers, etc The fact is so well established that 
no good gardener will plant these different members of the same £un- 
ily near together. The hybridizing of a season does not appreciably 
effect the fruit of that year, but the seed contains the future fruit 
which will prove disagreeable next year. It sometimes beccMnes 
necessary for cultivators of rare varieties of plants, whose color, 
shape, etc, they wish to perpetuate, to cover the flowers they se- 
lect for seeds with bellglasses, or lace bags, to prevent insects fxom 
performing this hybridizing. 

Propagation by cuttings of single buds is a valuable means of in- 
creasing those plants whose seed is scanty, or which from some 
cause cannot be budded or grafted, as Hollyhocks and other her- 
baceous plants, Grapes and some other woody plants. Grapes may 
be grafled, budded, or grown from long cuttings, but cannot be multi- 
plied by either process so fast as by cuttings of a single bud. The 
best kinds of Hollyhock, Double Lychnis, and other herbaceous 
plants, should have their cuttings made after this manner : 

So soon as the plant has blossomed enough to satisfy the grower 
that it is a desirable variety, cut down the flowering shoot ; new 
shoots will start up around it ; when these are 18 inches to 2 feet 
long, cut them into pieces, each containing one eye, — much like 
cuttings of the Grape. Instead of using the secondary small shoots, 
the main stem may be divided longitudinally, aud then cut into 
pieces 2 or 8 inches long, taking care not to injure the buds. Place 
these cuttings under light, rich soil, and cover them just leaving the 
bud open to air and moisture ; soon roots will be sent out from the 
cut ends and edges ; when these are pretty well grown, transplant 
to a seed bed of light, rich loam, well sheltered, but with more di- 
rect light ; treat carefully with air, moisture and warmth, and you 
will soon have fme plants. 

Growmg the Vine from single eyes is much the same practice as 



GBEENHOUSE. 293 

that just described. The eyes should be prominent, well developed, 
and on the last yearns wood ; cut an inch above and an inch below 
the eye ; select a pot of 4 or 5 inches in diameter ; put in good 
drainage, fill with rich, light loam, and set the cuttings so that the 
eye shall be covered by at least an inch of the loam. Give the pot 
if possible, a bottom heat of 70"" to 80"^, and keep the air at 60^. 
In a short time a shoot will appear. Before this, little care will be 
required ; keep the earth in the pot just moist ; as soon as the 
shoot is above the surface, water occasionally and watch well that 
no worms get into the pot, which they cannot do if the pots are set 
into a few inches of coal ashes. In a month they will be nice plants 
six or eight inches high, and may be repotted for the last time. Sub- 
sequent treatment depends on the use to which they are to be put 

There are several other methods of propagating the Vine, but 
this is the best and allows of the speediest increase. 

Pelargoniums will be coming into blossom, — should have a last 
shift of pots, and have abundant light and moisture. 

Repot Achimenes, Gloxinia, Cineraria, and all climbing plants 
not yet repotted. Verbenas, Japan LiHes, Fuchsias for spring show ; 
if the Carnations need it, give a larger pot. Dielytra spectabalis, 
and Pansies may be introduced into the house for the spring bloom. 

Water Camelias abundantly whilst in blossom, and as the 
Azaleas start to grow, give them more water. 

25« 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

CONSERVATOKT. 

The oonservatory should be, at this season, trulj a winter 
garden. The climbers on posts and trellises are now in bud and 
blossom; the Camelias, Daphnes, etc, are blooming, and the 
Roses, Heliotropes, and numberless other smaller plants lend their 
colors and fragrance to complete the beautiful whole. Under all 
is the delicate green moss, the PolTpodtums, the Stone Crops, etc 
Lysimaehia nummularia, with their green leaves, make a carpet 
of verdure. The cold weather without enhances the delight of this 
in-door garden, and no owner will regret the labor and expense that 
has brought about such a result. 

There is generally more mild weather in January than in the 
other winter months ; on many days fire-heat may be dispensed 
with altogether. Be carejful, however, lest sudden cold take you 
unawares, and never be without fire at night The woik is light 
now — admitting air, regulating heat, and supplying moisture, ii 
fine weather syringe often, letting the showers fall perpendicularly, 
as before directed. On warm days change the plants, removing to 
the greenhouse those out of blossom, and replacing them with 
others just coming into bud. 

294 



CHAPTER XL. 



6RAPERT. 



Continue the treatment laid down for last month in the grapery. 
We shall not begin to force till next month, but in the interval 
must keep the forcing-house rather wanner than hitherto, but not 
higher than 40° or 50° in the daytime. The cold grapery must be 
just above freezing ; the retarding-house, as last month, cold and 
dry, but above frost. All this needs but little fire. Peach-trees, 
Fig-trees, etc, which were housed in the cellar or sheds, should now 
be brought into the houses. 

The mushroom bed, which I described as under the table, in the 
forcing-house, and of which no further mention has been made, is 
yielding an abundance of mushrooms ; other beds may be made in 
the other houses, if you please. 

In the last month's grapery I gave drawings, and some descrip- 
tions, of houses for Peaches and other fruits, with the promise of en- 
tering more fully into the method of growing and managing such 
fruit under glass. It is obvious that trees to be grown under glass 
must be of smaller stature than when grown in the open air, and 
that means must be found to dwarf them. Beside this, they should 
be under different degrees of excitement at different seasons, to 
accomplish which many schemes have been devised. It is usual to 
plant such trees in the ground like vines, and in this way large 
crops may easily be got ; but a better way in many respects is to 
grow theih in tubs. If trained on dome or curved espaliers of 
course they must occupy the same place for years, and in that case 
they should be planted in the earth ; but you will remember my 
saying that span-roofed houses are the best for all such culture, and 
there the trees assume the shapes natural to them when grown out- 
ot^oors. To ensure perfect crops, and to keep them entirely 
under control, the trees should be allowed a period of entire rest ; 

295 



296 JAKUABT. 

• 

and if they could be removed, after bearing their crop, from the 
house wh^re they have been excited, to a cooler and shadier phice, 
they would be carried through an artificial winter, and so have the 
needed rest, and be prepared for profitable forcing another year, 
and if continuous crops of fruit were wanted it would be easy to 
secure them, by having two houses, with different exposures, and 
removing the trees from one to the other, as heat and stimulus were 
desired, or shunned. Evidently this is out of the question with 
trees planted in the earth, for their roots must be undisturbed to 
secure growth and fruit, but by cultivating in tubs of size sufficient 
to give the roots full room, the change can be made with ease. 

I will give directions for cultivating the tree fruits in the ground 
before I speak of them in tubs. And I shall give English rather 
than American experience, for, as I have said before, these fruits 
are but little grown under glass here in comparison with what is 
done in England, nor do general cultivators carry their practice to 
as great perfection here as there. We need not cultivate these 
fruits under glass unless we wish to have them out of season. The 
English, on the contrary, must grow most of them under glass to 
have them at all, their climate being too damp and cold, and their 
hours of sunshine too few to bring Peaches, in particular, to per- 
fection. Some of our cultivators, however, are very successful in 
growing fruit out of season, for instance, Allen, of Salem ; Hol- 
brook, of Braintree; Stetson, of Bridgewater, and others, who 
yearly exhibit the successful results of their labors on the tables of 
the Boston Horticultural Society. 

In gardens Peach-trees are generally grown on their own stock, 
the buds of improved varieties being transferred to ordinary stod» 
got from planting the stones of any kind of Peach. When Peaches 
were a new fruit, and not common, we had, in whatever part of 
country they were cultivated, perfect trees and perfect' fruit, but 
the demand increasing with unusual rapidity, it was difilcnlt for 
nurser3rmen to supply it, and in their eager efforts to do so &ey 
neglected the precautions, without which perfect trees and fruit 
cannot be secured ; viz., to select stones of the best fruit from the 
healthiest trees, which show no taint in their constitution, and to 
plant these for stocks. Stocks thus grown are healthy, and if bud* 



ORAPEBT. 297 

ded from equally healthy tree?, will make healthy and satisfactory 
trees. But the nurserymen, in their haste, planted all stones indis- 
criminately ; they were so careless about the kind and quality of 
the tree which bore these stones, as to pay boys by the quart for 
stones collected in city streets during the Peach season, many of 
which were, of course, from poor trees, and perpetuated, when 
planted for stocks, their own defects. The stocks thus produced 
were budded with choice varieties ; the bud governs the kind of 
fruit produced where it is inserted, but the heaUh of the tree is 
governed principally by the stock. 

And the nurserymen were not content with violating nature in 
this way. The careiiil cultivator knows that every plant grown 
for a number of years on the same spot, exhausts in that ground 
the food which it particularly needs, and that to secure good crops 
from such ground a different plant must be grown on it, which will 
need few or none of the constituents necessary for the preceding 
crop, but wants just those that are left in abundance in the soil. 
But the Peach growers were not only careless about the seed 
which supplied their new orchards, but they planted these orchards 
on the ground before occupied by Peaches, and thus deprived the 
young trees from the first of their vital necessities, and compelled 
them to feed on vitiated and exhausted earth. 

Still another rule of agriculture was neglected ; viz., that each 
yearns crop must be carefully cultivated, manured, ploughed, hoed. 
What should we think of the prospective Com crops of a farmer, 
between whose rows the ground was thickly sown with Grass or 
Rye ? Why, that he would lose more from his Com than he could 
possibly make good by the additional crop. But Peach growers 
sowed Grass between their rows of trees, or allowed it to grow 
there. This double demand on the ground results either in impov« 
erishing both trees and fruit, or in shortening the life of the tree. 

When speaking of Pear-culture, I said that its success depends 
on plenty of moisture, plenty of manure, and on thinning the frait. 
This last process has an important infiuence on the quality of all 
fruit crops, and is indispensable to success in Grape growing, as 
the merest tyro knows ; but this, too, was neglected by the Peach 
growers, who, in their greediness for large crops allowed the trees 



298 JAKUABY. 

to bear all the fruit thej set, and consequentlj got no froit eqoal 
to that grown on properly thinned trees. 

What wonder that our trees with such a pedigree have ^ the 
yellows/' are uncertain bearers, and in many parts of the country 
complete failures ? Whoever wishes to get perfect fruit and long- 
lived trees, must go back to first principles, must select his seed, 
grow his stocks, and be particular about the source, especially in 
growing trees under glass, where the process is expensive and 
tedious, and where one diseased tree may be the cause of a large 



Remember, too, the discovery made in Pear culture : that large 
growing varieties worked upon the stocks of small growing plants, 
preserve their superiority of fruit, while the tree continues of 
small size. Tiiis is of great consequence under glass, where room 
is all-important; small tops and roots are desirable both in the 
trees planted in the ground, and in those in tubs ; and this is the 
case even in span-roofed houses, where the middle trees may and 
should be larger than the side rows. 

Supposing our peachhouse to be built, or the trees grown as in 
our graperies, the proper soil is the first consideration. 

Perfect drainage and a light soil are necessities. It has been 
supposed that the Peach does not need rich soil, because in the 
open air it thrives better in light and sandy, than in rich alluvial 
soil. Not so. The things to be especially avoided are over^amp- 
ness and over-richness near the roots ; the former is particularly 
bad, and causes rot, the latter, canker. To insure drain^;e, the 
soil must be sandy and porous, but it should be highly and con- 
stantly fertilized with weU-rotted, not with rank, manures. If the 
situation of your house is wet, drain well, and under the border 
lay a foundation of rubble stones. Through this rubble it will be 
well to carry, as in Grape borders, a pipe fiY>m the boiler ; because 
to insure success in forcing, we must keep the roots warmed in 
proportion to the top. By covering the outside border every fall 
with a good coat of leaves and horse manure, as early as October, 
the summer heat may be retained enough to enable you to dis- 
pense with heat through the rubble in winter. Upon this lay two 



GRAFEST. 299 

or three feet of rich maiden loam ; in this loam the trees will 
thrive so long as its fertility remains unexhausted, To avoid 
exhaastion, water at the proper season with liquid manures, and 
also every fall, alter the wood is ripened and the leaves have fallen, 
remove the two or three upper inches of loam, and replace with 
old pasture mould, or well-chopped turf; before laying this on, 
fork in lightly a dressing of well-rotted manure, or give several 
copious waterings of liquid manure. 

The border prepared, select, whether for walls or trellises, 
healthy trees, one year from the bud, of those varieties you prefer ; 
set them out, all trees of the same size and habit of growth for the 
trellises ; but for the back have dwarfs and standards alternately. 
The stock on which to work Peaches in order to dwarf them, is 
Plum or Bitter Almond. Choose trees budded near the ground; 
set them so as to just cover the base of the bud, and plant in fall 
or spring ; the fall is the best time if the house can be ready then. 
Cut the stem back to four eyes from the bud; 
through the winter keep the house just above 
freezing ; do not let it get much higher than 40*^ 
in the daytime, and rely upon the sun's heat kept 
in at night by shutters and mats, unless the weather 
should be so severe as to render it impossible to ^ 

keep the temperature above freezing without fires. As the spring 
comes on the sun will get more power, and the house, even if con- 
stantly ventilated, will warm in the daytime above the growing 
point, and soon the buds will swell and start to grow. Before they 
do this, cover the tree with the following wash, which is to be ap- 
plied by a brush drawn up along the stem, so as not to disturb the 
buds, and is the same which is to be used for grape vines ; 2 oz. 
£our of sulphur ; 2 oz. soft soap ; 4 oz. quicklime, mixed in a 
gallon of rain-water. This is to be applied at least two weeks be- 
fore you begin to syringe. As the buds swell, increase the hu- 
midity of the house by syringing morning and evening when the 
day is bright, and once during the day in cloudy weather. The 
four buds will produce four shoots ; bend them into such shapes as 
suit you, but keep them low down ; let them grow at will till mid- 
summer, and then pinch off their ends. This wiU check growth 




300 JAKUA-RT. 

and the wood will ripen. As soon as the leaves fall, cut back the 
four shoots to within four eyes each of the old wood. Cover the 
border as before directed, with litter and manure. Keep the house 
this winter as the last, cool, till spring excites the trees ; during the 
winter fumigate with sulphur; whitewash the house to kill red 
spiders and other destructive insects ; examine the stock near the 
ground to detect any borers that may have got in (though they 
should never get into a house weU cared for) ; should there be any 
sign of them, run a wire into the hole tiU you touch the worm ; 
kill and pull it out Before the young shoots begin to start in the 
second spring, wash the stem and roots with the mixture just di- 
rected. The cut shows the present appearance of the tree. Al- 
low the four present branches to grow in 
•*^5j&,^ the same direction as hitherto, and allow 

^,^J^^ two buds, new shoots, to grow up the wall 
— -^Jii^^^LL *^ * 8^*"'P6r angle than the others. Treat 
the house this year as the last ; allow no 
fruit to grow. During the second &31 of 
growth or the third since planting, cut a a, 
b b, back one-third of their length, and the 
new shoots to 4 eyes. The diagram shows 
** the tree during the third winter and spring. 
Give it more heat this year after Februaiy 
than before, and induce it to grow earlier ; this may easily be done 
without fire heat During the third summer allow no fruit to grow 
unless as a specimen, for if the trees bear so young, they will lose 
in permanency and strength. Let the new shoots grow up the 
wall so as to perfect the fan shape ; let the other branches grow at 
will till midsummer, when they must be pinched as before ; in the 
&11 prune all back one-third of their length ; cover the border 
deeply with manure and leaves. The fourth winter you may be- 
gin to force — not earlier however than the middle or last of Feb- 
ruary. Gro over all the young wood with the lime and soap mix- 
ture. During January keep the temperature higher than before, 
but not over 50° in the day, and let it fall at night to 35° or 40°. 
Give plenty of air. Before beginning to increase the heat, ascer- 
tain whether the earth in the borders has retained heat enough to 




QRAPBBT. 301 

render forcing well-balanced, and if not, be ready as you heat the 
house more, to throw some heat into the pipe which traverses the 
rubble foundation. The proper heat of the border cannot well be 
prescribed, as it will depend on circumstances not to be forseen ; 
but if the gardener remembers the analogy of Nature, he will 
easily be guided into the right course. When out-of-door vegeta- 
tion begins in the spring, the earth is quite cold, but lately un- 
locked from frost, with a temperature from 35° to 40° ; and it grad- 
ually warms as the season advances. If then the borders are at 
about 35°, we may isafely begin to heat and slightly increase the 
heat in them month by month. 

During January give the inside borders two or three copious 
waterings of warmed liquid manure, which will warm them about 
enough. 

It is found at this stage that the trees seem to receive great ben- 
efit from ammoniacal vapors, and in old times gardeners heaped 
stable manure under them ; the vapor may be obtained as well 
from pans of urine set over the flues and pipes to evaporate, and 
the unsightly manure be avoided. 

When we begin forcing afler the application of the wash to the 
young wood, we must dispense with the syringe for a time, as it 
would remove the wash ; the proper humidity must be kept up 
by watering the floors and flues, and by setting evaporating pans 
of water about. 

During pleasant days early in this winter, all the heat which is 
necessary, may be got by shutting the house up ; the temperature 
in the day may range from 45° to 50°, and must not fall below 40° 
at night ; and to maintain this night-temperature, fires must be 
made. <' About 12 or 15 days after increasing the heat, ihe blos- 
soms will begin to expand ; at this period the humidity of the house 
hitherto caused by steaming and syringing, should be lessened, and 
a slight increase of temperature afforded ; the increase should not 
be over 5°, for to hurry the . expansion of the blossoms and the 
setting of the fruit, might endanger the whole crop. The more 
slowly the buds swell and go through the stage of forming the 
parts of fructification, and the important offices dependent on it, so 
much the more certain will success be." 

26 



0U3S JAKUABT. 

*^ When the flowers are fully expanded, and the pollen fit £^r dis- 
persion, a more abundant ventilation will be necessary, and this 
must not be withheld, even although dt becomes necessary to in- 
crease the heat every morning and oontinae it through the dajr, 
to make up for the air admitted." 

'^ At this time the greatest care must be taken that ventilation be 
properly administered, and that no draughts of cold, frosty air be 
allowed to blow in directly upon the trees." 

You will now observe the great advantage of the kind of venti- 
lation or aeration advocated in the plans of houses I have proposed. 
^ The temperature, although well aerated, may now range 6t>m 
50** to 60^ m the day, and must not fall at night below 45V In- 
crease heat and moisture with the expansion of the fruit. 

^ As soon as the flowers begin to decay, the young fruit will be 
seen seated between the fragments of the petals. If the embryo 
fruit is many days struggling to get free of the decaying blossoms, 
it is a sure symptom of a sluggish action of the root 

On the contrary, fine fresh trees in their prime, will soon enable 
their progeny to escape." '' This is an important fact, and should 
constantly be borne in mind by cultivators, as it indicates more 
surely than the after state of the foliage whether the roots are 
healthy or not." ' *< When the fruit has arrived at' this state, less 
ventilation and consequently less heat must be given ; but the 
changes must be effected slowly, as all sudden changes of temper- 
ature with stone fruits are particularly dangerous. The artificial 
heat may remain at 50° — 60°. The sun-heat may raise the temper- 
ature to 75° without danger, for there is a great difference in the 
connection of vegetable life with artificial or sun-heat In propor- 
tion as the sun heats the house more, ventilate more." ^ At this 
period of the fruit's existence moisture must be increased by 
syringing, to refresh and nourish them, and to keep down the ap- 
pearance of thrips and red spiders, the existence of which may be 
oflen traced to too high and dry a temperature." 

After the fruit has fairly set, the trying season is over, and all 
that follows is judicious thinning the fruit and stimulating its growth. 

''To insure growth close attention must be paid to pruning the 
new wood, which may at this season be effected principally by dis- 



GRAPERT. 303 

budding,*' t.e., by rubbing off all those buds which have not com- 
menced growing, but which would overcrowd ^he tree if allowed to 
grow. ^ By timely disbudding much afler-pruning and over- 
crowding the tree is avoided." " Disbudding should commence as 
socm as the young shoots are 2 inches long, and should be carried 
on progressively until the tree is disburdened of its superfluous 
wood, and lefl in condition to perfect what is left ; the work should 
be followed for four or five weeks, and the trees be gone over 
often." 

'^ During the process of disbudding two kind of shoots will be 
observed, the one strong and robust, emerging from the centre of a 
group of buds, and proceeding in an outward instead of a lateral 
direction, which if laid into the espalier would be broken ; these 
strong and watery shoots are to be removed, reserving only such as 
may be necessary for filling up the centre of the tree ; the other 
wood is often of slender growth, but it is the wood destined to pro- 
duce the fiower-buds of the next season. This should be moderate 
in growth, not drawn to great length, and very short jointed, and 
thickly set with buds. Too high temperature, want of ventila- 
tion, and inattention to disbudding all cause this unnecessary elon- 
gation. A contrary course tends to the formation of short, 
stout, well-formed shoots, abounding with bold and well-swelled 
buds." 

" The period of stoning is considered a precarious time with all 
stone fruits ; if all be not right at the roots, if sudden changes of 
temperature or inefficient ventilation be allowed to exist, then many 
of the fruits will fall off." During the whole culture of fruits, re- 
member that the aim should not be to violently force nature, but to 
accelerate her progress, and all attempts to drive vegetation rapidly 
by heat will produce sickly, drawn, and unfruitful results. 

Syringing over the leaves as a preventive to red spiders, must be 
constantly persevered in, but care must also be taken that the border 
is neither too wet nor too dry, either state being injurious to the 
fruit Throughout the season every leaf and fruit which falls must 
be carefully picked up, as they produce and harbor vermin, if left 
to decay on the ground. 

Fruits ripened under glass have not usually the color or the high 



304 JANUARY. 

flavor attained by fruits grown in the open air ; thej may be better 
protected from insecU, and may also have more certain and regular 
temperature. 

Just as soon as the fruit is gathered remove all movable sashes, 
and let the air have free access to the house ; the more rapidly the 
wood ripens the better it will be for the trees ; this ripening may 
be hastened by pinching off the ends of the shoots. When the 
wood is ripened, prune off at least a third of all new growth, and 
keep the houses as cool as is possible, until the approach of winter 
renders it necessary to renew heat in the houses, and prepare for 
next year's forcing. I omitted to say that as the season advances, 
and artificial heat is no longer necessary, you may let the house get 
as hot as the sun will make it, only creating all the ventilation that 
is possible. By subjecting the house during autumn to the lowest 
possible temperature, and keeping it so a long time, the trees 
" break" better, and produce better wood and fruit the next year ; 
and in fact the tlK)rough ripening of the wood in the fall is the 
most important part of the year's work, as upon it, in a great 
measure, depends the success of the next year's crop. 

So far I have described the peachhouse as if all the trees were 
dwarfs, and yet I gave directions that every other tree on the walls, 
or the high trellises, should be a standard. The standards should 
be grown up to a single stem, until they are above the wide part 
of the fan-shaped dwarfs ; they may then be encouraged to throw 
out side shoots like the dwarfs, and may be treated in the same 
way. Sometimes fruit-growers plant in this way, intending in time 
to remove the dwarfs, and give all the room to the standards. I 
doubt the wisdom of this course with short-lived trees like the 
Peach, as the standards would live no longer than the dwarfs. It 
is well enough to plant Cherries and Peaches alternately with this 
view, as the Cherry outlives the Peach. 

Cherries, Nectarines, Apricots, and Plums are to be treated in 
most respects like the Peach. 

I have mentioned that the Peach-trees in tubs arc to be treated 
differently from those planted in the borders. They can be forced 
earlier, with a good chance of success, as the tubs are above the 
floor of the greenhouse, and it is easy to give them bottom heat, 



OBAPEBT. 305 

and so sdmolate all parts of the, tree. Trees in tuba should be 
grown in span-roofed houses, and in three rows, the middle being 
standards, the two outer rows dwarfs ; thus the light may be fairly 
distributed among alL Pruning and training should be much the 
same as with espaliered trees and dwarfs, out of doors. The pyr- 
amidal shape will be found best 

As trees in tubs are very heavy, I recommend laying three rail- 
road tracks, made of bar iron, set on edge in cuts made in sleepers. 
These tracks should all converge at the door, and pass through it 
to the reserve or supply-house, whither the trees, out of bearing, 
may be removed, to be replaced by others, which are fit to be 
ibrced. The rails may be near together, and each tub may stand 
on a little truck, with wheels, or one truck may be used for all, the 
tubs being lifted on to it when they are to be moved. 

Peaches may be ripened in pot culture as early as April and 
May, but only with a large expenditure for heat, and with the loss 
of the perfection which characterizes fruit grown later, A signal 
advantage in pot and tub culture is, the ease with which decayed, 
diseased, or worthless trees may be removed, and replaced by 
others. 

I have given the whole treatment of Peaches thus at once, in 
order that a more clear and connected idea may be gained by those 
who wish to grow them. To succeed perfectly they should be cul- 
tivated in houses especially adapted to them ; in which, however, 
early crops of strawberries, and various vegetables, may be started 
and forced. Grapes are often grown in the same house, and the 
arrangement scarcely interferes with the perfection of some varie- 
ties, and must be made by persons like ourselves, who are re- 
stricted in room ; but the danger is, that one kind of fruit may 
at any time need more heat or more air than agrees with the 
other. 

The advice of a distinguished cultivator of Peaches is, to take trees 
of a year's growth, cut them back to four buds, and plant in a 12 
inch pot, shifting them yearly, till theu- roots fill an 18 inch pot, 
which, he believes, is the largest size required. The soil he uses is 
a good turfy loam, mixed with decayed bits of wood from the bot- 
tom of the wood-pile. When the trees are established to his mind 
26* 



306 JANUABT. 

he brings them into the house, in mild weather, during NoTember. 
Do not start all at once, but take in the tubs at different times. 
Begin forcing with heat at 55^ during the night, falling to 50° 
by morning ; but in mild weather never falling below 55^ ; during 
the day the sun's heat may be allowed to raise the temperature 
even to 90°, until the fruit is stoned, then keep it at 95° to 105° ; 
of course a great deal of moisture is required with this high tem- 
perature ; syringe over head twice a day, or ofiener if necessaiy, 
to prevent green fly and red spider. Very little water is needed 
at the root till the trees are covered with leaves ; after that give an 
abundance. As Uie fruit approaches maturity the water must 
gradually be withdrawn, to heighten the flavor. In all cases — in 
pots or in the ground — the slower Peaches are ripened the finer 
and higher flavored will be the fruit ; and those who think to in- 
crease the size and appearance of their fruit by a close course of 
treatment, will make a miserable mistake. 

Much advantage has resulted, in early forcing, from assisting the 
early impregnation of the flowers, particularly where the trees are 
young, and of robust habit, and are deprived of the natural agents 
in this process, as plenty of air and the aid of bees and other 
insects. The pollen may be transferred from the stamens to the 
pistil, by a camel's-hair pencil. 

In cases of some very fruitful trees there is a great abundance 
of fruit buds, but no leaf buds, except the terminal ones, which 
would be cut off in pruning; these trees, even if they set their fruit, 
lose it immediately afler for want of the terminating buds to draw 
up sap ; this may be remedied by inarching leaf branches of other 
trees into these too fruitful branches ; — the former have grown and 
supplied the fruit with all needful sap, and have ripened it welL 
It is sometimes a successful practice to transfer fruit buds into 
barren branches, and thus get fruit from otherwise useless 
wood. 

The tendency to buds or fruit is easily seen and directed during 
the different prunings ; the best branches are three-budded, and of 
a rich brown color; two of these buds are blossom, the middle is a 
leaf bud ; branches which have only single buds are leaf branches, 
and those with double buds only have no leaves. 



GRAPERT. 307 

I have, throughout these directions, dwelt especially on the im- 
portance of frequent syringings, to remove insects, or rather to pre- 
vent their collecting. If, in spite of all efforts, th^y attack the 
trees, you must fumigate.. 

The red spider is prevented and removed by syringing, or killed 
by gentle fumigations of sulphur, of which small quantities may be 
strewed on the flues or hot-water pipes ; it may also be showered 
over diseased trees out o& sulphuraters, or applied with water. To 
subdue or destroy the insect these applications must be carefully 
made, and perseveringly followed up — having been commenced in 
season. 

Thrips of two species are destroyed by -the same means, but 
both insects must be taken young, and before the trees leave out, 
as the old animals can bear more of these applications than the 
young foliage. Fumigate ailer the trees are pruned, painting, 
white-washing, and washing all the old wood with spirits of tar and 
other preventives. 

The earwig is very injurious to flowers and young fruit ; it har- 
bors in decayed and hollow branches, under bricks, wood, etc. It 
may be easily trapped by laying over the ground the hollow stalks 
of Beans, Artichokes, etc, the sweet pith of which entices it in, 
where it may be destroyed in great quantities. A mixture of 
powdered sugar, arsenic, and wheaten bread, in equal parts, also 
attracts and kiUs it. 

The Peach and Poplar saw fly are very injurious to trees on 
walls and espaliers, particularly out of doors. They hatch in im- 
mense numbers in April or May, cover the leaves with minute 
cobwebs,, eat them, and then form pupsB. They may be destroyed 
by removing a few inches of earth about the roots in the fall, and 
charring it, which should be done as soon as the leaves have 
fallen. 

There are several varieties of aphides, which may be destroyed 
by fumigation, but their eggs can only be removed by friction. 
The wash recommended for application just before forcing is 
begun, kills the insects as soon as they are hatched. 

Fumigate when the leaves are dry ; when wet they afford secure 
hiding-places to many of the insects. Choose a still evening, and 



JANUABT. 

Stop eyerj hole through which smoke can escape ; hj mixing damp 

hay, pot herbs, etc., with the tobacco, the smoke maj be made more 

dense. The best way to fumigate trees is by a tunnel-shaped tin, 

with its nose bent at right angles ; in its* throat put some glowing 

wood embers, and lay the tobacco, etc, on them, 

\ 1^ with a fine wire gauze over it to prevent the fiames 

\ m escaping with the smoke ; fit the nose of a bellows 

^r to the tube. You can n^Tw blow as dense a smoke 

as you please into the parts of the tree most in need 

of it, and may easily kill all insects. Be careful not to bk>w so. 

fiercely as to heat the leaves or fruit, lest you shrivel or destroy 

them. 

The turtle scale is sometimes very troublesome. They are 
readily seen, as they are white, and collect in masses ; their eggs 
are killed by washing the old wood with spirits of tar, but this is 
too strong for the young wood. 

There are severaL weevils, the cnrculio, etc, which trouble 
Plums and Nectarines, less, however, in the house, than in the 
open ground. They are easily prevented by care. Remove all 
the fruit that falls and contains eggs, and during the season when 
i^e fiy is active, frequently dust the tree with fiour of sulphur ; it 
may be yet further excluded from trees on walls and in the open 
air, by covering them with musquito netting. 

As before said, the Apricot is to be treated much like the Peach. 
In pruning, be very sure to cut at a wood bud, or a triple bud, that 
there may be something to grow and draw up sap. If any branch 
has nothing but fruit buds, do not shorten it at all, unless there is a 
necessity for wood in that place. If possible, train some leaf branch 
over the place, and remove the fruit branch after it has borne. 
Strong growing varieties may be pruned back one-third, medium 
one-fourth, weak still less. Apricots often bear on spurs of two or 
three years old ; carefully watch and prune accordingly. When 
the fruit ha<« set, and is as large as a small marble, thin each 
group to two or three ; later, after they have stoned, thin again 
down to the quantity the tree can bear ; the green fruit makes a 
good sauce or pie. Apricots are apt to ripen one side, whilst the 
other is hard ; gather and lay in a tray, with the hard side upper* 



ORAPERT. 309 

moet ; Bet in a sunny place, and in a few days the hard side will 
have ripened. It is well to gather all Apricots before they are 
ripe, as they are more juicy when ripened off the tree. If any 
of these trees — in-doors or out — grow too rank, prune the roots 
as hereafter described. 

The Cherry under glass is to be managed h'ke the foregoing, 
only with less pruning ; it needs no shortening back, except for 
overgrowth. The same is true of the Plum, and their growth is 
best checked by root-pruning. These trees being natives of a cold 
country, make and ripen wood even in short seasons, while natives 
of warm countries, like the Peach, Nectarine, and Apricot, grow 
through the whole season, never ripening their wood weU in our 
climate, even under glass. 

Boot pruning is performed in many ways, and is quite as oflen 
serviceable to trees out-of-doors as under glass. The rudest 
method is to lay bare all the tops of the roots of trees which have 
grown too luxuriantly, and leave them thus exposed for a long 
time ; when the earth is removed to kill the eggs of insects, which 
is sometimes done, the roots must be left bare all winter ; but this 
is a vei^ imperfect method. To prune the roots properly, dig a 
trench all round the tree, at the distance of 3 to 6 feet from the 
stem, according to its size ; dig deep enough to cut all the roots 
across ; leave it open a day or two, then fill back fresh earth. The 
operation may be performed in spring, sununer, or fall, the latter 
being perhaps the best time for most trees. It is a very severe 
check to trees which have a large stock of leaves, and may some- 
times cause them all to wilt 

The evident effect of such pruning is to reduce very much the 
number of roots, and consequently the supply of sap ; when sap is 
supplied less liberally, the next growth is much less free, and the 
tree sets more fruit and less leaf-buds. Many treel, particularly 
standard Pears, which grow nothing but leaves, may in this way 
be thrown into full bearing. 

The reason for this change in the character of the buds is, that 
the sap flows more slowly, and being carried through a greater 
number of leaves in proportion to its amount than before, is bet- 
ter elaborated and ripened, made richer, and when it settles 



810 JANUABT. 

into the buds it carries the elements of frait rather than leaves, 
which demand a more rank and raw sap. For the same reason, 
branches which are bent down — whether the stem stands or b 
trained on an espalier — produce more fruit-buds ; the sap in them 
is retarded, ripened, and the buds show its quality by tending to 
fruit rather than to leaves. 

Grapes in Pots. — A few pages back I said that some vines 
could be grown in tlie peachhouse, and in a former month (Octo- 
ber), I gave a short notice of Grape-vines grown in pot^ I there 
mentioned that, as in the case of Peaches in tubs, the fruit can be 
forced in pots earlier than in the open ground, because the roots 
can receive a larger amount of heat and stimulus. 

I lefl those vines in their fall sleep previous to the commence- 
ment of the winter forcing. Let us now return to them. They 
sank to rest in the early autumn and may be kept in a perfectly 
quiet and cool condition till you decide to commence forcing, which 
may be as early as you please, since both tops and roots are en- 
tirely under your control. Vines started and well managed in De- 
cember, will ripen their berries in May. Before giving any heat, 
cover the vines with the wash recommended for Peach-trees ; re- 
move the pots soon ailer to some place where they may receive 
plenty of bottom heat ; if fires are not needed in any of the houses, 
plunge the pots in hot manure ; the roots may receive a heat of 
75° to 80°. Before the buds break, remove a little of the powdery 
soil from the surface of the pot, and replace with rich, turfy loam. 
In order to make the buds break early, bend the canes into a circle. 
As soon as the young shoots show the bunches of Grapes, a selec- 
tion must be made, and no more bunches retained than the pot can 
well maintain ; a 15 inch pot may be allowed six bunches, and for 
every variatfln of an inch either way a bunch may be added or 
subtracted. The after treatment is like that of ordinary vines ; 
the shoots are stopped an eye beyond the bunch ; when the berries 
begin to swell for the last time, stop the shoots again. During 
growth water freely, and so train the shoots that they may have 
the most abundant light, as this, more than any thing else, adds to 
the strength of the vine, and the perfection of the fruit. Use ma- 



OBAPERT. 811 

nure-water till the fruit begins to ripen, when pore water only 
should be given and that in reduced quantity. Bottom heat may 
be kept during forcing as high as 80° ; atmospheric heat may be- 
gin at 45° and increase to 75°, or higher if the increase comes from 
the sun's heat ; night heat should fall at starting as low as 45^, and 
never rise higher than 60°. In cold, dark days let the temperature 
stand at about the night heat I repeat, that if you would succeed 
you must strictly observe the practice of nature. Remember that 
however hot the days may be in summer, the nights are, with very 
few exceptions, cool ; and that in cloudy weather, the days are but 
little warmer than the nights. Plants understand this better than 
we, and grow accordingly ; and a little observation will show that 
at such times there is almost no growth, and what there is seems 
unhealthy unless ripened by a sun soon after. 

When the berries ripen, set thQ vines into a cool and light room, 
with a north exposure ; the frmt keeps better in the dark, as I have 
saidf but the vines suffer, though this matters little if you do not in- 
tend to force them again. 

Vines well laden with fruit may be used very efiectively with 
other plants or fruit, to ornament a dinner table. 

If you intend to force the vines again, when the fruit is cut, en- 
courage the ripening of the wood in every way ; prune it as soon 
as ripened, and treat as in the years before. It will often be found 
better not to force them two years in succession, but to lay them 
aside for a year and treat like young vines, that they may recruit 
and gain strength for future bearing. 

An improvement) as some think, on simple pot culture is trough 
culture. 

^The plants are from buds planted in pots, which are plunged into 
a heat of 80° to 90° ; when they have grown 2 or 3 inches they 
are repotted into 60s, in loam, leaf mould, sand, and a little decom- 
posed manure ; they are replaced in bottom heat, the air kept sweet 
and pure. As soon as the roots have filled the pots, transfer them 
to 32's, using more manure in the compost Set the pots as near 
the glass as possible, in a temperature of 70° to 80°. 

^' When the pots are full of roots, shift to 8's, using a stronger 
compost, and draining thoroi^hly ; set them at least 5 inches from 



812 JANUARY. 

the glass, and raise the temperature 5° to 10^. When the Tines 
have grown 8 or 10 feet, stop them, and if they are healthy thej 
will at once throw out laterals from the buds at- the extreme end& 
It is to be hoped no other buds will break ; pinch these top laterals 
when 6 or 8 inches long. But all laterals emitted from the base, if 
fruit buds, should be stopped at first joint ; — allowing the end hi^ 
ends to grow freely is the best means of preventing the starting of 
the other buds. Water freely during the whole time, and occa- 
sionally with liquid manure. When the wood is ripened, set the 
plants against a south wall, and protecting the roots from the frost 
let them renuun as long as is prudent" 

^ As the leaves fall off, shorten the canes to the required length, 
which will be regulated by their strength. The time for taking 
them into the house again will depend upon the time the fruit is to 
be ripened. Take the vines into the house in December ; they 
will then ripen in May. Begin the temperature at 55°, and grad« 
ually increase it to 70°. Keep the atmosphere moist by syringing, 
and if dry at the root give weak manure-water. To prevent the 
roots getting too damp, set the pots on pieces of brick, which also 
improve the circulation of air in the house : when the buds have 
well broken, transfer them into a trough of this kind : plank (or 
slate) troughs are carried the length of the house, about half way 
between the floor and the glass roof. The bottom of the troughs 
is made of crossed strips ; upon these lay pieces of turf 3 inches 
thick, to keep fine loam from sifling through ; upon the turf 3 
inches of compost, made of equal parts turfy loam and rotted ma- 
nure, with a little sand ; remove the vines by turning the pot up- 
side down and lifting it off the ball ; examine the ball and take out 
worms and pieces of crocks, but do not break the roots or loosen the 
earth. Now set the balls into the loam in the trough, and 3 
inches apart. Fill between the balls with the same compost ; cover 
the roots 1^ inches deep. The plants are now as well off as if 
planted in an open border. Tie the canes of the front and back 
troughs to the rafters, and of the middle to the posts of the house* 
or to wires carried up to the roof. Syringe well, water occasion- 
ally, and pour the water on the ball and not upon the remaining 
earth, as the roots have not yet spread. When the shoots have 



GRAPERY. did 

fairly commenced to grow, stop them as in all other cases, leaving 
but one bunch to each, or 8 to 12 to every vine ; a heavier crop 
woald injure both the color and the flavor of the fruit. Water 
abundantly ; the superfluous water will run off through the open 
bottom of the trough. In this way the grower may produce Mus- 
cats as readily as any other Grape, and a constant succession of 
fruit may be kept up without forcing the permanently planted vines 
too early. After the fruit is cut, remove the vines carefully from 
the trough, and set them out of doors where the roots may be pro- 
tected from the sun ; they may be replaced by another set of vines 
for a late crop.'* 

" When the vine borders are vaulted .or well warmed by hot air, 
water, or steam, the vines growing in them may be forced as much 
as yoQ please, but it is not judicious to do it, as the strength and 
long life of the vine is sure to be inji!lred. Pot or trough culture 
is equally favorable for retarding or for forcing grapes.'** 

J. p. Allen's list of grapes. 



CokHprapery. 






Black Hamburgh, 


10 


Black Hambnrghs, variety. 


Wilmot's New Hamburgh, 


10 


Red and Rose Chasselas. 


Wilmot's No. 16, 


10 


Chasselasxde Bar Sur Aube. 


Victoria Hamburgh, 


10 


White Frontignan. 


White Frontignan, 


2 


Black and Grizzly Frontignan. 


Grizzly do., 




Golden Chasselas. 


Fitmaston, white Cluster, 




White Gascoigne. 


Golden Chasselas, 


2 


Royal Muscadine. 


Chasselas de Bar Sur Aube, 




Muscat of Alexandria. 


Rose Chasselas, 




Tottenham Park. 


Red do.. 




Zinfindal. 


Royal Muscadine, 




Cannon Hall Muscat. 


Red Traminer, 




Red Traminer. 


White Rissling, 




Macready's Eariy White. 


Macread/s Early White, 




Early Black July for extra early. 



General Planting. — " Black Hamburgh for greatest num- 
ber ; Grizzly, Black and White Frontignan are all admired by those 



* Redoced from Mcintosh. 
27 



314 JANUABT. 

persons who like the Muscat flavor ; they are liable to shrivel, aod 
are more delicate than other grapes, and do not keep well when 
ripe ; the Grizzly is the earliest of these. Tottenham Park Mas- 
cat is very like the above, but not so high-flavored : sets its berries 
better. Portuguese Muscat, Chasselas de Bar Sur Aube, Pitmaston, 
White Cluster, Sjrrian, white, has very large bunches, sometimes 
weighing 20 lbs." 



CHAPTER XL. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



The cold beds containing various plants for spring culture and 
winter use, must be examined as often as the weather permits, and 
if we have the usual January thaw, they may be uncovered 
and receive light and air in abundance. 

In my last month's description of the treatment of hill-sides used 
as kitchen-gardens, I omitted one point o^ considerable importance ; 
viz., that a close board fence or close stone wall should be erected 
across the hill toward the top of the garden, if you propose to cul- 
tivate either early or late crops there. Beside the protection given 
by such a fence or wall against high winds, it is very important as 
a means of retarding frost ; and the lower down the hill it is, the 
better it works. You know that as air cools it condenses, becomes 
heavier, and falls to the earth, and when there, it runs like water 
over an inclined surface to the lowest level. Let the air on the 
top of a hill grow cool, it will run down the sides, if not so fast as 
water, yet in obedience to the same laws ; and as it runs lower 
down it becomes colder, until at the bottom of the hill it is cold 
enough to produce frost, though at the top it was merely cool. A 
dose fence coming down to the ground will stop this current of air 
as it would water, and either the air must find an outlet by running 
along the side of the fence, or it. must pile up against it as water 
against a dam ; so that, in time, the air at the bottom of the fence 
will be cold enough to freeze, while higher up it is mild- 

This is not mere theory ; it has been practically proved, and 
plants growing on the lower side of such a fence, and opposite a 
hole in it next the'' ground, have been found frost-bitten at that part 
of the stem which was no higher than the top of the hole, but un- 
touched higher up. 

Here, then, is a means of increasing the value of your garden. 

315 



316 



JANUABT. 






ginAngfi" 




«:riJ^<- 






For Index of TiUag^-Oarden, lee p. 814. 
STREET 



yiLLAG]t*OABDEN. 317 

An evei^reen hedge will have the same effect ; so will a close 
hedge of any kind that spreads evenly over the ground when in 
fbUleaf. 

Now is the time to prepare the hotbeds for extra early forcing, 
though for ordinary forcing February is early enough. I shall 
enter into the details of managing hotbeds next month, and those 
directions may be applied to January, if you choose to begin so 
early ; but in general I advise against beginning such culture be- 
fore Februaiy. The earliest forcing of Lettuce, Salads, Endive, 
and Cauliflower, and the development of Cardoons, Chicory, etc, 
may be carried forward in the forcing-house and cold-grapery. 

Agreeably to my promise in last month's kitchen-garden, I shall 
now give drawings, details, and description, of the 

Village-garden. — This garden may belong either to a man 
of wealth, or to one who lives by daily labor. I shall describe it 
as if it belonged to the latter. A richer person may devote more 
to ornament, and make more expensive improvements ; but I wish 
to show how one whose time and means are both limited may get 
the most pleasure, beauty, and profit, out of his little garden. 

I assume that this place is half an acre in size, situated on a vil- 
lage street, and that a house is to be built on it I have made it, 
like most village lots, a parallelogram, with no great difference be- 
tween its sides. The front on the street measures 125 feet, the 
depth is 174. The main house is 35x25 feet; the L 15x20 
feet ; piazza on the eastern side 6 x 30 feet. This makes quite a 
roomy house, larger, perhaps, than would be generally wanted by 
persons of small means. 

I make the entrance to the front within 8 feet of the south-east 
comer of the lot, and carry the path to the house with an easy 
curve. The distance is not thereby made much greater, yet by 
curving thus, and planting the swells of the curves with trees or 
shrubs, the house not only appears to stand farther back from the 
street, but its front may be somewhat concealed and rendered less 
public, and the occupations and amusements of its occupants made 
more private. My object in placing the house thus far back 
27* 



818 JAMUART. 

from the street, 40 feet, is to give an opportanity for both these 
effects. 

The house might as well be on the west as on the east side of 
the lot, but near one side it should be, in order to leave the land 
more in a body for economical or for ornamental purposes, and the 
side selected should generally be the one which is farthest from any 
neighboring house. Where the house is in the centre, the whole lot 
is cut up, and the place cramped. Not so with a house placed as in 
this plan, for we see at once that the little strip on one side is but 
a small portion of the place, whilst the other is of an undetermined 
size, and if the trees, etc, are well grouped, seems much larga* 
than it really is ; the breadth thus secured enables us to vary the 
direction of our paths, so that they seem to traverse a large area, 
and we can make our flower-beds and plantations in good sized 
masses. The object in a small place is to avoid all standards for 
comparison, which may enable a critical visitor to c(»npute readily 
its size. By judiciously varying the direction of the paths, con- 
cealing their terminations, filling their bends with trees and shrubs, 
so that standing on one part we may not see the rest, we practi- 
cally increase the size of the place. Straight lines and right 
angles reduce the area to its smallest possible size. They provoke 
a calculation, as follows : This path must be about so long to the 
first angle, and to the next thus much longer. There are 20 Pear^ 
trees standing on it, 10 feet apart — 200 feet one way, 10 on the other 
— 20,000 feet in the place ! I do not mean to say that every visitcx* 
would thus reduce your place to figures, but that is the tendency. 

Again, if the space on the sides of your house is narrow, you 
can plant but a few trees, shrubs, etc ; you can make no masses, 
or even tolerably sized groups ; you cannot hide your neighbor's 
house or boundaries ; they are constantly thrdst in upon you. 

But by putting the house at one side, you increase the available 
area, and can make those groups and combinations which will be 
both ornamental and useful, and will serve to divert attenticm from 
the narrowness of your estate, to the great variety and beauty of 
the things which you grow on it. 

You will see as you follow this description through, that the 



YILLAOE-OARDEN. 319 

place, smaU as it is, is really capable of producing a great quantity 
of material both for beauty and use ; and if this is so arranged as 
to be presented to the visitor's eye at different times and unexpect- 
edly, it will seem much more, and be more surprising. 

But the good effect is not for strangers alone. Gossiping and 
curiosity are the prevalent vices in our towns and villages, which 
it is the duty of each of us to check so far as he is concerned. If 
tlie grounds on each side of our house are so narrow as to bring 
oar neighbor's affairs constantly under our eyes, it is difficult not to 
be too interested in them ; but if we have quite a large space on that 
aide of our house which we most use, large enough both to conceal 
our neighbors and to give us something beautiful of our own to 
look at, we remove from ourselves much of this temptation to 
meddlesomeness, and every time we look out of the window, our 
eyes rest on natural and peaceful beauties of our own, which soothe 
and interest us, and divert our attention from the business of other 
people to those objects which in themselves suggest instructive and 
pleasing trains of thought Having started with the rule that we 
ought to make our homes as beautiftil as possible, for the sake of 
. ourselves and our ftunilies, we must in carrying out the rule make 
due allowance for human nature. 

Perhaps our education has been purely practical, and we have 
been taught to value a piece of land with a house, solely for its 
productive capacity. We may admit the force of the arguments 
for cultivating beauty, and yet find great difficulty in bringing 
ourselves to act accordingly ; and this difficulty will be increased, 
if the land on both sides of your house is equally narrow, for, as I 
have said, it is too narrow to admit of pleasing effects, without 
much contrivance and somewhat unnatural arrangement ; it will 
be much easier to arrange it with an eye to the practical, and we 
shall be more inclined to yield to our mistaken inclination. Now 
our duty is to strengthen ourselves against our meaner selves. 
Look at the plan, and see how, by placing the house as I have 
done, there is room on one side for nothing but the piazza, — cov- 
ered with vines, both for beauty and to act as a screen, — and an 
espalier for Pears, with the necessary borders for them to grow in. 
But on the other, are first vines covering the house and embower- 



320 JANUARY. 

ing the windows, next, little beds of bulbs and Verbenas in the 
turf, next, a larger flower-bed ; — then an ample path, then a fine, 
large Apple-tree, then moi*e grass ; — trees and flowering shrubs, 
grass and espaliered fruit. The area is not great, — 75 feet wide, 
— yet by judiciously breaking it up and grouping pleasant things 
together, we secure a very great amount of diversity and beauty, 
a pleasant feast for the eyes at all seasons of the year. Now look 
at the space in front of the house, where are shrubs, flowers, grass, 
and trees, and yet but little space devoted to them. 

Whoever passes such a place, when the trees ^ve attained their 
ftill beauty, will stop to enjoy the pleasant sight, and will say to 
himself that the children he sees playing about cannot fail to do 
well in the world, if the influences within doors correspond to those 
without 

Follow the path from the front door to the kitchen-garden ! You 
begin your walk through flowers and gitiss, shrubs, and trees ; as 
you proceed you come to stout and thrifty Pear-trees, well loaded 
with flowers or fruit ; among them are Currants, crimson with their 
beautiful fruit, or behind them, Strawberries ; beyond the waving 
tassels of Com, most beautiful of grain crops, and at their feet 
yellow Squashes, golden Pumpkins, or ruddy Tomatoes As you 
round the curve, Peach and Cherry-trees greet you, and only as 
you turn a bend in the path do you come upon the henhouse and 
pigsty, where, well secured, are those animals which, if kept close, 
may be made to contribute to the economy and pleasure of the 
family; but which, if allowed to stroll about, are entirely de- 
structive to the garden, a trouble to their owner, and a pest and 
nuisance to his neighbors. The fowls lay their eggs everywhere 
but on your own premises, and scratch up and deface every part of 
the garden, while the pigs destroy every vestige of fruit, flower, 
and vegetable, and reduce the whole place to the appearance of an 
Irish hovel. 

So plain is this to every one, that my reference to it may seem 
superfluous, but it is lamentably true that even in thrifly New 
England towns and cities, people who would feel grossly insulted 
if their neighbors did not consider them respectable, allow their 
pigs to run at large, and the most common sight in every village is 



321 

platoons of hens rummaging, scratching, and destroying the gardens 
of their owners, and of all the neighbors. Now you may lay it 
down as a fact, that it is hens versus garden. If the hens are not 
closely shut up throughout the growing season, your garden is 
good for nothing ; a few hours' investigation by a set of hens of 
active minds and legs, will reduce your best hopes in horticulture 
and floriculture to despair. And certainly one-half the ill-feeling 
between country neighbors is due to the ravages of the domestic 
animals, of one or the other. I have a garden, and sacrifice 'my 
hens ; soon my neighbor, who has no garden, but has hens, receives 
a notice from me, polite, perhaps, but sarcastic, that his hens are 
my nuisance, and must be abated. He promises well, but does 
nothing ; it is too much trouble or expense to him to shut them up, 
and any time will do. I send more and more messages. At last 
he shuts them up for a few days. I breathe more freely, and my 
terrified flowers, plundered Currant-bushes, and pecked Melons 
start anew to grow. But that henhouse was a temporary struc- 
ture ; its door falls off the hinges, or is lefl open by some one of 
the family, who goes to get eggs, carelessly or designedly, because 
I ^needn't mak^ such a plaguey fiiss about a few old Currantr 
bushes or green Tomatoes," and I see the hens again in my garden. 
Now I am enn^ed ; perhaps I swear ; at any rate I stone the hens, 
and knock one in the head, but don't kill her, and in my wrath toss 
her over the fence after the others, where she performs sundry 
drunken evolutions, as running round in a circle a vast number of 
times, with her head between her legs, or straight into the bam 
door, each foot stepping on the other as she goes ; she screeches, 
and all the other sympathizing fowls do the same. There is music. 
My neighbor rushes out, sees the whole story at a glance, comes to 
the fence, looks over, and calls me ^^ a nasty, mean feller, to be so 
cruel as to hurt a poor hen, that never hurt me." At such times 
hen proprietors are very chicken-hearted, and have an unwonted 
supply of the nulk of human kindness. To his abuse over the 
fence I perhaps say nothing ; perhaps I return it In either case 
we are enemies ; we talk each other down at all village meetings, 
and my neighbor particularly pronounces me the meanest and most 
unneighborly of men. 



322 , JANUARY. 

This is a common experience. My neighbor doesn't consider he 
has done any thing mean to try my patience and ruin my ganien ; 
the meanness is all on my side. 

Now I recommend all my readers to keep a gun, if it be not 
against the law to fire a gun within the limits of your town ; where, 
it is, poisoned meal may take the place of the gun ; and after fair 
notice, to kill every trespassing hen. Do it early in the season. 
If you must have the quarrel, save your garden ; don't lose the 
garden and have the quarrel to boot. 

The house located, the general arrangement of the place is next 
to be determined, and that this may be intelligent and satis&ctory, 
make a plan of it, as you would like it when completed to yoor 
mind. If your land is perfectly level you may represent it accu- 
rately on paper, and however uneven its surface may be, a plan is 
an important aid in laying it out My directions for making this 
plan will be general, and the plan in the book may be taken as an 
illustration ; I shall return to my description of that plan presently. 
Measure off, upon a piece of drawing paper, the dimensions of 
your land — be it parallelogram or other shape — according to some 
scale : supposing your land to measure, on one side, 120 feet, allow 
on paper each inch of a foot-rule to measure 30 feet, each half-inch 
to measure 15 feet, and so on ; then one side of your plan will be 
4 inches long. Gro out and measure the distance from each front 
comer of the lot to the middle of the front of the house, also the 
distance from these comers to each comer of the house. Then 
measure the outside of the house all round, noting down the 
measui*ements as made. Return to the house and find that point 
on your plan which corresponds to the middle of the front of the 
house. To do this set the legs of a pair of dividers by your scale 
of 30 feet to the inch, so as to measure the distance from one comer 
of the lot to the middle of the front of the house, as you have 
noted it down. Set one leg of the dividers on that comer in the 
plan, and with the other leg make as much of a circle on the paper 
as will reach from the front line back into the plan farther than 
you think the front of the house will be ; do the same thing with 
the corresponding measurement from the other comer, and where 
these two curves cross each other, will be the middle of the front 



YILLAOE-OARDEN. 323 

of the house on the plan. In the same way find the comers of the 
house on the plan ; connect these by a line drawn straight through 
the middle point, and you have the front line of the plan of your 
house. From this line measure out in accordance with your notes 
all the sides of the house, and be sure that all the angles corre- 
spond to the real ones. Having put the house upon paper, go out 
again and decide where you will put the gates, which will give ad- 
mission to the front and kitchen doors, bearing in mind what I have* 
already said about them ; also select the position for the henhouse. 
These points settled, ascertain the relative positions on the boun- 
dary lines, and returning with these measurements, apply them to 
the plan. Now draw your path to the front door, then that to the 
kitchen, and to the piazza. If the local circumstances make 
straight paths the most desirable and pleasant, make them straight ; 
but otherwise curve them. If the surface is uneven keep the 
paths to the hollows as much as possible, and when you ascend a 
slope follow the easiest line of ascent. Curve the paths whenever 
this will enable you to produce a pleasant effect, by planting a 
group of trees or shrubs in the bend, or to give a good view of the 
house and garden, or for any good reason. Make them 5 feet wide 
at least This will seem to you too wide to look well, a waste of 
ground, and involving expense in construction. In fact it will look 
better than any less width, and 6 feet is better than 5 ; for proof 
refer to any of the plans which accompany this book, where all the 
paths are 5 to 6 feet wide, and see that were they narrower the 
plans would look pinched and meagre. And as to waste of land 
and money, it is not wasting to make a thing satisfactory, which 
you must have in some form or other, as you must paths; and 
surely a path, which forces friends to walk in " Indian file," and talk 
to each other over their shoulders, is not satisfactory, but very an- 
noying, and if it be over a small place, it forces us to notice and 
regret the narrow limits which lead to such scrimping. If on such 
a place the paths were wide enough for three or four persons to 
walk abreast, they would seem wasteful, for their breadth would 
be unnecessary and incongruous. If our path allows two persons 
to walk abreast easily, it is wide enough ; I do not mean so that 
they can just squeeze along without treading on the border, but so 



324 JAKUART. 

that they may walk, easily, side by side. And this brings us to a 
principle in path-making. 

Most persons think that paths are the most important features on 
a plan, and that how they look, and into what pretty shapes they 
divide a surface, are the important questions. But if paths are 
rightly placed, and of proper width, they are the least important 
features in a place ; if badly placed, the most important For a 
path should never attract notice to itself, any more than a coat or 
the frame of a picture to themselves. It is merely a means of ac- 
cess to something, and should be so managed as to aflfbrd this access 
in the pleasantest way, and to do nothing more. If wide enough, 
its width attracts no attention ; we walk along it, talking with our 
friends, and looking at the landsci^s or the flowers. 

Draw your paths then 5 feet wide ; wherever two of them meet, 
round the cohiers so as to allow a wheelbarrow or a child's carriage 
to be drawn round them easily ; this, too, being no waste of room. 
Next fix the place for your well, if that is to be out of doors, and 
turn a path to it Next assign a place for the clothesyard, which 
should be large enough for use, and no larger ; mark on your plan 
that this is to be surrounded by a hedge of evergreen, which, when 
grown, will effectually screen the yard from cold winds and fix)m 
observation, so that washing-day may come and go unknown to any 
person outside the house. 

The next thing is to draw such a path as will traverse the whole 
garden, giving access to the henhouse on the way. Avoid sharp turns 
and comers, and it will seem to lead on without reference to the 
boundaries, whether near or distant, crooked or straight Curve it 
to avoid inequalities in the surface, and for the sake of grace and 
beauty, but make all its curves^ as long and easy, and gently-chang- 
ing as possible. A comparison between a straight and a crooked 
line, is almost always in favor of the straight ; its simplicity and di- 
rectness fills us with disgust for crooks, and sharp, unnecessary 
turns. The same principle will guide our choice between well and 
ill-curved lines; the best curve, like the line of beauty, possesses 
the good qualities of the straight line, and seems appropriate ; the 
bad curve, like the wriggle of a wounded snake, is like the crooked 
line, meaningless. Do not think that because a line is not straight 



YILLAOE-OARDEN. 325 

it is beautifiiL For instance, let 
'h a, a, and ft, b, be paths over the 
same surface. If that surface 
were very uneven, and ft, ft, followed its undulations*, or was lost 
among copses of trees and opened at every turn on some pleasant 
sight, it would be appropriate ; but if short, and . over a level sur- 
face as in oiir garden, the worst possible path. The changing path 
should beguile us along unconscious of any cliange, except as new- 
objects are brought into view. 

A gentleman once objected to a change made in his grounds, 
which would alter some straight paths to curved, that he should 
never like it, could never get along with it, for he was accustomed 
to walk much lost in reverie, or in thought, and should be con- 
stantly running into the borders if his paths were curved. This 
was a perfectly natural feeling ; his idea of a curve was a crooked, 
hump-backed line. The change was made in accordance with the 
principles just laid down, and to this day he walks lost in his medi- 
tations, and has never yet been wrecked on the dreaded borders. 

Our garden path wds to give access to the henhouse, but should 
not quite touch it Such a building should stand as far back from 
the line of direct walking as convenience will allow, for although it 
is useful and desirable, it is generally ugly and noisome. The for- 
mer objection may be removed by vines well trained ; the latter by 
sprinkling the pigpen occasionally with diluted sulphuric acid, and 
covering the floor of the house with plaster of Paris, chloride of 
Kme, or charcoal, all of which answer the same purpose, being ab- 
sorbants of ammoniacal, and other gases valuable for manure but 
disagreeable to smell. 

You will now make, agreeably to directions before given, as many 
espaliers and of such kinds as you please. In the plan, to which we 
now return, there are 365 feet of espaliers, giving 45 trees 8 feet 
apart; of these 2 are Figs (sometimes they will bear, and some- 
times not, — but as curiosities have them), 4 Nectarines, 6 Apricots, 
12 Peaches, 3 Plums, 3 Cherries, 15 Pears, Had you no other 
fruit these would be enough, but I shall let you have more. Where 
the paths A and B crbss, you may turn back a short path, which 
will render access from one to the other easier ; in the little trian- 



826 jANUARr. 

gle thus lefl, you may put an Apple-tree ; it will do less mischief 
there than anywhere else. In so small a place plant no Apples in 
the borders, unless they are dwarfs ; for when Apples are plentiful 
they are very cheap, and when scarce, your trees are not likely to 
do better than your neighbors ; and no tree is so unprofitable in a 
small place as the Apple. It covers a large surface, shading it so 
that no smaller tree can grow, and gives no compensating return. 

Dwarf Apples are not so bad, but I should never plant any. 
Cherries are about as bad, but occupy less room, so that I have pat 
in a few in those swells of the path where there is nxMn enough, 
who in places where you want a screen. Set dwarf Fears around 
the inside of the paths, 10 to 12 feet apart, as before described; 
our place will accommodate 18. We shall thus have 33 Pear-treefl, 
the annual value of whose fruit will be not less than $2 per tree, 
when well established, and more if you use them yourself. For di- 
rections about planting, etc., refer back. Set currants between the 
Pears, each bush 3 feet from a tree, their centres 4 feet apart; there 
may be 50 Currants ; in the place of some of these you can sub- 
stitute Grooseberries if you choose. 

From the clothesyard, measure back a strip of land 50 feet l<»g 
and 5^ wide, which will be large enough for the smallest sized 
Asparagus bed described under the directions for the culture of 
that vegetable. I have made it 12 feet wide to insure a sufficient 
supply. At right angles to the lower or north end of the Aspara- 
gus bed, are rows of Horseradish; cultivate this as I have 
directed, and short as the rows are, they will furnish enough for 
any family. At the west of the clothesyard is the Raspberry bed, 
6 rows allowing 125 plants at 3 feet apart, and 2 feet in the row. 
Perpendicular to the Raspberry and Asparagus beds, are 7 rows of 
Strawberries of different lengths, quite enough to give a good sup- 
ply through the season. Enclosed by these different beds is an 
area, not large certainly, but enough to give, under good manage- 
ment, an abundant supply of summer vegetables. 

By planting only so many vegetables as will suffice for your 
family, you may have an abundance and variety for that purpose ; 
but if you are possessed with the usual spring mania for planting 
everything in large quantities, you will be cramped for room. Twenty 



YILLAGE-OARDEN. 827 

Tomato plants will give all the Tomatoes any oommon family needs, 
and allow some for preserving and pickling, and thej need not oc- 
cupy more than 400 square feet of land. Let other things be in 
like proportion. You should no more think oif growing Potatoes 
on such a small place, than of planting Apple-trees ; all such large- 
growing crops are too unwieldy for a small garden. 

You observe on both east and west sides of the place, the espaliers 
are carried past the house and into the grass land. You must allow 
a border here at least 12 feet wide (taking both sides of the espal- 
iers) for the roots of the trees ; this must not be cropped with any 
thing, but must be well manured. 

Fears, as I have said, need plenty of manure and moisture, 
whilst Peaches and similar fruit are injured by strong manure ; 
and by manuring around those trees upon a pretence of taking a 
crop, the trees are injured, although you may get good crops of 
other things. 

You will see on the left of path A 6a a bend, 4 Quince-trees 8 
to 10 feet f^rt, and 2 by the henhouse ; these 6 trees are enough 
for your family. 

Return now to the front and ornamental part of the place. On 
each half of the eastern side of the house are vines ; 2 Woodbines 
at each comer; next, 2 monthly Honeysuckles; next, 2 Roses 
(Queen of Prairie and Rosa-ruga); in the middle a Virgin's 
Bower, or Clematis Yirginiana, and Clematis Azurea, Grandiflora, 
and Flammula (white and fragrant). On the front of the house, on 
either comer, a Monthly Honeysudkle ; on each side of the door, 
Woodbine ; between door and either comer, Boursault Rose, and 
Mrs. Hovey (Prairie). On west side 8 vines ; at north-west comer, 
Monthly Honeysuckle ; at south-west, Wisteria ; next to each of these 
a variety of Clematis ; next. Trumpet-creeper and Woodbine ; in 
the middle, Sweetbrier, and annual vines. In each hole may be 
planted some tubers of the Apios, the wild Ground-nut, and of the 
Madeira vine ; and in the proper places where it will show to advan- 
tage, the Ipomea Learii and others. The two latter should be taken 
yp in the fall, as the frost destroys them. On the west and north L of 
the house, Grape-vines are put, and if the varieties are well selected, 
wd carefully praned and trained, you will be able to ripen the 



828 JANUARY. 

Grapes on the north exposure, though the east and sooth are bett^cf 
course. Either the Concord, Hartford, or Diana Grape will ripen 
there ; the Isabella and Catawba must have more sun ; and the Ca- 
tawba does not ripen with certainty anywhere in our latitude. The 
east side of the house may be devoted to Grape instead of omar 
mental vines if you choose. I prefer the ornamental. The henhouse 
may be covered with grapevines ; over the well, too, which you 
see just where the kitchen path B reaches the house, a liule wdl- 
house may be erected and covered with vines. Hop-vines thrive 
in such a place, and although this is not the best way to coMvate 
the Hop for a crop, it will give shade and some hops. 

Ascertain what objects in the neighborhood should be screened 
from sight, and what are agreeable ; fix these points on pi^r (to 
a scale). Let A be a window in the house, from which the object 

B is to be concealed ; draw 

c^^\^ 1 the lines A C, A D, which 

-}^^i^^ shall embrace between 

■^ ' them the whole of the dia- 

agreeable object ; plant in 

the triangle thus formed 

"^t^ trees as gracefully grouped 

as possible, and unless by expanding the group you would shut out 
something you wish to see, spread them out beyond both lines 
enough to make a pleasing group. Carefully compare the size and 
shape of the different trees with which you might make the screen ; 
to determine which you will need draw imaginaiy lines in the air, 
which will enclose the top and bottom of the object, and by them 
judge how high your leafy screen must be. When the trees and 
shrubs are selected, mark their names down on paper, and put 
the points which show the stems at least 10 feet apart, and as much 
more as the future size of the tree will allow consistently with its 
purpose of a screen. 

Here let me notice a pestilent theory which has taken possession 
of the minds of some planters, who getting a theory apply it at all 
times and places, regardless of the principle which is its life. This 
notion is that in planting groups of trees they should be placed as 
far apart as they ought to stand 20 or 30 years later in order to have 




?rm 







YILLAOB-GARDEN. 



829 



their perfect development No theory oonld he better where a 
group is made for its heautj alone, with ample room and free choice 
of material, for in no other way can the greatest amount of beauty' 
be obtained ; bnt where trees are planted to screen an unsightly 
object, this theory has no place. What you want is a screen, and 
to get this you might put up a high, close fence, were it not ugly, 
expensive, and perishable; you prefer trees because they have 
neither of these defects, and form in time a perfect screen ; but you 
defeat your purpose unless you plant thickly, so thickly that in a 
few years the object of your planting will be secured. If you 
must wait ten or twenty years for this, you will either become so 
accustomed to the nuisance as to be careless whether it is hidden 
or not, or you will cease to wait for earthly things. Again, it is 
foolish when planting for a screen to use such trees only as will 
have the greatest individual beauty when full grown, for they may 
be slow growers or short-lived. You may secure the result at 
which the theory aims and yet havd your screen, not by mixing 
slow-growing or distant trees with shrubs, the latter to spring up 
and make the screen without crowding the trees ; but by adding 
to these, trees of a rapid growth and short life, which wOl serve 
as nurses to the slower-growing trees, and will soon make a screen 
which can be cut down as soon as the permanent trees are large 
enough to take their place. 

I would use permanent trees and shrubs when and where the 
latter are high enough to cover the object, and should like them 
better than tree^, but only if sure they would do this. 




28* 



880 JANUABT. 

In case that whilst there are some objects like roads, nnsigfatlj 
buildings, windows of inquisitive neighbors, which you wish to 
" plant out," and others which you wish to retain in view, reverse 
the practice just described. B, C, and D to be shut out, and A to 
be seen if possible from the whole line £ F, either because it con- 
nects windows of your house, or because it is a favorite promenade. 
Draw on the plan, or beyond its edge, on the same paper, the loca- 
tion of the three objects ; then draw the lines £ A and F A, and 
£ B and F D ; make the most varied plantations you can between 
£ B A and FAD, and connect if possible these groups of trees 
with shrubs, thus. You will get a varied outline, beside concealing 
and showing respectively the given objects. 

Where a group is planted for other purposes, the guiding princi- 
pies are very different, as I have said, and for them I refer you to 
the month of September, where the subject is more fuUy discussed, 
and to future months. 

If circumstances do not permit you to study and imitate any par- 
ticular group of trees, if there is none in your neighborhood which 
you care to study, you must be guided by this consideration : in 
selecting and planting your trees, both the beauty of the individuals 
or their appearance in combination must be considered, in your es- 
timate of the pleasure to be derived from them. As I have repeat- 
edly said, vaiiety is an important constituent of the beautiful, and 
its presence is a powerful inducement to the mind to consider new 
things, while the enjoyment of familiar things is prolonged. How- 
ever beautiful any one object Is, — supremely so if you please, — it 
will pall on the mind at times ; you may be an enthusiast (though 
not a monomaniac), may sell all you have to obtain some work of 
art, may enshrine it in the most appropriate manner, may visit or 
live with it, may show it with a torrent of enthusiasm to your 
friends ; yet there will be times when it loses its control over your 
mind and eye ; you will go to other things less beautiful Leave it 
then for other things — inferior things; freshen your soul and 
eye vrith them, and when you return the old love will re-assert its 
control with new power. 

This undeniable fact controverts a theory, which from the time 
of Gilpin and other authorities in landscape gardening to the pres- 



VILLAGE-GARDEK. 331 

ent day, has had many advocates ; viz., that anj spot to be im> 
proved should be planted with trees entirely or mainly of one kind, 
as in no other way can great effects be produced, and the full 
beauty of the trees be ascertained. This is not true even on the 
large scale of mountain and forest, as each man's experience will 
testify. Recall the scene you admire and love most, count over in 
memory, or on the spot, the varieties of trees which are blended 
together to produce the effect ; there are not only trees, but vines 
mounting the trunks, and throwing their wreaths over the branches 
and top, and by changing form and color, giving new and unwonted 
life to the whole. Lower down at their roots are shrubs of many 
kinds, and their feet again are fringed with flowers. I admit that 
in a case like the 27 Oaks at Waverly, Mass., the pleasure is in the 
individual trees, whose perfection and magnificence is not surpassed 
in the United States, nor could they be improved by pLuiting other 
trees amongst them, but there is no oak effect ; it is the beauty of 
old and individual trees, which have been growing ofdy 600 
years, and are not likely to be reproduced in much less time. 
All of us know of some dark, solemn Pine wood, in a deep glen, 
where no other trees seem to exist ; but the peculiar beauty of 
those Fines is seen and felt only when we are within the wood, not 
when we look at it from a distance ; its depths have a variety not 
to be found on its skirts ; it is the dim-colored light, the whispering 
winds, the contrast of the columnar stems with top and foliage, the 
intermixture of shrubs, etc ; while the spot in the wood most loved 
is where a break in the trees has opened a bit of water, or a pros- 
pect, or where has sprung up a ruddy Maple or a golden Hickory. 
To try the theory by a smaller scale, and on our plan ; south- 
east of the house is a group of 9 trees, 5 of which are in a row, 
that worst of all positions for good effects. Red Maple in front 
will relieve its red blossoms in early spring against 3 White Pines, 
and contrast its light budding spray, and irregular shape with 
the more stubbed branches and elliptical outline of the Sugar 
Maples, and the fastigiate Elm and Tulip-tree. In the fall its gold 
and red will be heightened by the dark green of the background ; 
before its color is gone it will be taken up, as is a song that was 
gradually hushing away by stronger voices, and the brilliant Sugar 



382 JAKUABT. 

Maples will bring back the fading glory, and cany it np to a yet 
higher resplendence, always intensified by the deep green of the 
Pines on one side, and the English Elm on the other. Can any- 
body maintain that this group would be better all Pines, all Mi^les, 
all Elms ? And as I have just hinted, color is not the only gain by 
this arrangement ; the shape and variety of spray are equally 
beautiful, and in their turn contribute fiilly as much to the beauty 
of the whole. Variety is an element of beauty in virtue of the 
contrast it affords. What is more bewitching than the tracery of 
the Elm against a winter evening sky ? Words cannot describe its 
beauty, its magical eifect, no hand can trace it or reproduce it ; the 
interlacing of the branches overhead, the arches and beams of this 
member of a cathedral that would have delighted medieval build- 
ers. And in the spring, when the tree feels down in its vitals the 
moving power of the early smi, and long before other trees have 
swelled their buds, expands its own, how — just as they burst into 
flower — the same tree which we so much admired for the purity, 
distinctness, and variety of its spray, and its crossing branches in 
fall and winter, seems now, in the light of the setting sun, to have 
entangled in its network one of those rare purple mists of autumn 1 
and to have woven it into a garment as beautiful in color as the 
lyrian purple of old, which none but kings might wear, and as deli- 
cate in texture as those fabrics of the Eastern loom, which may be 
passed through a ring, and are yet ample enough to clothe an East- 
em beauty, whose form and limbs are not more lovely than those 
of that same noble American Elm. 

Look now at our grouping in the south-east comer, where such 
an Elm stands surrounded by stiff Maples, Ashes, and Pine trees, 
and heralded by Norway Spmces, whose picturesque grace is a 
good preparation for a tme appreciation of the Elm. 

If then you are making a group on your plan, remember that 
you are to introduce a variety of trees in a variety of positions, 
and so placed that each will be seen to the best ^advantage, and 
combine into the most graceful whole. Around and among these 
trees, plant those shmbs which will grow in the shade, and on the 
edges of the group, others needing more light ; and the group may 
be rendered yet more beautiful by fringing these edges with Asters 



TILLAGE-GARDEN. 333 

and Golden-rods. In another place will be given a list of suitable 
trees and shrubs. 

Our flower-beds are placed according to previous advice ; the 
round ones directly under the windows are for bulbs, and later for 
bedding plants, or such annuals as you prefer. Fill the other beds 
with a choice selection of perennials, with spaces for other varieties 
of plants. 



CHAPTER XLI. 

ORCHARD AND FARM. 

In the orchard continue to prune ; remove and bum the brush. 
It is well to hurry this work a little, as there will soon be more 
demands on the limited labor of the fanner ; take scions the last 
of the month. 

Throughout this book I assume that the balance sheet of profit 
and loss in dollars is not the only test of rural improvements or 
the sole inducement to agricultural labors. Bums has said:*- 

" The rank is but the guinea stamp. 
The man's the gowd for a' that/' 

and it needs very little reflection to see that in those two lines the 
history of the world is written. Success in a worldly point of 
view is desirable, and its evidence speaks to all men, in better 
diothes, better houses, better equipage, — in the " guinea stamp." 
And this is worth some effort to gain ; it is natural and proper that 
men should strive for those things which contribute to their own 
comfort and pleasure and consequence, which elevate them in the 
opinion of the world. But good as it is to be current coin in 
this way, how worthless it is in comparison with being the gold 
of trae manhood. 

Education is the watchword of New England. Now how would 
you educate your children ; by sending them among coarse, sensual, 
semi-barbarous people, or by associating them with the refined and 
noble ? The latter, of course ! If you, as a farmer, have a crea- 
ture to fatten, you put it in the most favorable circumstances, you 
give it the best pasture, the most abundant supply of water, the 
mildest temperature, you do not allow it to be worried by dogs or 

834 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 835 

boys ; jou give it shade from the fierce sun, and shelter from the 
biting wind. This is right ; this is good farming. 

So if you have a child to educate, and wish to make him a noble 
man, true gold, surround him with the most favorable influences. 

Assuming, then, that the aim of every man is, whilst he gets his 
^ living," to develope himself fully, he cannot place himself more 
favorably than by following some occupation which will constantly 
carry him into the fields and woods, and bring him into close com- 
munion with nature, where every influence will be for good. Look 
how these influences surround the farmer ! he works for his daily 
bread. It is hard work, but he does it thankfully, because it as- 
sures him that the blessings of home and love will be continued to 
him, without fear of famine and ruin. As he goe^ out to his early 
work, he sees sights that would well repay any man for severe 
toil : the colors of the sky at sunrise, the glistening of the dew- 
drop, the general wakening of nature. The songs of birds come 
to his ears, the flower under his foot speaks of beauty and wisdom, 
the fields have a voice that is pouring out praise to God. 

As he turns the mould with the ploughshare, a bit of quartz or 
spar catches his eye, attracts his cariosity, and leads him through 
pleasant thoughts of geology, how these crystals were formed, of 
the structure of the globe, the stratification of rocks, the formation 
of soils. The troe he is cutting bends, and as it falls shows him 
the rings which have marked its growth, and starts his thoughts 
afresh — upon the wonderfiil structure of trees, the phenomena of 
growth, the wonders of reproduction. Every grafl or bud he puts 
in, teaches him vegetable history. As he goes to the bam at 
night, the cry of a calf new bom from a cow of a favorite breed, 
which promises to be the most perfect of his stock, arouses a thou- 
sand thoughts of the providential wisdom which not only secures 
the perpetuation of races, but provides man with the means of 
improving each race of animals to ultimate perfection. 

His labor over, he rotums to his house, lying warm and glowing 
in tlie rays of that setting sun, whose rising was so beautiful and 
BO delighted him. The rich, yellow light gilds the tops of tree and 
chimney, is lost in the deep shadows of the pond shore, or sparkles 
in the spray of the waterfall. With a painter's eye and a poet's 



336 jAmJABT. 

soul, he drinks in these sights, and involontarilj thanks God ibr 
his lot, and pities the poor inhabitants of cities, condemned to pass 
their lives within brick walls, and shut out except for a few brief 
days in the stated summer vacation from the feast daily spread 
before him. 

You will say, ^ How absurd a picture is this ! to find a fanner 
earnest and enthusiastic, poet, artist, and naturalist^ is as rare, as 
impossible, as to invent perpetual motion.*' I grant it is rare ; but 
by no means impossible. 

We have several senses, sources of pleasure or pain ; of these, 
sight and hearing are the two most valued, and productive of most 
pleasure. Suppose a man possessed of all these senses to put out 
his eyes. In horror you ask his reason for the act ^ Oh," he 
says, ^ the dust gets into them, the sun dazzles them ; and besides 
I was near-sighted, and could not see half so much as yon, and I 
never thought half a loaf better than no bread." 

Or suppose him for the same reason to tie a bandage over hia 
eyes, and keep it there the greater part of the time ; his eyea 
would soon grow weak ; he would lose his sense of color, and his 
discrimination of form. You meet him at a time when the ban- 
dage is removed, and congratulate him on the enjoyment he must 
receive from the beauties of natilre. He peevishly asks, What 
beauties ? for his part all things are alike, the annoying sun makes 
such a dazzle, 'tis hard work to keep his eyes open ; every thing is 
green, and one thing so like another that there is no variety worth 
looking for. You reason and remonstrate, point out the diffeienee 
between things as he sees them and as they really are, perhaps tell 
him it is because his eyes are weakened that he does not see as 
you see. He listens with a tired patience, and says in conclusion, 
It is very well for you to say so, but he can't see it as you do, and 
if a man isn't to believe his own eyes, what can he believe ? You 
would leave such a man in disgust; and perhaps you are now 
thinking me tedious and foolish for putting the absurd case, — and 
yet it is possible that you are that blindfolded man. 

You read these accounts of what fanners may see, hear, and 
know, and you call it all twaddle and nonsense. You ^know 
better;" you've fiurmed it all your life, and know 'tis hard work 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 337 

and lots of it, and little profit in it, and a dog^s life, and kills the 
women folks, and makes all hands too glad to go to bed at dark to 
stay up and admire Venus, and the comet or the moon, or to read 
and think. City people and rich folks may go about the country 
and see what they call beauty, but for your part you don't believe 
in it Trees are sort of pretty, and you don't know but 'tis well 
enough for the women folks to have a few flowers in the front 
yard, but you've something else to do. You don't see any beauty 
in having to get up early and milk, — maybe it is as I say, but 
you don't see it, — and as for geology and botany, and all that, and 
sUmcture of the earth, tliat's book learning, and not for poor folks 
like you. Chopping wood is hard work ; you can't stop to count 
rings, and if you should, how would you know that they really did 
show how old the tree was ? But I won't go on quoting from you. 
You know it is all true as well as I, and you are blind and won't 
see ; you not only have put a bandage over your eyes, but you 
won't let any one take it off. You know best, and if you can't 
believe your own eyes, what can you believe ? 

Do you suppose that a nice sense of the beautiful is the common 
property of man, and that you would have it as much as another, 
if you were to have had it at all ? The appreciation of the beau- 
tiful is the result of much self-culture added to natural quickness 
of sight My mind may be naturally more apt to learn some 
things than is yours, but you can cultivate yours as I mine. The 
eyes of all are not alike, and yet education brings every eye to see 
those things it wishes to see. Turn a city laborer into the woods, 
where he must get his living by hunting, and defend himself 
against savage men and beasts, and his eye, hitherto ignorant of 
woods and woodcraft, will become in time so acute that he will fol- 
low a trail for miles through the primeval forest, and know whether 
it was made by man or beast, how many have travelled it, and 
whether fast or slow. Early education makes a great difference 
in this, and some men are more acute and will learn these signs 
more easily than others, but all can and will learn them under ne- 
cessity. So the sailor sees objects barely visible on the distant 
horizon, and discriminates between the spouting of a whale and 
the sail of a vessel, knows a ship from a barque, a schooner from 

29 



838 JAHUABT. 

a brig, will tell jou whether a ship under bare poles is a merdiant- 
man or a man-of-war, — all at a distance where jou and I, land»- 
men, can scarcely see any thing without a glass. Yet if we wish 
to learn this, we shall. 

Those who are most remarkable for their love and appreciatioo 
of beautiful things, make them their constant study, seek thena oat 
whether near or distant, compare one with another, note their ex- 
cellencies, and use each new object as an aid toward nnderstandiii^ 
and enjoying others. 

When you commenced farming you knew but little about cows, 
horses, stock of any kind ; you went to cattle-shows, examined your 
neighbor's stock, looked for points of excellence ; and have finally 
educated your eye so that you are a better judge of stock than 
your neighbors, and thus make your stock more profitable than 
theirs. Precisely in the same way can you educate and refine your 
mind. By studying the beautiful, and inquiring into the mysteries 
of nature, you will render yourself as much more tastefol than 
your still slumbering neighbors, as your stock is more improved 
than theirs ; and the gain in this kind of development is immense. 

Money at interest doubles in a fixed number of years, but the 
wealth invested in the mind often doubles in days, and each day 
opens new stores of pleasure and instruction. You are no mere 
dweller on the earth's surface, but a confidant of Nature's myste- 
ries, a growing man. 

You and I see at the railroad station a wonder-working and 
queer looking machine of enormous power ; we understand that by 
fire, and water, and iron, its marvels are wrou^t, but we are un- 
initiated, not at all acquainted with the life and workings of the 
machine ; its boiler and steam chest, valves, pumps, etc, are all 
" unkno^vn terms " to us, and while we admire the engine and its 
results, we regret our ignorance of its mysteries. If some kind 
engineer explains the wonderful machine, is patient with our ignor- 
ance of principles and details, until we become fully possessed of 
its theory and construction, what a revelation seems to be made I 
It is no longer a strange and terrible beast of burden, but an ao- 
quaintance. When it passes us, dragging its long train of cars, we 
no more feel inclined to do homage in blind reverence, but would 



ORCHARD AND FARM. BS9 

salute with the same earnest God-speed as though it were a great, 
powerful, honest fellow, bravely laboring up the hill of life with his 
load. We have learned something — principally a lesson about 
oar own ignorance ; — a ray of light has gleamed into a hitherto 
closed chamber of our minds, not only making us aware, with its 
pleasant light and warmth, that we have such a chamber, but show- 
ing us how empty and hung with cobwebs our mind is. We feel 
that an unexplored field of discovery is opened to us, that we may 
go on with the enthusiasm and promise of explorers ; for it is the 
privilege of learners not to stop with any one lesson, not to be de- 
pendent on any instructor, however able, not to cease when the 
limits of present knowledge are reached, but to go on and add to 
that knowledge. 

We cut down a tree to bum, a common thing, and of no great 
consequence. What if the tree has been growing many years, 
and is the result of vast natural processes ? It is but a tree. The 
81^ begins to stir beneath a spring sun ; we see the buds swell, 
the flowers and leaves expand, the fruit mature : an every-<iay 
thing, the natural result of the change of the seasons. Study 
the anatomy and physiology of the tree; humble your conceit 
a little; do not think it beneath the dignity ^ of a man, earning 
money and carrying on a household, to be as a little child. 
Look first at the little seed, swelling with heat and moisture ; be- 
fore you are aware, noiselessly, and yet exerting a prodigious 
force, the tender little radicle, or first root, and the still more deli- 
cate pliunule or first stem and leaf have burst the coats, which the 
whole mechanism of the plant was a year in forming for 
them. The rootlet goes down into the ground, and the plumule 
up into the air. Cut such a little plant into delicate slices, and 
place a bit under a magnifying glass ; you now see that it is full of 
living cells, end to end, hardly stronger than water, and seeming 
the most fragile of things. You are told this is vegetable tissue, 
the principal constituent of all vegetation. A few weeks later cut 
a section of another little plant, which has opened a few leaves ; 
on examining the section as before, you see mixed with the cells 
small bundles of harder fibres ; these you learn are woody fibres, 
which, when compacted enough, make the solid trunks of trees. A 



340 JJkKUAUY. 

section taken still later in the season shows its centre full of what 
yoa have long known as pith, sarrounded hj a minute ring of cell% 
woody fibre, and cells again ; these outer cells, on examinatioii» 
look different in shape and closer together than the inner ones ; 7011 
do not yet know why, and — forgetting the shame-faced unwilling^ 
ness of the man to learn like a little child — you get a section of a 
plant of two years' growth, and find in it two distinct rings around 
the inner pith, and two distinct rings of outer cells, or what yoo 
call bark. The cells of the outer rings differ as before from the 
inner, and resemble each other, only the outer of all has its cells 
most closely bound together. A three year's old plant shows 70a 
three rings of woody fibre, but two of outer cells ; the two of last 
year have become one, while there is still a young bark within. 
The next spring you make a cut across the stem of one of these 
phints, and find three layers of woody fibre as before, with another 
layer almost woody, and nearly three layers of bark. In the fail 
the same plant has four layers of wood, and only two of bark ; you 
now see that what was nearly woody in the spring is quite so now, 
and what was nearly bark then is now quite bark, wliilst the second 
ring of the spring is lost in last year's bark. Now you believe that 
ring of wood shows a year's growth, and you are excited to know 
more. 

Reading or investigation teaches you that in the early spring the 
sap is taken up by the roots, sent up through the woody fibres into 
the twigs, and thence into the leaves, where it is spread out to 
ripen ; and when ripened, is sent down to feed the growth of new 
twigs, and nourish the cambium layer which makes new bark and 
new wood. Farther study tells you that the wood and the new 
roots alone contribute to the life of the tree, and that so far as this 
is concerned, every ring but that of last year, might be removed 
without affecting the vitality of the tree. Thus you get insight 
into nature's operations ; you see the life of the tree, — are taken 
behind the veil. You can almost hear the trickling of the water 
in the spring to the roots, — its gui^ling as the sap runs up the 
stem and down again into the wood and bark. You really believe 
now that the leaves are the lungs of the tree, and that it is of no use 
to manure your trees near the stem, but the manure must be put out 



OBCHABD AMD FABM. 341 

"Where the new roots are forming. The tree is no longer merely a 
thing to bear frait, give shade, or fuel ; it is an organized being, with 
the most wonderful and delicate mechanism, and as much the object 
of the bounties and cares of Providence as are animals and men. 
Insensibly you are led on to new researches ; you no longer plant 
your crops mechanically ; yon think how the buds and leaves of one 
will differ from those of another ; buds, tubers, seeds, all have a 
new meaning for you. You no longer look on the rain and sun- 
shine as sent for the crops of yourself and other men, but compre- 
hend that God kindly allows you to understand and take advantage 
of his mysteries, and that the real work of the season is done by 
the wind, the rain, the sunshine, and the organs of the plants ; that 
all your powers and efforts are weak and useless, compared to 
these ; and you begin to go about your work more reverently. 

You read how stones decay, form soils, and feed plants, and you 
wonder that rough, hard stones, can be taken up into the delicate celk 
you have seen under the microscope ; so you are led to consider the 
different stones, how some are more easily dissolved than others, and 
to wonder if these are not the ones used by plants. Inquiry shows 
that they are ; then you wonder whether the supply is equal to the* 
possible future demand. You begin to read about the rocks, and are 
led on into their history, and into that of the formation of the 
earth's crust, into accounts of the kinds of stones, the way they lie 
as respects each other. Your mind is rapidly growing. When 
next you plough, you put the share in deep, to bring up more of 
these stony particles to the roots of the crops ; you hoe with some 
understanding, and it is no longer dusty, dirty work, but an aid to 
nature's laboratory process ; you are stirring the soil to break up 
stones and clods, and set free their particles, to open them to the 
dissolving power of rain and the life developing influence of the 
sun. 

Perhi^)s you meet some day a man with a curious stone in his 
hand ; yon look at it, and 8ay, " Oh ! yes, shells ! " he looks at you 
with surprise, and asks if you know about them ; half ashamed, you 
say, ** Well, no ; but then, I've always seen them." He tells you, 
pointing with his finger, these are shells, those ferns, those coral;* ; 
he shows you a Trilobite, and explains that it was the earliest aiii- 
29* 



342 JAKUABT. 

mal of its kind ever introduced into the world. He points joa to 
the river bed with its bold sides, where the waters have cut th^r 
way through the solid rock, a hundred feet deep, two hundred wide, 
and carries you, half against your will, to the stream. Tou know 
yell the Hemlocks and Arbor Vitaes, which fringe the bank irotaa. 
its top to the water's edge ; you have hunted and fished among 
them many a time in your boyhood; — he lifls a layer of mcss^ 
and shows you the bare rock as full of shells, ferns, and corals^ 
as the piece which first attracted you in his hands. With a 
few words he carries you back through the long path of ages, 
and shows you the earth as a sea, full of creeping and swim- 
ming things, that died, and were buried under sand or clay, and 
turned at last, into stone, and so have been kept imperishable till 
to-day, for you and him to study and decipher. Thus another page 
of the book of nature is opened to you, and you grow exdted« He 
finds you a willing listener, and tells you how in that world of 
waters, convulsions of the globe formed dry land, on which grew 
trees of gigantic size, and of species now unknown, or only repre- 
sented by dwarfed vegetation ; how they were buried in the earth ; 
and, as they grew by absorbing sunshine, so now they are dug up 
as coal, to return in the fires of wintry climates, the condensed sun- 
beams of ages so long passed away, that the interval can hardly be 
numbered in years. He leaves you delighted, astonished, eager for 
more such knowledge. 

Now you believe that you have had a bandage over your eyes, 
that you had at best but half your eyesight, and you no longer 
answer to one who tells you of nature's wonders and beauties, that 
you can't see them, and therefore don*t believe in thei^ existence. 
Remembering how blind you were, you are cautious. Still you 
say, — openly or to yourself, — This is all true and wonderful, and a 
good thing to know, because it enables one to get his living more 
easily and understandingly ; and besides, such knowledge does ex- 
pand the mind, and make one more of a man, and thus place him 
higher in the esteem of his neighbors ; it is practical and useful ; 
but the time spent over beauty and art, and looking at the 
landscape, is wasted ; such employment can only be justifiable in 
men of great wealth and ample leisure. In hct you feel fortified 



OBGHARD AND FABU. 843 

in this position by your recent discovery of the things to be learned 
They are so many thatyoa want for the fiulher study of them every 
moment of that time, which you have discovered since you cared 
to look for it can be given even by the hard-worked farmer, 
during which you can manage to keep awake, though you once felt 
quite too weary to do any thing but sleep after supper ; and if your 
work takes up all the daylight, and your scientific studies all the 
time you can spare from sleep, what remains for this star and land- 
scsLpe gazing, this fine idling. 

Do not think that since the bandage was taken away you have 
seen all that is to be seen. There is to be a wider range to your 
vision. You have learned to admire and love things at which you 
<mce sneered, have learned that they are for you as well as for the 
rich and the men of leisure, and they have lightened your toil, and 
given a new value to life. You have tasted the exquisite pleasure 
of mental growth, and should be wiser than to think yourself 
fiuniliar with the full extent of this joy. Learn now that the 
greater ease with which you get your living, the higher stand you 
have taken in the estimation of your townsmen, since you began 
these studies, is but a small part of their value, is, indeed, merely 
an accessory of their value, which really lie in the degree of help 
they give you in carrying out the law of mental and spiritual growth. 
You have found out that the man who only does his work, eats 
his allowance, and begets his children, is but one remove above the 
brute ; and even if he does this honestly and morally, you think him 
entitled to no great credit for doing what is no more than what is his 
duty. You are rising ; but the wings have but just begun to grow, 
which shall finally lift you high enough from the earth to see what 
that word duty means. That word, among many other things, will 
grow more full of meaning as ypu grow more full of understanding. 
Believe me, that as much as you have gained by becoming a pupil 
of those, at whom you once wondered or sneered, you may gain 
just as much more, and of a far higher quality, by listening to the 
lessons of beauty which Nature is ready to read to you and they to 
expound. 

This sense of the beautiful is not to be created, but only to be 
cultivated in you ; it exists in you already, and practical as you 



844 JANUARY. 

consider yourself, it has much to do with jour likings and dis^ 
likings ; under another name, indeed, but with an unmistakable 
resemblance to tlie feeling which moves poets and artists. 

You have in your stable two heifers ; one straight-backed, with a 
small head, fine neck, tapering limbs ; the other high in the ruiiip» 
big-jointed, coarse-headed, clumsy limbed. One you call handscNne, 
the other homely. You like to look at the one, and dislike to look 
at the other, entirely apart from their relative qualities as a matter 
of profit. One of your yokes of oxen is sprightly and well-formed, 
with small heads, small and shapely horns ; the other is awkward, 
heavy-headed, and large-limbed. Again you pronounce one ycke 
handsome ; the other you say are ^^ monstrous fellows to work, but 
homely,'* and you "rather hate" to drive them yourself; you send 
a hired man or boy with them, and work the others yourself. Your 
mind insensible to beauty ? By no means. 

As you drive up to your own home, the evening sun is gildii^ 
the tassels of your com, is caught like a cobweb in the branches 
of the old Elm which shades the door, gives a new charm to the 
meadow behind the bam, is full of swallows flitting to and fro , and 
you say " handsome enough for a picture.** Handsome, is, perhaps, 
your only word for such things ; you know it means something 
about appearances, or, as you term it, " looks ;" and you say 'tis all 
well enough to have things look well and be handsome, if it doesn't 
cost more, and doesn't take time that belongs to other things. 

You cannot be indifferent to beauty, for the nature, which your 
Maker implanted in you to enjoy the world, which he has made 
beautiful, because he loves the beautiful, will assert itself. And 
now assuming you to be in earnest to develope the nature he has 
given, you will look about to find how the beautiful may be culti* 
vated without interfering with the practicaL 

As you feel yourself greater, and life grander, because of this 
study and insight into the natural sciences, so will you become beau^ 
tiful and refined ; so will your home be calmer and holier, your 
work nobler and more elevating, from constantly cherishing and 
studying nature's beauty. And in time you will feel artistic beauty, 
for all true art rests on natural beauty, and presupposes an acqmunt- 
ance with it ; is great only so far as it is true to nature. So we 



ORCHARD AND FARM. 345 

must know nature before we can enjoy art, and then, when our en- 
joyment is at the height, we shall feel that nature is as much above 
and beyond art, as it is the manifestation of a greater artist. 

I have talked to you as if you went along with me ; I have tried 
to show you how our natures may be opened and developed, and 
how our occupation more than any other, affords a wide field for 
pleasure and improvement. We have seen that the better the in- 
fluences about a man, the better can he do his duty. I have faintly 
indicated what that duty is. If, for one year, you will follow out 
this plan, you will be so strengthened, instructed, and delighted, that 
your motto ever after will be, " Onward P' 

The farmer is like a fallow field, turned out to be benefited by 
the elements. Every thing about is favorable ; no envious walls be- 
tween him and the sun, the wind, and the rain, tp shut out the ex- 
hilarating winds of winter, the delicious zephyrs of spring ; to blind 
him to the rich colors with which the world is painted ; to dull his 
eye to the variety, grace, symmetry, grandeur of the forms of crea- 
tion ; — and yet he obstinately reftises to look upon the earth as 
any thing but a workshop, where, with difficulty and much toil, he 
may earn a meagre support. Talk to him of knowledge, science, 
beauty he shakes his heavy head and g|i.ys : '' Get up at sunrise and 
go to bed at sunset, — no time for that." He* will open his shell 
like an oyster, to eat and drink, but attempt to show him how much 
more there is in life, and he shuts it up tight again. 

Farmers are discontented, when they have every thing to make 
them contented. Remember that the purpose of your lives is to 
develop your mental and moral natures, whilst you get your living, 
and that this is your duty, as it is the duty of all men ; that for the . 
secondary object of getting a living, your chance is as good or better, 
than the average ; while for the primary objects of life, your 
chances are far the best, if you will seize and improve the opportu- 
nities held out to you. God and Nature are your next neighbors. 
You can grow food and clothes, and cultivate your mind, and fit 
yoareelf for the real life to come, without the help of those men 
and neighbors engaged in other pursuits, while they are dependent 
on each other and on you. If you choose, you can have the pleas- 
antest homes, the most beautiful farms, the best schools, the bright- 



846 



JANUABT. 



est children, the purest morals, the most satisfiu^tory lives ; and, 
striking the average of the years, your drawbacks and discomforts 
are mere trifles not worthy of notice. 

Assuming that you purpose to be ^< improved " farmers, I will 
next show how such farmers get larger and better crops than their 
ignorant and prejudiced neighbors. 





CHAPTER XLIL 

GREENHOUSE. 

EBRUARY. I shall not weary you with a 
repetition of former directions, for now that 
winter has come with all its rigor, there 
needs nothing but care and watchfulness. 
During clear days, the sun will heat the 
house immoderately, unless ventilation is con- 
stantly maintained, and this, too, when the cold 
winds have kept the thermometer at zero out- 
of-doors for many days. Remember that you must keep your 
plants growing and healthy, and allow no check or chill, but must 
not, on account of excessive cold without, overheat within ; at 
night allow the thermometer to go to the lowest limit hitherto given 
for the different species of plants now in active growth, and on 
cloudy days raise the temperature but little over the night heat. 
Such treatment will make the plants stocky and vigorous, and in- 
sure a rich reward at flowering time. 

Remember that now all the bulbs are to be brought near the glass 
for direct light, and that sunlight is good for every plant Pans of 
seed should be sowed, and cuttings«made, and the pans set where 
they will get bottom heat. As the bulbs grow, and show indica- 
tions of flower stems, give more water. Some of them which you 
know blossom in their native lands, in swamps, or during the rainy 
season, should stand in saucers fllled with water. 

Japan Lilies, Achemines, Gloxinias, Fuchsias, Cinerarias, Steph- 
anotus, Alamandia, Pansies, Dielytra, Roses, Verbenas should be re- 
potted ; Monthly Carnations, which have outgrown their pots need 
larger. Azaleas as they grow, may receive more water ; early 
Pelargoniums should receive a final shifl, and be pruned well to 
make them stocky. 

347 



848 % FEBBUABT. 

I have, as may be seen by turning back, given the treatment 
proper for all the cuttings, seedlings, etc., which you need make for 
several months, and to these directions you should now refer. Be- 
sides this, read all books upon the treatment of different families, 
to which you have access, and thoroughly acquaint yourself witli 
their natural history and habits. By so doing you will not only be- 
come a more successful cultivator, but will acquire a large and en- 
tertaining stock of information. 

I spoke last month, of commencing hotbeds as a work to be under* 
taken about this time, and will now give directions for making them. 

Hotbeds. — They are of many kinds, and heated in various ways. 
Where not a large surface is to be covered with them, the easiest 
plan is to use rank manure, which, by its fermentation, gives out a 
laige amount of heat As this is the oldest and cheapest method, 
I have no doubt it will continue to be generally practised, to the ex- 
clusion of all other methods, bat, as I shall show, it is not the best. 

Market gardeners, who depend upon the earliest crops to obtain 
the largest prices, will have begun their new hotbeds in January, and 
will have carried some through December ; but this would be a very 
foolish course for us. Had we been very desirous of early salads, 
we could have grown a few m some of our glass houses; to go to aU 
the trouble of hotbed culture for them, would not be good econ- 
omy. It needs the greatest care and judgment to carry hotbeds 
well through such a month as February, when the thermometer is 
sometimes at zero for days together, and when the seedling plants 
from beds prepared in January, are just in the state to be quite de- 
stroyed by a moment's carelessness. I therefore, recommend you 
to prepare your hotbeds during the last of this month, and have 
them ready for planting early in Maroh. We have two months of 
virtual winter after this, and but little outside culture can be under- 
taken before the first of May. 

Hotbeds are usually made of about the following proportions, 
the length of the range var3ring to suit the kind of plants you pix>^ 
pose to grow, or the amount of glass you use ; the bed should be 5 
feet wide, and be divided into lights or frames 3 feet wide ; the 
sides of the frames are to be of 1^ or 2 inch plank, as high again 



QREENH0U8E. 849 

above the surface behind as in front Dig a trench 6 inches lai^er 
every way, than the inside of the frame, and 1 foot deep ; spike 
the planks firmly to 2 x 4 joists, which are to be cut as long as the 
entire depth of the frame, which depends on the plants to be forced 
in it; Cucumbers, Salads, Flower-seeds, needing only shallow 
frames, whilst Asparagus, Tomatoes, and similar tall plants, need 
something deeper. For the former class of plants, the frame should 
be 18 inches to 2 feet in the back, and 9 inches to 1 foot in front ; 
larger plants need 3 feet In the back, and 18 inches in front But 
where it is necessary to use the same frame for all kinds of plants, 
another expedient may be resorted to ; make a frame of the ordi- 
nary size, and another which will just fit on to the first, covering it 
exactly ; it may be held in place by bolts or bands. When the 
plants have grown so as to fill the first frame, take ofi* the sashes, 
and, placing the second over the first, put the sashes on the upper 
frame ; thus you will get all the additional depth desired. 

The front plank should be ^ inch lower than the outside of the 
frame, to allow the sashes to slide ; and the end planks should be 
rebated from 1 to 1^ inches, to leave a place for the same purpose ; 
mortise into the top and bottom sash,rd feet from each end of a 9 feet 
frame, crossbars, 3 inches wide, and 3 inches thick, into which, on 
each side, a groove or rebate has been made, corresponding to the 
groove in the end plank, into which the sash is to slide ; over every 
joint, where planks, etc, come together, nail, or screw strips to ex« 
dude any air that might otherwise creep in. This done, prepare 
the sash, which is to be made like the sash of a greenhouse, — 3 
Kghts wide for a sash 3 feet wide. The glass is not set as in a 
window, where each light starts from, and ends in, a properly pre- 
pared piece of wood ; the sash is divided into 3 equal parts, which 
are separated from each other by two transverse bars, grooved like 
an ordinary sash, to receive the glass ; the lower pane of glass is 
put in first, the next laps over it, like a shingle, ^ inch, the next 
over that When the glass is firstrate, it is not necessary to lay 
any putty between the panes at these joints, but with ordinary glass, 
the joints will not be tight, and must be filled in with putty. Of 
course, glass thus laid, sheds rain like the roof of a house. 

The frame and sashes ready, begin to make the hotbed. My 

30 



850 FEBB0ABT. 

directions were to dig a trench 6 inches larger in every directioo 
than the frame, and 1 foot deep, which will carry the bed 1 foot 
into the ground. Some cultivators prefer to have the whole above 
the surface, because they think it then easier to regulate the heat 
Ours, however, is sunk 1 foot. 

Drive down at the four comers 3x4 joists, and spike to their 
outer sides 2 inch plank, as for the cold pit ; this framework is to 
be brought up nearly flush with the top of the ground, and to be 
just the size of the frame previously made. Set the frame on to 
the foundation, where it may be kept in place either by screwing 
down a few cross strips, or by its own weight. Now fill into the 
bed 2 feet deep of strong manure, unfermented; — a mixture of 
litter soaked in the urine of cattle and horse droppings ; — lay this 
in, shaking it well and beating it with the fork, but not treading it; 
fill the bed 3 to 6 inches higher than it is to stand, — it will settle' 
that much in the course of a week or two, — and pack it in higher 
behind than in front, so that the top of the finished bed will have 
the same slope as the sash. Lay over the manure 3 to 6 inches 
of the best light loam to be had, which should be taken from one 
of the heaps made for this purpose last year fit>m lime, leaves, and 
sods. Such heaps should be covered up all winter to prevent their 
freezing solid ; a slight freezing is beneficial, as it kills the eggs 
and larvae of insects and the seeds of many weeds, but it is better 
not to let it freeze at all, than to have it solid and unmanageable. 

Your bed is now ready for the sashes. When they are in place, 
surround the bed as high as the sashes with seaweed, leaves, or 
coarse litter ; this is called a lining. Later, as the heat of the 
fermenting manure reduces in intensity, this lining must be re- 
placed with strong manure to keep up the proper temperature. 
In a few days the manure wiU begin to ferment, and will give out 
an immense amount of hot, ammoniacal gas and steam ; so hot 
often as to bum the vitality out of the loam above the manure, 
and totally destroy the tender roots of young plants. To avoid 
this it is well to sow the seeds in small pots, which are plunged 
into the earth up to their rims ; as the heat grows more intense, 
these may be withdrawn a little every day, just enough to save 
them from being burned ; as the heat moderates, allow them to 



GRBENHOU8B. 851 

settle back into the earth. At the same time sow in the mould 
the seeds of such plants as you intend to cultivate. 

It is always quite easy to ascertain proximately the heat of the 
beds by thrusting down pointed sticks into the manure, and after a 
short time withdrawing them; the degree of heat which their 
points indicate to the touch, will show how safe it is to sow seeds. 
It is a good plan to have two heds, the second rather larger and 
deeper than the first, and made later ; into the second may be 
transplanted, or, as it is technically termed, ^^ pricked out," the seed- 
ling plants which have been started in the first bed. If there then 
is but one bed, the seeds which have germinated in the pans are to 
be pricked out into it. 

Should the heat threaten to be too great, thrust large, round 

stakes down to the very bottom of the bed, and then withdraw 

them ; the holes left will act like smoke-jacks, and will carry off 

into the upper air of the bed considerable of the heat, which may 

be discharged into the open air by raising the sashes. The heat 

will soon abate, and this, too, at a time when perhaps it is most 

wanted, when the outer air is intensely cold, while within the 

frame the young plants are just expanding their second leaves. 

Until several leaves are open you must keep the heat well up, and 

ventilate constantly, but moderately ; afterwards more air may be 

admitted, and pains be taken to harden the plants as much as 

possible. It is important in the hotbed as in the greenhouse to 

prevent the direct access of decidedly cold air to the tender foliage. 

To admit air within a frame to which the sashes are not confined 

by strips of wood, you raise the sash at the back ; but when this is 

done, cold air would rush in and cool the frame too rapidly ; so 

nail blocks of wood to the back of the frame A, at 5, also screw or 

nail a ratchet pierced with 
holes, c, to one side of the 
frame ; nail to the top of the 
sash at the back an old mat, 
e, which may hang down 
over the opening into the 
frame, and being kept by the 
block b, from clinging to it, 




352 



rSBBUART. 



and thus shutting out air, will temper and retard the Gurrent as it 
enters, and thus give it time to mix with the wann air within, and 
lose its dangerous qualities. The sash is kept up by thmstin^ 
through one of the holes in the ratchet an iron pin, which will pass 
under the sash and give it sufficient support. When more air is 
wanted than can be supplied by the opening allowed by the ratchet, 
slide the sash down the frame or remove it entirely. 

The strong manure which I have said should be substituted for 
the ^^ lining '* of leaves, as the manure ceases to ferment and fur- 
nish sufficient heat, is to be thatched on its outside, or be covered 
with boards to keep the heat from escaping into the air or bein^ 
reduced by rain and snow. 

When Cucumbers or Melons are to be forced in such beds, it is 
usual to start them on bits of sod laid into the loam, grass side 
down ; if they are afterwards to be grown in the open air, these 
sods are removed thither as soon as the plants are well grown 
and the external temperature permits; but if they are to be (breed 
in beds they are removed as soon as they begin to run, to a fresh 
hotbed, where to prevent injury from heat, they are at first planted 
on mounds of earth (see cut) ; the earth is filled in level with the 
mounds as soon as the heat abates. On these mounds, the vines 

are set as in the figure, the 
top of the mound being within 
4 or 6 inches of the glass. 
The vines do not increase 
much vertically, but they run, 
and as their growth is the bet* 
ter the nearer they are to the 
glass, they should be properly placed at starting. 

The second story which is added to the bed when the second 
frame, abready described, is put on, gives room enough for Toma- 
toes and other tall plants. 

Asparagus may be forced in frames so as to be very early. 
The manure pit is to be made 3 feet deep, and at least 6 inches of 
earth laid over it ; into the earth set the roots, covering the crowns 
2 inches. The plants should be from 1 to 3 years old, and should 
be set as follows : at one end make a small ridge of earth, 4 inches 




GBBBNHOVSE. 353 

high ; along it set the plants as close as possible without crowding 
top and roots ; cover the roots with a little earth, and set the next 
TOW, and thus continue till the bed is full ; then cover the crowns 
with 2 inches of rich loam. Afier the sashes are put on, examine 
the manure daily, as directed to ascertain its heat ; overheating at 
the beginning of forcing will kill the roots. For cooling the ma- 
nure, proceed as already described. Be very careful in cutting 
the shoots not to injure the crown or the roots, either of the plant 
you cut, or of its neighbors. No culture is easier or more satisfac- 
tory than this. When Asparagus is to be winter forced, the roots 
should be moved in the j&dl, to dry sand in the cellar, where they 
may be kept dormant tUl you wish to use them. 
* This, then, is the common and tlie cheapest way of heating beds, 
bat as you see it is very uncertain, and not only needs constant 
care, but may at any time result in disappointment. 

From the temporary character of the frames, and the necessity 
of having the manure all below the bed, whence it can be removed 
only when the bed is abandoned for the season, it is obvious that 
when once it has ceased to give out heat, its uses are over, except as 
food for the roots of plants. Again, the ^' linings " are outside and 
above the surface, consequently, even when they are well covered, 
much of their heat must be wasted by escaping into the air. Finally, 
the heat when obtained, cannot be well controlled, but is now so 
much too great as to endanger the plants ; and presently so slight 
that tender plants are liable to damp off. 

No better heating material for temporary uses can be found, as for 
instance in making a bed in which to strike cuttings or germinate 
seeds, which need bottom heat in moderate weather, and which, when 
once they have fairly begun to grow, need no more extra heat, but 
are to be potted or transplanted to the open border. 

The temporary character of the bed and the exposure of the lin- 
ing may be obviated by pits made with vaulted brick bottom.^, 
which can be more or less heated by linings external to the frames 
but under the surface of the ground. A frame made after the man- 
ner of the Cold Conservative Fit answers «well for this purpose, if 
we add a dungbed in which to get immediate heat, and where seeds, 
30* 



854 



FBBBUABT, 




etc^ maj be planted. The pit shown in the cat is cme of the very 

best if manure is to be the 
means of generating heai. 
A is the interior, of the pit, 
and the space between, y^ f-, 
holds the loam for cultaxal 
purposes. The pit A is 5 
feet in breadth; allow 16 
inches for side walls = 6 feet 4 inches, add to this 2 feet for the 
space ^, which holds the manure = 8 feet 4 inches, and 9 inches 
brick walls. The whole space will be 9 feet 10 inches wide. I>i^ 
this whole space 3 feet deep ; build the walls e, 9 inches thic^ ; 
and the front wall 3 feet 6 inches high ; back wall 5 feet high. 
Mark off 2 feet inside each wall, and carry up on brick piers the 
walls dy 8 inches thick, on piers 2 feet apart. The full height i3^ 
the back wall is 6 feet 6 inches ; of this 3 feet 6 inches, is open, 
and supported on brick piers ; the ^nt wall is 5 feet high, of which 
2 feet is solid. 

The space B is now enclosed on each side by a row of iron 
or stone posts which support the bottom, «, of the pit From e, 
and resting on these piers, carry up on each side 2^ inch brick 
walls,/,/, to a convenient height ; at the top of these walls cany 
over tiles to cover the space between / and d; this will leave a 
hot-air chamber between d dj and the piers which support d; cover 
the top of these piers with tiles, slabs, or planks, which will make 
the floor e ; on top of the walls dy lay the sashes as for a wooden 
frame ; cover the tops of the openings A, A, in each side of the pit 
between c and d with a lid fastened into the waUs d. This space A is 
to be filled with closely packed fresh manure, shown in the cut ; 
there will always be an air-space between d and/ and under the fioor 
«, through B ; and through these air-spaces there will be a constant 
circulation of air, and the bed may be kept as warm as you please. 
Whenever the heat is too little, a part or the whole of the lining 
may be withdrawn, and its place supplied with fresh. Being under 
ground, covered with a substantial cover, and enclosed by brick 
walls, there can be little or no loss of heat 



6BBENHOI78E. 855 

The floor, e, of the pit may slant like the sash, or be level, 
though the top of the earth when filled in must slant like the 
aash. 

This pit, irhich is taken from the " fiook of the Garden," and 
Xx>ndon's £nclyeop8edia of Gardening, is undoubtedly the best for 
manure heat, but is sometimes objected to as taking a very large 
amount of manure, and not giving so quick heat as the common 
bed ; but this is more than equalized by the facility with which 
Hnings may be removed and added, and by the complete protection 
of the plants from any danger of being burned. Should the loca- 
tion of the bed be at all wet, underdrain with tiles. It will add to 
the permanent efficiency of this frame to line the inside with rough 
mortar. 

Hotbeds Heated by Water ob Steam. — It is strange that 
the best cultivators should continue using even these improved 
dung pits, which, at the best, are troublesome and expensive, and 
uncertain in their heat, when they have at hand heating apparatus 
vastly better for the purpose. The second step in heating horticul- 
tural buildings was the use of hot air ; a furnace being placed in 
one end of a building, the chimney at the other ; the two were con- 
nected by a flue, which carried the fire and smoke, and of course 
grew hot, and gave out a great deal of heat. This was, for a long 
time, the only way of heating large glass-houses, and even now a 
slight improvement on it, known as the Polomaise, is much advo- 
cated and used. Such apparatus is better than to rely on heat 
from dung and sun, but it is not the best, and there ai'e grave ob- 
jections to it ; the bursting of flues, dryness of air, and what is 
more important, the constant leakage of gas through the chinks 
into the house; almost all gases from fire are injurious to 
plants, and those from the burning of coal are particularly hurt- 
ful. 

Seeing that apart from its disadvantages it was diflicult to apply 
this cumbersome apparatus to hotbeds, cultivators naturally preferred 
for them the old manure plan, for which they moreover claimed the 
advantage of supplying ammoniacal gases. 

Unquestionably these gases are good for plants, but it is not 



356 FEBRUABT. 

necessary to resort to unsightly manure-pits to get them. Pans of 
dissolved guano, of sulphate of ammonia, or of urine, set in hot* 
beds, or on the flues of greenhouses, will give all that is needed of 
such gas. And this can "be done with the later invented and vastly 
superior apparatus for water and steam, where the pipes occupy 
but little room, rarely get out of order, and of course can discharge 
no noxious gases into the house. The wonder is that any other 
apparatus has been used, since they appeared, for although their 
first cost is greater, their greater durability makes up the difference, 
and they do the work much better. Pits heated by water or steam, 
or by both together, are so much simpler to manage, and so much 
more efficient than those just described, as to scarcely admit of 
comparison. The air from these pipes is never so dry and burned 
as that irom hot-air furnaces, and by a further improvement (tanks 
or troughs) all dryness is removed and much wanned moisture 
thrown into the air of the house. 

I have several times, in the different months, given directions for 
setting pans of water — pure or otherwise — upon the hot-air flues 
to evaporate, and both warm and moisten the air. This leads at 
once to the idea of making tanks of heated water do all the heating 
for a house by their evaporation. On a large scale they would 
give off a great deal of moisture, sometimes too much. We may 
regulate this by reducing the number of tanks, and supplying the 
place of those removed by hot pipes carrying air, steam, or water; 
thus a^c^Oj are such pipes carried through gutters or troughs of 
water. These gutters may vary in breadth and depth as we please, 



and thus we may have entire control both of the heat and the 
moisture. 

I now propose to give a plan of a hotbed, to be warmed with 
water, and unquestionably superior to any hot-air or dung-heated 
bed ever used. The range may be as long as you please. The 
bed is figured in Mcintosh's ^ Book of the Garden," p. 442, whence 
I also take the description. It combines in the best way top and 



GREENHOUSE. 



357 




bottom heat, with the 
humidity requisite for 
such structures. 

** Fig. A is a section 
of the pit supposed to 
be built entirely above 
the ground level; the 
walls are hollow, and j 
built of brick on edge, 
to economize material." 

As this pit is planned for England, where the weather is milder 
than here, it will be well for us to build thicker walls, by setting 
the bricks flat 

" Fig. B is the ground- 
plan, a h marking the sec- 
tional line. The details 
are as follows : Under each 
rafter is carried up hollow 
pillars c, c, c, c, projecting 
only four inches within the 
pit, and having no commu- 
nication with the general 
cavities in the side walls. 
In these a cavity is left at 
the top and bottom ; along 
the centre of the pit a 
flue of brick in bed d is 
carried 2 feet wide, and 1^ in depth, with openings in its bottom, 
e, corresponding with those in the pillars along the front of the 
pit, and also with those in the back ; the openings in the latter 
being just below the levels of the tops of those in front. These 
openings are all to be connected by flues or tile-drains ; the hot- 
water pipes are to be laid along the centre, as shown in the plan 
and section, but somewhat elevated above the floor on which they 
are placed, and covered over about 9 inches above their upper sur- 
face, with slate slabs, three-fourths of an inch thick. The commu- 
nicating openings between the flue in which the pipes are laid and 




358 FEBBUABY. 

the hollow pillars of the back wall, should be 3 inches below the 
top of the said flue, to act as chambers to retain heated air. The 
boiler is to be placed at one end of the pit, unless the pit is so sit* 
uated as to be heated from a boiler adjoining ; the space f^ be- 
tween the hot-water pipe flue and the back wall, are to be made 
solid with earth and rubbish, so as to form a good foundation for 
the connecting openings or flues to be laid on top of them." 

**In this climate, and to economize heat, it would be better, in- 
stead of filling this space with rubbish for a foundation, to carry 
through it, in solid brick-work, the chinmej flue from the boiler ; 
the smoke, etc, would heat it thoroughly, and go far toward warm- 
ing the pit in an economical manner." 

'^ The space between this flue and the front wall should be filled 
with hard, dry, open materials. 

^ In fitting this pit for the reception of plants, the space between 
the hot-water pipe flue, and the front wall of the pit, as well as the 
whole surface over the flue, should be covered, as shown in the sec- 
tion, with stones, brickbats, or coarse gravel, to the depth of not less 
than 12 inches. 

*' Over this, if for Melons and Cucumbers, is to be placed a layer 
of turf, with the green side undermost, and over it the necessary 
compost, A. If the pit is intended for Pines, or other plants in 
pots, then gravel or coal ashes may be substituted." 

''By this arrangement three things are attained, bottom heat, top 
heat, with* an atmosphere constantly moist, and finally a constant 
circulation of air. Unless I am much mistaken, supposing the pit 
to be 6 feet wide and 3 feet high at back, and 1' 3" in front, above 
the mould, the whole atmosphere of such a pit would pass through 
the flue once in every two minutes, when the apparatus was in fuU 
work, thus producing a constant and vigorous circulation ; fimher, 
if it be desirable to change a portion of the air continually, small 
apertures to the outward air may be made in the front descending- 
flues ; a small portion of fresh air will then pour in continually, 
mingling with the descending air, and ascending heated into the 
pit, supplying the place of that which will escape through unputtied 
laps and other crevices." 

^The internal areas of the pilaster-flues should not be less than 



6HBEKHOUSE. 359 

6 inches square, which they may be according to the proposed plan ; 
and the cross^flues and apertures into the pit must have the same 
area. If it be found that, with this area, or apertures, the heat 
produced by the pipes is brought up too rapidly, not having sufficient 
bottom heat, and overheating the top, these apertures may be 
diminished. If they be too small, an inequality will arise between 
the tempei*ature of the back and front of the pit, caused by an ex- 
cessive difference between the ascending and descending air ; the 
total heat brought up will be the same ; for as the heat in'creases 
the velocity with which the air will ascend will increase also. But 
if an aperture of the size above reconmiended be employed, there 
"will not be two degrees difference between the front and back of 
the pit In order the better to disperse the ascending currents, it 
may be well that the aperture, instead of opening directly into the 
pit, should have a semi-cylindrical draining-tile, placed in front of 
it, to throw its draught right and left But this is an unnecessary 
refinement; a pair of 4 inch pipes will be found sufficient for 
Cucumbers, Melons, or Pines, in a 6 feet pit" 

You remember that these two pipes are to be laid in a chamber 
just above the floor ; the only drawback to the perfect action of 
this arrangement is, that the air is liable to lack the great moisture 
needed in a pit ; by enclosing a portion or the whole of the pipes 
in gutters or troughs, as previously shown, to be kept full of water, 
moisture wHl be supplied in abundance. These troughs may con- 
nect directly with the pipes, and thus ensure their being constantly 
fuU. 

^ Should the temperature afforded by 2 four-inch pipes be insuffi- 
cient, 4 may be used, but if a nozzle-pipe were attached to the 
boiler, and the entire flue in which the pipes are enclosed were 
made water-tight, and used for a tank, an ample supply of both 
heat and moisture would be afforded.'' 

There are some apparent but unreal objections made to this plan 
by Mcintosh, and afterwards refuted by himself, which I shall not 
quote, but shall leave it with his further endorsement ; viz., ,that 
experience has proved this to be a very superior pit 

* " Pits might to a very considerable extent be heated on the tank 
* " Book of Garden," p. 450. 



3eo 



FEBRUARY. 




sjsteno, at little expense, if arranged as shown in the cut Figs. 
A and B are ground plans and sections of such a set of pits ; they 
show how a large range of pits may be heated by a single fire in 
a very economical manner. The ground plan is intended to rep- 
resent four distinct pits, each 50 feet in length, and 6 feet wide in 

the clear; the boiler is 
to be placed in the mid- 
dle (dotted lines), at by 
or as better seen in sec- 
tion B, with the stoke 
hole under the level of 
the walk or passage be- 
tween them; the floors 
are to be rendered per^ 
fectly level and firm with 
a coating of concrete, 
and afterwards covered 
with cement over their 
whole breadth, as are 
also the side walls to the 
height of 6 or 7 inches. 
Down the middle of each 
tank under each pit, let 
a Hne of bricks sot on edge, be placed, leaving the ones nearest 
the extreme ends out ; this will give a flow and return current, the 
line of bricks forming the outer edge of each tank being kept 3 
inches clear of the side walls, to prevent the loss of heat by ab- 
sorption or otherwise ; over the tanks thus formed, thick slate or 
thin pavement is to be laid, and closely joined with cement, ex- 
tending from back to front of pit. Apertures at every 5 or 6 feet 
may be cut in them, to which iron or earthenware tubes may be 
attached of 4 inches diameter, and furnished with stoppers, to bo 
UdBfiD out lor the admission of moist heated air into the atmosphere 
of ib^ plU ^tmi repkced v/ken that is not required. Cut C, a, tank; 
1^ pit I r e r, tiilM*2^ L«f iron leading from tank to top of earth in pit, 
anl cipeo air i thr^c tubes would not only moisten and ^arm the air 




OBBENHOU8E. 



861 



^hen opened, but would radiate heat into the earth around them at 
all times. 



" Similar provision should be made over the apertures a, be- 
tween the outer edges of the tank and the side walls, to allow the 
heated air in them free access to the pit, and as the air from such 
openings is not over moist, the apertures may be left uncovered. 
The back walls may be 3^ feet high above the ground line, that is, 
allowing 8 inches for depth of water and top covering, and 3 feet 
10 inches from top of covering (of tank) to the glass. 

** The front wall above the ground line should be 2 feet 6 inches 
high. Circumstances will always direct this, as the height of pits 
must be suited to the purposes for which they are intended. The 
boiler will supply all or part (of the tanks), as may be required, 
and this can be regulated by stop cocks placed in the pipes which 
connect the boiler with the tanks, and these again can be subdivided 
by sluices, as in the adjoining cut 

** By this means we should 
have 1200 feet of surface 
heated by one fire, and for 
the purpose of growing young 
plants in pots, forcing French 
Beans, Strawberries, Asparar 
gus. Salads, etc., such pits ^, 
would be invaluable. The / 
walls should be 9 inches thick \^ 
for durability, and also to re- 
tain heat and exclude cold, 
and if they are built hollow 
BO much the better, and the 

31 




362 



FEBBUABT 



sashes of the best Yellow Pine timber ; the glazing should be with 
6 X 10 crown glass ; to use larger glass in such structures would 
be unnecessary. The roof m&y be on the ridge and furrow prin- 
ciple without much difference in the cost ; the range should extend 
from east to west, so as to present the frontage nearlj to the me- 
ridian. To heat the greatest possible space at the least possible 
expenditure of fuel and cost of erection, we think this the best of 
all methods." 

X is a house for Strawberries, heated 
' by hot-water or steam pipes ; in the spring 
and latter part of the year for Tomatoes, 
Melons, etc, which are grown in pots ; the 
pots are set on shelves, which are sos- 
pended by wires to the rafters, and may 
upon occasion be unhooked and entirely 
removed. 

Y represents another pit, heated by both 
hot-water pipes, a, and tanks, d, 

There were many difficulties in growing 
Melons by hot water or air, from the diffi- 
culty of imparting that amount of moisture 
to the roots so grateful to Melons. You will see by the annexed 
plan that there are valves (shown by the dotted lines) just above 
the water pipes, and the mois- 
ture may escape and ascend 
to the outside air. The tanks 
are covered as usual with 
slate slabs, over these is laid 
rubble, and over that loam 
for the plants. Small pipes 
or tubes go through this loam — ^ 
to the rubble. When it is desirable to moisten the roots of the 
plants, water is poured into the pipes, and is thus diffused through 
the rubble and spread over the warm surface of the slates, where 
it is converted into vapor, and thence ascends into the earth of 
the pit ; as the fruit arrives at maturity, this moisture can be witb* 
held, and the fruit thus attain perfection. 





GBEENHOUSE 868 

We have thus followed all the improTements in hotbeds ; and I 
think it must be clear to every reader that he, who has any large 
surface covered with hotbeds, can hardly afford to heat them by 
the rude and unmanageable dungbed, when it is so very easy to 
heat to any desired degree, in a dean and neat manner, by the use 
of steam and hot water. 

Roofs. — I have not given any explanation of the method by 
which steam and hot water are made to circulate, so as to diffuse 
heat throughout and over a large surface ; nor have I referred to 
the great difference between hot air, hot water, and steam. Before 
doing this I will say something about the glass roofs of hotbeds and 
similar structures. Thus far we have supposed ourselves to be 
using the ordinary flat sashes for hotbeds and for houses either 
flat or curvilinear sashes. 

There is another kind of glass roof which on the large scale is in 
all respects superior to any other kind of sash, the ridge-and-furrow 
roof. This is, as you will see, built according to the best prin- 
ciples of construction is applicable to both large and small sur- 
faces. I should, however, prefer it only on the large scale, or for 
hotbeds, as I think the other roofs about as efficient in this coun- 
try and rather easier to manage ; but to cover a large sur&ce, the 
ridge-and-furrow is best. 

The original principle of all steep roofs is that embodied in the 
child's card-house, — mutual support by leaning. But 
as the material used for roofs is very heavy, another 
problem, beside that of sustaining them at the ridge 
and holding them up at the eaves, must be calculated. 
The mere support at the eaves may be got by setting posts under, 
as in the cut, but these posts only hold up the per- 
pendicular weights over them, which is more or 
less, according to the pitch of the roof; the sharper 
the pitch, the more the weight is brought over the 
supporting posts ; the flatter, the less over the posts ; 
and in all cases the weight not carried down to the . 
perpendicular posts, tends to fall in the direction of the slant of the 
roof. This is called, technically, the thrust of the roof, and if not 






364 FEBRUART. 

preTented, this weight or thrust would press the tops of the sup- 
porting posts apart, till the ridge fell in (see cut). To hold the 
posts together against the thrust, beams were 
carried across from the top of one to the other, 
, and to these the roof was securely attached ; so 
that whatever weight was not carried directlj to 
the perpendiculars might be so tightly hold to 
these cross beams or " plates," as to be indirectly carried to the 
perpendiculars. Of course this expedient is useless in very wide 
buildings, for there no cross or tie beams can be long enough to 
hold the posts together. In building with opaque walls, this diffi- 
culty is easily overcome by the introduction of inside walls, floors, 
rooms, etc, and in churches and other large structures, by various 
contrivances of timber and masonry. But these, though well 
enough where the roof is valuable only as a protection, are impossi- 
ble when light and heat are to be admitted through the roof. 

Thus a limit was set to the size of glass-houses ; their number 
might be increased indefinitely, but beyond a certain limit their 
size could be increased only in the vertical direction, and in that 
case the difficulty of heating set a new bound. By the device of 
ridge-and-furrow roofs this difficulty was removed, and the means 
of the proprietor are now the only limit to superficial extension ; 
and with all your plants under one roof, you may get much more 
pleasure and profit from the same expenditure than when they are 
divided between several houses. 

This roof is simply the combination of several common pitched 
roofs, which, but for the introduction of iron as a building material 
could not have been done successfully and economically ; for were 
these many parts connected by timbers, the inside would be dark 
and obstructed. 

On the ends of an iron rod 8, cut B, of the proper thickness, and 
about two-thirds the length of the distance between the posts a, a, 
screws are made ; other rods ee,e€,dd,of proper length and thidc- 
ness have screws on their ends, which enter into clasps made for the 
purpose, where either two are screwed up at once, or each has its 
own nut, and is screwed separately ; S rods like <;, 6, c, which lie 
the posts together, are tightened by a screw of this character. See 



GREENHOUSE. 365 

C. &, ^ are the hollow ends of a dasp serew, or nut on a large 





scale, the ends b, 6, are chambered, and have a female screw turned 
on their inside, into which the ends a, a, of the rods are entered. 
These ends have a screw made on them which will screw into the 



2S 



^t^gac 



mm 



ends bf b; the space between a, a (the ends of the rods), is open ; 
into this space a hand spike is entered, and by turning this, the whole 
dasp turns, screwing on to the two rods at its opposite ends, and of 
oonrse drawing the two rods toward each other. This is a very 

31* 



866 FEBRtlABT. 

powerful apparatus, and enables the rods a, a, to be tightened at 
will. Into the aperture between b and b the other rods maj be 
brought and tightened by nuts on their lower ends. 

This is the principle followed in putting up a ridge-and-furrow 
roof. The methods, the screws, clasps, etc., differ according to the 
building and the architect. Thus we may extend our roofe as much 
as we please, and yet bind them together tightly, cheaply, and even 
omamentaUy. But at the same time, we seem to run into a new 
difficulty, arising from the great quantity of water shed from Aese 
many roofs, into their valleys, where there is no inclination to send 
it off; there it would accumulate till its weight endangered the 
whole house. This difficulty however, is met by making the col- 
umns, that support the roofs along the ends, and through the length | 
of the building, of hollow iron, and thereby economizing material, 
without losing strength, and, at the same time, providing gutters by i 
which the water runs off from the valleys. A drain under the 
bases of the columns, collects and carries off the water, either to 
waste, or to a cistern, from which the water for the boilers, and the 
other uses of the greenhouse is supplied. 

Houses with this roof, have the further advantages of requiring 
a less proportional amount of heat, of securing more light and 
heat from the sun, and of resisting hail better than houses of the 
same area, with an ordinary roof. | 

They can be thoroughly heated at a much less cost than a build- 
ing of smaller area, which is higher in the centre, for as you increase | 
the height of a room, you increase the difficulty of maintaining a 
proper temperature at the bottom, without over-heating the top ; in 
other words, the waste of heat is in proportion to the height of roof, 
not to the area covered, I 

They secure more light and heat by having the same advantage 
over an ordinary roof, where there is but one angle of inclination, 
which I some time ago showed is a recommendation of the curvi- , 

linear roof; viz., that of presenting some surface at right angles to | 

the sun's rays, in whatever position he is in the heavens, and thus 
admitting those rays, which, like the vertical rays of midsummer, { 

bring most heat with them. And, securing as these roofs do, the 



GREENHOUSE. 



867 



adrantages of the curvilinear, thej are more eaailj built, because 
the choice of material is not limited as in the curvilinear, to that 
which is pliable, and can be bent to the proper curve. 

Thej resist hail better, because they make its blow glancing in- 
stead of square, for thej receive it at an acute instead of an obtuse 
or a right angle, in which position they would have much less power 
of resistance. 

Accumulations of snow are borne up bj the strongest part of the 
roof. And if the principle be applied to an ordinary span-roof, as 
shown in the cut, or even to a lean-to house, the roof will rather 
facilitate, than obstruct the discharge of snow and rain, an important 




consideration in our climate. The cost of making span or lean-to 
houses in this way, will be greater, but they would gain in every 
other respect 

When a ridge-and-furrow is to be used horizontally, the valley 
posts, and consequently the valleys, should be 20 feet apart ; but 
when applied to an ordinary house, this distance is to be determined 
by the angle which we wish the sashes to present. The width should 
be much greater than that of the ordinary sash ; about that made 
by leaning two ordinary sashes against each other at a good angle. 

I have described these houses minutely, because, although they 
are much admired and frequently built abroad, they are rarely seen 
here. Their greatest value seems to lie in the ease with which they 



868 FEBRUABT. 

allow large sarfaces to be covered, and the reduced cost as compared 
with any previous plan to effect the same thing. 

Any small garden might be wholly covered in in this way, and, by 
a little more expense and variety in the roofing, the effect would 
be made more picturesque, and the facility in removing snow in-- 
creased. Such a garden would be a real winter-garden. Parterres 
of flowers, small trees, shrubs, and other plants, could be enclosed, 
and the most beautiful combinations effected. Of course, this is 
not a luxury for the poor, and cannot be accomplished at small ex- 
pense, but any one who has the means to spend upon it can pro- 
cure a more satisfactory result for the same amount of money, in 
this way, than in any other. In a southern la,titude, the cost of 
maintaining such a garden, would be slight, as the sun's rays would 
supply even more than heat enough, except in decidedly cold 
weather, and during the sun's absence. 

The ridge-and-furrow roof applied to hotbeds is very advan- 
tageous, and costs but little more than any other roof, while it is 
very much better. 

In the case of a pit 78 feet long and 7 
feet wide, an English gardener, who gives 
the views of Sir Joseph Paxton, advises as 
follows: "Coyer the pit A with a ridge-and- 
furrow roof, making the space from the 
ground in front of the pit a, to the val- 
ley-rafler b, 3 feet 6 inches, and the back 
wall below the railer c, to rf, 5 feet 6 
inches. Divide the whole length into 4 compartments, for growing 
different sorts of plants, by 4^ inch brick walb. Divide the whole 
length of the ridge-and-furrow roofs into 12 bays, having ventilar 
tion in the angle of each pediment,/, ^." Now to get at the plants, 
each light is hinged at the valley-rafler, and fastened with a thumb 
button at the ridge-rafler. By referring to cut B, it will be seen 
that the light or frame leaves the ridge-rafler in the direction erf, 
and lies flat upon, the next light at c. Each light may be opened 
in this way so that the workmen may get ^at the pit. Each ridge 
U formed of two lights, resting on the top sides, where they open 
•from each other, and secured at the lower sides by hinges, so that 




OBBENHOI78E. 869 

when it is necessary to give air, or to work in the interior of the 




pit, they can be tilted to any required height, or be thrown back 
like the leaves of a book against the ridges on either side. In wet 
weather these top lights can be kept, quite closed, as an abundance 
of air can be admitted at both the back and the front of the pit, 
by means of triangular ventilators situated immediately under 
each ridge. The water which falls on the pit is carried off in 
gutters formed in the rafters upon which the lower sides of the roof 
rest In Fig. B, a represents a light open, with the iron stay 
pierced with holes to regulate the opening, and to which the lights 
are secured by a bolt, which can be easily removed ; f, wooden 
ventilator, closed ; ^, the same, open. Fig. D is a plan of rafter 
under each pair of lights, with a concave centre to carry off water, 
and small gutters, a a, on each side the 
rafler, to carry off water of condensation. 
Fig. £ is the plan of a hinge. In the pit 
figured above, all the work is carried on 
from without, and consequently the plants, 
etc, in the back of the pit are rather inac- 
cessible ; the plants to be forced are grown 
opon beds of fermenting material, whilst 
the pit is also used to keep plants through 
the winter, which ^tand upon a plank or 
slate flooring. 




870 



FKBRUABT. 




But increaaing the size of the pit so as to mtrodaoe space for 
entrance, and heating with hot water in tanks and pipes would be 

a great improvement. The 



section of a pit so improTed 
is represented in the cot. 
In this there is head room 
provided along the back of 
the pit, by sinking a narrow 
passage, a ; and there is also 
a tank, h b, for bottom heat, 
and two 3 inch water pipes, 
c, between the tank and the 
front wall, for atmospheric 
heat, to be used together 
with the tank, or not, accord- 
ing to circumstances, that is, as dry or moist heat is required. 
Under the tank Sea-kale or Rhubarb may be forced, or Mush- 
rooms grown. 

It would hardly be necessary to have the sashes themselves 
movable, when the pediments may be lowered down, as through 
the latter, being at opposite ends of the pit, any amount of air may 
be introduced. ^^ Of course a pit made in this manner would re- 
quire to be broader than that first described, and more expensive, 
and would be unnecessary for simple forcing." 

I have now presented all the best methods for the construction 
of hotbeds. 

The hotbeds upon our place are near the house-stable and the 
greenhouse. The range is double, and heated by a boiler placed 
in the middle, which warms tanks and pipes in the different beds. 
Two of these beds are for the conservation of plants through the 
winter, and are upon the plan described in October, in which fire- 
heat is resorted to. As I said in the conmiencement of this notice 
of hotbeds, we shall not begin culture till the first of March, as 
that will give ample time for the growth of all the plants that we 
wish to force. We shall begin a slow fire the last week in Feb- 
ruary, so as thoroughly to warm the pits and the earth before 
planting seeds and cuttings. When the dwelling-house Ls heated 



GRBENHOUSK. 371 

by steam, or has a kitchen-range with a hot-water back, a small 
namber of hotbeds placed near the house can be conveniently 
heated by pipes from the house. Hotbeds seem a formidable care 
to those who have never been accustomed to them, but they are in 
reality simple and easily managed, the chief requirement being 
watchfulness, to keep the temperature at the proper height 



CHAPTER XLHL 



C0N8EBVAT0BT. 



The pleasure derived from this house continues unabated, and 
the number of flowers is constantlj increasing. After plants £iir]j 
begin to grow, the development of leaves and flowers is usually very- 
rapid. Some of the orchids are now beginning to bloom, and their 
strangely fantastic forms lend a weird charm to the whole interior. 
Watch the plants carefully, to detect the earliest signs of thrips, 
aphides, red spiders, and other insects, and be after them at once ; 
it will not do to delay at all, for their power of reproduction is 
wonderfully great, and the sooner they are attacked the easier it 
will be to exterminate them. 

The intense cold of the outer air renders more 
fire heat necessary now than hitherto. Anj 
snow that falls upon the roof should be removed 
as soon as possible, both to avoid the injury to 
the glass from its freezing and thawing, and to 
restore the light which it excludes. It will be 
easily removed on the first bright day. For 
the warmth of the house, and of the sun, will 
at the same time compact it, and loosen its hold 
upon the glass, so that by starting it near the 
eaves the whole mass will slide off together. 

During the intensely cold days of this month 
the water of condensation will collect rapidly, 
and run down over the glass and astragals, and 
on to the floor and plants, in all badly ventilated 
houses. The only way to remove it is to sus- 
pend tin conductors under the sashes. But 
rafters and astragals may be made to pro- 
vide against this difficulty. When the ventila- 

378 




CONSERVATORY. 373 

tion is good there is comparatively little condensation, as the con- 
stant circulation prevents the moist air from remaining for any length 
of time in contact with the roof. A very simple rafter and astra- 
gal may be used in building the house, which will collect such 
moisture as may be formed, and carry it down to the gutter in front 
of the house. The cut shows sections of three rafters, either of 
which fully answers the purpose. 

The second one has small copper conductors nailed along its side. 
The house should be so well ventilated as not to need these articles, . 
but it is always safer to have them in case of need. The rafter 
may be made as ornamental as the architect chooses. 
93 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ORAPERT. 

We begin to force one house this month. First cover the whole 
border with a good dressing of 1 to 2 feet of Etrong stable manure. 
Fork it well together with the old litter abeady upon the bed, and 
then cover with mats or boards, to protect against snow, rain, and 
cold. 

The slight warmth which has been for the last two months kept 
up in the house to protect against frost, is now to be raised to 60** 
in the daytime, and 40° at night Keep this temperature up for 
10 days, and then slowly increase to 65^ by day, and 45^ by night. 
WWer the vines well with the syringe, and keep pans of water 
over the pipes or flues, for evaporation. Some ammoniacal prepa- 
ration mixed with the water benefits the vines, by the exhalation of 
gas. Admit air freely in sunny weather, and at all times allow as 
much air to pass through the ventilators as is consistent with the 
proper degree of temperature. The sun may raise the heat in the 
day much above 65°, but it should never be higher from fire heat. 
Towards the last of the month, about the 25th, perhaps, raise the 
temperature 5° more, and allow the sun heat to become even more 
I)Owerful than before. You may now expect to see the buds begin 
to swell, and very likely some of them will break, or conunence to 
grow. As soon as they are well broken along the whole vine, tie 
the vines to the trellises. Syringing the air frequently, and keep- 
ing it very moist by evaporation, will conduce more than any thing 
else to the uniform and rapid swelling of the buds. 

During the month it will be found advantageous to water the 

grape-borders with rather weak liquid manure ; which, as well as 

all the water supplied during this period, should be warmed at least 

as high as 65°. The easiest way to warm the water is to let it 

stand in shallow tanks in the grapery about 24 hours. 

374 



obXpert. 875 

Xhe temperature of the cold grapery to be kept as hitherto, 
and the vines are not to be excited in any way. 

The vines in the retarding-house will by this time have ripened 
their wood, and probably lost their leaves. As I have said before, 
the method of pruning these vines differs a little from that where 
the grapes are to be induced to grow early. The pruning in the 
retarding-house is to be delayed as long as possible, and though late 
pruning is likely to make the vines bleed, it does not materially in- 
jure them, but tends to delay the ripening of the fruit It is best 
to begin the process of retarding in November, by disbudding. 
Pick off all the buds but the lowest, which you wish to have grow 
the next season, as soon as the wood has fairly begun to ripen, but 
not until all danger of a new breaking of buds is past, as if the 
bud which is left should break, it would probably cut off all 
prospects of crop. In February cut back to this bud. Pruning 
should be done about six weeks before the vines start, which 
will be the last of March or the first of ApriL After prun- 
ing, dress the vines with the soap and sulphur preparation ; untie 
them and lay them down as the other vines, and keep the house 
as cool as possible without freezing. One of the benefits d 
this treatment is that the wood thus seems to gain vigor and elastic- 
ity. Vines long subjected to a high temperature, dry and crack ; 
the wood becomes brittle; but by giving them a share of cold 
weather each year, this danger is partially avoided. 

Should there be any days sufliciently warm, air the conservative 
pits, and the frames which contain the salads, etc. Remove into 
the forcing-house and cold grapery boxes and pots of Strawberries, 
Salads, etc., for early forcing ; also from the cold pits some Cauli- 
flower, Broccoli, and Endive, and boxes or casks of Cardoons, Sea- 
kale, etc, as will be more particularly described hereafter. 



CHAPTER XLV. 

THE FARM. 

I HAVE treated the subject of fanning, thus &r, wholly from one 
point of view, and have implied, it may be thought, too Btrongly, 
that self-improvement, for both profit and pleasure, is not only the 
best but the easiest thing to do, and requii^es only resolution for its 
success. But I am by no means ignorant of the many great diffi- 
culties in the way of the fiinner, who seeks to develop himself 
into the perfect man. 

One great drawback is the pecuniary one. The want of money 
not only makes more work necessary, but it irritates the workman 
and leads him to attach too great importance to it, and so foiget the 
greater in the less. He must work himself, because he cannot 
afford to pay others, and labor early and late to accomplish his 
work in season. The day's fatigue unfits him for evening reading 
or study ; even the most ambitious student must yield to this diffi- 
culty. But these days of extra work are not constant, and time 
will come in the course of the year which it depends . only on our- 
selves to improve. Besides, however hard the day's work, it is 
not often that the farmer is too tired too talk, or to hear others 
talk ; and often when eyes unaccustomed to reading would swim 
and close over the printed page, he could talk for hours with a 
neighbor about the approaching election, or the new candidate 
for the vacant pulpit Seldom is a day's work hard enough to 
unfit him for going to the caucus, which is to nominate a friend or 
a favorite politician ; he can go to a circus or a prayer-meeting, 
although his day's work has been large enough to excite the adnu- 
ration of all beholders. 

This leads us to the secret of improvement in agricultural pur- 
suits, — auociation. 

Combine with a few neighbors who are also interested in the ad- 

376 



THE FAAM. 377 

Tancement of agriculture, and form a club, which shall meet 
weekly, for the interchange of information, or for special remarks 
from some member appointed by the rest, to find out something in- 
teresting and instructiye. Go to the club-meeting willing to be 
taught even by a neighbor, whose general information you think 
not superior to your own, but who on this occasion has taken 
pains to acquire new &cts on a given subject. Listen to his commu- 
nication; take part in the discussion which will arise ; tell what 
you know on the subject ; ask explanations of all doubtful points ; 
express your doubts and difficulties freely ; you may thus get help 
from those who are better instructed, and gain the gratitude of 
those who share your ignorance, but lack the courage to say so, and 
who will thank you for speaking for them, and opening the way for 
them to speak for themselves. The replies you get may be satis- 
factory or not ; if not, and the crooked path is not yet straight, you 
will have something to think over in the interval before the next 
meeting. Your mind will be excited by the inquiry, and you will 
find yourself in the evenings more inclined to look up the subject 
in books, and get what light you can upon it, than to go to sleep 
over the fire. Perhaps you can find nothing in your books, and 
have no newspaper whose light is more than the glimmer of a 
farthing candle. Some of your neighbors have other books or bet- 
ter papers, and will gladly lend to you. Have no scruples about 
asking them. We are all complimented by having our opinion 
asked. Press on in this way, now talking, now reading, now in- 
quiring, now imparting, and you will soon have an increased 
knowledge and zeal that will necessarily lead you to farther acqui- 
sition. 

Such associated efforts in the way of clubs and social gatherings 
are of great value to farmers. They bring together a great variety 
of information in the form most easily appreciated. A distinguished 
roan once said that good talk is the healthiest and most nourishing 
food for the mind ; that each man's mind is both a sieve and a mill, 
.which selects, assorts, and grinds all the facts and theories pre- 
sented to it, turning out an elaborated result, fiour or bran for the 
use of others, just according to the character of the individual mind. 
And this result of the process of sifting and grinding, when forced 
32* 



378 FBBBUABT. 

into the minds of others through the channel c^ oonvenatkMiy is 
porticularlj well adapted for their nourishment and expansioo. 

In your farmer's club, where no member has had much intel- 
lectual training, the winnowing process maj be less thorough than 
the case would justify, but it will certainly be more complete than 
any member could make it alone. The idiosyncracies of different 
members will lead them to select different books, to festen on dif- 
ferent facts, or see the same facts in different lights, and so to make 
good each other's deficiencies. 

But remember that you do not meet to register isolated individual 
experiences, — of how many quarts A's cows gave, how many bush- 
els of Com B got to the acre, or how large a crop of Apples C ex- 
pects. Unless these things have some relation to each other, 
some bearing on the topic for the evening, they are mere gossip, 
and will not expand your mind, though they may keep you awake. 
Remember that you and your associated fellows are building an ed- 
ifice, — the perfect farmer, who is to be a conglomerate of facts, ex- 
periences, and theories, and will be perfect in proportion as these 
are of the best quality, and harmoniously combined. If you were 
building a dwelling house, you would select among the materials 
offered, would reject many stones and bricks, would cut off the ends 
of boards that were shaky or pierced with knot-holes, would throw 
away many imperfect nails ; but if the plan with which you started 
was good, you would at last have a ^tisfactory house. So in build- 
ing up your intellectual structure, — :the perfect farmer, — you mupt 
expect a great lunount of rubbish to come under inspection, to be 
tried and found wanting ; but build on according to the best plan 
you can make, and with the best materials you can get. Want of 
practice here wOl of course make it more difficult to start with a 
peifect plan than in house building ; you can only block out the 
leading features of the character you wish to form, and may even 
then be unable to get the best materials, or to adapt them to your 
peculiar circumstances^ But, as in house building you use mate- 
rials brought from many places, so your fieumer^s character cannot 
be completed without many imported materials. The* experiences 
of his native village will never suffice ; they must be thrown aside 
unless they are fit for your purpose. 



THE FARM. 879 

Lay it down then, as a rule of the club, that no member shall 
relate his personal experience, except to throw light on the question 
under discussion, or to ask for information. Appoint some member 
or members, who are best fitted, to find out what man or nation, is 
acknowledged to succeed best in farming, and use the treatise which 
describes their practice (or his, if you can narrow it down to an in- 
dividual), and the reasons for it as a standard text-book, to which 
all questions are to be referred for decision. 

There is a strong prejudice against book-farming, among farm- 
ery because thej think the statements of books are mere theory. 
Nothing is more common in farming communities, than to sneer at 
some man as a book-farmer. Men who get together and relate 
the traditions of their ancestors, in the peculiar dialect of their na- 
tive district, and conduct their farms in accordance with those tra- 
ditions, often refuse to listen to the same doctrines embodied in a 
book, and expressed in good English ; or, if, having condescended 
to listen, they hear something plainly in accordance with their own 
preconceived ideas, they are confirmed in their self-conceit, and ap- 
prove the book so far as it agrees with them, or condemn it for dis- 
agreeing with the same authority which they set up as final, never 
admitting that there can be a wider experience, or a closer observa- 
tion than that of themselves and their fathers. Whoever knows 
common farmers, knows that this is true ; and yet, there was never 
a more narrow and inconsistent prejudice. The traditions which 
they hold and foUow, are the maxims of some man, who in his day, 
got the largest crops, and raised the best stock of his neighborhood 
and was therefore, with reason, consulted and imitated by his 
neighbors ; in other words, became an authority on farming in his 
district. What are books, but the history of the practice of some 
man or people ? and if the practice set forth in them is universally 
successful, producing the most satisfactory results, are they not 
worthy of the most respectful attention ? Should they not be re- 
ceived as authorities, instead of being sneered at, because they are 
printed instead of spoken ? 

There is another reason why book farming is lightly esteemed 
by farmers. They have toiled painfully for years to get the expe- 



880 FBBBUART. 

lience which is necessary before the traditions aforesaid can be put 
into profitable practice, before they can even be fully understood. 
Somebody inexperienced in fanning has read a book, a good book 
perhaps, which pleasantly portrays the pleasures of agriculture, 
comments on the rudeness of the ordinary practice, and describes 
methods of culture by which time and labor may be saved and 
money gained ; and forthwith he knows not only enough to cany 
on a farm, but — to judge by his talk — more than men who have 
farmed from childhood. Practical farmeis watch his course, and 
see hun wrecked on the shoals which lie in the path of all begm- 
ners, on difficulties which perplexed them long ago, and were long 
ago overcome ; then they grimly smile, and say, "• So much for 
book farming I might have known it." The fiiilure is put down 
altogether to the account of the book, whereas the book had noth- 
ing to do with it ; want of elementaiy, experimental knowledge, 
was the cause. In the hands of a practical farmer, who had this 
knowledge and was used to hard work, the same book would have 
been of immense value, as the mariner^s compass, which would be 
of but little service to a landsman turned adrift in a boat, ignorant 
of its management, is to the experienced sailor comfort^ and per- 
haps life. 

A book is, as I have said, the history of some one's practice or 
theory, and the farmer's club having found out, through a com- 
mittee, what nations have been most successful in fanning, should 
procure those books on the subject which are considered the best 
authority by those nations. Do not swallow any one of these books 
whole, but either read aloud at the meeting of the club, or appoint 
some member to read it at home and report at the next meeting 
such new ideas as he may have obtained from it. Discuss this in- 
formation, see how it agrees with your own experience, and where 
it differs ; find out, if possible, the cause of the disagreement ; ascer- 
tain whether it arises from difference of climate, soil, etc., and hav- 
ing sifted thoroughly the whole matfier, throw aside the chaff and 
gamer the wheat for use. 

The continuance of this process with one book after another, will 
bring you into contact with a new class of minds, men, and prao- 



THE FABM. 881 

tioe ; will teach you new things about jour special vocation, and will 
increase jour geographical, historical, and scientific knowledge ; in 
short you will have begun to grow. 

This way of passing an evening each week when you are too 
tired to read, will soon awaken your minds to such an interest in 
books and study, that you will be too tired no longer. 

Nor is this the only good to be derived from such clubs and as- 
sociations ; people from different parts of the town, brought to- 
gether to exchange experiences, will feel a mutual interest, and 
will be desirous for the progress of the whole ; sectional and dis- 
trict jealousies will be forgotten, and the spirit of improvement in 
agriculture will gradually extend to other things, till the whole 
community will be raised above its neighbors in knowledge, refine- 
ment, and wealth. No proverb is truer than that Scriptural one, 
" A little leaven leavens the whole lump." If a few men combine 
earnestly for improvement, there will surely cluster around them 
all the good and growing men in the town. They will start and 
support many great movements in town, and state, and national 
government, for mental, moral, and social progress, and the result 
will be that each will find himself at the end of the year better 
and wiser than at its beginning, and will begin to see beauty in 
objects before uninteresting, and to take pleasure in things for a 
value in them not to be measured by money. 

Assuming, then, that you have determined to do all in your 
power to develop a perfect system of farming, and that you have 
inaugurated your farmer^s club, and brought it to a fiourishing 
condition, I will call your attention to a few improvements in the 
practice of agriculture, wHich not only are better for mind and 
body than the old methods, but will give fiiller bams and store- 
houses, and larger moneyed returns. 

America will eventually become the best farmed country in the 
world. At present England holds, on the whole, the highest rank. 
Belgium and Holland surpass it in some respects ; larger crops are 
raised from a given area, and more expensive improvements are 
undertaken and carried through to a successful result ; but the soil 
and surfisu^e of the Low Countries are, as their name imports, un- 



882 FEBRUARY. 

favorable to a varied culture, and many things are never attempted 
there which fill England with wealth and beauty. 

The English farmers are mostly tenants who occupy the cultivated 
portions, and cannot afford, on land not their own, to make the out- 
lay necessary for great improvements, which, though profitable in 
the end, are so only after a term of years. Still, what with the lib- 
erality of the proprietors, the enterprise of the tenants, and the aid 
extended by government, the state of agricultural science and 
practice in England is very &r beyond that in this country, and it 
will be long before we shall overtake, and longer before we shall 
surpass it. 

In New England, farms must be comparatively small, and the 
soil is of such a character as to compel us. to adopt the most thorou^ 
system of culture, if we wish to secure that home market which 
gives us the advantage over Western farmers, whose crops must be 
transported to a great distance to find a market, until the cost of 
freight makes them as high priced as ours in the end., This 
home market is sure to continue, for the population of New Eng- 
land will be more and more engaged in manufactures, and trade 
must become denser and denser, and increase the demand for the 
fruits of the earth. 

New England farming must be ^ high &rming " in order to be 
successful, and only as it approaches to the perfection of the Eng- 
lish and Flemish systems, will it secure the best return for outlay 
of labor and money. 

In November, I said that during the winter the farmer should 
lay his plans and arrange his work for the next year. But the work 
of no one year is complete in itself; it springs from the years be- 
fore, and influences the years that come after ; so that in making 
these plans you must have an eye to the long future. 

There are several distinct kinds of fiuming: stock fanning, 
cereal* grass, and root farming, milk growing, fruit culture, mar- 
ket gardening. Which of these an individual will follow will de- 
pend on such circumstances as the district he lives in, his means, 
his tastes, natural or acquired. It is not probable that he will follows 
either kind exclusively. This is rarely done in any country, cer- 



TH£ PABlf. 886 

tainly not in ours where labor is less subdivided, and pursuits less 
heieditaiy than in any other. 

Stock fanning (if it is of neat stock) necessitates the production 
of milk, cheese, and butter, of some cereals to feed the men and 
animals, of roots for winter consumption. Market gardening is 
generallj pursued alone, and is more like horticulture than the 
ordinary work of a farm ; to follow it successfully, a knowledge of 
vegetable physiology, of varieties, of forcing, etc., is necessary, 
things not essential in ordinary farming. It is more often connected 
with milk farming (where the milk is sold in the fluid form) than 
with the other kinds ; for milk farmers have plenty of manure, and 
are within a short distance of their market (20 or 30 miles is soon 
travelled by railroad). This readiness of access to market is essen- 
tial to the success of both kinds of farming, for both milk and mar- 
ket vegetables are bulky, and the expense of freight eats up the 
profits when they are transported far. 

Stock farming will generally be followed at a distance from cities, 
in districts where land is cheap, and a large surface can be devoted 
to pasturage. So it has been ever since want of pasture has gov- 
erned the movements of the great migratory, pastoral races ; and 
thus has arisen the popular idea that stock farming can only be 
carried on where there are extensive pastures. 

The stock farming of which I propose to ti*eat deals with small 
herds and moderate sized pastures ; it feeds the stock on green 
food during mild weather, but as winter comes on it provides them 
with shelter, and with food, garnered beforehand. The pastures 
will be comparatively large ; will be at a distance from large towns, 
but this does not much increase the market price of the animals, for 
stock has this great advantage over all other farm products : when 
it is marketable it can be made to take itself to market The far- 
mer, much of whose land is hilly, rocky, or otherwise unfit for til- 
lage, will incline to this kind of farming, which he may follow in 
one of two ways ; either by buying the food necessary to support 
his stock through the winter, perhaps by growing barely forage 
emragh to keep them through, or by raising on that portion of his 
land which is fit for tillage, fodder crops in abundance, for both 
summer and winter use, and for sale, so as to give a source of rev- 



384 FEBBUABT. 

enue in addition to his regular stock sales. Evidentlj this is the 
best kind of stock farming ; it is complete and independent^ and 
only among such farmers can we expect to find perfect breeds of 
animals. 

The cost of fencing extensive pastures is so great as to indace 
some men to neglect their fences and suffer their cattle to roam 
over their neighbors' land as well as their own ; but the model 
farmer never follows a course so slovenly and productive of iU feel- 
ing in a neighborhood ; in his mind, good stock farming implies the 
employment of no more land than can be well and securely fenced, 
and of no more stock than can be well supported on the pasture 
land with the assistance of fodder crops sufficiently abundant to 
leave a surplus for sale, and a guarantee against suffering finom 
drought or flood. 

On this basis stock farming may be followed among our hills 
and mountains, where every &nn can have some interval and some 
upland, the one for tillage, the other for pasture. Climate, the 
market, the proprietor's tastes, will decide what kind of stock shall 
be grown. Undoubtedly the time will come when the sides of 
every hill and mountain in New England will whiten with the har- 
vest as much as the valleys and meadows, — not with Wheat, Com, 
or Rye, but with wool, — and the flocks of sheep will be as count- 
less as the herds of the prairies. Lower on the same hills will be 
cows and oxen, and on the edge of the plains and valleys, horses. 

Our stock farmers may with advantage take lessons in this mat- 
ter from foreign lands. Sheep growers in Scotland, Switzerland, 
and other mountainous countries, use their mountains strictly in 
accordance with climacteric laws. These heights are not abso- 
lutely sterile, though the climate is too cold to allow timber to 
grow ; the higher you ascend, the lower is the temperature, the 
later the spring vegetation, the earlier the winter frost. The 
herdsman of the valley drives his flock in the early spring to the 
base of the mountains, where the green herbage is eagerly cropped 
by the winter-weary sheep and lambs; as the weather grows 
warmer, the grass grows green higher up, and by the time the first 
pasture is fed off the next above is ready, and so on to the top of 
the lower mountains. Again, as the frosts of early autumn seize 



THE FARM. 885 

OB the summits, the flocks descend with the grass, till winter finds 
them again at the base, ready to snuggle into the warm fold. I do 
not mean that there are definite, precise steps in this process ; when 
we deal with large natural surfaces, we find no exact limits ; all is 
on too large a scale ; but the general statement is true. 

There is no reason why our hiU-sides should not roll down a cov- 
ering of wool after the summer's pasturing quite as white as the 
winter blanket of snow, and of a value which will equal or sur- 
pass that of all the present agricultural productions of the North- 
em States." The same kind of pasture is good for other cattle, and 
hardy oxen and tempting beeves may do as well as sheep, though 
they must be less in number. These larger animals need more 
abundant food, and are better adapted to the more succulent and 
coarse herbage of th^ lower lands. Horses will never thrive on 
rough hills; the loss by accident would be large. The early 
months of the colt must be passed in pastures that will never twist 
or wrench his tender bones, but will allow him to grow symmetri- 
cally, and after his frame has become firm, he must still be pas- 
tured where his adventurous and frolicsome disposition will not 
subject him to the risk of rolling down steep hill-sides, or of injur- 
ing his wind by racing up the steeps with his companions. Yet 
good horses can only be raised where there is pasture room enough 
to give them constant exercise, and if a pasture is tolerably level 
and free from holes and stumps, its poverty does not unfit it for 
colts (unless it be overstocked), as the necessity of taking a good 
deal of exercise in getting their daily food, tends to make them 
hardy and enduring. 
Under favorable circumstances, stock farming is the pleasantest 
. kind ; there is less hand and more head work, and the variety of 
culture, of treatment of animals, gives constant variety and change 
of occupation, and calls out all the faculties. Besides, there are 
two strings to this bow, the crops and the stock, both of which can 
hardly be broken at the same time ; hence the loss can scarcely be 
80 great as when all is staked on a single crop. 

I think such farming may be made the most delightful occupa- 
tion in the world. 
It need never be monotonous ; the culture of crops and the 
33 



886 FEBRUABT. 

rearing of stock in summer, their protection in winter, the health 
and joy to be gained from the fields and fresh air in warm weather, 
the long winter evenings for reading, the ready hospitality to be 
extended to friends and strangers attracted to our door by its home- 
like look, thoughts and practices for the welfare and adyancement 
of others, — all is full of variety and pleasure, and such a life, 
properly lived, may be a lighthouse for the guidance of others 
along the road of life. 

Stock farming is comparatively simple in its description, and 
it seems as if only a little money and an enthusiasm for the 
work might enable any one to follow it with ease and profit ; hot 
it is really the most difficult kind of farming if done in the best 
way. 

First, the farm is to be selected. The land should be near a vil- 
lage or town, for the convenience of the &mily. There should be 
some level br interval land for profitable culture, easily drained, 
easily irrigated, of good texture^ and sheltered from the coldest 
winds. The hill land should be near the house, easy of access, as 
little rocky as possible, well-wooded in parts, and facing the south 
and east, so as to receive the early and late sun. 

Next the house is to be erected ; not a shingle palace, not a cube 
or parallelopiped of boards, not a Gothic cottage, not a show-box of 
any kind ; but a comfortable, roomy house, of two stories, with a 
spacious kitchen, a good cellar, and convenient dairy. The living 
rooms all on the* pleasant side of the house ; no best parlor too 
good to live in and only for show. The outside of the house to 
have at least 20 per cent of the whole cost expended upon it, so 
that when it has been inhabited a few years it shall be beautiful to 
the eye of every beholder. Let it express in every window casing ; 
in the verge boards ; in the hospitable entrance ; in the cozy chim- 
ney stack ; in the vines already growing, and ready to wreathe 
their graceful tracery over every point and projection ; in the broken 
gables ; in the blooming flower-beds ; in the protecting branches of 
the old trees near which it is set ; in the shrubs and young trees 
well disposed around it ; in its general effect on the landscape where 
it sits nestling among hills and mountains, or crowning a gentle 
eminence, or giving entrance to some wild lawny meadows, — the 




CHARLES RIVEK. AT AVBURNDALE, NEWTON, MASS. 



I : FA KM. 



o*»/ 



.1 .: \ 



I' ■, . . V f • .".k! -■.-..'». . ji :., . lip 
»" 'H '•■.".'■ I: '.• I'M wi ;> .1 u //.r.'»/ 



■• .••,•;. *'t ' • ■ ■ < 
' *»u'ii. !•>:• f. i. 
• • .-!"•: .' I r .r 
. inn- >n. : .i i* > 
• : 'if cr;... i [ > 

.i\ : . -'.'.^ .Mu* i 
'■ , -r w . ' < • 

•■ t. . /. I . ' ' 
i. . !(. 'I-. / •■•• 

•I i , ..,,n".'\ 

I •:/ .«. 
•• . .'Ill ' ' : 

OTUM* *4 . 



• t * \ ' \ v.. • ^.l' ,ii: '. « lU'i <, i}i 

• . :••' ■!< ■■ ! •»• aroliil'"! :v - no! 

. ■ ' ^ !'■ .»■ 1 bri "nj ^ t'j *. ' AO 

• I . '.1 n .'^ tlv .1 I!) ■;.• • ■ •• 

' OW to •]• \'l iV »1|. 

' . ••• . *■ . ■ I ;«N ; i* I- li.' '.::ii, ., • - 

• ••. : ,.f h.^;. •;. .,/' ■ - :. 

.■ :.. ■ ' . M. a:. •!:. J . ',•.. 

:iH »jri. >ii.' : • '. '. '. I- .»u 

..<..;..• I I - . 

• 1 . I 1' . • .' < . *. »v 



1 ;"':i" 


: 11' ':\ 


•oil V ♦'.It . 



i - M-. ti •■•. 



'» i.i'i f' •> 



'U»'.. .'»*».* ' 



h 
..•kJ 
< Jl 



■■..» ;.• ai. a ■' 




t ^ 



^ 




THB FARM. 38? 

Home Spirit, — that indefinable, intangible atmosphere which can 
never be seized and appropriated, can never be added to an ugly 
and tasteless place, has no money value, cannot be won without 
wooing, but which breathes from every tree and shrub, catches up 
and intensifies the colors and fragrance of the flowers, gives com- 
fort and joy to the simple farm buildings, hallows the whole place, 
and makes every member of the family radiant with a something 
which all can recognize, love, and desire, though they cannot de- 
fine« 

This home spirit is not the result of calculation and carpentry ; it 
cannot be built into the house, and yet it is never more plainly 
shown to the stranger than in the very work of man's hands, of 
carpenter, mason, painter, and gardener. The architect does not 
design it ; he cannoL It is individual, and belongs to those who 
build the house and ornament it. It influences them in the choice 
of a design, it instinctively teaches them how to select aright the 
plan of the house, the location, the externals ; it is the natural re- 
sult of a life spent in the love of nature, of beauty, of religion ; it 
comes only to those who humbly seek to be all that the best men 
should be, and when it comes, they are as unconscious of it as the 
Heliotrope of its fragrance ; but it issues out and enfolds a house 
and its inmates, so that the rudest hind feels it, and every one seeks 
to reproduce it The children who grow up in the house redolent 
with it always love their birthplace, and return to it long years 
after, when perhaps the hand of time has picked out the moi-tar 
finom the chimneys, has broken the trellis from the vines under which 
they used to sit and play, has planted weeds in the flower-beds, and 
neglected to prune the long ago too luxuriant hedge. But amid all 
the change those who love it see their early home, and can easily 
reproduce it. It is rare that the child of such a home is any thing 
but an honor to it ; its light bums to him forever ; he carries the 
sacred fire in him, and his share of the home spirit will live in him 
to be breathed out in a new home at some future time. 

The stock farmer, as I have said, is well able to found a home 
like this. 

Next he must select a good position for his bam. It should be 
at a convenient distance €rom the house, near, but not too near, and 



388 FEBRUART. 

towards the centre of the farm, sheltered under some grove or hill- 
side, easy of access for teams coming in with the crops or cajrryiag 
out manure, and in such place that water can be brought to it. 
This farmer, then, must be a good farm architect. 

Now the land must be studied with a view to its division into 
field:*, and to the best crops to be raised ; the rotation of crops must 
be decided upon, and their probable rate of increase. The pasture 
lands must be examined, to find out what stock they are adapted 
for, and how much they will feed. 

Having decided on the kind of stock, the farmer must next learn 
the best breed for his various purposes. In England this quedtkm 
is decided by the traditions of each county. The business of stcM^ 
raising has been so long established there, and the variotis breeds 
so carefully tested as to their capacity and adaptation to different 
localities, that as soon as a man has settled upon his plan in li&nn- 
ing, he knows at once what stock is best for him, and without dan- 
ger of loss in unsuccessful experiments, he buys the proper cattle 
and goes to work. 

Not so here. The English and European breeds do not present 
precisely the same qualities here as in their native countries. The 
intensity of our heat and cold, and the dryness of our atmosphere, 
affect both the constitution of the animals, and the quality of the 
pasturage to which they are confined. Experiments have been 
tried in various parts of the country by a few earnest individuals, in 
propagating certain kinds of foreign stock, with the hope of decid- 
ing which is best for their locality. In some cases these experiments 
have been very fairly tried, and have elicited valuable information ; 
but too often there has been a flaw in the experiment, owing to the 
prejudice of the experimenter, which has made it unreliable. 

On the other hand, some men have imbibed a prejudice against 
all foreign stock, because it is foreign, and brought hither only by 
the rich, and they pertinaciously deny that it has any practical 
value. They content themselves with picking up the best native 
animals they can find, and often have stocks of cattle in their barns 
better than any blood stock that can be bought. But this is the re- 
sult of something very like accident ; viz., a rare individual power 
by which they detect the excellences or defects of a creature at a 



THE FAHH. 889 

^bmce. A man with this power needs no single standard stock, for 
he can choose from an immense range ; but the mass, who lack the 
judgment necessary to successful selection, are subject to frequent 



One thing has been settled by the experience of many genera- 
tions of stock-breeders : that like produces like, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances. Could you have a cow and a bull, both of whose 
parents, 4 cattle, were noted either for their milk-producing quali- 
ties, their tendency to butter, to fat, or as workers, you might feel 
absolutely certain that their offspring would have the same qualities. 
So universally does this hold true, that it is in the power of any 
individual (o produce such a breed of cattle as he prefers, if he will 
persevere with care and judgment. Consequently, if there were 
no desirable breeds, it would, be possible for our stock-farmer to 
produce a breed exactly fitted to the hills and valleys of New 
England. 

The requisites for this breed are a fair amount of rich milk in 
the cows, a tendency to fatten, — both in the cows when not in 
milk, and in the oxen when at work, — a moderate size, which can 
be readily supported and fattened on our somewhat meagre pastures, 
in summer, and sustained at small cost in our bams during winter, 
and a frame and muscular development which fit the males for 
work. If sheep are the stock, a large fleece, with small bones, and 
delicate meat, and a hardihood of constitution, which enables them 
to defy both heat and cold, and to protect themselves and thrive 
with but little attention from man. 

In establishing this new breed, it is important to cut off* as many 
of the preliminary steps as possible. This may be done in part 
by beginning with those breeds of cattle, which, in a country simi- 
lar to our own, possess most of the qualities just enumerated. The 
breeds most in repute in England are Durham, Hereford, Ayrshire, 
Devon, Aldemey. Of these there are various grades and crosses, 
and many varieties, assimilating in some respects to either. 

About 60 years were spent in bringing one of these breeds to 
its present state ; and since the type was fixed it has been easy, as 
I said, to keep it so. If we can cut off* 30 or 40 years of the ex- 
perimenting, and at the end of the remaining time have a stock 

33* 



890 FSBBOABT. 

just suited to us, it will be a fortune to the successful breeder, and 
aa incalculable benefit to the community. 

The popular breeds may be first divided into sixes, as large or 
small. The Durhams and Herefords are large, the Devons, Ajp- 
shire, and Aldemey, or Island Cattle, small 

The large animal has a large stomach to fill, and an appetite in 
proportion, larger bones, greater amount of ofial and waste ; but 
when grown, gives more weight of beef, and a larger qnantitj of 
milk. To produce these large breeds in perfection, the summer 
pasture and the winter fodder must be rich and abundant Does 
this pay ? is the question. All these peculiarities of size are against 
the hilly country, and in &vor of the prairie. These cattle are 
good as food and to work, and often can be fatted to astonishing 
weights, whilst cows of the same breeds are mentioned which have 
given from 20 to 30 quarts of milk, for 4 or 5 months after calv- 
ing, and afterwards fall off to a reasonable yield, until thej have 
finally dried up. But to produce such weights and such quantities 
of milk, a large and constant amount of food of extra quality was 
necessary, and the animals were grown under the equable and moist 
climate of England. 

Such great weight it is desirable to attain, as it is better to feed 
one animal, and to have only one to care for, than two, but it can 
never be attained on such a farm as we have been considering, ex* 
cept by stall feeding, and that kind of stock raising is to be pur- 
sued under different circumstances, and will be described hereafter. 
The milk given in such abundance is not rich ; it takes from 10 to 
15 quarts of milk to make a pound of butter, and, although good 
for those who sell milk, is not well adapted to our stock farmer. 

The Island or Aldemey cattle are as much below the medium 
size as those that I have described are above it. These animals are 
not valued for their working or beef qualities, being inferior to many 
other varieties in these respects, but, as they are small, the cost of 
keeping them would be so also, were it not that the delicacy of 
their constitution requires an extra quality of food ; as milkers, too, 
they are deficient ; the quantity of milk is small, and the quality, 
after skimming, watery and poor. Their excellence is in the qual- 
ity of their butter. Four quarts of milk often make a pound of but* 



THS FABH. 391 

ter, and butter that is most attractive, too, from its golden yellowness. 
But butter is only one among many things required by the stock 
fiurnfer. So the Aldemeys must be rejected. Indeed, as a breed 
they are not valuable to any one. The rich cream, the small size, 
and the peculiar beauty of the young cattle, are urged as its claims 
on the man of wealth, or the man who can keep but one cow. But 
the chief requisite in a cow is good milk ; our children, our pigs, 
and ourselves, to a great extent, depend upon it ; butter can far 
more easily be dispensed with, and is, besides, not a bit better for its 
beautiful yellow color. Moreover, the beauty of the young Alderney 
is more than counterbalanced by the ugliness of the old one, which 
is the ugliest in appearance of all neat cattle. 

The Ayrshire is often called the poor man's cow. It is small, 
hardy, and handsome, is easily supported, makes good,. quick work* 
ing cattle, and fattens pretty well. This seems nearer the mark^ 
and, at first sight, appears all that is wanted for the foundation of 
our breed. But the Ayrshire is found to have a tendency to fatten 
in rich pastures, which often gets the better of its milking qualities, 
to the great disappointment of the owner. Besides, the milk is 
poor in quality, ranking only above the Durham in this respect 

I am aware that statements are made of the amount of butter 
made firom the milk of Durhams and Ayrshires, which go to prove 
it as valuable as the Alderney, the quantity being greater. But 
these statements must have been made by persons whose herds fed 
in pasture Where the clover was up to the top of their horns, and 
when the same animals, or others of a similar breed, were trans- 
ferred to poorer pastures, or less abundant feed, they have shrunk, 
both in the quality and quantity of their milk ; and, however much 
batter may have been made in any case, it cannot be denied that 
the skim milk is a poor and washy article. 

The last breed I come to is the Devon. These, too, are small 
cattle. The males are noted for their docility and enormous work- 
ing powers, as well as for a decided aptitude to fatten, and for the 
superior quality of their beef,. it being better than any other. 
They do not ripen, or become fat and fit to kill at so early an age 
as the Durhams, being seldom fit for beef before they are 5 years 
old ; but they can be worked till 4 or 5 years old, and then put up 



892 FBBBUABT 

to fatten. ^ They need work to develop them, and if kept idle 
will be invariably stinted in their growth, whilst the Durfaams, or 
short horns, are impaired for beef if worked. They do not, indeed, 
attain the great weight of some breeds, but in a given time thej 
acquire more flesh, and with a less consumption of food, and their 
flesh is beautiful in its kind." 

The milk of the Devon is very rich, instances being given where 
4 quarts have made a pound of butter, and 6 quarts being sufficient 
to do this at any time. It is very rich, too, af\er being skinuned ; 
no length of standing will free it from all its cream, and the sldm 
milk of the Devon is equal in richness to the new milk of the Ayr- 
shire and Short Horn. The quantity is reputed to be small, and 
this is generally set down against them ; but there is a difference 
in the quantities given by different stocks of Devons. Devon cows 
of some breeds have given in America 3,500 quarts in a year, and 
will constantly average 1,600 to 1,800 quarts. ' They never come 
in with an inunense bag, to dwindle down to nothing soon, but are 
constant and steady milkers till within a short time of calving.* 
They are very hardy, — both males and females thriving on pas- 
tures where a Durham would starve, — and the cows have not the 
tendency to milk diseases so characteristic of the Aldemey. Does 
not this stock offer the best foundation for a New England breed, 
good for all parts of the country, high or low ? 

The general virtues of the Devon stock are shown in its already 
wide diffusion over New England, for by either chance or design 
most of the earliest importations were Devon, and their blood is • 
now shown in the red cattle found in all parts of the country. 

Our &rmer having selected his homed cattle, next turns to 
horses. 

The Morgan is the New England horse, and probably he will 
always maintain his supremacy for general purposes among oar 
hUls. 

Pigs must be bought, to eat up the skim milk, and their breeds, 

* " And two cows are mentioned in England, of the North Devon breed, 
one of which gave 19 1-2 poands of butter in a week, and more than 480 
pounds in a year. The other produced more than 20 pounds in a week." — 
Colman*B Eun^)ean 'AgricuUurt, 



THE FARM. 393 

of which there are many varieties, must be investigated. At one 
time the Suffolk bid fair to conquer all other breeds, and to drive 
out the "race horse" and "corkscrew" varieties. Undoubtedly 
the Suffolks are valuable ; thej fatten readily, and have but little 
waste, but they are tender in constitution, small, and make rather 
too Uurge a proportion of fat pork. Their size is increased, and 
the pork not injured, by crossing with the longer bodied and larger 
framed Middlesex, Essex, Hampshire, and other breeds. Figs can 
be improved or injured in two years, so that our farmer will soon 
settle the matter by experience ; they are easily raised, and take 
care of themselves. Not so sheep. 

If our farmer has decided on keeping sheep^ he has selected a 
path sown with difficulties, although promising great profits. The 
sheep farmer has two harvests, the wool and the muttdn ; he must, 
therefore, in selecting his stock, have regard to both. At present 
our people are indifferent to the quality of the mutton they eat, 
and are more governed, as in beef, by the size of the quarter and 
its handsome appearance, than by the quality of the meat It will 
not always be so ; we are beginning to discriminate, and shall soon 
be willing to pay larger prices for mutton of delicate fiavor and 
juicy tenderness, than for the coarse, rank, hard meat, so generally 
bought and sold. Let our stock farmer select his sheep with an 
eye to the quality of the mutton, and he will soon find a taste for 
the meat growing up among his customers, and a corresponding 
willingness to pay for it. 

But it happens that the sheep which give the largest fieece are 
less valuable for meat ; so we are in a dilemma ; unless we can get 
a high price for the carcase, we must try to get the largest fleeces. 
Our aim must be to improve some breed so as to combine both. 
Merino sheep now stand first for fleeces but do not give so choice 
mutton as other breeds. 

Sheep need more attention than any other stock, and if not well 
attended to at the lambing and tupping seasons, they will surely suf- 
fer ; and the. young lambs need constant care. 

Fowls offer a field for improvement, as there are so many va- 
rieties. 

Having settled all these points, and made ready the house, 



394 FEBBUABT. 

grounds, kitchen, and flower gardens ; having bnilt the best Imuh, 
and selected the most suitable stock, and bought some animaLs, oar 
fanner finds that his farming is no child*8 play, but will need a 
great deal of thought and care, and that a field for studj and re- 
search is opened before him as varied and interesting as that offered 
by any other pursuit. The best food for the different creaturesy 
the improvements to be made in food, in seed, in sowing, cultivate 
ing, harvesting, and feeding will demand constant care and atten* 
tion, and the exercise of unflagging energy. 

He may be a boor if he chooses, may govern his estate by the 
saws and traditions of his ancestors, may believe in luck and the 
changes of the moon, may be a mere machine, valuable in so far as 
he helps to feed mankind, and pays his taxes ; or, on the other 
hand he may be an agreeable, educated, earnest man of practical 
science. 

I have made no reference to cereal and grass culture, or to his . 
fruit or other interests, because they are secondary to his atoek* 
The cereals and grass are of great importance and are to be im- 
proved as much as possible, but not more by the stock farmer than 
by others, and the methods followed by those who make these crops 
their principal objects will be imitated by him. 

This stock farmer has something new at all seasons, and some 
profit constantly accruing from the sale of early lambs, of wool, of 
mutton, of pasture-fed steers and oxen, of butter and cheese, of spare 
fruit, of winter-fed cattle, they are always bringing in a little ready 
money. And what is not spent on the household, should be in- 
vested in improvements, for improving one's fium is, as I have be- 
fore shown, a better investment than mortgages or bank stock. 




CHAPTER XLVI. 

OREENHOtJSE, CONSERYATORT, AND HOTBEDS. 

I ARCH. The work for all these structures has 
been described so minutely and anticipated in 
so many cases, that it is unnecessary to devote 
much time to them now. 

The long days and the high sun of March 
will give so much natural warmth, that fire heat 
may be almost dispensed with ; ventilation 
should be free, and constant care be taken to 
keep the moisture of the houses as great as is demanded by plants 
in rapid growth. t 

There will now be a larger supply of flowers than hitherto ; 
every plant will be either in blossom or rapidly swelling into buds, 
and the amateur or professional gardener may enjoy fully the pleas- 
ure or profit that he has looked forward to, from the very begin- 
ning of his winter's work. A well-filled greenhouse or conservatory 
in March is always a great satisfaction, and as in November its 
gay beauty consoled us for the decay without, so now its charms 
serve to moderate our eagerness for the coming of spring and to 
while away the tedious weeks of weary waiting for her warm days 
and sofl winds and wild flowers. 

It is quite time now to finish our cuttings of the bedding-out 
plants for sum^ier ; if set at this time, they will strike root before 
April, and be quite well grown by the middle of May, which is as 
early as it is generally safe to set them out. 

You will remember that I said the Camelias would be out of 
blossom in the spring, and would either be just making their growth, 
or have already made it. So, too, with other hard-wooded plants 
which blossomed early. They may be pruned into a desirable 
shape as soon as the wood Is fairly ripened. 

393 



896 MARCH. 

Azalias will be coming into bloom, and need plenty of water. 

Besides the various methods of propagating plants, alreadjr de- 
scribed, is one adapted to hard-wooded plants, called inarehing* 
Some of these plants are very difficult to grafl, bud, or layer, and 
may be more successfully treated by inarching. 

It differs from grafting in the scion's not being separated £rom 
the stock, from which it derives the whole, or a part, of its sup- 
port, until the junction is completely effected. 

There are very many methods of performing this operation ; the 
one generally followed is crown and side inarching. 

The spring is the usual season for out-of-door plants, the sap 
being then in rapid motion, but it may be done in greenhouses at 
any season when plants are growing. 

The plants to be inarched (one of which) at least, must, of coarse, 
be portable), are to be brought together, and tlie branches to be 
operated upon should be selected, and crossed, that the best point 
of juncture ^ay be decided. Cut from each branch such a slice 
of the wood and bark, that when the branches are again crossed, 
they will just fit into each other, the sap-wood, cambium, and bark 
of one plant meeting the ^ame parts of the other. Ck>ver the whole 
joint With grafling-wax, to exclude the air. In about a fortnight 
the joint will be made, when cut the scion across the end, thus 
freeing it from its original stock. After another fortnight cut away 
the but-end of the scion, so as to leave none of it not grown to the 
stock, and the operation is completed. 

In all cases the scion and stock must be about the same diam- 
eter, in order to effect a perfect union between them. Sometimes 
scions, which have been cut off the parent plant, are inarched. 
This is done with such scions as are difficult to graft, they needing 
a constant supply of food. 

Inarch as before, but keep the but-end of the scion nearly verti- 
cal ; immerse it in a phial of water, and every few days remove 
the phial, and cut off a thin layer fix)m the end. This will keep 
its vessels open, and enable them to absorb water for its support. 
Some gardeners stick the but-end in a piece of potato, for the same 
purpose. 

Resort must be had to some of th^se means of Increase, with 



GBEEXHOUSB, ETC. 39^ 

manj of the choice exotics. But few flowers are naturally double, 
or bejond improyement by the gardener's skill ; but when im- 
IMDved they rarely generate seed which will produce the parent 
plant in all its perfections. Camelias are particularly troublesome 
in this respect. Oranges and Lemons are, if I may be allowed 
the expression, compound plants, and must be budded, grafted, or 
inarched, to produce flowers and fruit at an early age. It is easy 
to grow them from the seed, but only one or two kinds blossom, 
until four or five years from the seed. 

The rich fragrance qf the blossoms, the color and character of 
the foliage, and the beauty of the fruit, render Oranges and Lem- 
ons favorite house plants, and they are easily cultivated. 

They like a strong, rich, and even clayey soil, and during their 
growing and blossoming season, should be watered once or twice a 
week with liquid manure. Their growth never stops, if they are 
properly managed, although it varies in rapidity with the seasons. 
It rarely happens that a collection of Orange trees is^without some 
blossoms, and it is very common to see the trees, and even the 
same tree, bearing buds, blossoms, and fruit, at the same time. 

They are readily grown from cuttings, which are to be set, 3 or 
4 inches long, half their depth into sand and loam. Give them gen- 
tle bottom-heat, and moisture, as to other cuttings. In a few weeks 
the cuttings will elongate ; as soon as the roots are well-developed, 
pot and treat like other hard-wooded plants. 

The plants, old and young, need constant, but not superabundant 
moisture. Too much or prolonged dryness will cause the leaves to 
fall off, which will not be replaced for a year or two. 

The seedling plants may be budded or grafted the ftdl after they 
are planted ; if you want a standard plant, induce the seedlings to 
grow tall, by removing all side branches, as they appear. The 
Shaddock and Citron make the best stock for working, as they 
grow strong and rapidly, and make larger plants than others. If 
the plants are set into the shade during the summer, supply mois- 
ture sparingly. 

There are some small Orange-trees, fit only for flowers ; these 
can never be induced to make standards. 

When Oranges become diseased, turn them out of their tubs ; cut 

34 



I' 



398 



MiLECH. 



out decayed and old roots ; cut down the branches, or stems, tor 
healthy buds ; give new soil and bottom-heat : the plant will soon 
throw out a new and healthy growth. 

Thcise plants need, a^ they grow, very large pots, in order to sup- 
ply (^ufHclent earth and manure, and this necessity is a serious 
drawback to their auccefwsful cultivation. 

This difficulty is obviated 
by the use of such a pot as 
is represented in the adjoin- 
ing cut This pot is made of 
slate or of plank. K of plank,' 
the inside must be covered 
with pitch, or any paint not 
affected by continued mois- 
ture, to insure durability. The 
sides, a and b, are suspended 
on hinges, with close-fitting 
jointB, and are held tight by transverse bars, rf, which shut close on 
the oppopit*^ sides, 

Tlie roots of plants in such pols can be exammed at will, and 
loom added or removed, 

Roses, Aclumenea, Gloxinia^, Fuschias, Japan Lilies, Heaths, 
Calceolari;L^, CamationR, and Panties should be repotted ; bedding 
plantsi he i^tarted from cnttinjrs. Sow seeds of summer annuals. 
Give Cactu^e^, Heath?i, and Cape Jessamines more water, and ah* 
well aU plants in cold frames. 




ii 



CHAPTER XLVIL 

GRAPERY. 

The yines in the forcing-house are now rapidly breaking their 
buds, and must be tied up just as fast as they break evenly along 
the whole cane. 

The first growth is very rapid, and the fruit Will show as soon 
as the shoot has grown two or three eyes. Allow them to grow 
until the lower leaves are pretty well expanded, and the flowers 
well formed ; then cut back to one eye beyond the fruit. Never 
in out or in-door culture cut back to the fruit, as is sometimes 
recommended. Remember the analogy between the leaves of the 
vine, the fruit-tree, and Com, and recall the reasoning applied to 
topping Com, where it was shown that removing the upper leaves 
from the stalk deprives all below of nourishment ; so with the 
vine. The bud above the fruit will probably break and gi^w a 
little way ; stop it at an eye. The leaves thus formed will draw 
sap and elaborate it for the fruit. Leave but one shoot or spur. 

If yon have too many spurs, you can cut them out at this sea- 
son without fear of bleeding ; the remaining leaves will consume 
an the sap supplied. Increase the temperature slowly, beginning 
at 60** to 65"* by day, and 60° by night ; rising even to 85° with 
the sunshine ; increase towards the last of the month to 70° to 75° 
. by day, and 70° by night, allowing the sun to raise it even to 90° ; 
give plenty of air and syringe constantly. 

I hope it will be understood that no more leaves are to be re- 
moved than is necessary to allow the sun a reasonable access to 
the house, and to moderate the growth of the vine. 

Some persons, following the analogy of Cora-topping, assume 
that all the leaves and growth are necessary to perfect the plant 
and its frait. But you know that it is necessary each year to cut 
back the vine, both to make it bear and to keep it within the limits 

399 



400 UABCH. ""^ 

of the house. You also know that no plant can grow withoai 
drawing on the soil for its support ; all that grows and is cut off is 
just so much impoverishment of the soil, and is an unjustifiable 
waste, if it could have been checked by summer pruning and 
pinching. 

Towards the last of the month the buds in the cold graperj 
begin to swell a little ; keep it cool, and do nothing to excite the 
vines into activity, as the next month will be soon enough to wish 
for any start. 

The retarding-house must be kept cool ; cover the glass with 
shades, canvass, etc., in the middle of bright, sunny days, and give 
as much air as you can without chilling tlie vines. 

In the forcing-house may be set on the shelves more Strawber- 
ries in pots, and as they ripen they must be attended to. Pots or 
boxes of Cucumber and Melon seeds, also. Renew the Cauli- 
flower plants as they mature, and set them on the shelf or in any 
convenient place. 

The Mushroom beds are now in active growth, and should be 
kept moist If there is any ixx)m, French and Kidney Beans may 
be planted in boxes. 

Use all the spare room for purposes of culture. Broccoli, Cauli- 
flower, boxes and pots of Cardoons, Sea-kale, Lettuce, etc, may 
be set in the cold grapery, ready to be put into the forcing-house 
as they are wanted, but care must be taken that no dead leaves 
or insects are about them, as the injury these would do the vines 
would far exceed the value of the vegetables. These plants will 
all be gone by the time the vines are so grown as to need all the 
room, and exclude the light with their leaves. 

The vines in pots and troughs will be much more advanced than 
those on the raflers ; their berries should have already swelled, 
and be nearly ready for thinning. 

This process cannot be too carefully and thoroughly performed, 
whether in vines or fruit trees ; but in vines, especially, it is essen- 
tial to successful culture and perfect fruit. To thin, provide your- 
self with a pair of long, but narrow and fine-pointed scissors ; go 
over the vines carefully, bunch by bunch, and snip out every im- 
perfect berry, and enough jwrfect ones to reduce the bunch to a 



OBAPERT. 401 

good and healthy proportion and size. No rule can he given to 
guide in this operation, from the difference in the size of the her- 
ries, the larger ones needing more thinning than others. The pro- 
cess must be repeated when the Grapes color and swell. 

Be very care^l not to touch the berries with the hand, which 
would produce rust ; it is well to wear gloves. Remove the ber- 
ries that you cut off at once, as their decay would injure the atmos- 
phere. 

One great difficulty in Grape culture is shanking or shriveUingj 
that is, the drying up and discoloration of the bunch and footstalk. 

Many reasons have been given for this disease, and many reme- 
dies proposed. It attacks the cold grapery in the early summer 
months, but is less likely to trouble a forcing-house, where heat 
can be regulated, and where ventilation, light, and moisture, are 
abundant. 

Mr. J. F. Allen, the author before quoted, says, that it is " a 
disease peculiar to the Grape in its culture under glass structures, 
caused by a deficiency of nourishment, which deficiency is occa- 
sioned principally by a defective atmosphere in the house, causing 
stagnation in the flow of the sap ; and this difficulty may be in- 
creased, and the spread of the evil promoted, by various causes, 
such as a poor border, general weakness of the vine, overcroppmg, 
and chiefly by not paying due care to the ventilation of the 
house." 

The last of the month, remove the litter from the border of the 
cold grapery, and cover it with a thick coat of strong horse ma- 
nure, which, by its fermentation, will begin to heat the border. 

The fruit trees in the forcing-house will soon begin to grow, and 
must be attended to, according to former directions. 
34* 



CHAPTER XLVin. 



FLOWER AND KITCHEN OABDEN. 



4 



Beds of Ranunculuses, Palsies, Anemones, etc, should be oj 
as often as it is safe, and on some of them, it will be well t 
sashes^ as, by so doing, we maj soon start growth and bios 
But be careful not to let jour spring enthusiasm get too much 
under way, as it demands a great deal of care and attention. 

Some time in March, if the weather is mild, and the g 
thaws, the Snowdrops will bloom, and often in sheltered p 
even before the snow is entirely gone, Crocuses will follow 
Pansies will priek up their leaves and venture into blossom ; 
lish y ioleta can be induced to bloom by setting movable glassei 
them* 

A very simple contrivance which m 
used to Militate the blooming of 
plants, is shown in the adjoining cu 
conmion square box, without top or be 
On the upper edge is fastened a re 
frame, the groove of which receive 
pane of common glass cu The inclu 
should be such that the rays of the sun will fall perpendici 
upon it at some part of the day. Lay around the bottom ( 
box, and over the adjoining ground for a few feet, leaves, or 
to keep it a little warm. Plants thus enclosed, must receive 
ventilation, and some water, as in a hotbed. You can get e 
Violets, Daisies, Polyanthuses, etc., by this method than bj 
other. ' 

Keep the roses and other plants which were frozen up ii 
vember^ in the coldest place possible, until into April, or, at 
until the ground is permanently thawed. 
Whatever kind of hotbeds you have decided to use, begin U 

402 




KITCHEN-GARDEN. 403 

them now, and, as soon as they are thoroughly warmed, sow the 
seeds of the earliest vegetables ; there is no hurry, as yet, about 
the seeds of annual or other flowering plants ; the last of the month, 
or the first of April will be time enough. 

Examine the beds in which Cabbage, Cauliflower, and Lettuce 
plants were wintered. If they are in good condition, and promise 
plants enough, no more seeds need be sown ; if not, plant the earliest 
varieties now. Keep the heat of the beds constant, till the young 
plants are well stajrted, with little ventilation. After they have 
made a few leaves, give air cautiously, but enough to harden the 
plants gradually. Follow these sowings with Cucumbers and 
Melons. Tliose which are to be fruited in the bed, may be planted 
among the Lettuce and other plants, as the vines will not increase 
much before the Salads are all gone. 

If the Melons and Cucumbers are to be afterwards set out in the 
garden, set small, square bits of sod, grass side down, or thumb pots, 
just under the surface ; sow the seeds on the earth over the sods or 
pots, so that when well grown, and when the weather will permit, 
they may be transplanted, sod and all, into the open ground. 

Towards the latter part of the month, we shall sow seeds of To- 
matoes. To get them eaira earlyy sow the seeds the last of Febru- 
ary, or first of March. Remember what was said about selecting 
the seeds from the earliest ripened fruit of last year ; if our seed 
did not ripen as early as those of our neighbor, we had better buy 
his. 

We shall not sow seeds of Salads, Parsley, Herbs, etc., as they 
will come early enough when planted in the open ground, but, if it 
were desirable, this would be the time to do it. 

Fill two frames with the Asparagus roots taken up in the autumn, 
for forcing. If planted according to previous directions, we shall 
have it for the table by the last of the month. 

Sow the seeds of Egg-plant, Broccoli, Endive, Cardoons, and 
prick out into the succession beds, some of the winter-saved Salad, 
Cabbage, or Cauliflower plants, for an early start 

A radrket-gardener should begin in February or even in January 
to start his vegetables in hotbeds, for an early market, but the family 
wants, in a country place like ours, do not demand this. The little 



404 MARCH. 

that we need can be grown easily in the forcing-house ; and if we 
had no such convenience, I should not advise you to have many hot- 
beds. They are costly and troublesome, and the vegetables grown to 
maturity in them never have the flavor which they attain when 
grown in the ordinary way. A well-managed kitchen-garden, with 
conservative pits and cold frames, will afford an ample supply of 
vegetables to carry a family fairly thipugh the winter, till the nat- 
ural round begins again. 

There are some crops besides the tropical fruits which can be 
had only by hothouse culture ; and there are others, as Salads and 
Potatoes, that cannot be well preserved through the winter, and the 
use of which is so important, that we wish to have no interval 
without them. For Potatoes, indeed, we need hotbeds only to start 
the sprouts, and even for this they are not essential. 

In a dry, well-sheltered place, raise a bed of horse manure 18 
inches deep, about the middle of March; lay it down and beat it well 
with the fork, making the bed as long as you please, and any widtL 
Over the manure lay 2 inches of loam, on which spread evenly 
seed Potatoes, whole if small, cut if large, and cover them ¥rith 2 
inches of loam. Box it in with boards like a hotbed, and bank the 
outside with leaves and manure ; but be careful that it does not 
overheat and injure the Potatoes. The Potatoes will sprout, and 
begin to grow, by the time it will do to set them out in April. When 
planted they will require extra care. Plant them in ridges, slighdy 
raised above the surface (not more than six inches) by manure, in a 
spot sheltered from the north and west, and well open to the east 
and south. Over the manure throw an inch of earth, on which 
place the potatoes, and cover them with two inches of earth. If 
the sprouts appear before frosts are gone, cover the ridges every 
night with long straw, old hay, or seaweed. This litter may be 
left in the furrows, shaken on with a dung-fork every night, and 
removed in the morning. Potatoes grown with this care will be 
ripe the last of June. 

If started in a hotbed they must be even more carefully watched, 
and as the sprouts appear you may cut them off, with a little bit 
of the tuber, and prick them out in a new bed. They will all 
grow, and produce abundantly. 



KITCHEN-OABDEN. 405 

No subject has been more discussed by cultivators, than the 
proper method of planting Potatoes ; whether whole or cut, large 
or small. It would seem as if this point might have been decided 
long ago, with regard to a plant so common, and so long known, 
but it is still a matter for experiment. I have seen Potatoes grown 
from parings, which had found their way, through the swill-pail, to 
the manure-heap, and thence to a hotbed, where they produced 
tubers. The same result has been obtained, when it was not a 
matter of accident It seems really a simple question, and one 
that need not remain undecided, to engage the attention of horti- 
culturists year after year. We know that as in the grapevine, the 
cutting of a single eye, or the budding of a single bud, grows read- 
ily, and produces for years ; so in the Potato, each eye or sprout 
will grow, and produce abundantly, when cut from the tuber, and 
planted separately. The eye, then, is a perfect germ, containing 
in itself all that is necessary to growth. Each tuber has many 
eyes, as a long grapevine cutting has many buds. When these 
eyes start to grow, their rootlets find a little food stored for them 
in the tuber, and when they have exhausted this, they must de- 
pend upon the earth to support them. It is true that the feebler 
rootlets may at first find their most suitable nourishment in the 
tuber, before they are able to select for themselves food in the soil, 
but beyond this the tuber is of no value ; adfl, as you see, we can 
eat our Potatoes and have them too. Of course the crop will be 
in proportion to the number of eyes planted. 

Whether small or large Potatoes are best, may depend somewhat 
on the variety, but in any case those should be used for seed which 
are the most mature. As in trees, and other plants, the best ripened 
buds, namely, those from the middle of the stem or branch, are 
always found to grow and bear quicker than others, so it is with 
the tubers of the potato. 

The Potatoes that we shall plant for early forcing are, Hill's 
Early, Early White, Chenangoes, and Jackson White. 

In our climate it is never safe to plant out-of-doors in March, 
any thing that can be injured by frost, but we may reduce the cov- 
ering from about the cold frames and lighten it over the Tulips, 
etc. so as gradually to harden them. 



406 KARGH. 

You will find the Paranips and Oyster plants which you covered 
over and left in the ground, last autumn, in fine condition for tiie 
table now, and the Horseradish may also be dug. 

Many kinds of vegetables which are rare in this country, mi^it 
be cultivated to great advantage. The choice of vegetables for 
culture seems to be to a great extent, a matter of locality, some na- 
tions growing a few varieties in abundance, which others care but 
little about For a notable example, take the Salad tribe ; the 
French depend upon Salads for a relish to every meal ; the Eng- 
lish use them but little, and we still less. In the Netherlands, Ar- 
tichokes, Cardoons, and some other vegetables, are more in favor 
than either in France or England. , 

All these vegetables are good food, and especially valuable as 
affording a variety which is wholesome for all classes, and particu- 
larly beneficial to the poor, to whom vegetables afford a large 
amount of cheap and nutritious food. 

A description of the method of cultivating and using a few of them, 
may interest some persons, and to aid in introducing them to gen- 
eral attention, I have condensed the following directions from some 
English treatises : Artichokes are cooked and eaten in various ways ; 
the blossom, bud, or head, just before it expands, is eaten as a Salad, 
and, also pickled. The scales of the calyx, with the fleshy adherent 
portion, are pulled off, dipped in salt, oil, and vinegar, and eaten. 
The button, which is the top of the receptacle which holds the im- 
perfect seed, is sometimes eaten in the same way, sometimes fried 
in butter, sometimes used in fricassee and ragout, and sometimes 
pickled. The head may be quartered, and, after the chaffy down 
and seeds attached are removed, used as a Salad or pickled. . 

Some cultivators, as soon as the leaves are well developed, and 
the flower stem beginning to grow, that is, the first of June, cut all 
level with the earth ; a new and vigorous growth of leaves follows, 
which, in the autumn, is held together, and hilled like Celery to 
blanch. It is then covered with a little litter, and in six weeks the 
blanching process will be over, and it may be cooked with drawn 
butter, or in various other ways, which are described in cookery 
books. In this state it is called Artichoke Chard. 

The Jerusalem Artichoke is another species of plant, is good food 



KITCHEN-OABDEN. 407 

for cattle and hogs, and, if cultivated for this purpose will yield 
large and profitable crops, and some persons think, is superior to 
the common Potato for the table. 

There are several varieties of the Artichokes, some of which, 
produced by French gardeners, have verj large heads. The globe 
is the one most used as food in England, and the best for a novice in 
culture to tiy. Others aro the oval, or conical, the dwarf, globe, 
etc 

The seed of the Artichoke seldom ripens in England, but freely 
on the continent of Europe, and on our own, in favorable and waro^ 
exposures. The hed may be made from seed, or slips, or eyes, or 
from dividing the tubers themselves. 

The suckers, or slips, are taken from the old roots as soon as 
they have formed some roots. The best way to take them, is to 
remove a little of the earth from the old tuber, and thus seeing the 
exact position of the slip, to cut off a small piece of the tuber with 
it. The suckers should be taken when from 12 to 15 inches high, 
with caro not to injure the leaves ; plant them in rows 4 feet apart, 
sets 2 feet apart ; water till they are well established. The new 
sets will produce heads the first season, but not so early, or so large 
as the old ones. Keep the ground well stirred, then cut out all the 
suckers that rise in the spring, except the three or four best. Cut 
the crop when matured, as it weakens the plant to allow it to 
fiower, and, when the head is cut, remove the stem down to the 
root ^ 

In the autumn, when the heads are all gone, cov^r the bed with 
horse manure and tan. Early in the spring dig it in carefully, 
so as not to injure the crowns of the plants, and also dig plenty of 
manuro into the alleys. The Artichoke is a gross feeder, and the 
roots run deep, so that the ground should be well enriched before 
making the bed. Salt in large quantities, and wood-ashes are 
found to contribute largely to the growth and development of these 
plants. 

If you wish to save any of the heads for future use, cut off with 
them, 3 or 4 feet of stem ; set them in a dark cellar in damp sand, 
and every day draw them out, and cut off a small bit of the stem; 
they will thus continue to absorb moisture' for a long time. 



408 MABCH. 

You may divide the old roots if jou choose, instead of taking off 
suckers ; this can be done anj* time after the buds have fairlj be- 
gun to grow. But it is thought bj manj that such plants never 
thrive as well as the suckers. 

The Jerusalem Artichoke, HelimUhtu tuberosus, is cut into ejes 
for planting, or set like Potatoes, and planted in well-manured 
ridges, 3 feet apart, and 8 inches between the sets, covered 3 inches 
deep ; cultivated through the season, and dug either in the fall of 
the same jear, or the spring of the year ensuing. They are so 
hardy that they would endure our winters with no, or but a slight, 
covering. In digging, only the largest tubers are selected for use, 
the others being returned to the earth for the next year's crop, and 
a field once planted, will keep itself in bearing for several years, 
and will yield as abundantly as Potatoes. Many persons in Europe 
use them for the table constantly and with great relish. 

Gardoons are much prized on the continent of Europe, and 
somewhat used in England. The footstalk, as well as the midrib 
of the leaves, is used for stewing, soups, and even Salads, in au- 
tumn and winter. They require blanching, to make them tender, 
and to remove bitterness. Of course the longer the stems the 
better, the more rapidly grown the more tender, and the better 
blanched the more attractive they bec^ome. For cooking, the solid 
part of the stem is cut into lengths of 6 inches, and boiled in pure 
fresh water until tender; then remove the slime and strings which 
will cover the pieces, wash them dean, put in fresh cold water 
until wanted, then eat with white sauce, etc., as Artichokes. 

This plant is a perennial in the south of Europe,.but an annual 
elsewhere ; it is sown every year in hotbeds in March, and out of 
doors in May. They would not be sure to do well in our climate, 
unless, like Celeiy, started in a hotbed. Sow in thumb-pots, or in 
bits of sod. Two ounces of seed will sow a bed of 82 square feet. 
Plants in pots may be set 14 inches apart in the rows, which 
should be 4 or 5 feet apart. The beds must be well manured be- 
fore the plants are set out, which they should be like Celery, when 
18 inches high. Tie them to stakes 3 feet high, to prevent the 
leaves from breaking. Earth up at the same time, and continue 
to earth gradually as the leaves grow. Water should be supplied 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 409 

abundantly, and always, if possible, enriched with manure. They 
will be ready for use in the autumn and through the winter, like 
Celery; treat it in the same manner, to protect it from cold 
weather. 

Endive is a salad plant of the Chicory family, like the Lettuce. 
It is sown in July or August, for winter use. Sow the seeds in 
beds, broadcast Stimulate the growth of the plants as much as 
possible by liquid manure ; when 2^ inches high, prick out small 
kinds in rich soil, 4 inches apart ; water till they begin to grow. 

An early crop may be sown in May, and pricked out amongst 
Peas, Cabbage, etc. ; but few should be grown at a time, as the warm 
weather stimulates the production of flower and seed stems. Large 
kinds are to be planted 10 to 12 inches apart, in rich soil, in rows, 
12 to 15 inches apart As it is to grow late, the bed should slope to 
the south, to get the late sun. The Endive is to be blanched to make 
it perfect As it blanches with some rapidity, do not prepare more 
than 6 or 8 days' supply at a time. Begin at the end of the row, 
and holding the leaves close together ; tie a strand of matting 
around them, at the same time heaping up the earth. When the 
weather is cold, or not favorable for blanching in this way, use a 
blanching-pot Invert a flower-pot over the plant, covering the 
hole in the bottom of the pot with a stone. An Endive pot is 
better. The knob at the top renders it easy 
to handle, and its flare encloses all the leaves. 
When planted late. Endive comes into use 
just before winter, and with care may be 
made a winter Salad. Tie up the leaves, 
raise the plant with a ball of earth, and set iti 
out in a dry and cool place, like the conserv- 
ative pit If it is to be depended upon for Salad, a cold pit or 
frame should be constructed on purpose. It bears a good deal of 
cold, and is a valuable adjunct to a winter table. It may be eaten 
boiled, if desired, as may Lettuce also, but must be blanched in 
either case. 

Succory, another plant of the same family, and indeed the type 
of the family, is also very valuable, both as a Salad and for its 
35 




410 MARCH. 

roots, which are psed to adulterate coffee, and for other purposes. 
The seeds of Sucoorj are sowed in June, in rich earth ; wlien tbe 
plants come up, thin in the rows 6 inches apart. By the beginning 
of October, the roots will be well grown ; they are then taken up 
and packed away for use. It is a perennial, and, like Carrots and 
Beets, it has stowed away in itself the material for a grofrth csf 
leaves. If the blanched leaves are wanted in the early winter, 
set the roots as thickly as possible in a hotbed frame ; pack sand 
amongst them. A few weeks before they are wanted, lay a^rer 
their crowns 6 or 8 inches of loam, and a foot of mannre. The 
leaves soon shoot into this earth, and become white and crisp, and 
ready for use. They may also be packed horizontally in boxes^ 
covered with earth, and set in a warm cellar ; before spring tliej 
will be found to have grown, and to be beautifully blanched. Or 
a cask of any kind may be bored with holes 1^ inches in diameter, 
and S inches apart ; insert roots all round, horizontally ; cover with 
earth, and make a new boring and a new layer of roots ; continue 
till the cask is full. Fill several in the same way, and set them 
in a cold place. When you want the Salad, ren\ove one cask at a 
time into a warm place, and follow in a week or two by another ; 
the temperature to be from 40^ to 60^. The leaves are to be cut 
when 7 to 8 inches long, taking a thin slice of the crown. To be 
eaten with oil, vinegar, and salt. Three handfuLs will make a good 
Salad. 

Dandelions are grown for our markets ; the seed is sown in May, 
the plants tended till winter, when they are covered up, and they 
start very early in the spring, giving larger and better Salad than 
the wild plants. It is eaten abroad, blanched like Succory. 

Mustard is more generally used for Salad than any other of this 
fiunily of plants. The varieties are numerous, but all are culti- 
vated in the same manner. The plant is used when in the cotyle- 
don state ; the two first leaves thrown up by the seed. Sow it 
every three or four days, and set in such places as will insure the 
most rapid growth, 

Some London gardeners have the floors of hothouses covered 
with tan, and sprinkle the seed on every other day, thus keeping a 



KITCH£N*6ARD£X. 411 

constant supplj. The plants are cut when 3 inches high, tied in 
bunches, rinsed, and put on the table. Soaking in water injures all 
Salads of this family. The seed may be sown, for private use, in 
shallow boxes, and set in a warm but shaded place. 

Cresses are various in kind ; the Water and Winter Cress are the 
ordinary kinds. Water Cress may be got by sowing the seed in 
any moderately still running water, or by laying branches of the 
plant on the surface, which will mature and spread their seed. 
They should be gathered young and eaten at once. 

Winter Cress is grown from seed sown in drills, in August ; half 
an ounce of seed will sow 20 feet of drill. As the plants grow, 
pick off the outside leaves for use, cut the flower stems down as 
they appear. A very slight protection will carry through the win- 
ter, the plants being thinned out in the autumn to prevent damp- 
ing off. 

Sea-kale is a Salad much used in Europe, and very valuable in 
all scorbutic diseases. The blanched shoots, and the midribs of the 
leaves are the parts eaten, and when ready for food, they are 
cooked like Cardoons. It may be grown from seed or from cut- 
tings of the root. Seed should be sown late in April, in drills 2 
inches deep, and 6 or 8 inches apart. Two ounces of seed will 
sow a bed of 32 square feet, broad-cast, or in drills a foot apai*t 
The seed is very apt to be imperfect, but this may be easily ascer- 
tained by cutting them across ; the good ones will be plump and 
solid. 

When the seed vegetates, keep it clear, and when large enough, 
thin the plants to a foot apart ; the plants removed, may be trans- 
planted ; only one bud should be allowed to grow, although several 
will appear, particularly on plants which come from cuttings of the 
root AU summer, and through the fall, the plants are kept well 
hoed ; before winter cut them all over, and cover with straw or 
manure. 

The young plants have very few fibrous roots, and a long tap 
root They are, therefore, easily set with a long wooden dibble, 3^ 
feet long with a handle at the top, and a cross piece as a guage, 
from 9 to 12 inches from its point, but made so as to shifl for shorter 



412 



MAECtt. 




I nxjti! llian ihi^, which is their ayemge length* Tlie lo 
part should be S^ inches in diameter, (iipentin: to 2 int 
at an ohtuse point. The holes should be made hy one ti 
guided hy a Hne» and I'oUowed by another man with 
root^, which may be rapidly &et in tlie hoie^t thb soil li 
in by a pres^nre of the foot* The young plants left eovt 
in I be fall, wilt i>tart Lo grow very early in Ihe spring 
may he forced, Before forcing, remove ihe leaves luid 
ter, then salt the bed well, and fiyrlnge, or water wii 
I caustic lime-water, to kill ^lugsi, snails, etc* Cover 
crowns of the phmts with an inch or two of fine sand j over 
tops of the plnnt*^^ set Sea-kale pots, wl 
differ from t!ke Cardoon pot^ only in havir 
cover. Cover around the pots enough ferra' 
ing maierialj as hoi*se maimre, to rai^e tht* t 
pemture of the bed lo about 00°* In ^1% 
seven week^, ilie pota will be full of the pi 
The covers are necessary to enable us to 
amine the growth and bedtb of llie j^lants. Varioui^ other t 
trivances are reported to, but none ii* so good as this. Boxe^ i 
ered with laths^and all siniilar arriingemcnts admit the gases of 
manure into the plants and injure them. 

T!ie plants to be forced in the hotbed, are tjiken up in the 
tumn, and kept cool and dry till ihe time for forcing. Open a 
bed frame, and till as usual with manure ; then cover- with eno 
cartli to allow ihe roots to be set within 2 incheii of their dej 
cut across the length of the bed, a li^nch, into which pack the r 
as thick as possible ; cut another trench 5 inches from the ] 
and so on, uniil the bed is fnlh Cover the crowns with six in< 
of straw t over the bed.s^ nail hoops covered witli mats or cani 
and cover the whole with straw* In this way an enormous qnar 
may he forced at once* Five well-gmw^n heads are an ample i 
ply for a family at one time. The roots may also be forcet 
directed for Cardoon s» 

Whoever has a glass house of any kind, has opportunity to r 
an unlimited supply of winter vegetables. Musitiird may be s 




KITCHEN-GARDEN. 418 

on the floor ; Sea-kale and Cardoons may be forced and blanched 
under tables, and along the flues, and Lettuce and Endive forced 
under the sashes. 

Borecole is another vegetable for winter and spring, much es- 
teemed wherever the winters are moderate. It is a Cabbage-like 
plant, but does not head like a Cabbage, nor blossom like the 
Cauliflower. The crown, or centre of the plant is cut out in 
November, and continues in use through the winter, and if well 
protected by branches and litter, the stump will yield an abundance 
of delicate shoots in the spring. In character and treatment it is 
like the Cabbage. 

Broccoli is the last of these vegetables, not in common use, which 
I shall mention at present It is used in winter and spring, when 
Cauliflower is not easily obtained, and the best varieties can hardly 
be distinguished from Cauliflower by the taste. Broccoli is grown 
from seed. Sow the seed in lines two feet apart, in holes two inches 
apart Drop three seeds in each hole ; when they come up, thin 
out all but the best plant. For early use, sow the first of May ; 
for autumn, last of May ; for winter, last of June. 

Do not transplant unless necessaiy, as it induces the plant to 
button, t.6., run up prematurely in small flower-stems and buds ; as 
the plants grow, tread the earth hard about their roots. The first 
of November dig a trench through the warmest part of the garden ; 
take up all the plants which are expected to blossom in the early 
spring, and plant them out against the sloping bank of earth above 
the trench ; then cover the roots up to the lower leaves with earth. 
The plants will root in this position, and yet not grow much before 
spring. As winter comes on, cover the tops with litter, not deeply ; 
remove it toy give light and air, whenever the weather will permit 
But be sure so to shelter the heads of the plants that the rain and 
snow will be shed off them, as otherwise they will rot. 

The full-grown plants may be set in a cold pit, or preserved, as I 
have hitherto directed, for Celery. It is somewhat doubtful 
whether plants preserved in trenches would always survive the 
weather in this climate, as they would be deprived of light and air 
in the severest season, but in moderate weather their success is 
35* 



414 



MARCH. 



certain, and in the Middle or Southern States they woald need no 
litter over their heads. 

Cauliflowers may be readily protected and forced, where there is 
a good conservative pit, or a greenhouse. The seed should be 
sown in seedbeds, the middle of August As soon as well grown, 
prick them out 4 inches apart, in a cold frame ; when -well 
started cool and check growth as much as possible. Cover at the 
approach of winter ; give light and air when possible, and towards 
spring put on the sashes, and induce growth. When the weather 
allows, transplant to a warm spot, and cover with a bell-glass, like 
the Endive pot, except in its material. 

The cut shows a still better protection. The bottom is a quad- 
rilateral of strong glass, set in an iron 
sash, four panes each side. An iron 
rebated edge is added to the top, into 
which a pyramidal cover is fitted of 
glass, in an iron frame. This cover 
can be removed at pleasure. By partly 
turning it we may give air, without too 
great exposure. If planted near a 
wall or close fence, they may be protected by mats or covers. For 
late sunmier use they may be sown in the hotbed this month, and 
in the open ground early in May ; they will blossom in September. 
They are easy to grow, needing only rich soil and good culture ; 
if they button, it is from poor soil or poor seed. The flower is 
oflen 9 inches in diameter, but this size is no proof of goodness ; 
2 or 3 inches is the best size, and the perfection of a flower 
is shown in its creamy color and smooth texture. When the flower 
has opened enough to look bunchy or warty, much of its value is 
gone. It should be cut just below the flower, and all but the in- 
nermost leaves removed. If an early frost threatens, cut with a 
long stem, and hang up, heads down, in a cool, dark shed or ceUar, 
and they may be preserved for some time. 




CHAPTER XLIX. 

ORCHARD. 

Lose no time in finishing pruning, as there will soon be other 
work to occupj the attention of the men. As you prune, be on 
the lookout for the eggs of insects. Caterpillar eggs of various 
kinds will be found glued to the forks of twigs, and canker worms 
to the twigs themselves. If the trees were not well manured in 
the fall, cart out into the orchard now an abundance of manure, 
and leave it in convenient piles about the field for ready use, and 
just as soon as the frost will allow, dig it in. 

It may seem strange to my readers that I have so oflen directed 
that manure should be lefl in piles in the open fields, when it is 
one of the principles of good farming that manure should be kept 
under cover, to prevent the evaporation of the gased, and to avoid 
the washing of rain and snow. I have not enlarged on the method 
of making manure, as it is so generally well understood. 

Manure should be mixed daily with meadow mud, sand, loam, 
or any similar material ; this absorbs the liquid portions of the 
manure, and the gases, and preserves them for the use of plants. 
I have directed that the manure heap should at times be sprinkled 
with weak sulphuric acid. This acid combines with the volatile 
gas of ammonia, one of the most valuable constituents of the ma- 
nure, and changes it into the sulphate of ammonia, which is not 
a volatile gas, but a salt, in a solid form, and soluble in water. 

Manure which has been well mixed with loam, can be affected 
but little by evaporation in winter, when the cold weather reduces 
any possible fermentation, and in every way discourages evapora- 
tion. 

It cannot be denied that rain will wash the pile, but this wash- 
ing will be less in winter, for then the manure is frozen, and yields 
less to the washing. And if the piles are made large, the loss will 

415 



416 MARCH. 

be slight, as the surface only will be affected, the great mass re- 
maining uninjured, and even this apparent loss is •not total, as it 
will fertilize the neighboring grass. 

It is true that it is better whenever it is possible, to keep the 
manure under cover, but generally the room is needed for other 
purposes, and besides, the spring work is often hurried at the last, 
and it is a great saving of time to have it all ready on the spot 
where it is to be used. There is also some land too soft to cart 
upon in an unfrozen state. 

Canker Worms. — Towards the last of this month, if the weather 
is mild, and certainly in April, the canker worms will begin to come 
out of the ground, to ascend the trees, and lay their eggs. Now is 
the time to be after them, and if every farmer will carefully attend 
to his trees, this nuisance can be effectually destroyed, and with a 
combination of farmers for this purpose, the whole race of cai>ker 
worms could be exterminated, and that of caterpillars reduced to a 
small remnant. But in every neighborhood there are always some 
slack or careless men, who will never unite with others for any 
good purpose, and their negligence results in injury to themselves 
and their neighbors. 

The canker worm can be destroyed only by care. The male is 
a miller^ and flies where he choses, — whilst the female crawls. 
The egg being laid on the twigs of a tree, hatches, and the insect 
eats its fill, and after a time lowers itself into the ground, where it 
is transformed into a male or female worm. As soon as the frost 
is out of the soil in the spring, or during the mild weather in Oc- 
tober and November, they come to the surface, the females crawl, 
and the males fly, to the nearest* tree. Up the tree they go, and 
on their passage the females are sought and fertilized by the male. 
Having ascended the tree, they lay their eggs and die. The method 
of their destruction is simple. 

Surround the stem of the tree with some trap into which they 
may fall, or in which they may stick. The simplest plan is to tie 
tight round the but of a tree, a piece of tarred paper. Smear the 
paper with common coal tar, or some of the patent canker worm 
destroyers. They are aU liquid, and a combination of tar and 



OBGHABD. 417 

grease, which will remain for a long time soft in the air. The 
females crawl into it, and stick there. By renewing the prepara- 
tion every few days daring the season of their emergence, they 
may all be caught Some of the eggs may not have hatched, 
either in the tree or on the ground, and will keep over till the next 
season, so that the work must be repeated every ML and spring for 
three years. At the end of that time the worms will be thor- 
oughly exterminated, and it will be many years before another 
horde can arrive at the same place. 

There are various canker worm traps, each of which has its 
merits, and once applied, some of them need no farther care for 
the season ; but I should discountenance all which are bound tight 
round the tree for more than a few months at a time, as they will 
surely prevent its expansion and growth, and do serious harm. 
The cheap plan that I have described is harmless and efficient ; 
more expensive and less unsightly methods may be adopted by 
those who prefer them. 

This protection against the attacks of canker-worms and cater- 
pillars, brings us directly to the -general subject of the removal of 
insects and their eggs from the surface of trees. 

The most common practice among gardeners and amateurs is, in 
the spring of each year to go round with a triangular scraper, to 
curry doum all the trees in the orchard and ornamental grounds, 
whose rough bark seems to harbor insects. After being scraped as 
smooth and round as possible, the trees are covered with a wash of 
lime, mud, or cement, to cover the torn bark, and fiuther to eradi- 
cate the insects. This practice is nearly universal, and supported 
by very illogical reasoning. 

Tou will remember that I have before directed that the trees and 
vines cultivated under glass, should be washed with soft soap, sul- 
phur, etc, before vegetation begins, and also that some of them 
should sometimes be bathed in spirits of tar, to remove the eggs 
and the young of thrips, red spiders, etc 

This direction was given, because the eggs of all these insects 
are laid upon the outside of the bark, or in its crevices, and may 
be thus destroyed, and because the insects themselves are destruc- 
tive to the trees when under glass, hui not when out of doors. 



418 MARCH. 

This sound horticultural practice, together with the strength of a 
certain authority, has led to scraping and washing. 

Those who have the charge of the trees on Boston Common annii- 
allj scrape every £lm, and other rough-barked tree, and then plaster 
them. This treatment of ornamental trees seems to have originated 
in the false reasoning of some Boston theorist, and has spread far and 
wide, from the weight of the great example, among the smaller 
towns. The reasoning seems to be that it would not be done in 
Boston if it were not right ; and that if it is right for Boston, it is 
right for every place. The conclusion would be well enough, if 
the premises were correct ; but it is neither right for Boston trees 
nor any other trees, and it cannot be proved that any tree out of a 
fruithouse was ever benefited by such application. 

This wholesale denial may seem rash to those who advocate 
scraping, but I believe it to be incontrovertible. The good 
effects of the practice in the fruithouse, liave joined with a 
misapprehension about the meaning of a common natural phe- 
nomenon to encourage the tree-scraping. This phenomenon is 
the abundance of Lichens and Mosses of various kinds on all 
diseased trees, whether in cultivated grounds or not. These para- 
sites being the constant accompaniments of disease in trees^ have 
been supposed to be the cause of the disease, when in fact they are 
merely the consequence. It would be as reasonable to aasnme 
that the hurried pulse, and hot, red skin of scarlet fever are the 
cause of the disease, and to practise for their removal accordingly. 
They are the symptoms and consequences of the fever, which de- 
part with it ; and the same is true of the parasites, of those at 
least which are at all harmful. But let us take up this question 
methodically, and examine separately each of the supposed bene- 
fits of the scraping process. Its advocates claim that it removes 
from trees destructive insects and injurious parasites. 

First, the insects. -Many nests of eggs, and sometimes insects 
themselves, may be found in the rough bark of any tree in the 
spring, and scraping and washing would probably kill them. But 
examination of these eggs has proved again and again that thej 
are the eggs and larvae of spiders, and other insects, not known to 
be materially injurious to vegetation. The insects which really 



OBCHARD. 419 

make the bark a screen for attacks on the tree are tree-borers and 
wood-wasps, which go through the bark at once into the wood, and 
can only be killed with a wire, as before directed, and anotlier 
borer, which goes under the bark, and cannot be reached till the 
entire thickness of bark is removed. The woolly-aphis and bark- 
louse lay eggs on the bark, near the roots, and in the forks of the 
branches, but never accumulate in sufficient numbers to harm the 
tree, and certainly need not be scraped for where they do not exist. 
AU other insects that really injure trees, such as canker-worms and 
caterpillars, lay their eggs on the tvngs^ and in the forks of the snuUl 
branches^ or on and under the leaves ; in these situations it is, of 
course, impossible to reach them by scraping. 

I do not give this more in detail, becaiuse I think it foolish to 
write at length about things with regard to which any candid reader 
may satisfy himself by a slight investigation. 

The insects so injurious to trees and vines under glass, almost 
never attack a tree or vine in the open air, unless under some pecu- 
liar circumstances, which would not be affected by scraping and 
washing. 

Lay it down, then, as a rule in your horticultural practice, that 
no tree is to be thus treated for the removal or prevention of in- 
sects. 

Second, parasites. Driven from the untenable ground that 
scraping saves the tree from destructive insects, our opponents fall 
back with confidence on the assertion that no more certain means 
can be contrived to remove parasites. 

The bark of every tree is the home of different Lichens, Mosses, 
Liverworts, which may be included under the name of parasites, 
and, moreover, different trees support different and peculiar species, 
which as surely mark the variety of tree as do the fruit and flower. 
Now what is the value of the bark to the tree ? 

We have already settled that the inside bark alone is actively 
engaged in supporting the tree, that the outside bark is dead and 
almost entirely disconnected with the inner and sap-transmitting 
layer ; that it grows thicker as the tree grows older, till in some 
trees, like the Cork Oak, White Oak, Shell-bark Hickory, it be- 
comes so useless as to be thrown off by the action of the elements, 



420 KABOH. 

in strips and fragments of various sizes. The innumerable pai»- 
sites which lire upon the bark, are all nourished hj roots of same 
kind, — whether real roots or a root surfiiee to the under side of 
the frond, — but of all the multitude only a Tery small number 
ever penetrate — by roots or otherwise — to the inner and liring 
sap-bark, and none of these are found to injure healthy trees, ob 
which they never largely spread. The only parasites which pene- 
trate to the inner bark (like the tunea bcsrbala) make their i^peaiw 
ance on trees that have begun to deteriorate, and as the tree grows 
more unhealthy, they increase in number. They are the luutj 
pulse and red skin of the fever patient. Will it cure the sick tree 
to scrape them off? 

The currying process^ then, is inefficient as regards the removal 
or prevention of destructive insects, and there is no need of it to 
remove parasites. It does no good. Let us see whether it does 
no harm. 

The outer bark serves a useful purpose to the tree, thou^ it 
carries no sap which the parasite can intercept and appropriate; 
it is a clothing for protection against heat and cold, both to those 
trees on which it grows rough and loose, and to those where it be- 
comes closer, harder, more condensed with each successive season, 
as is the case with the Smooth-barked Hickories, the Maples, and 
Lindens. The rough bark is like the wool of sheep, the smoother, 
denser bark, like the skin of men. If any farther illustration is 
needed, it may be found in the fabrics we select for our winter 
clothing, thick, non-conducting materials. This half-dead, outer 
bark protects the inner bark and wood against heat and cold ; pre- 
vents the early spring sun from overheating them ; protects the 
sap that has begun to stir from the night frost, which would freeze 
it, and so burst the sap vessels ; and is equally and for the same 
reason useful in the fall. 

Now scrape a tree all over, reducing the thickness of the baik 
appreciably, and just so much do you reduce its clothing, natures 
shield, just so much do you expose the tree to injury. 

Again, this outer bark is a protection against excessive evaponir 
tion. We have already considered the pores by which leaves ab- 
sorb and exhale moisture. In a similar way young or tender bark 



OBCHABD. 421 

takes in or gives out moisture, the degree differing with local cir- 
cumstances and the habits of the plant. The Sunflower, and all 
plants which grow in constantly wet places, evaporate largely 
through their skin and bark, and the microscope shows that they 
do this by means of the breathing pores of which the outer layer 
or epidermis of their skin is full. The Cactus, and other plants 
which grow where there are alternate floods and droughts, have 
very few of these breathing pores in their epidermis ; they evap- 
orate but slowly. To use a common phrase, their outer bark or 
skin is dose grained, that of the former class loose grained. 

The same difference is found in the outer bark of the young and 
old plants of any species, to correspond to the activity of evapora- 
tion (as of all other processes) in early life^ and its gradual dimi- 
nution, and to the increase of leaves. 

Obviously it is not intended by nature that there should be much 
evaporation from the bark of trees. Their inner bark is of open 
texture, and will evaporate freely if exposed ; so it is covered by 
a layer which evaporates almost nothing. Trees transplanted 
from the deep forest, even if they have an abundance of roots and 
the best care, into the open land, are very liable to die, and the 
few that live are years in getting strength, and making any appre- 
ciable growth. These trees are in all respects like those grown in 
open land, excepting that having been protected by the surround- 
ing forest, they have never needed to acquire that closeness — or 
thickness — and hardness of outer bark which alone can defend a 
tree in the open land against heat and cold, drying wind and sun. 
The forest tree, never visited by searching winds and scorching 
sun, evaporates more of its waste moisture through the bark than 
the ixee in the field ; it must, for it needs to perspire more than it 
can do through its somewhat scanty leaves, bathed in the moist 
forest air ; accordingly the pores of its bark are adjusted and used 
for perspiration. When this tree is removed to open land, where 
the air is dry, the sun hot, the wind free, it evaporates . too much 
through its bark, and must make a new bark to meet the emer- 
gency. 

A tree whose protecting bark has been scraped off, so that its 
tender inner bark is exposed, will evaporate moisture like the 

36 



422 MABCH. 

transplanted forest tree, and its consequent soffering will be in 
proportion to the extent of the scraping. 

To the scraping succeeds the wash, sometimes of mucl, with no 
particular character, and doing no harm except by its disgostiDg 
unsightiiness ; sometimes of alkalies. Dip jour hand in a vessel 
of lime or potash water ! Even if jou remove it at onoe it feels 
slipperj ; the alkali has eaten away some of it, turned it into 
soap. Keep it there long enough, and it will be reduced to soft 
r>oap. Substitute for your hand a piece of wood ; it will soon be 
rotted. 

The advocates of scraping, not content with cutting off a large 
part of the bark, which nature provides, follow with an alkaline 
wash, to rot more ; they say that this wash is to neutralize the 
acids in the bark, which nourish parasites. What did nature pat 
the acid there for ? To be removed by men ? If so, why are not the 
trees in woods and forests, in places un visited by men, destitute of 
acids, as they cannot be relieved of them, and must, therefore, be 
predestined to ruin ? How foolish such a theory ! As we have 
seen, parasites do no harm, and we have no excuse for robbing 
\hem of their food. 

Lichens and Moss a Benefit. — So much for the harm done 
to the tree by this process, for the loss which may result to your 
pocket Another loss is certain to result, that of the exquisite 
beauty which dwells in the parasites. 

Not even the leaves, or the tracery of the branches, or the 
grand simplicity of the stems contribute more to the beauty of 
the tree, than these parasites, by their color and form. 

Visit the noblest trees you know, and carefully examine them in 
detail, to determine the elements of their beauty, which combined 
give the tree its general effect and charm, form and color ; color 
of leaves, of wood, of bark ; color not merely positive and single, 
the same at all times, but changing, varying, sometimes brilliant, 
sometimes dull, but always harmonious and attractive. When 
flooded with sunlight, the local color of bark and parasites is lost 
in general light and shade. Then the irregular cracks and crevices 
in the bark, the roughness and variety of surface, seem the charm 




< 
flu 

H 
O 



:Ei 

s 

(b 



s 



o 

S 

as 

?5 



O 
M 



1 »»jl* 


.-i"H, 


l/j- 


5'.*'IJ \\ 


II «. 


rrH i 


<l(>ii 


1. 


tliv 




tUf 


^ 



oacHABD. 423 

•• • ^tein. tr,.l juakc ilk iiistiK «^'' '.' . . t ».. 
r. ! 1. i!. tiwiitf >U'm veenis ;u i../« .* .<• • 
ri. i ;.<♦,' Mj .- ni (ifif Uijjl (►! I,W-Kij...i 
.!i » J. • .ii-v the puij.lj-. yi il'. .. ;. » • 

I . --iiit', U's if '..' • I ..« !• 

^ .:.v** ''\i*' ■ ii • J "I" *'.'' •' •• »• 
. 'I •• ..*■> 111. ^'- ) « t I - ■ • 

,. :,^ t.. .. ... K' .. . 

■.'.:. mI :t i • ■ . • 

:. 1, il-- ii!.. . .»■ 

. •••■• iinl • i' . ;i/. t ' ■ 

b-- ' • •. .'^ w: ...... :. ;, .... 

• i.-^ 1.- !'.%'• .. v\ . . ^, ,, . .J » . . 

i '. t ' ■ '. Ji.i i'"' - ' ii'. ii •*.,.. .•' • ■•• • 

lii • . • y :*!•• ii'i.. ..'.?» i-'«,/ I . .... 

al"' ■ . i»« M.''i.t^'!t ii# ' . •..• -' . •'../ 

i.' . » i«»r lli'iii Pi ''. l!i::,' i •■•• . •« - . \. 

.'•- oi' v«»^('l.i , ...» a-k \.ji i.« •' !j- 

' •» t .-iV -'ill'. {|'« ". i»« -:L «►!» .* ' ♦ . .♦•■ 

■ f <h-.,>. .: .-. . .. i. ! ^ . - ^r , . ^i 

' i vvifh 1m 111* ; il *^ "if . * - ;. ! - ««t 

' • ^'f-h <'«»»' ...f . .»••« It Mt . •:•»•, ..|. 

•.'iiuty. hikI (ir.j.i^<' .ij il u u il ,«♦ w ' ..!■ '!'i- 
. ..'lor. w'll •., :, '!. :/ « «*!» rl • j.'.i.r -.»«. j^ti-- 

. ••,, ''h P , ;■, .'Hjiirioi; '.'.' if 1- It ".jr ),l>» 

. . • m. l«'r oil- • "l th.-U WMU'li \vt- )..'(»vi,|,.,l to 
. i.ii. 'i. 

•ij I '^'.'-.i.. :v -I <. it' all • tn «! .iiui).. • ^ mi<l 
• '•! ,»•: ii''»-. ■>'.;- «{.» riM 11 ftj)»'ini tiu.. iivn money 



O&CHASD. 423 

of the stem, and make themselves felt. On a cloudj day, or after 
a rain, the same stem seems ablaze with a color and beauty of its 
own. The grays of one kind of Lichen are but a background to set 
forth and relieve the purples, yellows, and oranges of others ; the 
variety and subtle shading of color bewitch the eye. It seems in 
one spot, or on one side, as if the sun were shining, or rather as if the 
Lichen were gazing like the moon on the sun; which is veiled from 
us, and reproducing for us his glory. This color is no definite and 
definable thing, which may be seen and appreciated by all alike ; to 
catch its full charm one needs a discerning and cultivated eye, and 
the more that eye is exercised, the finer our sense of color becomes, 
the greater our admiration and love for its exquisite beauty, until 
we are so lost in it as to be in danger of merging the greater in the 
less, worshipping the beauty of color, to the exclusion of the other 
charms of the tree. This love grows with exercise, and new fields 
of pleasure open before it, till those who indulge it really see colors 
in the clouds, the air, the earth, in the Mosses, Lichens, and leaves, 
unseen and unimagined by the common crowd. They never walk 
alone or unoccupied, they have sunlight in the cloudiest day, and 
the common sunlight has for them more than a common glory. , 

The forms of this class of vegetation are as varied and bewitch- 
ing as its colors. You may study them best on a rock covered — 
as rocks often are — with Lichens, starred with Liverworts, fringed 
with Mosses, and garlanded with Ferns ; it will give you hours of 
delight, and put you to the blush for having been so long ignorant 
of, or dead to, their value and charms. 

Scrape a tree or a rock (as well one as the other), and you ruth- 
lessly remove all this beauty, and despise and ruin that which the 
Creator delighted to honor, without getting even the poor satisfac- 
tion of a money return. We are the worst of iconoclasts ; we de- 
siToy all this beauty upon the mere suspicion that it is injurious, 
and we rudely trample under our feet that which was provided to 
feed and develop our minds. 

The question then naturally arises, if all natural analogies and 
facts are against this practice, why do men spend time and money 
upon it ? Do no benefits arise ? 



424 MABCH. 

The argument that << what i& sauce for the goose, is sauoe hr the 
gander/' is at the bottom of this mistake, leading to the i4>plicatioD 
to ornamental trees, of the processes that have been thought bene- 
ficial to fruit trees, forgetting the £act that the finest specimens of 
ornamental trees are those discovered bj explorers in places befive 
unvisited, the spontaneous growth of unscraped, unwashed nature. 

But what is the fiu;t with regard to fruit trees ? Has even this 
argument, poor as it is, any ground to start from ? 

I maintain that no diseased tree of anj kind, has ever been bet- 
tered bj mere scraping and washing. The first thing that a wise 
hortici^turist does to such a tree, is to prune it, cutting out cue- 
fiillj, all decayed and worthless wood ; next, he digs about it, and 
manures it 

The pruning, especially if he cuts off the top of the tree as well 
as the dead branches, will give the remaining wood all the sap that 
before feebly nourished the whole, and, accordingly, the roots be- 
come invigorated, the branches start with a new growth, huger and 
healthy leaves burst out, which in turn, make the sap better, and 
develop new roots, the tree grows and flourishes, and, no longer af- 
fonding food to those parasites that fed on its decay, they gradually 
fall away, together with its old, rough bark. The digging and 
manuring hasten this process, and a horticultural victory is achieved. 
And this, without the labor and expense of scrapings and with no 
risk of injury to the delicate inner bark, by exposing it to sun and 
wind and frost 

In conclusion, let me recapitulate : — 

1st, Insects. — No insects which harbor in the outer bark of 
trees, and can be removed by scraping and washing, are really in- 
jurious to the tree. All injurious insects either go below the bark, 
and into the wood, or are hatched from eggs laid on the twigs and 
small branches. 

2d, Parasites, — No parasite, injurious to the tree, will fix upon 
it, unless it has become enfeebled by age or disease, and the tree 
cannot be cured by their violent removal. All other parasites are 
put on the bark by nature, to make it more beautiful, and it is a 
violation of the laws of good taste to remove them. 



ORCHARD. 425 

3d. — No tree has ever been with certamty benefited by scrap- 
ing and washing, and it is an expensive process, and likelj to in- 
jure the tree by exposing the delicate inner bark. 

4th. — Any practice in horticulture, or agriculture, which vio- 
lates nature's laws, without undeniable advantage, is bad gardening, 
and bad fanning, and a discredit to those who practise it 

The month of March is so near the growing season, that the 
demands of the orchard for the year to come must be well con- 
sidered. We have on our place no new orcharding to plant, no 
trees to replace, as our orchards are aU young or in their prime, 
but were we about making a new plantation, too much care and 
attention could hardly be paid, at this season, to a careful selection 
of the best kinds of trees. If you are planning the cultivation of 
fruit, remember the point continually urged ; *it is not so much the 
quantity of fruit that is to be sought, as its quality ; its size, color, 
delicacy of flavor. Grow those fruits which will ripen at such 
times as the market is generaUy bare of fruit Every neighbor- 
hood is overstocked with fruit in the late summer and early au- 
tumn, and consequently such fruit is of small value, and much of it 
really does not pay for its raising. 

Winter apples come into the same category ; the large profits of 
the earliest orchards induced the planting of many more, until they 
have become so common, that in good Apple years they are hardly 
profitable. 

I do not mean to discourage the planting of orchards, but only 
to point out the necessity of a judicious selection of fruit Those 
Apples which keep late will always command better prices than 
others, and of course the same is true of the earliest ones. 

There are other kinds of fruit culture much more profitable than 
that of Apples. I mean the Peach and the Pear. It is true that 
in New England the Peach-tree has deteriorated very much of late 
years, and it is thought by many that it is not worth while to cul- 
tivate it ; but a little observation, as we have before seen, of the 
eanses of their degeneration, may show how it may be prevented. 

In the first place, many cultivators have been too grasping, and 
have grown grass in their Peach-orchards, which has of course 
drawn off nourishment from the trees. 
36* 



426 MABCH. 

Secondlj, they have left them unpraned, and allowed them to 
remain unchecked, except bj the frost, so that the unripened wood 
has staid on the ti*ee, weakening it the next year, and injuring tlie 
new wood and the fruit. 

Thirdly, they have let the tree bear as much fruit as it would, 
and this always renders it small and imperfect 

In the neighborhood of Boston, however, persons who have 
Peach-orchards of well-selected varieties, and well taken care of, 
have for several years past made a profit of several hundred dol- 
lars an acre, without any extra expense. 

Pears, however, offer a more certain return than Peaches, as the 
latter are oflen injured by late frosts in the spring. There is a 
great variety of Pears, but few kinds are really valuable, and the 
value of these varies very much with latitude and longitude. 

As we have said before, the latest fruit is most certainly remu- 
nerative. Common Iron Pears, which grow abundantly in hedge- 
rows, are as valuable in the spring as the most delicate kinds in 
summer and autumn. But there are better winter Pears than the 
Iron, as for instance, the Easter Buerre, which is fit for the table 
in March, when it sells for very great prices. 

The great profit from the growth of Pears, arises not only from 
their large price, but fix)m the abundant production of fruit to the 
acre. Alternating two dwarfs with one standard, in the row, the 
trees being 12 feet apart, the standards will be 36 feet from each 
other. Then place the rows 20 feet apart, and set the trees so that 
the standards of the second row will each come opposite the middle 

of the space between the standards 
^ * * ® of the first row, and of course the 

middle of the space between two 
dwarfs, and so on. This arrange- 
^ ^ g ^ ment will allow 221 trees to the acre, 

and of these, one-third will be stand- 
ards. 

These trees ought always to yield, 

g d ^ 8 after well growing, at least two dosen 

Pears to the tree, which will neyer 



ORCHARD. 427 

be worth less than 50 cents a dozen, and often one or two doUarii. 
At the lowest price, the fruit will bring $221. This ought to be 
the receipts within four years of their setting out Apples will 
not bear two barrels per tree, worth $1 net a barrel, for ten or fif- 
teen years. 

Bat if the trees are planted in the improperly called Quincunx 
manner, as shown on page 107 of Tho3. W. Field's Pear Culture, 
and 10 feet apart in the rows, and the rows 10 feet apart, not less 
than 473 trees can be easily, properly and profitably grown to the 
acre ; 8 feet apart as I have said, will suffice in rich land for Pears 
on the Quince stock, and 12 feet is enough for all kinds. Pears 
demand, as a sine qua non, a deep, friable, rich, well-drained soil, 
and constant care and culture, when they will certainly pay the 
cultivator large profits. . 

Some may doubt whether this culture is as profitable as I say, 
because it is not more general. It is in this as in all new en- 
terprises ; the timidly conservative, the lazy "and procrastinating, 
and the self-complacently shrewd have not embarked ; these last, 
with preternatural sagacity, predict that the thing will be overdone 
and the market overstocked, forgetting as they peer into the mill- 
stone, that population increases quite as fast as fruit But the 
thing has been tried by many, and its success demonstrated, and my 
statement is founded on their experience. 

Pears will oflen bear much more than this calculation allows, 
and may be much more closely planted, and in the course of 10 or 
15 years the standards will grow two or three bushels of Pears 
apiece, worth from three to twelve dollars a bushel according to the 
fruit 

The selection of Pears to suit any given soil, is rather a difficult 
matter ; it is a singular kind of fruit, and oflen a man's land will 
bring but one or two kinds to perfection, in which case he should 
devote himself exclusively to these, and give them a name, and 
reputation. 

Other kinds of fruit-culture, as Grapes, Cranberries, etc., might 
be recommended, but I leave the consideration of them to another 
time. 

I wish especially to impress upon the farmer, that the early spring 



428 MARCH. 

is the unoccupied time, when he should decide on the kind of frait 
that he will cultivate, that when the season for work comes he maj 
proceed with judgment and dispatch. 

Towards the last of March begin to graft, and continue through 
April. Scions cut afler the buds begin to swell will not do welL 



CHAPTER L. 

THE FABH. 

Few persons can understand the immense importance of the 
farming interest. The dullest mind is impressed with' the cost and 
value of manufactories, of ships, and warehouses ; no one goes into 
a large city without wondering at the variety of occupations, the 
number of inhabitants, and asking how they all live ; and yet, in 
comparison with the agricultural interest, all other trades and oc- 
cupations are a drop in the bucket* To the &rmers fall the du^ 
of feeding the world, and although floods of fine words are poured 
out yearly by the orators of agricultural societies, and by aspiring 
politicians, in praise of this occupation, few persons ever rise to 
the comprehension of its real magnitude* 

The value of the eggs of the domestic fowls of this country 
alone is from $30,000,000 to $40,000,000, and the value of the 
Grass crop is greater than that of any other crop, being worth, in 
the shape of hay, to live and slaughtered animals, $500,000,000. 
Small as may be the contribution of each person, to this aggregate, 
it is a contribution, and would be missed in some way, were it to &il. 
The connection of supply and demand is very plain, and since the 
demand of food to support life is so constant, and great, it is of 
immense importance that no means should be lefl untried, to 
increase the amount and quality of the crop, without materially 
increasing its cost To illustrate the waste and loss, which may 
result from the want or the neglect of such improvements, take 
the single item of homed cattle. 

Suppose a certain number of farmers in this country, to grow 
yearly, 100,000 cattle for fattening. These cattle are ill-selected 
in some respects ; instead of the small bones, and little offal, of the 
Short-horns, or the Devon stock, they have coarse bones and un- 
necessary-waste portions to the extent of 50 pounds, to put it at a 

429 



430 acARCH. 

« 

figure small enough ; the average value per pound, of the animals' 
carcases, we will call six. cents ; then the loss, per animal, is $3, or 
$300,000 on the whole number. We have seen that there is no 
need of this coarseness ; care in selection when breeding would have 
avoided it But this $300,000 is not the only loss. The coarser 
in nature, structure, bones, an animal, the more food he requires to 
gain a given weight The greater amount of food necessary to 
fatten these coarse animals, than if they were fine, was not less 
than $2 an animal, or $200,000 more. A common stock fiirmer 
will have 50 head of cattle at a time, and, for the 100,000 cattle, 
2,000 farmers thus lost $250 dollars apiece, $5 a head on their ani- 
mals. . This calculation is much too small, for almost every New 
England stock farmer knows that his cattle have much more than 
50 pounds of unnecessary waste, which does not exist in the choicest 
cattle. But it shows how important small things are to the farmer, 
and also, how exact a science farming is, giving as much opportu- 
nity for head work, as for hand woik' ; and, when we consider the 
great aggregate of agricultural products, it becomes apparent how 
large gains slip through their hands. 

It may seem of little consequence whether the profits of a man, 
who cultivates his farm with no thought of any thing outside its 
boundaries, are great or small ; but this is a mistake, and is felt to 
be one, where farming U acknowledged as one of the sciences. As 
our agriculture advances, we feel the value of small gains more 
strongly. While our stock roams over large pastures, and our hay 
crop is too large to be consumed, or sold, we care but little about a 
few pounds of waste in any animal, but just as soon as we begin 
to feed our stock on purchased provisions, and to be restricted in 
our range of profit to the difference between the cost of food and 
the market price of the fattened animal, the disadvantage of coarse- 
ness in limb and material is forced upon us, and we seek to avoid it. 

Stall Feeding. — The second kind of stock farming is charao- 
terized by stall feeding the animals to be fattened ; in it, pasturage 
is of little consequence, as the animal is but rarely turned out, and 
only for air and exercise. It is because of the rude state of our 
general agriculture, that stall-feeding is so little practised among us. 



THB FARM. 431 

Among fanners determined to get the largest possible return from 
their land, it will always be practised. X do not mean to say that 
our common farmers have no stall-fed cattle, for almost every one 
of them has some pair of oxen, some old cow, some calf which is 
fed on Roots, Hay, Meal, etc., through the winter, to increase its 
weight ; but there is no general practise of this sort, it being con- 
sidered unprofitable. 

This second kind of stock farming will prevail most in level, 
alluvial countries, where land is too valuable to be given up to 
pasture. The crops of such a farm will be decided by the kind 
of stock kept Sheep of all ages may be grown ^ on it, both for 
wool and mutton, as the sheep fats at 18 months to 2 or 3 years 
of age, and the food eaten by the young animal is no loss. But if it 
is to fatten neat cattle, there will be no young creatures ; those 
which have been gro¥m in a pasture country, and have reached 
the best age to fatten, will be bought, and the process iiurried for- 
ward as fast as possible. The kind of stocky decides ike foody the 
food the crop, and thm the whole arrangement of the farm depends 
directly on the stock. 

It seems almost impossible (o our country farmers that there can 
be any profit in fattening cattle, unless most of the fat is acquired 
in pastures, thus costing nothing, as they think ; and yet the best 
experience has shown that the profit of fattening falls to the stall- 
feeding &rmer much more than to the pasture-feeding farmer. 

Let us take a single animal as our example, and ascertain what 
is the proper treatment for it, and then we may conclusively reason 
for a number. 

Our farmer in the fall buys an ox ; if he be shrewd, he will 
select one in good condition, and growing, because an animal never 
lays &t on the outside, where it shows, till there is some accumula- 
tion within, so that good condition externally is a proof of the 
same internally. But there are other marks which he regards in 
making his selection ; he feels the hide, taking it up in his fingers; 
if it slides easily over the bones, is pliable, he knows that the crea- 
ture is inclined to fat ; he looks at its eyes, for if they are mild 
and gentle, the creature will be quiet and make fat faster. He 
rejects every animal with large bones, coarse hair, general un- 



432 MARCH. 

wieldinesB, as he knows these indicate an internal stractnre that 
must be supported, but is worth little. Besides these marissy there 
are others which he cannot describe, but knows to be important. 

Having bought his beast, he drives it slowly home. I assume 
that this man is a wise and growing fanner. He begins to feed 
with Hay, like his neighbors, and finding no gain in this, he adds 
some Meal. He calculates the weight and value of the Hay and 
Meal, and the cost of care. He weighs the creature occasioaalljry 
to see exactly what he gains. Dissatisfied with the experiment, 
which he finds, as his neighbors prophesied, a costly one, he tarns 
to the books. They tell him that oil meal, rape-cake, and other 
food, have been found equal to or better than com meaU f<Mr fiitteo- 
ing, and cheaper; he accordingly tries it, feeds as before, and 
weighs his animal, noting the gain or loss. 

As he reads farther, he finds that Turnips and other Boots are 
excellent aids to meal ; he draws upon his stock of Roots, and 
feeds, noticing the gain as before. Further inquiry informs him 
that the Turnips boiled with the Meal, have been found by some 
more fattening than when raw. Again he tries the experiment, 
continuing to weigh and notice the result, charging as before, the 
cost of Meal, Hay, Turnips, interest on cost of animal and tools, 
wear and tear, labor and fuel. From time to time he compares 
his records with those of others ; he learns that warmth is benefi- 
cial as well in building as in food, and so by degrees he learns the 
best and cheapest food for fettening. Whether the result of his 
experiments is like that of the English and European experiments 
or not, he makes note of it 

When the animal is fattened, he sells it, and then makes up his 
final account of profit and loss. In whatever way the balance 
turns, he knows that his experiments have cost him something, so 
to make quite sure he begins anew. This time he is careful to 
buy animals of small bones and little waste ; he puts them into the 
stall, and feeds by that plan which his experience has decided to 
be the best, and if any prophecy may be founded on the facts of 
universal experience, he will gain a fair profit by the operation, 
and this profit will have arisen from abandoning the exclusive use 
of Hay and Com, according to the common country practice, and 



THE FARM. 488 

hj the use of other kmds of food. And in addition to this pecu- 
niary profit, he gets a great deal of very valuable and highly en- 
riched manure. 

The results of such experiments as this in England have had a 
great influence in revolutionizing agriculture. From the &ct that 
animals ftittened &ster when fed on Turnips and other Boots, in ad- 
dition to Meal and Hay, than when kept on Meal and Hay alone, 
and that the process was hastened still more when the Boots were 
given as the main food, and Meal and Hay in less proportion ; at- 
tentkm was turned to the general culture of Boots, and they were 
found to yield enoniK>u8ly, in comparison to the amount of land 
occupied, and the cost of production. This crop then furnished 
the greatest amount of food for stock, which returned a manure 
richer than that resulting from Hay-feeding, to be the food for 
future crops. 

It also appeared that Boot crops made the land better in the 
cheapest way, and their culture soon took the place of the clumsy 
metbod by which exhausted land had formerly been brought again 
into bearing. 

Howev^ fertile land may be, however much it may be improved 
by draining and irrigation, constant cropping will reduce its fei^ 
tility, till at last it is not worth culdvating, and no crop does this 
sooner than Grain. But Grain, together with the products of flocks 
and herds, which fed on the natural pasture of the farm, was the 
main reliance of the fiumers of the old style ; and of this they 
oould take but a few crops before their land was exhausted. To 
restore it, they resorted to what is called a. ^^ bare fallow," that is, 
the field was left uncultivated for awhile, to be slowly fertilized 
by sun, wind, and rain. If during this *' bare £Edlow " the ground 
was kept clear of weeds and frequently ploughed, it gained enough 
to grow another Com, or ^ white crop," as it is usually called. 
The fallow system was improved by the aid of manuring, which, 
of course, hastened the process of restoring fertility. 

Farmers were early aware that this impoverishment of land, 

where one crop had been grown for successive years, was because 

its supply of the peculiar food of those crops was exhausted, and 

that it could be enriched again only by cultivating it with some 

• 37 



484 UABCH. 

odier crop, or bj the naked fallow. It seems the simplest way, to 
caltivate a crop which would not require the same food as the pre- 
vious crop, but could thrive on some of the materials still left in 
the soil ; and it may seem incredible to us that men should ao long 
have groped on the threshold of the discovery of this principle, 
the full application of which has wrought so marvellous a cliange 
in agriculture ; but the proper practice of the rotation of crops has 
not been introduced into our country, and we are now where the 
fanners of the ^ bare fallow " period were in England. 

To return : at that time Roots were cultivated* only for ikmily 
use or for occasional sale, never for fodder crops ; Grass and Grain 
were the crops of that day. The wastefulness of this course will 
appear more plainly, if we consider for a moment the difference 
between the demand and the return of different crops. The pro- 
duction of seed, is the aim of the life of all plants, and is accom- 
plished either directly, as in the Grain crop, or indirectly, by storing 
partially elaborated material in some convenient place, to be com- 
pleted and ripened as seed in anotlier year, as in the case of Tur- 
nips, etc. 

Now the Grain draws on the soil more largely than the Turnip, 
for two reasons : it has less time in which to do its work, for it 
must prepare the ripe ^eed (which may be regarded as the concen- 
trated extract of the plant) in a single year ; and it has but little 
means of drawing from any source except the soil. lis slender 
stem and narrow leaves are not adapted to absorb mucli nourishment 
from the air ; it must be fed through the root, and impoverishes 
the soil proportionately. But the Turnip, which lays up a store in 
the root, has twice as long to prepare its seed, and can go throogfa 
the slower process of obtaining a large amount of its food from the 
air. Accordingly it is furnished with the means for doing this» as 
may be seen in any Root plant, or in other plants with a similar plan 
of growth. The surface of leaves exposed to the air is large, com- 
pared with the roots, and experiment has repeatedly demonstrated 
that they draw on the atmosphere much more largely than on the 
earth. 

This difference in the demands of the Root and Grain crops points 
them out as fit successors to each other, and this grows plainer the 



THE FARM. 435 

more we consider the difference between the food necessary to 
elaborate seed, and that capable of giving the largest bulk of leaves 
and roots. Could fanners ever be induced to consider their crops 
in this abstract way, they would save trouble, time, and expense. 

This great principle of rotation of crops was dimly recognized in 
the substitution of Grass for Grain on the exhausted fields, and in due 
time of a fallow for the Grass ; but in this way there was great loss 
of time and acreage. So long as farmers believe that Hay and 
Grain alone are sufficient to produce good beef and nlutton, so long 
they are indifferent to the difference betweien the Root and Grain 
crops, for it is wasteful to grow crops for which one has no use, 
merely because the land will produce them. But when it was dis- 
covered that Roots of all kinds were not only good food, but the 
best food for cattle, those farmers who believed in the discovery 
cultivated Roots, and found not only that their value as food was in- 
contestible, but that with a given expenditure in manure and labor. 
Roots gave a larger i^etum in value than any other crop. This was 
the turning-point, the rising tide-wave of improved agriculture. 
The new crop was an improvement in every respect ; it restored 
fertility better than the fallow, gave an immense amount of fodder, 
and ensured a corresponding increase in manure, from the greater 
number of cattle which could be fed from the farm. 

Under the old system — the same pursued in New England at 
the present day — there was a large and a small white crop, one 
large yield of Hay, then smaller and smaller, then good pasture, 
then poor. This rotation gave a change from better to woi-se. The 
new practice demonstrated that there need be no "worse;" it 
showed that a Root crop should fallow the sod, and should be 
followed by Grain ; that again by Grain, or Grass and Clover ; 
that by pasture and Roots. At first it was made a point that n 
white crop should never be taken two years in succession, and after 
going through Roots and Grass, it was found, on returning to the 
white crop, that the ground was so much richer than before, that a 
number of bushels was taken previously unheard of in the neighbor- 
hood. A succession of rotations had the same result, until the poor- 
est land has become rich ; some land too rich, and it has at last been 
necessary to take two white crops in succession, to check the waste 



436 MARCH. 

power of the soil, which produced so heavy a burden of straw that 
the grain suffered. 

Do not think that the mere introduction of Roots effected this 
wonder of converting worthless into fertile lands. Draining and 
irrigating were used to improve and stimulate ; as the process went 
on, it was found that the stock did not ^ve manure enough to sat- 
isfy the farmer ; other manure was sought and found in guano, and 
in artificial manure. Oil meal, and similar food, before mentioned, 
was resorted to to supply certain elements which were wanting in 
Turnips. Cattle no longer roamed over meagre land, but if pas- 
tured at all, fed on rich Clover or Grass aflermath, and being soon 
filled, lay down to digest in quiet, and so got more nourishment 
from their food. 

The farmer did not care to grow the cattle in their young and 
unprofitable years, but bought them at a fair price from hill pas- 
tures, just as they reached the age for fattening. The pasture 
former in his turn studied to increase the size and rapidity of 
growth of his young cattle, that they might the sooner be ready for 
market, and might bring the highest price. And thus a wheel was 
set in motion, which touched all the agricultural interests ; the 
more crops, the more labor ; the more labor the more outlay of 
capital ; and this led to the invention of labor-saving machines, 
which again gave the farmer power to grow greater crops. It is 
not at all necessary to enlarge on these mutual relations and their 
progress ; it is enough to put you in the way to see how largely the 
agriculture of another country has been benefited by the intelli- 
gent introduction of what is called rotation of crops. 

Here I shall be met by the assertion, with which the indifferent 
or obstinate American farmer, answers all arguments drawn from 
the rise and progress of British agriculture ; viz., that the epst of 
labor here, forbids the cultivation of the more troublesome crops. 
Let the cost of labor be what it may, there is no truth in this as- 
sertion. The question is not of the cost, but of the net profit; and 
the most costly crop may yet be the most profitable. In truth, it 
is not to the cost, but to the trouble, that these farmers object Crops 
which require much labor and watching, do not suit the happy-go- 
lucky man, whose method of getting a fair crop of grain from 



THE FABM. 437 

unexhausted land is very simple. He cuts off and burns the wood, 
ploughs rudely, and harrows in the seed, leaving the stumps stand- 
ing, the water-courses undrained, the rocks unremoved ; he gives 
the crop no further attention, till it is fit to cut Year afler year 
this process is repeated, till the land refuses to yield enough to pay 
for the labor ; ^en a scanty dressing of manure is given, or per- 
haps some rude attempts at drainage are made, or the plough runs 
deeper, and the land is held a little longer under cultivation. 

Our New England farmers are wont to deride the practice of 
the men who have reduced Virginia, Western New York, and other 
States, from unbounded fertility to -sterility, or something scarcely 
better, by bad and exhausting farming ; yet our average farming 
differs from this only in degree, not in kind. 

It is not enough to do a little better than you have done ; if you 
are to be the best farmer, you must entirely remodel and reform 
your practice. To cultivate an acre of ground thoroughly is a 
costly process, and demands a liberal outlay of time and money. 

If it is wet, it must be drained, and poor draining is exceedingly 
foolish. The cost of .digging the drain is the same, whether it is to 
be laid with dies or stones ; and this main expense is out of all 
proportion to any difference between the cost of these two mate- 
rials, and must, besides, be incurred anew whenever any repairs 
are made. A tile drain will last from 60 to 100 years, a covered 
stone drain will last equally long, a blind drain but a few years, a 
brush drain a still shorter time, and an open drain is always out of 
order. Besides the ultimate loss of the cost of the open drain, 
which is to be met when they are remade at the end of about 15 
years, is the loss of land for culture where they are. When properly 
made they occupy about one-eleventh of the acre, so that if the crop 
is Hay, assuming the net value to be $12 for the growth of 2 tons 
to the acre, they will displace $1.09 worth of hay, which in the 15 
years at interest, with annual loss, would equal $25.18. The cost 
of the drains would be at least $48.20, which with repairs and in- 
terest in 15 years, would be $196.48 per acre, and at that time 
might be reckoned as a loss, as they would have to be remade. 

If, instead of this open drain, you lay a tile drain, it will cost to 
complete the work, about $50 per acre, which in 15 years will 
37* 



4dd HABCH. 

amount to $126.24. At the end of 15 years the drains are as good 
as at first, and in comparison with the open drain, there ia an 
absolute profit of $126.24 to begin again with. In 15 jears more 
this profit, adide from that of culture, will amount to $317.69, and 
if 10 acres are reclaimed instead of 1, this profit in 10 jean will 
be $3,176.90, merely by the substitution of the better drain, while 
the profit of the culture is yet to be estimated. 

This calculation has been based on the largest cost of the drain, 
and the lowest price of Hay. The drain can be well laid for much 
less, and the price of Hay rarely goes down so low in New Eng- 
land. But there are many better crops than Hay, — Com, Wheat, 
Rye, or better still, Roots. It would be easy to grow upon land thus 
drained, crops which would not otherwise have grown on it at aD, 
and which will pay at least $10 extra profit ; which would be 60 
per cent on . the cost of the improvement, or in 15 years with 
interest $936.48. An enormous sum, certainly, as the return from 
a single acre improved ; and this is no romantic theory, but so plain 
a fact in business, that the English Government have established a 
large fund to be loaned at low interest, to land-owners, to enable 
and induce them to make improvements in drainage. Many farm- 
ers borrowed thousands of dollars from this fund, and gained an 
ample return. 

Indeed, one reason why our farmers are so far behind the times 
in these matters, is, that they are without the capital sufiicient to 
make these improvemetats, or, at least, they think they are ; for 
they cannot spare the few hundreds that they " lay up " in bank 
stock, or mortgage bonds, that give them 6 per cent, and do not see 
that the same money invested in their farms, would pay ten times 
as much, and even more ; for this $50 cost is mostly for labor, 
which may, in many cases, .be done by the farmer himself. 

Farmers cannot believe, when they see a drain full of water, that 
a little two inch hole, with or without loose stones, could carry 
that all off. ' The outlet is the important thing ; give a drain fall 
enough, and 2 inches will discharge an enormous quantity of water 
in a day. And by cutting the drain 3 or 4 feet deep, the springs can be 
cut off, and the subterranean waters stopped and carried off before 
they get to the surface. Such drainage would double the value of 



THE FARM. 43^ 

thousands of acres in New England, which are now but half culti- 
vated, because thej are too wet in spring and falL - 

There is an ailment against making valuable permanent im- 
provements, which has great weight with fanners, And is even 
quoted by those who have considerable intelligence, as being con- 
clusive ; viz., that for the sum necessary to thoroughly drain an acre, 
one can buy another acre as good as the first. So he can, and be 
just one acre poorer than before. 

You farm to grow rich ; by buying more land you grow poor, 
lu the case of the two acres, you must pay taxes on both, you roust 
manure both ; you must plough and plant, hoe and harvest, two 
acres instead of one. To plough 10 inches deep will cost, per acre, 
$^ beside wear and tear of tools, say 25 cents ($3.25) ; to sow 
with Com, at least 50 cents ($3.75) ; to hoe twice, $2 ($5.75) ; to 
cultivate, $2 ($7.75) ; to thoroughly manure with barnyard ma- 
nure, $20 per acre ($27.75) ; to harvest, $4 ($31.75), or more 
according to the crop ; making together, an expense of not less 
than $33 per acre. Allowing $20 profit per acre, there would be 
from the two acres, a profit of $40, or $33 less than from the one 
reclaimed acre, which, paying the cost of cultivation, would yield 
$40 profit per acre. It may seem unfair that I should allow $40 
as the profit of a well-drained acre, and only $20 as the profit for 
the unimproved acre purchased. A moment's thought will show 
that it is not unfair ; the very fact of having drained a field well, 
will induce you to cultivate it twice as well, — indeed, it implies 
some accessories of good culture. The stones used to fill in the 
drain ditch, are gathered from the surface of the field, much to its 
improvement; and, what is a more conclusive argument, if the un- 
improved acre can yield $40 net profit, it cannot be bought for 
$71. Thus there will be the difference between $40 and $7, or 
in 15 yeard, as before, the sum of $730.81. 

There will be another benefit from thoroughly cultivating what 
we have ; if we apply thorough drainage, etc, to an acre of our un- 
productive pasture, we can put the whole $40 into our pocket, be- 
side raising the value of the property we now have, in place of in- 
creasing our barren acres. The drawback to profit in agriculture 



440 MABGH. 

18 the cost of cultare, and this is undeniably halved hj 
ourselves to the one acre. 

The draining lightens and deepens the soil ; the manure from 
above, is met bj the accumulated manure from below ; the roots of 
the crop are fed in the warm earth and manure above, during the 
first of the season, and are cooled, fed, and stimulated, by the sub- 
soil in hot, dry summer, and early autumn. Unquestionably, we 
shall need but half the manure necessary for two acres ; we can 
keep fewer men, do the work quicker, be less exposed to the dan- 
ger of early and late frosts, have less care and anxiety. 

But, as I have said, this is but the beginning of good culture. In 
our anxiety to get the most from our one acre, we shall plou^ 
deep. The value of deep ploughing is almost self-evident ; plants 
accustomed to find their food in six inches of earth, and to live or 
starve, as that food was sufficient, or insufficient, because an im- 
passable barrier met them at that depth, now have twelve inches in 
which to find food, — the accumulated food of ages ; and you 
have thus added another acre of land six inches deep, to your farm, 
and so situated that the plants cannot fiul to get the full benefit 
of it. 

Next comes sowing the seed. Be it what it may, enough is bet- 
ter, than too much; first, it costs less; second, it is more quickly 
sowed ; third, it needs less thinning when up ; fourth, it is more 
easily kept clean. To sow the seed of Turnips, or other Roots, bj 
hand,, is a long and tedious process, and wastes much time and seed, 
but with a seed-sower, a man will sow several acres a day. I will 
not, therefore, chai^ the improved acre with the cost and interest 
on the cost of the seed-sower ; both will be saved in two crops. 

Suppose that instead of such small seed, you plant Indian 
Com, or smaller Grain. 

Indian Com may be rapidly deposited from some of the new 
oora-sowers, at just the same distance from hill to hill, with the 
same number of corns in each hill, and all the rows straight, at a 
large saving of seed and time, more than enough to pay the cost 
of the sower in one season's culture. How long it would be neces- 
sary to talk to New England farmers, to satisfy them that all small 



THE FABH. 441 

Grains are vastly more economically sowed bj the use of grain- 
drills, whilst the yield is increased, I do not know ; but in England 
the drill has been used by the most intelligent farmers, who find a 
saving of from 1 to 2 pecks of seed to the acre (50 cents to $1), 
and from 50 to 150 per cent in the cost of sowing. The seed is 
all evenly sowed, and therefore comes up quicker, and loses less 
from birds, that are ready to pick up badly covered grains ; the 
plants grow better from all having the same room ; all the heads 
fill out alike, from abundance of air and light, and a fair share of 
soil ; and lastly, and chiefly, the field can be weeded. How horror- 
stricken would our formers be, if asked to weed a wheatfield ? 

I do not say, that with the price of labor here, we could make 
much money by weeding Wheat by hand, although in England, at 
the cost of 1 to 2 dollars per acre, a gain of 2 to 3 bushels of 
Wheat, has been made; or $4 to $6 by weeding; and when weeded 
by horse-hoes, at a cost of 75 cents to $1 per acre, the same gain is 
made. Weeding has the advantage of removing all the weeds, which 
exhaust the soil in proportion to their number ; it stirs the earth, and 
gives the roots a better cluuice to push, and induces the Wheat to 
tiller, or produce more stalks, and consequently more heads and more 
straw. And it removes the weeds for all time, helping to bring 
the land to a condition of perfect cleanliness. Under this method 
seed is sown 7 to 9 inches apart, and yet the yield per acre is equal 
to and greater than the yield under the system of sowing broad- 
cast, and covering all the land. So far has this been carried, that 
in special experiments, and in the general practice of some farmers, 
it has been shown that by throwing a field into ridges 8 feet wide, 
and 3 feet apart, and sowing only the alternate ridges, and cultivat- 
ing with care and cleanliness, the yield is as great in the average 
as when drilled 7 to 9 inches apart, or sown broadcast 

But some Western farmer will say : " 'Tis all very well to cul- 
tivate an acre of Wheat this way ; it could not be done in my fields 
of 200 or 300 acres." One English gentleman,^ whom I propose to 
refer to presently, has 500 acres of Wheat, which are sowed by 
drill and we^ed, and he, as I shall show you, has grown rich by 
farming. 

To pass on to the Turnips. Suppose them sowed by a seed-sower. 



442 MABCH. 

thej must next be lUinned. If thej are in rows 2 feet to 30 inches 
apart, they may be cut into gaps of 12 inches, by two blows of a 6 
inch, or three blows of a 4 inch hoe, and thus the single plants left; 
these, losing their accustomed support, will fall over, but in a day 
or two will recover. Practice will enable the laborer to readily 
single his Turnips, cutting away all but the one he wants left. Be- 
fore singling begins, the rows should be scuffled, or cleaned with the 
horse-hoe or cultivator. Next, as the Turnips begin to grow, hoe 
them. The benefit of hoeing to the crop is enormous ; it increases 
the yield some hundred bushels to the acre, and yet, strange as it 
may seem, it was years before the body of English farmers oooU 
be induced to grow Turnips at all, and years more before those who 
did grow them could be induced to hoe them. Earnest agricul- 
turists labored till they were heart-sick, to persuade the mass Gi 
farmers to cultivate their Turnips properly, and one of them tells 
how for years his neighbors came' and looked over the wall, and 
sneered at him while thus wasting his time, as they held hoeing 
Turnips to be. But our farmer must hoe. 

I have rudely blocked out the treatment of the improved acre 
in the common crops. Thus cultivated for successive years, with a 
judicious use of the crops, it will make the farmer rich. The prac- 
tice is the same for many acres as for one, and to perfect success in 
either, a careful system of rotation of crops is necessary. Irriga- 
tion may also be necessary, but it has been sufficiently advocated on 
in a previous month. 

Our model farmer in New England will therefore grow rich if 
he perseveres, for the ratio of profit when the crop is harvested is 
the same, whether here or in England. Farmers who do not like 
to confess their unwillingness to adopt improvements, fall back upon 
the high price of labor, as a^, excuse for not growing Boot crops. 
This is the weakest of reasons. Labor and watchfulness and 
judicious rotation of crops are the things necessary to success in 
all cases ; and in all countries where the same object is sought, the 
means must be similar. If to grow a fat ox be the aim of two 
farmers, with one of whom labor is cheap, with the other dear, 
there is no difference in their desiro for profit ; each wishes the 
largest possible. Each wished to feed his ox on the most fiOtening 



THK FARM. 443 

food '; which has been ascertained to be both Grain and Roots. Now, 
what is the relative cost of producing each of these crops ? In 
view of the ultimate value of each, Grain is the more costlj of the 
two ; Turnips give the largest return, whether to the man who pays 
high, or to him who pays low wages. This being the case, it is alt 
important that the man who pays the most for labor, should grow 
the best crop. If Corn cost $32 an acre, with $20 profit, and Tur^ 
nips cost $42, with $60 profit, it does not matter that the latter cost 
a third more, if they pay three times as well at that cost. 

In carrying out these several estimates, I have set a fixed value 
upon the crops we raise, and allowed 90 cents a bushel for Com, 
and $8 for stoVer and 50 bushels of Com to the acre. I have al- 
lowed 20 cents a bushel as the value of Sweeds Turnips, or Man- 
gold Wnrzel, to feed out. Some farmer might take exceptions to 
my reasoning in this wise : Turnips are not worth as much as that 
to sell in my town ; there is no market for them. They ave worth 
that to feed out, and I propose that you take land which will yield 
1^ tons of Hay to the acre, and cultivate it well in Sweeds or Man- 
gold, they will certainly yield you, one year with another, 20 
to 25 tons to the acre. Careful experiments, tried very many 
times, have shown that to feed out one part of Hay, is equal 
to ^ve of Turnips. Thus from your land you now get out 1^ tons 
of Hay, but for home consumption, to make beef, mutton, wool, or 
milk, by Root culture, that which is equivalent to 5 tons of hay. 
The cost of the 1^ tons of hay was about $12 an acre, and the profit 
$10; the cost of the Turnips $40, the profit, on the Hay basis, $30, 
and reaUy much more ; the average of 20 estimates by New England 
farmers, of the cost of an acre of Ruta-Bagas, or Mangolds, is $40. 
See Coleman's reports. The profit, relative to cost, is the same, 
but the money in pocket four times as great at the end of the year. 

Besides, I have shown how this difference between the price of 
American and of English labor may be nearly done away, by em- 
ploying machinery to do the bulk of the work. The cost of tile 
draining has nothing to do with this point, remember ; we start 
upon our outlay as fixed, capital. Ploughing, harrowing, sowing, 
eohivating, may be done by horse power. 

The Grain may be harvested by horse power ; and by machinery 



444 MABCH. 

in the barn, we maj thresh and sort oar Grain, cut our fodder and 
Roots, and feed them out, so that all the labor will be reduced to 
the lowest cost 

Perhaps all this is met bj the old objection of want of cafHtal 
to invest. Let me once and for all replj : take your farm as yoo 
find it ; make the best of it, and invest every cent of profit not 
needed for your family^ in improvements ; and be assured, each 
new investment will pay welL The poorer a man is, the less can 
he afford to farm slovenly. If you are so poor that you muit 
carry out your manure in a wheelbarrow, and dig it in with a 
spade, spread it thickly over a small surface, dig 12 instead of 
6 inches deep, cultivate with scrupulous care, and you will find the 
return most satisfactory. Be not deceived by that most specious 
and ruinous of theories, that you make more money by spreading 
the manure of one acre over two, and cultivating two acres in the 
time before allowed for one ; for though the crop of the two acres 
may be double the crop of one of them, each yields but half what 
it should. One acre would have given you as much as both these, 
if it had received all the manure and proper culture, and at a 
much less cost. 

Suppose your farm has six fields, and you have decided to begin 
a rotation. If the land is poor, I advise at first a 6 years rotation, 
something as follows ; — 









FIELDS. 






Yew. 


No. 1. 
""Wheat.* " 


No. 2. 

Turnipfl. 


No! 8 

Spring Orain 
and OnM. 


No. 4 

"GraaTlsT" 
year 


No. 6. 


No. 6. 


1st 


Oxa«s2dyear 
orPastnn. 


Potatoes. 



2d I Turnips j Spring Grain! Onralst Oram 2d year j Potatoes, j Wheat. 

I I and Onus. I year I or Pastnre. I | 

3d |Spring~Grainr~ Grass 1st lOcam 2d year i Potatoes. I WheatI | ~ turnips. 

I and Grass. | year. | or Pasture. I | ' | 



4th 
6th 


1 Grass Ist |Gran2dyear| Potatoes. 1 Wheat. Tuniips. (Spring Grain 
1 year. | or Pasture. | | | and Grass. 
1 Grass 2d year! Potatoes. 1. Wheat. 1 Turnips, i Spring Grain l Grass Ist 

j Potatoes. 1 Wheat. 1 Turnips. (Spring Graini Gxass. IQiass 2d year 
III! and Grass. | | or Pasture 


1st 


1 Wheat. 1 Turnips. iSpring Grain! Grass. ] Pasture, i Potatoes. 
1 1 1 and Grass. | | | 



If your farm is large, and each field contains many acres, you 



THE FABM. 445 

maj introdace a varietj of crops ; and if jour land is strong, you 
maj take two white crops in succession. Thus : in place of Pota- 
toes and Pasture, 70U may have Indian Com and leave out the 
Pasture ; or jou may have half Turnips and half Potatoes ; or 
half Potatoes and half Indian Com, etc, etc ; or you may grow 
Flax, Hemp, Tobacco, etc 

By this course you will ensure the largest crops, and will keep 
your weeds well down for each crop. The hoed Potatoes or 
Indian Com, will hold the land clean for the Wheat, which will 
then need less weeding ; the Turnips will clean it well for the 
spring Grain, and that well cleaned will ensure 3 or 4 tons of Grass 
to the acre the first year, and as much the second, unless you pas- 
ture it, which, in my opinion, is but a slovenly kind of forming. 

As you continue to grow crops to fiitten your stall-fed animals, 
you will verify what has already been said about the advantage of 
adding meal to the Tumips and Hay, the economy of buying oil- 
meal rather than growing Com, the consequent increase of manure 
for the Turnips, which, with Potatoes and Indian Com, should be 
the dunged crops. You will find that by drilling in some guano or 
other artificial manure with the seed of your Tumips or your 
Grain, you will drive the Roots ahead of the fly, and get a fine 
early growth, and you will give the Grain an early set, which will 
increase the yield from $5 to $10 an acre. This increase will be 
clear profit, so much more capital to put into other improvements, 
which shall give a like increase, and so on without limit. 

You see that this farmer I am portraying, is no mere Hodge, a 
tiller of the soil, a peasant. He is a careful reasoner, a chemist, 
an anatomist ; a merchant who studies the markets of the world, 
to guide him in his purchases of manure and feed, and in his sales 
of crops ; an anatomist in his familiarity with the stmcture of 
stock, by which his treatment of them is guided ; a practical chem- 
ist, because he must learn the constituent elements of his crops and 
soils, and of the manures with which he feeds the plants ; without 
this he is still a bungler. How great this subject of manures is, 
we shall show in a future month. 

It may seem rather late in the day to advocate the cultivation 

38 



446 MAJICH. 

of Turnips, now that thej are becoming diseased and are less used 
in England ; but it does not follow that they will deteriorate here ; 
the very opposite result may follow, as the English seed direct has 
never given as much satisfaction here as home-grown seed. And 
besides, there are other Boots : the Mangold Wurzel, the Carrot 
and Parsnip, which are even better than the Turnip, and what I 
have said holds true of them. 

Our farmers feel that in these improvements they are entering 
an unknown country, and they are afraid to hazard their hard-won 
earnings on these new ventures. They think they get their money 
too hard to waste or risk it ; they know that in the old way they 
can make a living ; may they not lose all by this change ? 

What foolish, cowardly drivelling, to come from a race of men 
famed for their courage and enterprise! men who, for a mere 
chance of bettering their condition, will sell off at a low price, and 
emigrate to a new country, where they can get new land only at 
the price of all the hardships of a pioneer^s life. What inoonsist^ 
ency to risk so much for new land in the West, while they dare 
not risk a dollar for the new land, the new farm, under their feet 
unworn virgin soil, that only waits to be called upon, to be stimu- 
lated by the caresses of the sun and the soothing of the rain, to 
give crops which will burst your bams and swell your purse! 
Are you afraid to risk labor in a business in which Englishmen 
liave invested thousands of dollars, with a sure profit ? Be not 
deceived about the '^ ratio of labor ! " the proportion of profit is 
the same here as in England ; if you spend less, or invest less, you 
get less ; and more, as you invest more to develop the resources of 
your farm. Bemembering this, — remembering that 60 years ago 
the most profitable and fertile farms in England were where yours 
now are, read these statements of the men who have tried the ex- 
periments, and made the money. 

<< Mr. Bodwell, in Suffolk, sunk $25,000 in mere marling 820 
acres of land, with a lease of only 28 years, and during the 28 
years of his occupancy, his produce was $150,000 greater than in 
the 28 years which preceded his improvements.'' This land was 
hired^ and this money spent, as an investment of capitaL Think 
of it, farmers of New England. 



THB FARM. 447 

This practice of marling, applied to clay lands, it is said by Ar- 
thur Young, a distinguished agricultural writer of the earlj part 
of the last century, " has turned 800,000 or 400,000 acres of waste 
into gardens, and rents rose from between 10 to 40 cents, to $3 
and $4 per acre. Many of the tenants realized a capital larger 
than the reputed value of the property.'* 

^ A Mr. Mallet made a fortune in 30 years, upon a farm of 
1,500 acres, and bought land of his own, of the value of $8,500 a 
year. A more remarkable example, even, than that of the Scotch 
proprietor mentioned by Dr. Cartwright, who, being compelled to 
sell his estate, hired it on a lease, and afterwards repurchased it 
with the profits he derived from his tenantry," 

By drainage alone, ^ hundreds and thousands of acres, formerly 
condemned to remain for pasture, or to grow at long intervals un- 
eertatn crops of Com and Beans, have been laid dry, and rendered 
fertile, and brought into regular rotation, in which Boots find their 
place. Sheep stock thrive where previously a few dairy cows 
starved, the produce has been trebled, the rental raised, and the 
demand for labor increased in proportion. In the neighborhood 
of Yorkshire manufactories, moorland, not worth a shilling (25 
cents) an acre, has been converted into dairy farms worth £2 
($10) per acre." 

^ A secured public loan of £4,000,000 was granted in 1856, and 
it has been estimated that in the ten previous years upwards of 
£16,000,000 was invested by the nation, and by private companies 
and individuals, in thorough drainage. A Mr. Nelson, one of the 
late Lord Tarborough's tenants, used to say that he did not care 
who knew that he had made £80,000 by employing bones (as a 
manure), before other people knew the use of them." 

'' The pecuniary gains of agricultural progress, are not to be es- 
timated by the mere saving in wages, horse labor, seed or manure. 
Thorough draining not only diminishes the cost of ploughing, but 
it renders it possible to grow great props of Roots, of Mangold 
Wurzel, from 30 to 35 tons to the acre, and of Turnips from 20 to 
25 tons ; ten times more live stock is thus fed on the land, than it 
maintained before ; the Corn crop follows the Boots in due course. 



448 MAACH. 

without farther manuring, and is made certain in addition, e^en in 
wet seasons. 

'< Under high farming, the manual labor employed is both in- 
creased and concentrated. A greater number of men are required 
per acre, and a lesser number in proportion to the produce. With 
mechanical assistance, the crops are less dependent on the seasons, 
and each operation is more quicklj performed." 

^ With improTed breeding, the stock is increased in quantity, more 
early matured, and gives better and finer anhnals. Four-year old 
homed sheep are replaced by mutton grown in 18 months. The 
aged cows, and worn-out oxen, which form the staple of the coo* 
tinental meat market, lose from 15 to 20 per cent more in cock- 
ing, than our well-fattened oxen and heifers, to say nothing of the 
difference in the flesh. At every stage, the farmer whofanns 
for money profit — not like the backwoodsman, the metayer, or 
peasant pn^rietor, merely to feed his family — loses by rude im- 
plements, ignorant cultivation, and coarse-bred live stock. At 
every stage of progress the modem £nglish farm becomes more 
like a manufisustory, producing on a limited surface, enormous quan- 
tities of fi)od for man, turning Peruvian guano into Cora, bones from 
the Pampas into Roots, Russian Oil-cake into Egyptian Beans, and 
Syrian Locust-pods into beef and mutton." 

^^ The gain to the farmer and the landbrd, is, we repeat, the most 
insignificl^lt part of the benefit ; the agricultnrist is the mandae- 
turer of food for the nation, and upon his skill, under Providence, 
it depends whether plenty or scarcity prevails in the land." 

^' Mr. John Hudson, of Castle-acre, entered upon his now cele- 
brated farm, in 1 822. It consists of self-drained, light, Su£R>lk soil." 
^ At that period the only porteble manure was rape cake, which 
cost £13 a ton, and did not produce any visible effects for months. 
The whole live stock consisted of 200 sheep, and 40 cattle of the 
old Norfolk breed. He adopted what was then the new, now the 
old, and what is destined to become obsolete, four course Norfolk 
system ; that is to say, 250 acres pasture, 200 Wheat, 300 Barley, 
or in dear years, 600 Wheat, 300 Roots, and 300 seeds, the rest 
being gardens and coverts. On these 1,200 acres he at preo^t 



THB FABM. 449 

mainudns 10 dairy cows, 36 cart horses, a flock of 400 breeding 
ewes, and fattens and sells 250 Short-horns, Herefords, Devons, or 
Scots, and 3000 Sonth Down sheep. The crop of Sweeds (Turnips) 
average from 25 to 30 tons, and of Mangolds 30 to 35 tons per acre. 
His Wheat had in 1855, averaged for the 5 previous years, 48 bush- 
els per acre, and Barley 56 bushels. Of the seeds, the Clover is 
mowed for Hay, the Trefoil and White Clover are fed down by 
sheep, and there are no bare fallows. The purchased food given to 
the cattle in the strawyards and sheds, and to the sheep in the field, 
consisting of Oil-cake, Meal, and Beans, costs £2,000 a year. The 
greater part of the Oil-cake is changed to manure, which it enriches 
in quality, as well as increases in quantity. But the direct ex- 
penditure in artificial manures, guano, nitrate of soda, and super 
phosphate of lime, amounts, in addition, to £1,000 a year ; wages ab- 
sorb £2,500 to £3,000 a year. Seven or eight wagon loads per 
acre, of farmyard manure, are ploughed into the land for Roots, 
besides above 24 shillings per acre of super phosphate of lime, 
drilled in with the Turnip seed, while Wheat has a top dressing 
of 1 cwt. guano, ^ cwt nitrate soda, and 2 cwt. salt mixed with 
earth and ashes. No weeds are grown. The Turnips are taken up 
in November, and a troop of boys and girls under the charge of an 
experienced man, traverse the ground, forking out, and burning 
every particle of Twitch (Grass) and Thistle. The same troop is 
called in during the progress of the Boot crop, whenever occasion 
requires, and immediately after harvest, they go over the stubbles, 
with their little three-pronged forks, exterminating the slightest ves- 
tige of a weed. The expenses of clearing are kept down to a 
shilling an acre (this is in England ; it would cost at least 80 cents 
here), which proves that by stopping the evil at the source, and 
never allowing the enemy to get ahead, land may be kept wholly 
weeded, more cheaply than half weeded." 

^ The farmer who saw a thief, daily stealing from his dung-heap, 
would soon call in the aid of a policeman. The weeds are an 
army of scattered thieves, and if the pilferings of each are small 
in amount, the aggregate is immense." 

" He who allows himself to be daily robbed of his crops, and the 
community to the same extent of food, and all the while looks 

38* 



450 HAHCH. 

helplessly on, is not only a bad farmer, but in efiect, thongh not id 
design, a bad citizen also." 

^ At Sedlington, where there is a strong clay to deal with, and 
ijnore good grass land than at Castleacre, it is not necessary to pnr- 
diase so much food to feed, to keep live stock for manure. But 
there were about 150 cattle, and 1,000 sheep sold fat, besides a 
choice breeding flock of Devons, the result of 20 years' care. By 
these sheep the light land is consolidated and enriched. If they 
are store sheep, they are allowed to gnaw the Turnips on the 
ground for part of the year. If they are young, and to be fatted 
for market (thfs would be American practice), they are drawn, 
topped, tailed, and sliced, with a portable machine. Thus 
feeding by day, and penned successively over every part of the 
field at night, they fertilize and compress, as effectually as any 
roller, the light, blowing sand, and prepare soil which would 
scarcely feed a family of rabbits, for luxuriant Com crops. 
The cattle, consisting of two-year old Devons, Herefords, and 
Short^horns, or three-year old Scots, or Anglesea runts, pur- 
chased at fairs, according to the supply and market price, in spring 
and summer, are run on the inferior pasture till winter, then taken 
into the yards or stalls, fed with Hay, Sweeds, Mangolds, Giound- 
cake. Linseed or Barley meal, and allowed an unlimited supply of 
dean water. When the spring comes, they are put on the best 
Grass, and sent off to market as soon as they become ripe, having 
left behind them a store of manure, which is the capital from 
which every thing else must spring." " Under the old system 
[the same as our New England system], 300 acres were poor 
pasture ; now, under the rotation system, the strong clay feeds 
four times as much live stock as before, and bears Wheat, at lea;»t 
twice in four years." 

" According to the latest experience, the most profitable sysp 
tem in its present light condition, would be to devote the farmyard 
dung to growing Clover, to eat down the Clover with folded sheep, 
and then to use the ground fertilized by the roots of the Clover, 
without home-made manure, for cereal crops, assisted by a top- 
dressing of guano, to be followed by Roots, nourished with super- 
phosphate of lime. No land is here lost by unnecessary fences, no 



THE FARM. 451 

ibrce is wasted on ill-bred live stock, no fertility is consumed hj 
weeds, no-time or labor is thrown away." 

A comparison instituted by Young, between two neighboring 
counties, applies well to this country and England. 

" A lazy desire to creep with sluggish monotony along an estab- 
lished path, and a feeling of impatience at being pushed into a novel 
track, helped to maintain hereditaiy prejudices, and truants in- 
vented fanciful excuses for not doing what was plainly advantageous 
to be done, because they preferred present sloth to future profit. 

^They were like a man who had Icun upon one side, till he 
shrunk from the trouble of turning over to the other, though when 
the process was performed the new posture might be easier than 
the old. But once roused and put in motion, and the inherent re- 
luctance to stir overcome, the gain in interest as well as pocket, 
was felt to be very great" 

No one reading these English experiences^, and many more like 
them, can help the burning shame flushing his face, that our people 
should be still standmg on the frontier of the great realm of Agri- 
culture, — should hardly have taken a step into it, while other na- 
tions have marched far in and appropriated enormous wealth. 

Talk as you please about the difference in price of labor, it is 
indisputable, 1st, that if it is profitable to farm at all, to grow any 
crops, to keep any cattle, it is more profitable to grow and keep the 
best, than the mediocre kinds ; 2nd, if but a given return can be 
got fromi one acre at a given expense, it is better to increase the 
expense double or treble, if, by so doing, the profit can be doubled 
or trebled, even much more if it can be quadrupled or quintupled, 
as it unquestionably can ; and no man not stiff with lying on one 
side will deny it 

3d, CSattle, whether American or English, are the same in constitu- 
ent elements and conditions, and are nourished alike by the same 
food. Any kind of feeding which is profitable in England, will 
bear a proportionate profit here, and those crops which grow here 
with a merely nominal profit — say Com — can hardly be turned 
into beef with much profit, any more than In England, while those 
crops which give enormous profits in both countries (Roots), and 
are of great value as food for stock there, are proportionately so 
here. Tet with all the light shed on Root culture abroad, our agri- 



452 XABCH. 

cultural newspapers contain every season accounts of some man's 
little experiment with one-half acre of Boots, and of the wondeiibl 
profit therefrom ; and to-day any man who has two acres in BooiSy 
is a wonder to his neighborhood, and the wiseacres dubiously shaks 
their heads, while Englishmen have 300 acres in Boots. 

4th, Beasoning and experience has proved that rotatltMi of crops 
is the life of successful farming, — unless in some special case, as 
Onions,*— and yet how many of our so-called good farmers can 
show a creditable and long-continued rotation, or assure you thai 
they really believe in such a thing ? A few men have ventured 
into draining, rotation of crops, Boot culture, with the same awkward 
caution with which a boy ventures on skates for the first time, ak 
ways expecting a fall, and probably getting falls, all of which, how- 
ever, itistead of being credited to ignorance or carelessness (where 
they belong), are debited to the new system of culturo. 

Bemember that we must have done with child's play and doubt- 
ing, we who are to be really improved fiEirmers, and that we must 
not be dismayed by a^few mishaps. Bunning and walking, like a 
man, is unquestionably moro agreeable and valuable than creeping 
like a child ; but the child learns, slowly and feebly, to walk, and 
so must we. And let us entreat our agricultural editors, instead of 
devoting much time and ^ace to the questions whether large or 
small potatoes are best for seed, whether free martins give milk, 
whether Ethan Allen trotted in 2.40 or 2.39, whether labor in 
England costs one-half or one-fourth as much as labor here, whether 
milk should be measured in a beer or a wine measure, to enter at 
once into the great question behind all these, and to show the 
people how a kindred race, by applying thought and capital to 
farming, have brought sands like those of Plymouth County, in 
Massachusetts, hard clays, like many about Boston, rocky and ster- 
rile lands, like much of New England, which is so impoverished as 
to make a man the poorer the more he has of it, to a fertility fully 
equal to the virgin soil of the West, capable of yielding 40 bushels 
of Wheat to the acre, whitened with countless flocks of sheep, rich 
with herds of fat cattle. 

We must balance our want of cheap labor by the invention and 
adoption of machinery. Already steam has been applied in «ich 
ways, that for a first cost of $300, with the waste brush of the 



THB FARM. 46^ 

farm for fuel, much of the work fibout the fann steading, which 
now occupies the time of many men, maj be done by machinery. 
Mowing-machines, horse-rakes, improved tools, and last, and great- 
eat, the steam-plough, are now ready to give us aid and strength, 
and to take much drudgery off our hands. 

The same spirit which has tl^us far in this book set the mental 
benefits of any occupation above all its other benefits, and which 
has urged the charms of nature, and the nobleness of the pursuit, 
as chief inducements to agriculture, encourages all agricultural im- 
provements, which make the life more profitable ; as I well know 
that the better a man's business pays him, the more time and incli- 
nation will he have for self-culture. 

As soon as the frost begins to leave the ground, open the irriga- 
tion dnuns, and let the water flow evenly over the Grass. Afler 
the Grass starts, flow for a few days at a time, and then withdraw 
for the same length of time, and again return ; by intermitting the 
flow of water in this way, the yield of Grass is increased, and the 
Grass is sweeter. Cart out the manure, and spread the piles pre- 
viously carted out We shall hire two men for the season, and give 
each his regular work at once ; let one man always drive the horses, 
another the oxen, and do not commit them to either man indifferently, 
for one accustomed . to the speed of horses is unfitted for sluggish 
oxen. As before, you, or the farmer and his boy, should do all the 
milking and feeding. Let the work be regularly planned and car- 
ried forward, so that each man cannot fisdl to know his duty. I do 
not mean that the farmer should make his plans and business known 
to all his men, as that is sure to introduce confusion and cause mis- 
chief; but it is a great advantage that each laborer should know 
his own work in advance, and should be made, if possible, to under- 
stand its importance and relation to the general whole. He thus 
gets a feeling of his own importance as he awakens to a sense of 
personal responsibility. In the plan of our bam, which is described 
on the next page, I have endeavored to arrange every detail for 
csoDvenience and true economy, and although some things preferred 
may at first seem far fetched, and perhaps even cumbersome, I 
think a trial of them will surely prove their merits. 



454 



MABCH. 



JTl 



i~ir4ZI 





l£, 



\ 



racT 




^ 



f lllllllll N . 



mmmu^ 



S -ar**- \^ 



>f: 



■' ^ 




^ 



I 



*» s 



s 



II I I I I 



[^ 



1 



|N| 



THE FARM. 466 

Dbsgbiptioit of our Babn. — Oar barn has often been referred to, but 
never yet described. I will give its description now, to enable you better to 
understand some previous directions, and others jet to come. It is on a side- 
hill, which slopes so rapidly that we are enabled to enter all three stories 
with teams. This is very advantageous, as it simplifies and eases work. 

F1B8T Stort, or Cellar. — The lower story is the cellar. A marks the 
space devoted to manure, and I shows where the muck falls to from above. 
This muck is, of course, mixed with the manure as wo please. B is a spaoe 
devoted to the storing of carts, and similar articles. C, hog-pen. D, hen- 
house, for general uses and laying. £, setting-room. F, pens for breeding- 
sows. 6, foundation of story above. H, door into cellar. K, where the ma- 
nure comes into the hog-pen from the carriage horses, two stories higher. The 
manure and urine of the cattle from the story above, shoots into the cellar 
through traps, like Browns patent coal-hole covers, which remove danger of 
cattle getting their legs through them. 

Second Stort. — The second story is entered by teams at 7 7, and may 
be left and entered by animals and men by 7^ 7^ also. 1 is the root cellar, al- 
ready described. 2, muck traps. 3, the box through which the manure of 
the carriage horses, in the third story, passes into the cellar. 4, the doors 
which admit carts into the root cellar, 9 feet wide. 5, the railway. This is 
the most convenient thing possible ; the rails are sunk into the floor, so as' not 
to interfere with walking, and of course save a great deal of labor. 6, the 
flap which admits the car into the root cellar. 8, horse stalls, y by 9^, with 
mangers and water, as before shown. 9, boxes to hold the cart harnesses. 10, 
cow stalls. 11, stalls for oxen. 12, cow mangers, and water-troughs, as de- 
scribed. 13, horse mangers. 14, spring doors, which shut the cattle out of 
the bam floor. 15, ox mangers. 16, mash-tub ; there empties into it cut hay 
from above. 17, water-trough and ball-cock. 18, stairs up to chamber, and 
down to cellar. 19, empty space for carts, wagons, or wheelbarrows. 20, 
swill spouts, leading to cellar. 21, grain and tool room. 22, meal chests. 23, 
work bench. 24, boiler. 25, chimney Windows on all sides, to give abun- 
dant light and air. The floor of the third story, over the heads of the cattle, 
is pierced with holes, which convey air up through the haymows, to the venti- 
lator on the roof, and thus not only cool the hay, but ventilate the second story. 

Third Story. — 26, carriage-room. 27, floor of bam. 28, harness-room. 
29, man's room. 30, hay bays. 31, stalls of carriage horses. 32, mangers, 
and water. 33, manure trap, leads to cellar. 34, meal-chest ; 35, mash-tub. 
36, water and ball-cock. 37, closet. 38, chimney in harness-room. 39, 
stairs to second story. 40, ventilators through hay. 41, entrance doors. 42, 
sliding doors to carriage-room. 44, spring doors, to keep horses oflf the floor. 
45, door of exit for unloaded teams, over a plank bridge, built on posts. 




CHAPTER LL 

OREENHOUSE AND CONSERYATORT. 

' PRIL. Manj dajs ia April are so warm as to 
enable us to dispense with fire heat and to de- 
mand that every opening for fresh air should 
be made the most of. 

The plants are in a glorious condition in 
consequence of having been properly attended 
to during the winter, and the fragrance and 
beauty of the flowers, stir the most stolid heart 
Continue to propagate by cuttings, etc., and also sow in pot5 
and pans the seeds of annuals and perennials not yet started. 
Plant any roots of Auriculas and Ranunculuses, which you maj 
have in thumb pots, ready to be transferred to the garden as the 
season advances ; set Tuberoses also in pots ; by giving them an 
early start you will get them into blossom in the garden before the 
autunm frosts can harm them. 

Bring the Dahlia roots into the house and lay them under the 
stagings, where the warmth and moisture will stimulate the tubers a 
little and cause the buds to start, so that you may sooner cut them 
to pieces and get them ready either to plant in the open ground or 
to start in the hotbed. 

You may remove to the back side of the house and the cold 
frames those plants which are fairly out of blossom, and which you 
do not care to have grow much before next winter. 

Open the cold frames and pits, remove gradually all the dung 
linings and leaves, but retain the shutters. There will hardly be 
weather cold enough to require other protection than sashes and 
shutters. On every fair day let in light and air by removing the 
shutters early in the morning. The gradual admission of sun will 

456 



GREENHOUSE AND CONSERYATOBT. 457 

soon Start the plants and we maj expect by judicious manage- 
ment to get them a little forward for planting out Water oc- 
casionally, as you see cause, and with tepid water ; but be careful 
not to get too much moisture in dark weather, as it may cause 
** damping off.** 

Remove the sashes from the Daisies and Violets all day in mod- 
erate weather ; they will give you abundance of flowers throughout 
the month. Beds of Auricula and Ranunculus prepared in the 
faU will need constant attention ; Pansies too, whether in pots, in 
the frames, or in beds b;^ themselves, should be well cared for ; 
give air and water ; late in the month they will be in full blossom. 

The manure removed from about the beds should be carted either 
to a pit into which it may be dumped, mixed with some loam, or 
to the barnyard. Having lain exposed to the weather all winter, 
it has lost most of its value ; and although a good fertilizer if dug 
in, it is not nearly so valuable as fresh manure ; but if returned to 
the yard or the cellar to absorb the urine of the cattle, its value 
will be restored ; or if leaves and loam are mixed with it, and the 
whole packed in a pit, by the fall it will have decomposed into a 
compost, fit for almost any purpose. 

Do not be alarmed if in spite of ventilation the sun raises the 
temperature of the houses at mid-day to 90° or 100° ; only give 
plenty of moisture to the air by repeated syringmgs, and by setting 
evaporating pans on the flues. 

.Those who are not familiar with the spring and summer bloom 
of the flower-garden and shrubbery, should not delay making them- 
selves acquainted with it, as the season will soon be upon them 
and should not find them unprepared. 

The choicest plants and flowers may be readily grown in the 
garden, if a little care is taken to start them in the greenhouse and 
hotbeds. 

Repot any plants which seem to need it, and gradually remove 
all half-hardy plants out of blossom to the cold frames and pits^ 
that Pelargoniums, Azaleas, Cinerarias, Fuchsias, etc., may have 
more room. 

We have occasionally very cold weather, even in April ; be on 
the watch for it, and do not let your houses be caught by it unpro- 

39 



458 APRIL. 

tected. Bj letting the canvas-coyer down over the glass earlj in 
the afternoon of a warm day, you may enclose a great deal of the 
sun's heat, and save fires. 

It might be supposed that the house itself would afford consider- 
able protection against cold ; but a glasshouse radiates heat vezj 
rapidly, and the large amount of moisture in the air is in itself 
dangerous. This radiation may, however, be prevented by a very 
slight cover. At a time when in the outer air water will freeze 
hard and in the greenhouse all tender plants will die, a common 
canvas will entirely protect them from danger. 

Do not be tempted by any warm days to remove into the open 
air, for a permanency, any plants which have wintered in the 
houses ; the ground is still cold, and severe frosts are sure to come. 
Keep the plants that were purposely frozen up in the autumn, 
frozen as long as possible. Keep them on the north sides of the 
house, and try to. prevent even the tops from thawing, and when 
you find that they are about to thaw, carry them into the shade, 
and do not let the sun shine on them for some days. By burying 
them in the earth, the frost may be gradually removed, and with 
less danger to the plants. 



CHAPTER LIL 

ORAPERT 

Continue the temperature in the forcing-house as last month^^at 
60** to 70** at night, 70° to 75^ by day, in cloudy weather, 80<* to 
90^ in sunshine ; admit all the air possible, and supply abundant 
moisture. 

Continue to thin. Before the end of the mohth, all the vines 
should have been thinned the first time, and some the second, and 
even the third time. 

Cut back the laterals above the bunches to one eye, and repeat 
the cutting as they start afresh, and also cut out any shoots which 
make head between the bunches and the main cane, as they only 
abstract the food of the bunches, without corresponding benefit 
The thinning process, afler the first time, depends very much upon 
judgment ; the kind of vine, size of berry, earliness of ripening 
must all influence thinning. As the berries swell, the shoulders 
of the bunches should be supported by tying them to the cane 
or branches above. 

The vegetables in the forcing-house should be now fit for use, 
and the Strawberries for picking. The vines will soon cover all 
the glass with their leaves, and exclude the light so much that but 
few vegetables will thrive. The Mushrooms will be producing 
abundantly. Water with tepid water from time to time. Endive 
and the blanched vegetables do not need direct light, and will con- 
tinue to improve as yet 

The retarding-house must be kept as cold as possible ; cover 
with canvas during sunshine, and let in all the air that is safe. No 
fire heat will be necessary in bright weather, but must be used if 
there should chance to come a very cold and cloudy interval. 

The vines in the cold grapery, on the contrary, need all the sun- 
light they can get ; give aeration through the ventilators, and some 

459 



460 APRIL. 

other air during bright weather. Follow the same degrees of tem- 
perature given for the first month of forcing-house. The difficoltj 
to be anticipated is that of keeping the temperature as uniform as 
by fire heat The first of the month, if the manure spread on the 
borders in March was active^ the vines will have swollen their buds 
considerably, and by the middle and last of the month will b^in 
to break. Follow the .forcing-house treatment exactly. The veg- 
etables in the cold grapery will be thriving finely ; the abundant 
light, heat, and moisture will give sufficient stimulation. 

From this time to the end of summer the work of the houses is 
no less pressing, but is to be taken in connection with the outside 
work, and there is great danger that it will be neglected. The fie- 
cination of the various out-of-door occupations tends to make the 
gardener forgetful. The houses should be sjrringed very oRen, on 
sunshiny days, and the thermometer and hygrometer carefully con- 
sulted, as too great heat and dryness on the tender foliage may do 
almost irreparable mischief. The grapevines outside the house, on 
espaliers, which were wrapped up in straw, should be examined 
towards the last of the month. Loosen their coverings, and fotk 
into the border plenty of strong manure, which may give the roots 
an early start ; but take care not to injure the roots of the vines 
with the fork. The figs on the espaliers also should be examined, 
and receive some manure about the .roots. Those which were laid 
down in the earth will not need any attention for the present. The 
espaliered fruit otherwise needs nothing, unless it be to examine 
the fastenings, and if any be fi>und broken by winter, to repair them. 
In your examination, remove any eggs you may see glued to the 
twigs, and note carefully those shoots which seem likely to die the 
coming season, from frost-blight, and cut them out — from the 
Pears, Cherries, and Plums, before the sap gets into active circula- 
tion — from the Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots aAer the leaves 
have expanded a little. 



CHAl>TER LHI. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



The flower-garden begins again to assert its importance, and 
resumes its place in our interest. The Snowdrops are all in blos- 
som, the earliest Crocuses show their heads, and we know that the 
other bulbs will soon follow. Here and there a last year's Pansj 
opens its eyes to the spring sunshine, whilst in sheltered spots in 
the shubberj, the Forsythia will soon be glowing with yellow 
flowers. 

The blossoming time of all plants varies a little with the season, 
but less than is usually supposed, and it is doubtful if the greatest 
variation amounts to ten days. Sanguinaria and Rue anemone 
are the earliest wild flowers, and if planted in any of the beds or 
borders, will be in blossom almost as soon as the Snowdrop. Be- 
fore the month is old, the Snowdrops wiU be replaced by Crocuses, 
Daffodils, Narcissuses, and in the most favored situations, by the 
earliest Hyacinths. 

The litter should be carefully removed from all the beds, a little 
at a time, to harden the bulbs. J£ the garden was lefi in proper 
condition in the autumn, there will be need of but little spring 
cleaning. Rake up any dead leaves that may have blown in, and 
be ready by the first of May to begin real work. Make all your 
selections of seeds early, and decide how you will plant the beds, 
that when the time for planting comes, you need not be delayed. 
If you mean to employ others to advise and direct your work, see 
to it now, when you can be sure of getting just such persons as you 
prefer, and when they are at liberty to devote ample time to your 
service. 

If your garden is still a grass plot, or a ploughed field, have a 
plan made. Make it yourself if you can, as I have directed for the 
village garden; if you cannot, employ some one to do it for you. 

39* 461 



462 APRIL. 

Some details with regard to the making of plans, I will give at an- 
other time. 

Overhaul the seeds that you have on hand, and all the garden 
ornaments, tools, etc, that were packed away in the autumn. Toa 
repaired them then, so now you have only to decide what you will 
add to your stock. 

If you have no greenhouse or hothed, make a hotbed now. (For 
directions see pages 480.) 

Plant in the bed the seeds of all those annuals which blossom 
late in the summer and fall, and need to be hurried ; also, all tho-^e 
which you wish to have in succession. Seeds of annuals should be 
lightly covered with earth, more or less^ according to their size. 
Some seeds, like those of the Ipomea, are enclosed in a homy 
shell, which prevents germination for a long time. All such seed^ 
should be soaked in scalding water, for several hours, or a day, be- 
fore planting. When you purchase seeds, you can always learn of 
the seller whether any peculiar treatment is necessary. 

Towards the last of the month, set in the hotbeds Dahlias, Ma- 
deria vines. Gladiolus, and all other tubers to be blossomed in the 
garden ; the start thus given will insure a longer and more satb- 
factory bloom. 

Such manuals as Breck's Book of Flowers, Buist's Flower- 
Grarden Directory, etc., give minute details on this subject, for 
which there is no room here, and I would rather induce you to seek 
out and read such books, than try to supply their place. 

Every year some new plants and flowers are produced for ad- 
miration, and some gardeners get the largest part of their profits 
from the sale of these novelties. I think it is well to try them as 
far as is consistent with economy, but by no means to the neglect of 
old and deserving favorites. 

It is with flowers as it is with trees, if you would be successful, 
you must have a large stock of patience. There will be innumer- 
able annoyances and disappointments, through the season, but care, 
attention, and patience, will bring a bountiful reward in spite of 
them all. 

As the warm days come on, you will feel your enthusiasm kin- 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 463 

dling within jou, and your imagination will give 70a delightful vis- 
ions of vegetables, flowers, and plants, in marvellous abundance, 
crowding every inch of your land. You will lay out magnificent 
plans, and set to work with eagerness, and at first, all will go well. 
It is very charming to get up early, on a bright spring morning, to 
dig and plant in the unwonted light of the dawning day, and with 
the delicious melody of the early birds filling the ur ; and you will 
snatch a few minutes each evening from business, for your garden 
work, and as the shades of night shut down, and send you in from 
your employment, you will feel injured, and will wish that the 
fabled '' curtain of night," were a real one, of which you had the 
string, which you would certainly keep drawn up. Reluctantly, and 
with many a backward glance at the smooth beds, dotted with 
stakes, so prophetic to your eye of future glories, you return to the 
house, where you descant in glowing terms, to your wife or friends, 
on the topic that absorbs your thoughts. Perhaps, in your ardor, 
you plant several weeks too early, and those seeds that escape death 
from rotting in the ground, meet it from the frosty air. Still you 
are not discouraged, and replant with wonderful perseverance. So 
in spite of ups and downs, you work on through the spring months, 
while the weather is cool, and your whole frame retains the brac- 
ing effect of the winter. But the work thus begun, must be con- 
tinued with unabated zeal, through the heats of June and July, if 
you would not lose all your past labor, and see your hopes choked, 
by the fast growing weeds that lay concealed in the upturned clMs, 
that looked so innocent when you planted them with seeds of your 
own choosing, little thinking of the unwelcome companions that had 
pre-occupied the ground. 

Do not, then, in your first spring enthusiasm, lay out too much 
work. Be contented to do less than you would, now, that you may 
not have to do more than you can by and by 

In a flower-garden there is a great deal of beauty to be procured 
from grass and shrubs, and such flowers as need but little time and 
csBte ; and it is wiser to plant the seeds of those flowers which you 
know will grow easily, and cover the ground, to the exclusion of 
weeds, than to try experiments in new and delicate varieties. 

To cover the ground, plant in masses such annuals as Mignon- 



464* APBIL. 

ette, Sweet AlTSSom, Gillia, CandTtuft, Cacalia, £8choltzia, Core- 
opsis, Portulacca, etc, and among them, in less profusion, set those 
that grow up straight, and occupy but little room, as Aster, Gilly* 
flower, Zinia, Mourning Bride, Antirhinum, etc 

A perfect flower-bed, in full growth, shows nothing but leaves 
and flowers ; from the turf to the top of the group there is an oft* 
broken though varying surface, of different forms and colors, so 
harmonized and contrasted as to give constant delight to the eye. 
This result is best obtained by mingling various kinds of annuals 
with the bedding-out plants, which having been started in the 
greenhouse or hotbed, are turned out of their pots and planted in 
the beds, and which constantly increase in blosscHns and beauty, till 
cut off* by winter frosts. 

Plan your garden, then, with a view to its permanent improve- 
ment and advantage, and if your spring enthusiasm does not exhanst 
itself before the trying time comes to prove it, if your courage, 
prudently husbanded, continues through frosts and gloom, and the 
discx)uragement of weeds, and droughts, unabated, your spring 
visions will become a rich summer and autumn reality. 

There will be a long time in the spring when the floweivgarden 
is dependent on bulbs for its beauty, and even after other flowers 
come forward, these bulbs, and their oousins-german, the tuberous 
rooted plants, continue to hold an important place. 

I will give a brief account of the best bulbs, and their culture. 

The careful and wise gardener always seeks first the best native 
plants, as they are more hardy, reliable, and easy of culture than 
foreigners. Three varieties of tuberous roots, but little cultivated, 
though of great beauty, are Ranunculus, Anemone, and Auricula. 
They are all natives of much milder climates than ours. 

The Auricula is of the same family with the English Cowslip 
and the common Polyanthus ; it is more tender than the latter, and 
averse to both heat and cold, especially the former. It should be 
planted in cool, moist situations, away from the drippings from 
t^ees, shrubs, or buildings. It must be protected during the 
winter and early spring, but as it starts early in the season, 
the covering must be lightened and removed as soon as poast* 
ble. 



FLOW£B*aARDEN. 465 

The Ranunculus is an Asiatic, of the Buttercup familj ; our 
winters are too cold for it, and our summers too hot. To cultivate 
it successfullj in the open ground, make a deep, rich bed in the 
autumn, in a place sheltered from severe cold, and yet shaded from 
the midday sun of spring. As early as possible, in the spring, un- 
cover the bed and dig it over ; remove an inch or two of earth, 
and set the claw-like roots over the bed, six inches apart each way ; 
then cover with half an inch of soil. If the weather continues 
cold, cover with a moderate depth of litter. Pine-branches, or other 
shelter. As the plants grow, be sure they have enough water, but 
do not saturate them. The plant, af^er flowering, will soon ripen 
its roots, when the leaves will turn yellow. The tubers should be 
taken up, and laid away in a dry place, till the next spring or for 
winter forcing. 

The Anemone is of the same family, and is very beautiful. It 
is not so difficult of culture as the Ranunculus. Plant in richj 
weU-di^ained beds, in autumn, and cover with a garden-frame and 
litter. In the early spring replace the litter with sashes, and stimu- 
late to an early growth ; blossoms will appear in June. 

Many summer bulbs, not usually cultivated, may be started now 
in hotbeds or pots, set in protected places. The Tiger-flower is sin- 
gularly gorgeous, and is a very full bloomer. It «will do well 
planted in the open ground in May. 

Snowdrops may be successfully moved, immediately afler flow- 
ering, before the leaves die ; or as soon afler as possible. 

There are many varieties of the Iris, or Flower-de-luce. Some 
of these are so common as to be quite despised ; others are much 
admired. The Iris Susiana blossoms early, and is dwarf; the roots 
need to be taken up in summer, and replanted in the fall. The 
Grrand white Iris, large and showy, i^ I think very handsome, 
and not to be replaced by newer plants. So, too, with many of the 
rich blue and purple varieties. 

The number and variety of Lilies is very great. White Liliea 
are to be planted in the early autumn, or they will not blossom th» 
next year. They should be moved just before making their fall 
growth of leaves. 

The common Lilies are aU easily grown. The Japan Lily is 



466 APRIL. 

rare and beautiful, and needs as careful treatment as the Hjaciiith. 
The bulbs need not be taken into the house in winter. It maj be 
started in pots in the spring, and turned into the border in May. 
Two very beautiful Lilies are natives ; L. Superbum, and Cana- 
densis. These throw up tall stalks,, surmounted bj a ciown of 
from three to seven flowers, very beautiful, and much improved bj 
cultivation ; they grow abundantly in the woods and fields. 

Peonies are very numerous ; their tubers should be transplanted 
in the autumn or early spring ; nearly all are hardy. The Tree 
Peony needs a little protection. The old red Peony, the ornament 
of every village garden, is very fine, and were it not so commoii, 
its splendid color would make it a favorite. 

The white, pink, variegated, and fragrant Peonies are the most 
generally cultivated, and if a good variety is selected, will be in 
blossom from May to the last of July, The Tree Peonies often 
grow to a great size, and a large plant full of blossoms is a beauti- 
ful sight. 

Tulips are too well known to need more than a mention ; direc- 
tions for forming beds were given in September. 

The Amaryllis is a beautiful summer-fiowering Lily, and its 
crimson flowers should be fi>und in eveiy garden. It is tender, 
and should 4>e started early, to blossom to perfection ; althoogfa 
planted in May, it will blossom well and late. 

The Gladiolus family is numerous and beautiful, and blossoms 
for a long time. 

The Solomon's Seal is a beautiful plant, tuberous rooted, and a 
native. It may be taken from the woods, and with a few years 
culture will be much improved. 

The Fall Crocus should be planted in the spring. It blossoms 
with purple flowers in October, and is very pretty and desirable, 
but rare. 

Dahlias ai*e flowers very much admired, and are of various 
colors. New varieties are brought forward every sea.«on by their 
enthusiastic admirers. The best plants may be purchased by the 
dozen in the spring at a moderate price. They are tender, and 
must be taken up in the autumn afler the frost comes. Directioiis 
have already been given. 



FLOWBB-OAKDEN. i67 

Another almost tuberous rooted plant, which has been a great 
invorite for the last few years, is the Dielytra. It is a native of 
thiB country, and there are many varieties. D. eximia is the one 
generally grown in gardens. It grows rapidly, blossoms early and 
long ; the flowers are curious in form, beautiful in color, and grace- 
ful in arrangement ; the foliage is no less pleasing than the flowers. 
D. canadensis is a native of the woods, rather rare, easily culti- 
vated and very fragrant D. cucuUata has white and yellow blos- 
soms, is small, and is native, improved by cultivation. 

Another plant of the same family which is very charming, is the 
Corydalis, aurea and glanca ; generaUy found about rocks, and 
easily grown from seeds. 

Adlumia ctrrhosa is a perennnial of the same species. It is a 
very pretty vii^e, and should have a place in every garden. 

Fumitory, the last of this family of American plants, is an an* 
niial, rather pretty, and grows abundantly from the seeds. 

The Squill, — Scilla esculenta, — has a pretty blossom ; has a 
bulb like the Onion, and is sometimes eaten for it by the Indians. 
Planted in the Fall, it blossoms in May. 

** The Hemerocallis, or Day-Lily, may be planted in the autumn 
or spring, and is propagated by divisions of the roots ; it is a spe- 
cies of Funkia." 

The White Day-Lily is very beautiful ; it blossoms for about two 
months, and its flowers are very fragrant. The blue is a coarser, 
and less desirable flower, not fragrant. There are many other 
varieties. 

I have appended this list to my remarks on the necessity of 
having no more garden than can be well taken care of, that you 
may see the possibility of a great variety of flowers in a small 
space, most of which need but little looking after. These plants 
combined with bedding-out plants, and well-selected annuals, will 
give plenty of flowers from the middle of April to the last of Oc- 
tober. Refer to the flower-garden, August ; see beds L and P. The 
bkifisoms begin with Crocus and Snowdrops, followed by Hyacinths, 
Tulips, Narcissus, Daffodils, Polyanthus, Iris, Fansies, Squills, 
Dielytras, Lilies, Amaryllis, Gladiolus, Day-Lilies, Tiger Flow- 



468 APBIL. 

ers, Tuberoses, Fall Crocuses, blended with Mignonette and Sweet 
Alyssum on the borders, afler June; with Gillia, Heliotrope, 
Creeping Lantana, Tall Jjantana, Globe Amaranth Escholtzia. 
These two beds, well managed, will give at any time a lai^e bondi 
of flowers, and from July to October, you can cut them in abundance. 
In planting d we have kept the tall bulbs at the back, placing the 
smaller ones in front* In P, the tall ones are in the middle of 
the large swells, and slope down to smaller on the edge ; and the 
same arrangement is made with the other plants. I^Iignonette, 
Sweet Alyssum, Gillia, and Creeping Lantana have gone from the 
front of the bed back to the middle, and among the other plants 
next to them and amongst them, are Verbenas ; inside in P, are 
Heliotropes and Lan tanas, which are at the back of d. 

Cover the surface of the beds with a good dressing of fine goano, 
and rake it carefully with a fine-toothed narrow rake, the first of May, 
and .then along the edge and as fast as we please, the seeds of the 
annuals are sown broadcast and thin, and then raked in. Tbey 
soon come up and cover the decaying leaves of the bulbs, which 
as the leaves decay, may either be removed altogether, or only lose 
their dead leaves. The middle of May the other plants are care- 
fully set, and by attention the change is prevented from being dis- 
agreeable. I do not mean that there will be no time without 
flowers, as it is impossible to make the gradation unbn^en, but the 
nakedness need not be long apparent 

The seeds of the annuals should be sown early ; the guano will 
stimulate a quick and vigorous growth. When the pot plants are 
set out, remember that they have been accustomed to abundant 
heat and moisture, and that you transplant them to the cold, open 
ground oflen covered for days together with cold and dark clouds, and 
watered only with cold water. If you want quick growth, put under 
and around each, as far as the ball of earth will allow, a quantity 
of steaming horse manure, and water for some days with quite 
warm water ; but do not manure and neglect to water, as the manure 
will dry up to the great injury of tlie plant. If such care is taken, 
your bed will be a wonder to careless cultivators for the next six 
months. • 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 469 

Let me repeat some remarks that I made in September. The 
good gardener wilt never be in his garden withoat strings, knife 
and sticks, and will always be ready to cut down dead stalks and 
leaves, and tie up drooping or top heavy plants. 

Patience, neatness, and order are your watchwords, and should 
be inscribed over the entrance to your garden. 

40 



CHAPTER LIV. 



ORCHARD. 



If the ground was not well thawed last month, begin now, as 
soon as it opens, to dig in manure in the orchard, together with the 
proportion of the salt and lime mixture described in the falL Wood 
ashes, potash, soda, or lime, spread over the surface of the orchard, 
are very beneficial to the trees : they all seem in their caustic state, 
to kill the eggs and larvae of insects, and are also of direct use to 
the trees. No vegetable physiologist has yet determined why it is 
that Saks (lime, soda, potash, etc.) are of use to vegetation ; they 
(particularly potash and soda) are found in great quantities in all 
vegetable tissues, and seem essential to their development. Land 
destitute of these salts, is sterile, and can be induced to bear crops 
only by application of some of them as manure. At times they are 
most powerful aids to vegetation ; some crops are more dependent 
on them than others, as for instance. Clover. White Clover may 
be brought up on any land where no White Clover seed has been 
sown, and the plant not seen for years, by dressing it with wood 
ashes, or potash. Bed Clover may be grown on land previously 
unable to bear it, by a liberal dressing of sulphate of li|ne. Leaves 
and bark of trees are full of these salts, and it is from the ashes 
of burned wood and leaves, that the potash and soda are obtained. 
These few facts establish conclusively, their importance to vegeta- 
tion, but how they contribute to its welfare, is a mystery. 

These salts are generally found in the tissues of plants, in a crys- 
talized form, and deposited in the cells as foreign matter, not con- 
tributing at all to the composition of the woody and cellular tissue, 
which is called vegetable matter. Some of them are found in mnch 
greater excess than others ; fruit trees when burned, give in their 
ash a great amount of potash, less soda, and but little lime. Yet it 
is the application of lime to the soil which stimulates the trees, and 

470 



ORCHARD. 471 

enables them to assimilate the potash and soda they need. I shall 
not enter into chemical details, but simply say that the lime enters 
into combination with the particles of the soil, and, by chemical in- 
terchange, the potash, or soda, is set free, and its place is taken by a 
corresponding amount of lime. The salts, thus set free, are dis- 
solved by water, absorbed by the plants, and found in their tissues. 
Therefore, you will be almost certain of benefiting your trees by 
giving them a liberal dressing of lime. 

When the orchard is dug over and pruned, see that the fences 
about it are in good order, that no animal may get in and browse 
the young twigs. 

Though it is spring, and long before the time when baskets, lad- 
ders, and hooks are wanted, use some wet day of leisure to look 
over these implements, and repair damages. By doing this now, 
you will remember all summer what your deficiencies are, and be 
on the watch to repair them. 

By the last of this month, the caterpillars will begin to build 
their nests. The webs will be seen — very small, at first — in the 
forks of the twigs, and smaller branches. Provide yourself with a 
caterpillar brush, or a bit of sponge ; fasten it to a long, light fish- 
ing rod ; get a few pounds of crude potash, and a butter firkin ; nail 
a strip of wood across the top of the firkin, for a handle ; put into 
it a pound of potash to a gallon of water. In the early morning, 
the caterpillars are all in the nests ; they rarely start out for food 
before the sun is a few hours high. Gro through the orchard with 
your brush and bucket, and wherever you see any sign of a nest, 
dip the brush, or sponge, into the firkin, and sop it on to the nest, 
rubbing it round the fork of the branch. 

The Wire caterpillar brush is used without potash with the idea 
that the stiff wires will crush and destroy all the worms, but the alkali 
water is more effective ; it will bum up not only the worms, but the 
unhatched eggs. More effectual than either, where the nest is ac- 
oassable, is a more disagreeable, and I might almost say disgusting, 
process ; cover the hand with a stout buckskin glove, and rub the 
nosi and its inhabitants into a paste ; you will thus insure the total 
destruction of the insects and eggs. 

This work will consume a deal of time during the last of April, 



472 APRIL. 

and the month of May. There are at least three brood? of worms, 
all of which must be cut off, if you would have trees with perfect 
leaves, and a full crop of fruit The lazy man, who neglects this 
w<H*k, or the man who thinks he cannot afford it, are equally fool- 
ish, and will surely find that their neglect not only permanently 
injures the trees, but destroys the fruit for the ensuing year. 
Careful watching, and washing for a few years, will materially 
reduce the number of worms. Some, however, will escape and 
lay their eggs, unless they are removed by another insect destroyer, 
the birds. 

That fanner who allows any one to kill the birds about his plaee, 
because they eat his Cherries, Strawberries, and Peas, ^ saves at 
the spigot to lose at the bung." Only a few days ago I read a 
communication, in one of our agricultural papers, favoring the de- 
struction of birds, on the ground that they not only eat fiiiit when 
ripe, but at other seasons eat the seeds of Red Cedar, Blackbeny, 
etc, which are voided afterwards, undigested, about their roostmg- 
places, in pastures, etc, where they take root and spring up, to 
choke the pasture, and annoy man and beast. 

Before calculating the benefit, let us look into the mischief done 
by birds. Suppose we had 100 acres of pasture-land (enough to 
ruin us !) entirely free from Cedar, Bramble, and other plants 
whose seeds are food for birds. The birds begin to resort. thither, 
and sow the seeds of fruit eaten elsewhere. Suppose that in one 
season they thoroughly sow an acre with troublesome plants,— 
though the supposition is absurd, — they will not germinate till 
the following spring, or become perceptible until the second year. 
In the spring of this year a man with a sharp bush scythe will 
cut over and virtually destroy every plant in a day or two ; — cost 
$2 ! But all the birds on the 100 acres will not sow so much. 

What are the benefits ? 

First consider the amount of land nearly or quite worthless for 
pasture, which birds plant, as with Red Cedar, the most vaka- 
ble tree in New England for post-and-rail fences, a tree which 
might be cultivated with profit Hedgerows and old stone walls 
are thus sowed with Cedar and Blackberry, and as one rides through 
the country he may see them on all sides, not in the middle of the 



ORCHARD. 478 

fields, but along the edges, where as thej grow large they give 
ahade to the cattle, timber to use, fruit to preserve. Were there 
no other benefit from the birds, this would compensate for the cost 
<rf cutting down brush. For the fruit eaten, the beauty and song 
of birds more than compensates. 

But how inmiense a balance is left Careful experiments have 
riiown that every robin consumes, during the summer, 15 lbs. of 
worms. A robin, fed for experiment, consumed, on an average, 
beside bread-crumbs, bits of beef, gravel, and water, 20 dwts. of 
worms a day. If the birds were wild, the beef and, bread-crumbs 
would be replaced by seeds and earthworms, by caterpillars, canker^ 
worms, larvae of various kinds. And at liberty, the consumption 
woold of course, be greater than in confinement ; but at 20 dwts. 
a day during the six months when robins frequent cultivated land, 
one of them would eBi fifteen lbs. (Troy weight) of worms. Think 
of that every farmer and gardener who complains of the robin, or 
of any bird, for all eat in proportion ! The thousand birds which sur- 
round your farm and homestead during the year, welcoming morn- 
ing and evening with their songs, eat 15,000 lbs. of worms. How 
many canker-worms, caterpillars, spiders, etc, would go to make 
up that amount ? It is nothing less than insanity to prevent such 
destruction of vermin, because it involves a little labor with a 
scythe, to mow the bushes or brambles they have sowed, or the loss 
of a few quarts of Cherries. Even the common crow is useful in 
the same way. It is not to be denied that he pulls up a great deal 
of Com, and gives a great deal of trouble, but he does it not for 
mischief, but in his efforts to assist the farmer. Every one knows 
the injury done to Corn, and other crops, by the wire or cut-worm ; 
many specifics are recommended, all of some service ; it is in the 
pursuit of these grubs that crows and blackbirds pull up the young 
plants, at whose roots instinct teaches them that their prey lies ; 
and it will be found that the fields most haunted by crows, are most 
iofested by the worm. I mention this to show the real habits of 
the crow, not to prove that we may not lose more by their hunting 
after the worms, than by the ravages of the worm if lefl unhurt 

Robins, crows, and blackbirds are not the only consumers of 
wonos. A distinguished American naturalist told me that one 

40* 



474 APRIL. 

morning he saw several branches! of a favorite tree ovemin hj 
many hundreds of the coarae, hairj, black and red caterpiUan, 
often seen on willows. He was on the point of going out to remove 
them, when he saw a male catbird light among and begin to eat 
them, occasionally flying away with some for its young. The bird 
continued this all day. By the same hour on the next day there 
were no caterpillars to be seen on the tree ; the bird had deai^ it* 
So of other birds ; and the millions of pounds of worms eaten 
by birds, would, if unoonsumed, devour every green thing. So 
long as a country is covered with forest, these insect nuisances are 
rare, and so are birds ; as the land is brought under cultivation the 
insects increase, and the birds with them. So ready is nature to 
provide for the wants of civilized life. You rarely see many birds 
in the deep woods ; they are about the homestead and hedgerows, 
and the murderous guns of idle men and boys do incalculable mis- 
chief to &rmer8 and horticulturists. 

The last work in the orchard for thb month is grafUng, which 
may be done through all the month of May. 



* Re¥. Thus. Hill, Walthain, 



CHAPTER LV. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



The work of the kitchen-garden begins now in good earnest, 
and from this time tiU winter will keep the gardener busj. 

The hotbeds and cold frames require constant attention. Dig 
over all the open ground, particularly that which was manured last 
fall with strong manure. You will find it pretty well rotted. Any 
that remains undecomposed must be shaken to pieces, and 
thoroughly mixed with the earth. 

Make beds for Radishes in the warmest exposures. If your gar- 
den is protected by a fence, sow early, otherwise defer sowing till 
late in the month. Among the radishes set Lettuce plants and 
early Cabbages, from the cold frames and hotbeds, as soon as the 
weather permits and the plants are ready for removal. 

Sow Peas in warm exposures very early, as they will not be in- 
jured by frost 

Make ridges for early Potatoes, as described last month. Prick 
out Cabbage plants for the cold frames as soon as you find settled 
weather. Choice heads of Lettuce, Cabbage, and similar vegetable^, 
may be covered at night with the boxes already described. But 
the great occupation for this month wiU be with the hotbeds and 
digging the ground. Make out a list of the seeds you want, and the 
quantity of each, the first of the month, and buy early while the 
assortments at the stores are large and various. Melon seeds are 
said to be much improved by age, and by being carried for some 
weeks in a body-pocket, before planting. It has never been stated 
what the advantage of this practice is, but general opinion pro- 
nounces in its favor, and there is, therefore, probably some benefit 
in it Few things puzzle amateurs more than the arrangement of 
good lists of seeds, in kinds and quantity. It is equally trouble- 
some and unprofitable to have too much or too little, and the for- 

475 



476 APRIL. 

mer error is very common for fear of the latter. Some kinds of 
seed each gardener does better to grow for himself, but in most 
cases it is best to buy, if he can be sure of the quality, as by get- 
ting seed grown on different soil from his own, he secures some- 
thing of the benefit of rotation of crops. It is undeniable, that 
seed grown year after year deteriorates, even with the best care 
and selection. Judicious selection has as much to do with the im- 
provement of seed as any thing else. For instance, a Wheat 
grower wishes the earliest kind, the largest head, with the greatest 
number of kernels and most plumpness, and a stiff and not super- 
abundant straw. If his Wheat is such as he likes, he goes through 
his fields in July, and finds some heads, perhaps only one, much 
earlier ripe than the rest ; some superior in plumpness or other 
respects. Perhaps one head unites all these good qualities. He 
marks it, and, when it is ripe, cuts and saves it. He will manure 
and dig well a little spot and sow these seeds early, so that the 
plants shall be well grown before winter. The next year he will 
keep these plants well weeded, and will certainly get several heads 
much better, in all respects, than the rest. These he will gather 
and sow. The next year he will get not less than 100 heads, 
which will give him 2,500 plants for the fourth year. A% the least 
calculation, he will find among these 3,000 perfect heads, bearing, 
many thousand perfect kernels, ^ allowing 63 pounds to the bushel, 
for wheat, 86 grains will weigh a dram, or, at any rate, 87 ; the 
bushel will then contain 701,568 grains." * 

Our cultivator will have obtained at least one-tenth of a bushel 
of a new and improved variety of seed, and another year's care 
will give him three bushels better still, and of course he may con- 
tinue the improvement as long as he pleases. The same care will 
produce the same result of course with any kind of seed, and 
every cultivator should make a point of improving one or two 
kinds ; not many, as it takes too much time and trouble. How- 
ever, the experiment, as I have stated it, is far more elaborate than 
will be found necessary in practice. Let me quote two accounts. 

'^B. King, January 22, 1841, Sussex, England. Planted 8 

• Stephen's Book of the Farm, p. 438. 



KITCHEN-OABDEN. 477 

grains of Wheat, 1 grain, the shoots of which were divided from 
each other and transplanted twice, yielded, in 1842, 3 pounds, 12| 
ounces of grain. The third grain was divided three times, and 
yielded 7 pounds 15^ ounces. The number of roots from this 
gi*ain was 173 ; of ears, 3,272 ; of grains, 97,028. Half an ounce 
contained 382 grains. This, according to the Horsham experi- 
ment, was. enough, the second year, to plant two-thirds of an acre." 

'^ Mr. Jones, of Cambridgeshire, in 1838, got from 30^ grains of 
Wlieat 14J ounces ; in 1839, 14J ounces sowed, gave 1 J bushels ; 
in 1840, 1^ bushels sowed, gave 45 bushels; in 1841, 45 bushels 
sowed, gave 539 bushels." 

In improving seed, only one species of any family should be 
cultivated in the same near neighborhood, because of the tendency 
of plants in the same family to mix seeds. Remember that the 
earliest healthily ripened fruit gives seed which will next year 
produce fruit still earlier ; and a wise gardener, if he depends up- 
on his own seed, will keep his earliest fruit for that purpose rather 
than sell it, even at an extra price. But, as I said, land gets tired 
of growing the same seed, year after year ; so that the farmer often 
finds it for his advantage to buy seed from a neighbor. 

As it is troublesome to select seed and estimate the quantity re- 
quired, I will give the calculation for a garden of an acre, made by 
a distinguished cultivator. Some plants which we usually grow 
are omitted, and some uncommon sorts added. And it must be 
observed that the amount of seed for an acre is not to be multi- 
plied by 20 to obtain the amount of seed for 20 acres ; because, in 
a small garden, allowance must be made for the inferior plants, 
which are cast aside when seedlings are pricked out ; whereas, in 
cultivation on a larger scale, no such transplanting is done, but 
good plants and poor are allowed to grow together. 

" The list I give is for succession crops, and but one single plant- 
ing for one acre : — 



Pett, 


36 quarts. 


French or Kidney 


Beans, 


4 quarts. 


Beans, 


10 " 


Scarlet Runners, 




2 " 


Early Cabbage, 


8 ounces. 


Parsnips, 




4 ounces. 


Savory, 


4 


Salsify, 




2 


Brussels Sproats, 


8 " 


Skerril, 




2 " 



478 



APRIL* 



Canlifiowen, 


4 ounces. 


Endive, 4 ounces. 


Varietieft of Broccoli 




14 


Lettuce, 4 


Borecoles, 




<l 


Radish, 8 pints. 


Red Cabbage, 




" 


(if none were forced.) 


Dramheads, 




« 


Mustard, 1 1-2 quarts. 


Kohl Rabi, 




li 


Cress, 1 1-2 " 


Ooiona, 




l< 


(if neither are forced.) 


Carrots, 




U 


Parsley, . 4 onneesy 


White Turnips, 


16 


« 


2 curled, 2 plain. 


Yellow Turnips, 




** 


Early Potatoes, 1 1-2 busheU. 


Celery. 




U 


tAte " 3 


Spinach, 




quarts. 


Jerusalem Artichokes, 1 peck. 


Red Beets, 


4 ounces. 


Garlic 8 ounces. 


Yellow Beeu, 




*( 


Shallots, S pounds. 


Leeks, 


4 ounces. 





Add to the above 2 drams of long green Cacumber, 2 drams 
of short, pricklj Cucumber, 2 diMns of best Muskmelons, 1 ounce 
of Watermelon, 4 drams of best Cantelope melon, 2 drams of 
Summer Squash, 2 ounce of .Marrow Squash, 2 ounce of Crodt- 
neck, 4 quarts of StowelFs Evergreen Com, 2 drams of Tomato, 
1 quart of Black Beans, and other seeds in like proportions. Your 
list made out, your seed purchased, you are ready to plant at the 
earliest date, and you must plant early and late in order to have 
succession crops. 

Do not imagine that because the seed is provided in ample quan- 
tities, that thick sowmg is advocated ; thin sowing is almost always 
better, in order to give room for the young plants to expand their 
leaves and roots. 

Never buy cheap seeds. The best seeds are worth the best 
price, and no cultivator can afford any other. For if the seed 
is bad, all the expense and labor of ploughing, manuring, sowing 
and cultivating are lost. Cheap seeds are refuse or damaged, or 
else of some worthless variety. 

The importance of absolutely pure seed cannot be over estimated. 
We talk of the number of weed seeds in the soil ; we sow more 
every year, than we imagine. Prof. Buckman, of England, in 
some late investigations, found that ^ in a pint of Clover seeds there 
were 7,000 weed seeds ; in a pint of Grass seeds 12,600 weed 
seeds ; in a pint of Broad Clover 39,440 weed seeds ; and 2 pints 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 479 

<^ Scotch Glover yielded severally 25,560 and 70,400." All other 
seeds are similar, and the number of weed seeds in Grass seed, 
Bed-top, Herd's Grass, etc., if enumerated, would horrify the most 
slovenly farmer. 

Some seeds are those of parasites, as the Orobanche and Dodder. 
These are exceedingly minute, and adhere to the seeds of the plants 
to which they are parasites, so closely as almost to be invisible to 
the naked eye, and can only be removed by strong pickles. Rust 
and other similar diseases in grain, are parasitical fungi, and adhere 
to the seed. 

Some kinds of seed, to be relied upon, must be fresh when used, 
as Carrots ; others, like Turnips, are better for keeping a year or 
two, particularly if good seed of different years is mixed. Be- 
fore sowing, provide yourself with some guano, or super phos- 
phate of lime, as a top dressing ; these manures raked into the sur- 
face, will stimulate the young plants into very rapid growth, and 
will drive plants of the Cabbage family, out of danger of the fly. 
These plants are very apt to be eaten by a small fly, when in their 
cotyledon state, but are out of danger just as soon as the rough 
leaves are formed, which are the second pair. Squashes and Mel- 
ons also, are very much eaten by bugs and worms, when young ; 
they are aided by guano. 

So also, throughout the season, any plants which are slack in 
growth, or which you are desirous of hastening, mdy be hurried by 
a top dressing of guano raked in, or by digging it in round the roots, 
or by giving it as a liquid manure. 

The tools absolutely necessary to a kitchen-garden, however 
small, are a spade, shovel, hoe, iron-toothed rake, trowel, lifting and 
manure forks, dibble, wheelbarrow, garden line, watering pot, trans- 
planting tray, or basket All these tools should have their separate 
places, and be returned thither every night 

The better class of gardens will need in addition, an edging 
knife, wooden rake, long-handled shovel, pruning knife, hand-saw, 
hatchet, long-handled pruner to reach to the topmost boughs of 
trees, some boxes with glass tops to protect the early plants, some 
square frames without bottoms, and with tops covered with mos- 
quito netting, which, set over young Melons, etc, will keep off bugs 



480 APRIL. 

and flics, botbed frames, cold-pit frames, Sea4Lale, Cardoon, aod 
Oauliflower pots and glassed, syringe, wheel hoe. 

Provide yourself with a good supply of the best tools, as thej 
will be found much the cheapest in use ; and take good care of tbem, 
which is the surest way of keeping them a long time. Towards 
the hist of the month, you will need to look after the early nests of 
oaterpillars. 

HoTBKDS. — I have not given a day's treatment of the hotbed, 
but will do so now. In the early morning, as soon as the son 
strikes the beds, remove the mats or shutters, if the day is reaaon- 
ably mild. 

Visit the beds about 9 a.m. ; if it is bright and the thermometer 
is rising towards or above 80°, raise the sashes a little ; during die 
forenoon give more air as the bed heats. About the middle of the 
afternoon, begin to water; use slightly warmed water. Water 
poured into the beds at this time will soak into them and nourish 
the plants much more than if applied earlier. 

As soon as the watering is over, close the sashes, and when the 
sun gets off the bed, cover for the night Keep the temperature 
of the bed constantly high, but with a moderate degree of moist- 
ure. Hotbed plants should never want moisture, but never be 
wirfeited; too much dampness in cloudy weather will produce 
mildew and decay. To be successful with the beds, there is need 
of great watchfulness ; as the plants increase in size, admit air as 
freely as is consistent with their growth, to harden them. 



CHAPTER LVI. 

THE FARM. 

Fabmikg begins in good earnest in ApriL Soon the cattle will 
be turned out to pasture ; every day you may let them out into the 
yard, and there will be no harm in occasionally letting the young 
and the dry cattle scsimper for an hour or two over the pastures i 
the fresh air and exercise will be of service. 

Tou will do well to give each of your men his own tools, a hoe, 
spade, shovel, scythe, rake, etc ; give it him in good order, and 
charge it to him ; if he breaks or loses it, deduct its value from his 
wages, and give him another, but let each man keep and use his 
own tools, and never borrow. Thus much annoyance and dispute 
will be avoided. 

This year's work is pointed out in our rotation. 

Field No. 1, Pasture not so good as last year, and to be ploughM 
up in July, and sowed with Flat Turnips. 

Field No. 2 is to have 1 acre Ruta-Baga Turnips, 1 acre Man- 
gold Wurzel, I acre Carrots, ^ acre Parsnips, 2 acres Potatoes, to 
be planted in August with Wheat and White Turnips, sowed in 
drills or broadcast 

Field Na 3, 2 acres in Winter Wheat and Grass, on which sow 
12 lbs. Red, 4 lbs. White, 4 lbs. Yellow Clover; 300 lbs. of 
plaster, mixed with 150 of guano. Field No. 3 will also have 3 
acres in Spring Rye and Grass, or you may instead grow a fodder 
crop of Sweet Com or Oats, to be cut in the milk. Sow Millet in 
July. 

Na 4, Grass, to be cut twice, or pastured on aftermath. 

The first orchard, which has been growing 20 years, was planted 
last fall with Rye and Clover. The Rye is to be cut for fodder, 
and the Clover fed down by pigs when it comes up. 

Orchard Na 2, 15 years old, is to be planted with fodder Com 

41 481 



482 AFRIL. 

in Bttooession, in rows well manured, and when out to be followed 
with flat Turnips, or Rye and Clover, in the same strips for next 
jear^s fodder. 

So orchard No. 3, 5 years old. 

The Pear and Peach orchard is not to be cropped at all, bot to 
be mulched. 

The water of irrigation is not to be applied to any lands which 
are to be tilled, with exceptions already noted, but to grass and 
fjrnan lands, while the crops are in the growing stage. 

If March was too frosty to allow you to spread over the grv5> 
land the manure which was carted out last fall, spread it now. 
This should be done as soon as the frost leaves the ground, in order 
that the spring rains may wash it into the earth at once. The 
grass land will be too soft to cart over with comfort, and if the 
piles of manure were properly placed last fall, there will be no 
need of any thing but a pair of stout arms and a wheelbarrow. 

Sow at the same time Clover seed over the land laid down to 
grass last fall, at the rate of, at least, 15 lbs. per acre, as just de- 
scribed. It is recommended that this seed be sown on the last 
snow, in order that it may be readily carried down into the soil as 
the snow melts, and thus be evenly distributed. This is a good 
plan when snow comes in April, as is oflen the case, and the seed 
is probably more equally distributed than by sowing on the sod, 
and leaving it to the rain ; but to sow when the ground is still hard 
fit>zen, is to waste much seed. 

Now is the time to sow guano and super-phosphate, as a top- 
dressing. 

The amount of Clover seed, per acre, sowed at this season, is 10 
to 20 lbs. The quantity of seed should vary with the soil, and 
with the other seed sown. I have frequently directed you to sow 
all crops thinly ; but this does not apply to grass seed ; the amount 
of these to the acre should be liberal, as much is eaten by biris 
and insects, some is poor, and when it germinates it is very desira- 
ble that it should come up thick ; the coarse parts are thus ren- 
dered sweeter and more pliable, and the hay is eaten by the stock 
with greater relish. 

When the seed and guano is all sowed, or the manure spread, 



THE FARM. 483 

roll an the grass land and grain fields carefully, to consolidate the 
surface, and press into the ground, out of the way of the scythe or 
mowing-machine, any stones or roots which may have been heaved 
above the surface by frost 

The first fium work will be preparing land for spring Gnun. 
Reference to the scheme of our 6 years' rotation will show that 
there is always some spring Grain which is sowed with Grass to 
follow Roots. With the exception of early Potatoes, Roots are 
never off* the ground in season to allow the sowing of winter Grain ; 
therefore it is always desirable to divide the land for Roots — one 
portion to be planted with early Potatoes, the other with Turnips, etc. 

The spring Grain will vary according to locality. In the West- 
em States Winter Wheat has been nearly abandoned, because it has 
been so much more severely injured by insects than Spring Wheat. 
Where this is the case, the farmer may grow upon his fallows such 
Roots as he pleases, the land not being wanted for Grain till 
a^ng. With us in New England, Spring Rye, Oats, and Barley 
are the usual crops. Spring Rye has in some localities been de- 
stroyed by the rust and blight Wherever such diseases prevail, 
Oats or Barley must be sowed. They will thrive on much poorer 
soil than Wheat, and Rye is considered a Grain for poor soils, and 
is grown year after year, upon land which does not yield crop 
enough to fairly pay for the labor. But, in truth, no Grain crop is 
adapted to poor soil ; no poor land should be tolerated ; the kind of 
Grain to be grown in any field should be decided by the nature, 
and not by the quality of the soil. Rye thrives well in loamy 
and dry gravelly soils ; not so well on sandy land, though it will 
yield a fair crop in any fertile soil, but in rich loam it runs to straw. 
Oats are adapted to sandy clay, light loam, and good gravel. Bar- 
ley thrives best in a hazel loam, or on good sandy land,, and yields 
good crops on well drained and worked clay, but under any cir- 
cumstances needs a well-drained soil. Wheat should be resei-ved 
for rich loam or loamy clay ; clay of any kind yields good Wheat, 
if well drained and tilled, but these processes must be thoroughly 
done ; and, indeed, we may say the same of the treatment of the 
soil for any Grain crop. 

Occasionally farmers sow land down to Grass with Indian Com, or 



484 APRIL. 

Squashes. Each of the various miethods for getliiig land into Gram 
has its advocates, and each is best, under certain circumstanoes. 

The following is the method for sowing land with SjHing Wheat, 
to be followed next year bj Grass. Plough thoroughly, but not 
before the land is dry enough to break to pieces under the har- 
row; plough at least 9 inches deep, and as much more as is 
possible. As soon as this is done, if the seed is to be broaddtfted, 
sow 200 lbs. of guano, mixed with 200 lbs. of plaster, and doable 
the bulk of good loam, peat, or charcoal to the acre ; harrow care- 
fully, and remove all large stones, stalks, and weeds. Pickle th^ 
seed, and sow 1^ to 2 bushels to the acre. This is much more than 
for fall sowing, as the seed will have no time to tiller, and oofy 
those stalks will bear seed which vegetate early, and thrive. F6^ 
low the Grain with Grass seed, and then give a single light hai^ 
rowing, followed by the roller, which will leave the seed pressed 
into the soil, and the soil compact about it A firm and compact 
soil is especially important to the Wheat plant, the light crops whidi 
it bears on sand and sandy loam being chiefly due to the lightness 
of these soils. The field wiU need no other care than occasioDal 
weeding, till harvest 

The benefit of the guano sown in the spring is manifold. It 
gives the seed an early growth, and drives it forward when rains 
are frequent, and it increases the yield in direct proportion to the 
amount applied. A cwt of guano will invariably give double or 
treble its cost in extra crop. When Grass seed is to be sowed 
with the Wheat, follow the seed-wheat with at least. Red-top, 1 to 2 
bushels, Herd's Grass, ^ bushel, Clover 12 pounds. It is useless and 
slovenly to draw a brush-harrow over the surface when the land is 
friable and in good condition, and the seed evenly spread. Grass 
seeds are much more economically and evenly sowed in the broad- 
cast seed-sower than by hand, and although we do not care to spare 
our seed, having seen the advantage of its being in excess, the 
evenness of distribution is of great consequence to the crop. 

The use of Wheat as a spring grain will be determined by the 
latitude. In some parts of our country Wheat will not ripen its 
seed unless sown in the faU, because it has then this advantage : It 
grows and tillers, (t.e. throws out suckers from the root which 



TH£ FABM. 



48d 



take root and send up a seed stem of their own), and covers the 
ground before winter with a thick sward. In the spring, before 
the land is fairly thawed, the plants feel the sun and begin to make 
new TOotSj slowly but surely, as the frost comes out, and before the 
land could be ploughed and sowed the new roots are well formed, 
and the plants ready to grow. 

If you select Spring Rye or Oats as the grain, the treatment will 
be similar in all respects. Rye is sometimes saved from the rust 
by a pickle. The exact benefit derived from this pickling has 
never been determined, but it is certain that fields have been saved 
by pickling the seed, while adjoining fields, with unpickled seed, 
have suffered. For both Wheat and Rye various pickles are recom- 
mended. One method is to fill a tub with weak urine, or other 
ammonlacal liquid, pour in the seed and immediately take it out, 
and set it in a sieve to drain ; then mix it with caustic lime, or 
Plaster of Paris, or wood ashes, in sufficient quantity to dry it. To 
ensure the seed's being covered, roll the mixture in a barrel, or 
■hovel it over repeatedly. In this way the seeds will be prevented 
from sticking together.* I give a drawing of a drill for sowing 
seed. The seed and special manure are put into the boxes, and 
are sowed at the same time, securing a more even deposition of 
both than is possible in hand sowing. Use 1 bushel per acre. The 
saving of seed is con- 
siderable, and at the 
same time you are 
sure that all the seeds 
are deposited at a uni- 
form depth, which is 
of very great impor- 
tance. Careful trials 
have shown a consid- 
erable loss or a gain as 
the seeds were sowed 
too deep, too near the surface, or at the proper depth. It has been 

♦ Other pickles are salt and water, blue vitriol dissolved in water, arsenic, 
but this last is dangeroas. In the place of the lime, in which I directed joa 
to roll the seed, powdered charcoal, or any dry, antiseptic dnst, may be used. 
41* 




486 apbiIm 

calculated by Stephens, that in a crop of 64 bnahels to the acre, 
there is a loss of 33 per cent of the seed when sowed broad- 
cast, of 40 per cent in a crop of 58 bushels to the acre. The 
proper depth is between 1 and 2 inches — not less than 1 and 
not more than 2. Spring Rje sown broadcast demands 1^ to 2 
bushels, in the drill | to 1 bushel, per acre. The straw of Rje is 
very much more valuable than any other, owing to its length and 
Htiffuess. 

Oats are never sown in the fall, but always in the spring. Sow 
3 to 4 bushels to the acre, broadcast. It is not so often drilled in 
as the other Grains, but gains as much by the process as any other. 
One to two bushels to the acre is enough when a drill is used. The 
peculiar roots of the oat collect the earth on which they grow into 
nodules, and the land needs rather more than usual cultivation to 
reduce it to fine tilth afler oats. 

Barley sowed like the preceding, requires 2 or 3 bnsheb to the 
acre, or 1 in drill. Sow it later than the other grains, but as eariy 
as the first of May. Do not roll it unless the land be very light 
It may be pickled to advantage. The use of steeps, or pickles, Hat 
grain, is asserted to have another value than protection, if the steep 
is well made. A large number of careful and instructive experi* 
ments were tried in this direction by several English and Scotch 
agriculturists. The seed was analyzed a sufficient number of 
times to settle definitely its important constituents, and then these 
constituents were procured in a soluble form, were dissolved in 
water, and the seed soaked in the liquid until enough was absorbed, 
in the judgment of the experimenters, to thoroughly manure a 
given acreage upon which the seed was to be sowed. In the ma- 
jority of cases the seed so prepared, and the field thus nuuinred, 
gave large and satisfactory crops, demonstrating to the experimenten 
the truth of the theory upon which they had acted. But in other 
cases the experiment proved an entire failure, either because the 
theory was incorrect or the experiments badly tried. The inventor 
of this method patented it, and sold preparations for different 
crops. Undoubtedly there is a good deal in the idea, and I recom- 
mend every farmer to try the experiment.* All the Grain crops 
• See pp. 155, etc., of Highland Society's Priie Essays for 1845. 



TH£ FARM. 487 

are much benefited by weeding. Particalar care should be taken 
to ensure that there are no seeds of mustard or other weeds 
among jour seed-grain. It should be thoroughly examined, and, 
if need be, winnowed several times before sowing. 

Land is in fine condition for all these Grains, after a crop of 
well-manured Roots, which leave it in the spring light and friable. 
K the field can be ploughed directly afler removing the Roots in 
the fall and not harrowed, it will be in still better case, and may 
if necessary, be sowed in the spring without a new ploughing, only 
breaking down the furrows with a heavy harrow or cultivator. 

No Grain should be manured with barnyard manure, as it is too 
coarse and rank to be easily appropriated by the roots of Grain, 
which having to elaborate in a few months a highly concentrated 
seed, needs to find its food in a well-rotted condition in which it is 
easily assimilated. 

It has always been laid down as a principle, that no Grain ex- 
cept Oats should be sown on a lea or old sod. Wheat does best 
after Clover, the sward being broken up in the spring or early sum-r 
mer, and summer-fallowed, ploughed once or twice and sowed in 
the falL The Clover tops and roots thus ploughed in, veiy soon 
ferment and decay, and give the Wheat just the food it wants. 
Some of our Western farmers prefer a Timothy sward to any other 
preparation for Wheat. Whoever uses the Michigan plough may 
sow upon the sod just as readily as on stubble or fallow. This 
plough is shown in the cut. It is double. The front plough cuts 
the sod in a ribbon, and rolls it under where it is covered with 
mould to the depth of two or three inches by the large plough 
which follows. 

AU lea land is more infested with wire and cut worms than fid- 
low or stubble, and is in that way objectionable ; but with this ex- 
ception there is no sort of reason why the sod should not be used 
for winter or spring Grain. By adopting this practice, a different 
rotation may be followed, which is better than the one previously 
laid down under some circumstances. Well-buried sod is excellent 
food for Gi-ain, if it is the sward of well-enriched knd, it is easily 
decomposed, and yet firm for the early growth of the plants. Oats 



488 



▲FRIL. 



grasp the earth and ooiuolidate a foothold better than an j odber 
Grain, all of which need a well-rolled soiL 




Indian Com is sometimes used to get land into Grass. It difiers 
from all other Grains in being a hoed crop, and is nsed veiy often 
in the place of Roots, or to follow them on land which will bear 
two white crops in the rotation. It is sown by the corn-planter or 
by hand in rows. Different distances are prescribed according to 
the size of the Com, straw, or tops, and the traditions of the district ; 
3 feet each way from hill to hill is about right ; the seed should be 
set 1^ to 2 inches deep, 4 or 5 grains to the hill, 9 to 12 quarts to 
the acre. For this Grain, either bamjard or special manure may 
be used either broadcast or in the hill ; both methods have their 
warm advocates. On good land I advise broadcasting the manure 
before ploughing, and then sowing with the seed some artificial 
manure in the hill, which is as good as any other manure in the 
hill to give the Com an early start,' and will hold out long enough 
to establish the plants so that they can send their nwts abroad fer 
the other manure. The time for sowing Com is from the middle 
of May to the middle of June. Different varieties of seed obtain 
in different parts of the country. The Canada Com may be sowed 
later than any other, as it ripens earlier, needing but 90 days ; 
other and larger varieties need more time. It is a question whether 



THE FARH. 489 

the Canada Com will not yield as many pounds per acre as any 
other ; it is smaller, may be sowed closer in both row and hill, and 
with more grains to the hilL 

I should not speak of this grain now out of season as it is, 
were it not in connection with sowing land to Grass. Cultivate the 
Com jlaJU As soon as the Com is high enough to show the rows 
distinctly, go over the field and shake a teacupful of ashes over 
each hill ; then send a horse-plough through the rows each way, to 
furrow, deepen, and loosen the soil ; follow this with the hoe, and 
carefully cut off, or pull up every weed. Do not content yourself 
with covering them with earth. Such a course is slovenly, and 
4hort-sighted ; the weeds will soon come up again through the 
earth. After one good hoeing there need be no other general hoe- 
ing. As soon as weeds show again in the rows, send a horse-hoe, or 
cultivator, through each way, once or twice, enough to break up the 
8ur&ce soil thoroughly, and kill the young weeds, but never plough 
a second time, as the plough runs deep enough to break the young 
roots of the Cora. Cultivate or horse-hoe as often as is necessary, 
till the Cora becomes too large for the horse to go through the rows. 
If you have been careful and constant in your culture, the weeds 
will be so much subdued that they will not start again, for the Cora- 
stalks will shut out light from the ground, and without light weeds 
will not thrive. 

In July go over the field with the hoe, and cut and remove any 
remaining weeds. Then sow the Grass seed broadcast, which is a 
rather difficult and tedious process, for the sower must stoop lower 
than the Corn leaves, to spread the seed well over the ground. 
After sowing, rake the surface thoroughly with wooden rakes, to 
mix the seed well with the soil. Under the protecting shade of 
the Cora it will germinate rapidly, Cut the Cora in September as 
close to the ground as possible, and remove it at once from the field, 
stocking it along the edges or elsewhere. Immediately after some 
shower, roll the field thoroughly, so as to make it as level as possi- 
ble, and press the Cora roots into the soil, where they will soon de- 
cay ; for the same reasons, roll again before winter, and in the 
spring. 

Prepare land for early Potatoes. The land for this is the pas- 



490 APBIL. 

tare, or sward of last year, which is to be got into condhioii kt 
winter grain. Pbugh with the Michigan plough, or with the com- 
mon plough followed by a sub-soiL It is in the Boot crop that 
the deep culture and thorough manuring are to be done, as after 
that crop is removed, the land lies in grain or sward for 5 
years. Potatoes are not, therefore, as good as other Boots, as they 
are not benefited by much manure. The best crops of best Pota- 
toes are usually grown upon unmanured but rich land. It has been 
thought by many that manuring has caused the rot, and I am of 
those who feel that less, rather than more manure should be the 
rule, for the sake of the tuber. Indian Com may be planted in ro- 
tation in place of Potatoes, if you choose; planting the 90 daj Com 
in the middle of May, it may be stooked by the 20th of Augusti 
or the 1st of September ; and afterwards there will be time to sow 
winter Grain. Before ploughing, cart on manure ; the amouot of 
this per acre, will be determined by the stock on hand, as ail of ii 
is to be used on this and the other Boots ; no other than spedid 
manure being needed by the other crops in the ixitation. An am- 
ple dressing is 10 cords to the acre of very rich manure ; this is 
equal to 4 ox, or 2 horse, cart loads with the side boards on, well 
trodden and full to the top. Our New England farmers will 
take their first alarm at this, in their eyes, immense dresaiiig. 20 
cords of ordinary compost will be still better ; remember that the 
field is to receive no other than special manure, or top dressing, for 
6 years. 

Having ploughed in the manure, harrow and fiirrow out. Bmi 
the furrows across the field 3 feet apart each way ; drop into each 
intersection, your Seed Potatoes ; the number will depend upon 
the kind you use, and the traditions of your district If whole and 
small, 1 to 3, if cut in pieces, 3 to 4 pieces ; lay them in with some 
care ; as the seed is dropped, a man or boy should follow wiih 
plaster of Paris, and shake a handful over each hill ; another 
should cover the Potatoes, drawing over them not less than one, 
nor more than two, inches of earth ; the seed having heean well OW' 
ered, the hoe should be pressed down on the hill to consolidate the 
earth. 

I mentioned in September, several varieties of good Potatoes i 



THE FA&H. 491 

iMid to these, for early culture, Hill's Early, ripens in July ; Che^ 
nango, in August ; Jackson White, also in August ; State of Maine, 
Gilly Flower, and many other varieties variously esteemed. 

Potatoes can be planted the last of this month, or the first of May. 

Another spring crop, which may be planted upon lea or fallow 
land, manured or not, is Peas. I do not mean Peas for the table 
or market, but Peas as a field crop. Prepare the land as just de- 
scribed, and harrow evenly. Sow the seeds, with a seed-sower, in 
rows 3 to 4 feet apart, using 2 bushels to the acre ; set the seeds 3 
inches deep in the ground. Treat like Indian Com during the sum- 
mer. They will be ripe in July, when pull up and bind ; stook till 
dry, then thresh. The yield will be about 30 to 50 bushels to the 
acre. Peas are excellent flesh-forming food for cattle or hogs. 
The straw will be readily eaten, or may be used for litter. This 
crop can be sown as early as Oats, although early Peas are more 
open to the attacks of weevil than those sown later. On the 
other hand, the Pea likes much water, and late-sown crops are 
liable to be checked by di'ought 

The field Bean is another crop similar to the Pea, but cannot be 
sown till the middle or last of May, through fear of the frost ; and 
as they grow quickly, they need not be sown till the middle of 
June. Plough, harrow, and roll. Sow the Beans in rows 2 feet 
apart, using 1 bushel to the acre ; set the seeds 2 inches apart, and 
2 inches deep. Hoe during the season. As soon as the pods are 
yellow ' pull them up, tie in bunches, and stack to diy. Thresh 
them as soon as they are dry. Beans ground are excellent food for 
cattle, with Turnips. The straw is good for fodder or litter. Both 
Peas and Beans should be cracked or ground before feeding, in 
order to render them more digestible. 

During wet days, which come often in March and April, the 
farm hands should be employed in the manure cellar. Let them 
first clear a space, situated conveniently near, and there begin to 
make a pile of manure. The manure accumulated during the win- 
ter, and packed and trodden by the hogs, is very solid. It may be 
rendered more manageable by turning it over, and at the same time 
will become better mixed. Afler turning, leave it a few dajrs 
b^re it is used. During the process of taming, it would be 



492 APRIL. 

well oocaaioiiallj to sprinkle the he^ with diluted sulphuric acid, 
or to shake over it Piaster of Paris, chanxMd, or peat duaC^ to 
ahflorb the gases which would otherwise escape, and to stop heat* 
ing or fermentation. 

Fermentation, or heating in the manure pile, is the progreaa of 
chemical change, which results in the evolution of carixnale 
of ammonia, evident enough to anj one who stands near a pik 
of heating manure. Other gases are formed in the process, and es- 
cape at the same time, but the carb. ammonia predominates, and 
the pile loses most bj its escape. When the add, or other abaorb- 
ent, is spread through the heap, these chemical changes are arrealed, 
and whatever gas has been generated is immediately absorbed ; no 
more can form, and consequently fermentation stops. 

In the last month (while discussing the rotation of crops) and in 
the present, I have frequently referred to artificial manurea as a 
means of fertilizing crops, and some readers may not understand 
why the term *^ artificial " should be appropriated for any set of 
manures, when all manures are, to a certain extent, mannfactujed 
articles. The term is particularly applied to guano, super-phoaphale 
of lime, poudrette, rape-cake, bone dust, and other fertilixecs. 
which are articles of commerce. Different fiumers preferring and 
using different kinds of artificial manures. Already many thou- 
sands of tons of them are used in this country, but seldon with care 
or accurate knowledge of their value. The use of artificial manures 
is an indication of the improvement of agriculture, since, gener- 
ally, only those who are desirous of improvement, will spend money 
for manure. And the man who is willing to do so^ is generally 
anxious that the land for which he makes the outlay should be in 
the best condition possible, in other words, that he should get the 
best return for his investment. Yet there is a class of greedy men, 
eager to get money, who buy and use these manures without inves- 
tigation or discrimination, having only a general perception that 
artificial manure will rapidly increase their crops. Such men wiH, 
sooner or later, overdo the thing, and suffisr from the careless use 
of these stimulants, and then they will pronounce this whole class 
of manures too dangerous to be of any value. 

Every reader of American agricultural literature must have 



THE FABM. 498 

l>eeii astonished at the differences of opinion ahout the value of 
^ano. Some men pronounce it the most valuable of manures, 
the regenerator of soils, the mainspring of agriculture, the great 
means by which the farmer may improve his condition. Others 
maintain that it is uncertain in its operation, overstimulating 
land for a time and then leaving it exhausted and barren, at one 
time powerful, at another powerless ; in short, uni;eliable and val- 
ueless. As with guano, so with all all other manures ; no two 
statements about them are alike. 

Curious and inexplicable as this seems at first, it is owing to 
nothing but greedy haste to get rich by a short cut Nothing for 
nothing is the rule everywhere in Nature ; and no man grows rich 
in firming by short cuts, unless it be at the expense of those who 
follow him. I have said that unlimited patience is the stock in 
trade of the successful gardener ; the same is true of the farmer. 
The operations of Nature are slow and sure, and not to be hurried ; 
her laws are immutable. If we would succeed, we must study her 
t>ecrets, and do as she does. Your assertion or mine is of no 
weight unless based on personal experience both wide and minute, 
or on similar experience of other men. To hear the talk of our 
experimental &rmers, one would suppose that the round of agri- 
cultural experiments and success began with them, whereas the 
laws whidi govern agriculturo have been discovered by long and 
patient groping and many trials, and are now matters of record. K 
you are inclined to make experiments, which require time and 
money and imperil your crops, endeavor to learn by reading and in- 
quiry, how others have .succeeded in similar experiments, and what 
was the cause of their failure or success. Their experience may 
enable you to avoid the rocks, the snags, and the whirlpools, the 
situation of which you must otherwise learn by sad experience. 

I will endeavor to show the principles upon which successful 
manuring is based, and to lay down a plan for future action. To 
arrive at any definite and consistent plan, we must ask and answer 
the questions, '^ Why manure at all ?" and '^ What is manuro ? " 

To take these questions in order. We know that any plant cul- 
tivated on an acre of land for many successive years without ma- 
nure, finally reduces that aero to sterility. It will bear no moro of 

42 



494 APRIL. 

its old crop. The reason for this seems to be, that the constitiieats 
of which that crop is composed, are withdrawn to such an extent, 
that there is not enough lefl to support new plants ; not eooogb, I 
mean, in a form adapted to the plants. That the neoessarj con- 
stituents are not wholly exhausted, is proved bj the field's being 
able to produce the same crop again after Ijring fallow for aooie 
time. A large part of the vegetable constituents of plants ''is floats 
ing in the air as gas, and rain washes down a portion of them as it 
falls, making thus a considerable contribution to the crops. Bat the 
ur does not contain all the elements of plant life, for lime, potash. 
and soda, technicallj called ^ salts," are not volatile, and can 
neither float in the air nor be supplied hj it ; yet they are always 
found in greater or less amount in all plants, and are essential to 
their life and growth, though we do not know how ; and thej are 
all important to the formation of the flesh, bones and blood, of mat 
and animals, who obtain them principally from vegetable fibre 
where Nature has stored them. They may be formed through the 
agency of the atmosphere. For instance, lime exists as a carbon- 
ate in the rocks, and as these crumble into powder under the con- 
stant contact of atmospheric gases, the influence of storms and frosts, 
they spread the Lime over the neighboring soil But this is a slow 
process, and we are forced to believe that no soil is ever wholly 
exhausted of the available form of these salts, whilst it may be 
wanting in the gases which are necessary to plant life, and in 
whose absence plants cannot appropriate the salts. 

It is not diflicult to ascertain the constitution of a soil, and to 
make a table of the constituents. I shall, in the following pages, 
give several such tables ; do not in reading them be misled as to 
the quantity of the various constituents contained in the soils men 
tioned. In some cases the constituents will be given in pounds, in 
others, in a per centage ; to get the number of pounds, will, in sucii 
cases, need a little calculation. 

I have not quoted the number of tables or the variety of soils I 
might have, as the number would not strengthen the points to whieh 
I wish to attract your attention, and in the tables quoted you will 
find ample illustration of the value of earth analyses, and of the 



THB FARM. 



495 



component parts of soils. The soils of your &nn may differ from 
these analyses materially, but the principle will be the same. 



CLAT FROM ZUIDER ZEE. 



Insoluble ^narts or 
■and, with alumina 
and silica. 

Soluble silica, 

Alumina, 

Peroxide iron, 

Protoxide of iron, 

Protoxide olf manga- 
nese, 

Lime, 

Magnesia, 

Potash, 

Soda, 

Ammonia, 

JKosphoric acid, 

Sulphuric acid. 

Carbonic acid. 

Chlorine, 

Humic acid, 

Crenic acid, 

Apocrenic acid, 

Humin, vegetable re- 
mains and water, 
chemically combined. 

Wax and resin, 

Loss, 



1. 


2. 


3. 


57.646 


51.706 


55.372 


2.340 


2.496 


2.286 


1.830 


2.900 


2.888 


9.038 


10 305 


11.864 


.350 


.563 


.200 


.288 


.3.54 


.284 


4.092 


5.096 


2.480 


.130 


.140 


.128 


1.026 


1.430 


1.521 


1.972 


2.069 


1.937 


.060 


.078 


.075 


.466 


.324 


.478 


.896 


1.104 


.576 


6.085 


6.940 


4.77.5 


1.240 


1.302 


1.418 


2.798 


3.991 


3.428 


.771 


.731 


.037 


.107 


.160 


.152 


8.324 


7.700 


9.340 


trace. 


trace, i trace. 


.542 


.611 


.7531 



145,605 lbs. 




5,404 " 
54,251 " 


Soluble 


81,565 " 
2,907 " 


matter 


17,289 " 
35,007 " 


to an acre 


229,509 " 





100.00 100.00 100.00 



The number of pounds is ob- 
tained as follows : the weight of 
nil acre of good land, 1 foot deep, 
is given as 4,094,640 pounds, or 
94 pounds to the cubic foot. By 
the use of these numbers, you 
mny get the weight of the per- 
centages of any tables of analysis 
of top-soils. 



This soil is kiln-dried before making the analysis. These are 
rich soils, and draw their origin from the Rhine country and de- 
cayed rocks. 

IN ONE IMPOVERISHED SOIL.f 
1 

Silica, quartz, sand, and 61.576, 

silicate. = over 2,000 000 pounds. 

Alumina, .450. 

Oxides iron, .524. 

Oxide managanese, trace. 
Lime, .320, »= 13,102 pounds. 

Uagnesia. .130. 

Potash and soda, trace, » many pounds. 

*Text Book of Agriculture, p. 33. t Text Book of Agriculture, p. 35. 



496 APRIL. 

Phosphoric acid, trace, « many ponncU. 

Sulphuric acid, " " 

Chlorine, " " 

fiamic acid, 1 1 .470, » about 500,000 pounds. 

Insoluble humus, 26.530. bs and is a source of, and oonTerted into ca^ 

Organic matter, contain- bonic add, 

ing nitrogen, 00.000. 

CarMnic acid united to 

lime, trace, » many pounds. 

Water, none. 

When kiln-dried, a truce in an analysis of 100 grains, would be 
many pounds in 4,094,640 pounds. 

A BARREN BOIL IN NEW JERSET. * 



Organic matter, 4.50, = 184.258 pounds. Contain perfai^M, a little 

nitrogen ; mostly carbon. 

Silicates, 87.60, « over 3,000,000 pounds. 

Alumina, 3.65. 

Lime, .45,^10,425 pounds. 

Magnesia, trace. 

Peroxide iron, 1.39. 

Potash, .01, = 49 pounds. 

Soda, .08, == 3,277 pounds. 

Chlorine, .06, » 2,456 pounds. 

Sulphuric acid, .12,^4,913 " 
Phosphoric acid, with 

iron as phosphate, .03, » 1,228 pounds. 

Carbonic acid, 00 

Moisture, 2.00. 

Loss, .01. 



100.00 

Kiln-dried, as* before. 

These analyses of soils are just as good for my purpose, to show 
what good and poor soils offer to the crops, as though I had a hun- 
dred such. Let us now ascertain what are the constituents of the 
crops themselves. I will take the crops usually cultivated, and give 
in tabular form the number of pounds to the acre, of the variona 
constituents which will be removed by these crops. Knowing then, 
what crops require, and the composition of soils, we have next to as- 
certain what the air furnishes ; we shall then see the elements 
which are to be supplied bj culture, to facilitate the growth of crops. 

When we look at the vast amounts of the various constituents 

* Text Book of Agricultore, p. 36. 



THB FARM. 497 

of the soil which exist in every fertile acre of land, it seems im- 
possible that thej can be exhausted even in a long course of 
cropping, or that the small amount we can return as manure, can 
be of any use. According to Boussingault,* Wheat takes from 
the soil, 



As Wheat, 


1.052, 


of the ash. 


To 


1-2 an Eng- 


Am Straw, 


2,558. 




lish acre. 




3,610. 








This reduced to ashes, gives: — 






Wheat ashes. 




2.4 per cent, ) \ 
7 per cent, J 


25 pounds. 


Straw ashes 




179 pounds. 


Ooiutlkarats 




Iii251b«. Whwtsihea. 


Inl791bf.Sli»wMhM 


Phosphoric acid. 
Snip raric acid. 




12.0 




5.0 




0.3 




1.5 


Chlorine, 








1.0 


Lime, 




0.8 




15.0 


Magnesia, 




4.0 




9.0 


Potash and sodai 


f 


7.0 




17.0 


Silica, 




0.4 




121.0 


Oxide iron, etc. 




trace. 




1.75 



The organic matter of an average crop will take from 1 J acres : — 
of carbon, 2,259 lbs. ; of hydrogen, 262 lbs. ; of oxygen, 1,923 
lbs. ; of nitrogen, 52 lbs. ; of nitrogen (in the form of ammonia), 
63 lbs. 

Let me say here, before going further, that ammonia is a com- 
pound formed of nitrogen and hydrogen, one equivalent of nitrogen 
to three of hydrogen, represented in chemical formula as N H^. 

We see from the table of constituents found in- the analysis of 
the ash, that nitrogen enters more largely into the formation of 
plants than any one saline element except silica, of which, as we have 
seen, there is always a preponderance in common soils. As far as 
analysis and experiment have been able to detect, nitrogen is never 
taken up by plants in its pure form, but only as ammonia ; and 
although we may manure crops with various kinds of nitrates, — 
that is to say, preparations in which nitrogen exists not as am- 
monia, — yet before the plants can use it, it is changed into ammo- 
nia. Nothing enters the plant through its roots, except dissolved 
by water ; ammonia is readily dissolved in water, and thus carried 

* Bnral Economy, p 366. 
42* 



498 APRIL. 

into the plant That some nitrogen may be carried into the phut 
from the air, is quite possible, it being a constituent of the atmos- 
phere in connection with hydrogen and oxygen ; but investigatioii 
does not show that the plant has any power of separating nitrogen 
from the atmosphere, for its own use, and accordingly it is gener- 
ally admitted that ammonia is the source of the nitrogen in plants. 

I dwell upon this question because upon the importance of am- 
monia in the economy of plants, depends the value of the different 
special manures. One class of chemists assert that there is no 
need of supplying ammonia artificially, but that the value of a ma- 
nure depends entirely upon the quantity of scUis (lime, potash, and 
soda), together with phosphoric acid in it. Another class stren- 
uously maintain that the value of a manure is determined by the 
ammonia which it can yield to plants, and that the salts are of no 
consequence so long as there is a fair amount of phosphoric acid 
with the ammonia. 

Let us examine a few more crops before proceeding further. 

Analysis by Hemming, — A Rye crop abstracted from one h^- 
acre (English) in pounds of — carbon, 2,169 ; hydrogen, 245 ; oxy- 
gen, 1,868 ; nitrogen, 34 ; potash, 25 ; soda, 1 ; lime, 10 ; phosphoric 
acid, 14 ; ammonia, 41. 

A Turnip crop took from one half-acre (English) in paundi : 
Nitrogen, 159 ; potash, 166 ; soda, 5 ; lime, 102 ; phosphoric acid, 33. 

A crop of Beans took from one-half acre (English) in/M>ifiM2f.- 
Nitrogen, 164 ; potash, 55 ; soda, 8 ; lime, 37 ; phosphoric acid, 29. 

Boussingault ascertained that in a rotation of 5 years, the follow- 
ing crops (per one-half English acre) took in pounds :* — 







DvyCrop. 


Carbon. 1 


lydrogoD. 


Oxygen. 


Axoteor 
Nitrosen 


Aab 


1. 


Potatoes, 


2,828 


1,244 


164 


1,264 


42 


113 


2. 


Wheat and Straw, 


3,122 


1,487 


171 


1,262 


32 


270 


3. 


Clover Hay, 


3,693 


1,750 


185 


1,396 


78 


284 


4. 


i Wheat and Straw, 
Turnips, 2d crop, 


3,857 


1,836 


210 


1,559 


40 


210 


3,656 


2,832 


36 


278 


11 


50 


5. 


Gate and Straw, 


2,151 


1,087 


125 


816 


26 


99 



19,307 10,236 891 6,575 229 1,026 

Boussingault is an advocate of the free use of ammonia as a ma- 
nure, and values manui*es in proportion to the amount of ammonia 
* Rural Economy, p. 357. 



THE FABM. 499 

in them, and accorditiglj in his analyses makes no account of the 
ash. 

Prof. Liebig, on the other hand, values his analyses and manures 
upon the saline constituents of the ash, and neglects the organic 
and ammonia-producing qualities. I will give some of the analy- 
ses of the ash, of the above crops, taken from Way, that their con 
stituents may be understood. 

I gave Boussingault's analysis of the dry crop. In Way's tables 
the weight of the dry crop is given, and with it the ash ; but Way's 
crops were sometimes taken from twice as much land as Boussin- 
gault's, and are sometimes twice, and often several times greater 
in gross weight than Boussingault's, and consequently the compar- 
ison between the ammonia of the one, and the ash of the other, is 
only approximate. 



Nitro(peo« m flbown 


Bonsslngault^s 


Way's 




Id last Ubl«. 


Analysis.* 


Analysls.t 




lbs. 


Crop, lbs. 


Ash. lbs. 


Crop, lbs 


Ash, lbs. 


Potatoes, 


42 


11,733 


113 


12,750 


423.97 


Clover Hay, 
Wheat and Straw, 


78 


4,675 


284 


4,000 


213.09 


40 


4,977 


210 


9,068 


246.01 


Tamips, 


11 


8.754 


50 


52,000 


600.30 


Oats and Straw, 


26 


2,882 


99 


5,040 


198.90 


way's analysis 


1 OF THE ] 


FOREOOIMO 




•• 




Potatoes. 


Clorer Hay. 


\Theatand 
Straw. 


Turnips. 


Oats and 

Straw. 


Silica, 


16.86 


2.11 


150.52 


14.24 


96.80 


Phosphoric acid, 


47.99 




31.54 


60.98 


22.30 


Earthy phosphates. 




51.09 








Sulpharic acid.. 


50.21 


1.25 


0.44 


78.82 


5.80 


Liine, 


29.11 


43.21 


8.88 


107.68 


12.00 


Magnesia, 


25.41 


9.75 


12.70 


21.54 


9.10 


Peroxide of iron, 


1.35 




0.56 


6.29 


2.70 


Potash, 


195.07 


64.31 


39.23 


201.68 


36.50 


Soda, 


27.53 


36.79 


2.14 


39.21 


3.60 


Chlorine, 


16.64 


4.58 




38.15 




Salt, 


13.80 






26.69 


6.30 


Chloride of potash, 








2.00 


3.80 



A difference will be observed in the number of pounds of crop 
given in the two quotations of Boussingault's analysis ; — the fir.*?! 
quotation shows the number of pounds of kiln-dried material, the 
second of the material in its condition when harvested. The 
weight of the crops analyzed for the ash by Way and others, is 
given in its ordinary condition, and to make the table intelligible in 
its comparison, in the second quotation I have given the crop of 

*Rara] Economy, p. 357. t Brown's Field Book of Manure, p. 391. 



500 APRIL. 

Boossingault, in its harvested condition. Let me now call your 
attention to the fact that vast as is the amount of soluble minerab 
in fertile land, the insoluble ingredients are in much greater propor- 
tion, being sometimes 60 to 80 per cent These insoluble materials 
▼arj with the locality ; they are rocks composed wholly or in part 
of Lime, Potash, Soda, Magnesia, Silex. Silex, or Flint, gives to 
the outer coating of straw its hardness, and is as necessary to 
plants as any other element. 

The analyses of ^^ fertile soil *' show a considerable and constant 
amount of ammonia, which should increase rather than decrease 
in the hands of the good farmer, and yet we have seen that plants 
annually take from the soil a large quantity of ammonia. Whence 
do they get it ? 

Careful analysis of air, of nun and snow-water, shows an appr&- 
oiable amount of uncombined ammonia in the air, which is washed 
down by rain and snow and carried into the earth ; but a thorough 
course of experiments just concluded by the best agricultural in- 
vestigators in England, has proved that the amount annually fur- 
nished to the earth in this way is less than the amount taken away 
annually by ordinary crops. Yet the opponents of special ammo- 
niated manure have pointed to the ammonia of the air as sufficient 
to supply all the wants of the crops, and have maintained that any 
other supply of ammonia is unnecessary. 

One follower of Liebig gives the number of pounds of ammo- 
nia found in the soil of several different acres, varying in amount 
from 3,000 to 8,000 pounds, and then triumphantly inquires what 
farmer would ever cart from his manure-yards 8,000 pounds of 
ammonia to his fields*. 

This is most mistaken reasoning. Our tables have just shown 
that in a single fertile acre, there may be 145,605 pounds of lime, 
54,251 pounds of potash, 17,289 pounds of phosphoric acid — all 
soluble. What farmer would ever think of carting such quantities 
of these salts out of his yards to his land ?- 

Again, it is said that the value of barnyard manure is dependent, 
not upon its ammonia, but entirely upon the carbon and salts sap* 
plied by it But the same great authority who asserts that all the 

* Prof. Honford, Cambridge, Mam. 



TH£ FARM. 501 

ammonia needed in agriculture may be derived from the washings 
of the air, shows that at least 200,000 pounds of carbonic acid 
per acre maj be supplied from the same atmospheric reservoir. In 
the eyes of his school then, the value of barnyard manure cannot 
depend on its carbon. The constituents of barnyard manure are, 
about 80 per cent water, 18 carbonaceous matter, 2 of salts and 
ammonia. J£ then its value lay in its carbon and salts, our farm- 
ers would do well to bum their manure and carry out the ash only, 
which would reduce the expense of manuring a field with barn- 
yard manure at least one half. But in fact, this manure, though 
not in any one's opinion perfect — varying as it does in quality, and 
never containing all the elements of plants in due proportion — 
has always been found more generally efficient than any other ma- 
nure. How it may be improved will be stated hereafler. 

To return to the advocates of saline manures. They give a list 
of instances in which the crops on different pieces of land were 
doubled and trebled by the application of some saline manures^ 
lime, gypsum, phosphorate of lime, etc; and from this they 
reason that these salts are the important special elements in ma- 
nures, and that their liberal application will result in unbounded 
crops. 

On the other hand, the advocates of ammonia show equally large 
lists of cases in which the application of that substance produced 
crops as great as those that followed the saline manures ; and from 
this they infer the importance of ammonia, and the uselessness of 
any other so-called fertilizer. 

I could give lists of experiments on both sides, each list equally 
conclusive in favor of the manure employed in the experimenta 
set down in it Both cannot be true, and in their precise applica- 
tion neither is true. 

Before defending either side of this argument, we must consider 
to what use vegetation is devoted. With scarcely an exception, to 
support animal life. Animals can thrive only upon food which 
contains nitrogen ; therefore an analysis which deals only with 
€uh of a crop, can furnish no argument applicable to animal econ- 
omy, for the food of an animal must contain all the elements neces- 
sary for animal life. To omit from your analysis that portion of 
the crop most essential to the result for which the crop is grown, is 



502 JLPRIL, 

absurd ; yet this U done in evcrj cuh analjsis. The heat necessa- 
rily applied to obtain the ash converts nitrogen into volatile ammo- 
nia, and sends it off in the form of gas. Such an analjsis can only 
satisfy those who assume that all the nitrogen needed by plants i« 
supplied by the air. This is assuming the whole gi'ound, and if 
admitted cuts off all further argument But I do not admit it, or 
see how any one can admit it 

Let us take the case of an acre of land^ sterile, and destitute of 
various salts, of carbon and ammonia, with nothing but lime in 
abundance. It would be useless to expect a crop if we applied to 
this acre once or twice the amount of mineral matter that our crop 
would need. Even under the best culture, the land could not be 
80 thoroughly worked and exposed to the action of the roots, that 
the crop could search through the whole acre (4,094,640 pounds 
of soil) and hit upon just what it wanted. The advocates of the 
saline theory would not expect it, any more than we ; they wodd. 
expect to supply annually for several years, the saline constituents 
of the crop in some excess, and in such form as would enable the 
crops to seize it readily, and would not feel sure of an ample crop 
until the constant accretions amounted to enough to leave a large 
balance on hand, on which the crop could draw in time d need; 
and they would not consider the condition of the land perfectly 
satisfactory until it was so well stocked with these constituents, 
that the addition of a yearns supply would be necessary only to 
keep this balance good. 

Or again ; suppose all the saline constituents to be abundant, ex- 
cept one, and that one an element universally and largely diffused 
through plants, — potash, for instance. Would our theorist rely upon 
the disintegration of the thousands of pounds of solid rock in the 
soil, which might annually crumble enough to supply to an acre of 
land the few pounds of potash needed by its crop ? He would 
have good reasons for not doing so ; he knows that the process of 
disintegration would be slow, and not most active during the grow* 
ing season. He knows that it might be more perfectly and surely 
accomplished in one part of the field than in another, and that ac* 
cidental causes might altogether check it. These reasons would 
decide him to apply potash enough, in an assimilable form, to carry 
o*'e crop, at least, through the season. 



THB FARM. 50d 

Let us now put the case of an acre of land abounding in saline 
constituents, but destitute of ammonia, from which several crops are 
to be taken, demanding various amounts of nitrogen. Obviouslj, 
the onlj natural source of nitrogen in this case, is the ammonia in 
the air, which will be carried into the soil by the rain and snow. 

* According to Liebig, the largest annual amount that can be caU 
culated upon from that source is *^ upwards of 80 lbs. of ammonia, 
or 65 lbs. of nitrogen ; for by the observations of Schubler, the 
annual fall (of rain) must be 2,520,000 lbs. This is much more 
nitrogen than is contained in the form of vegetable albumen and 
gluten in 2,650 lbs. of wood, 2,500 lbs. of Hay, or 200 cwU of Beet- 
Root, which are the yearly produce of such a field. But it is less 
than the straw, roots, and grain of Ck)m, which might grow on 
the same surface, would contain." The field here calculated con- 
tains 26,910 square feet. To an English acre there would be 158 
lbs. per acre of ammonia. 

In another place he says: '< No conclusion can have a better 
fimndation than this, that it is the ammonia of the atmosphere that 
furnishes nitrogen to plants." 

The amount of ammonia thus supplied comes in the shape of the 
carbonate, which is the volatile form of ammonia, and when carried 
into the earth is either still retained as a carbonate, and still volatile, 
or is fixed by the free or combined sulphuric acid in the soil, and con- 
verted into sulphate of ammonia, which is soluble in water, but not 
volatile. There can be no doubt that some is thus fixed, and a 
strong argument for the use of ^psum, or sulphate of lime, is that 
it fixes ammonia, the sulphate of lime yielding its sulphuric acid 
to the ammonia, taking, in payment, its carbonic acid, and becoming 
carbonate of lime. How much is thus fixed, of the 158 lbs. to the 
acre, we do not know ; but that which remains as a carbonate is stiU 
volatile, and under the warmth of a summer sun undoubtedly re- 
evaporates into the air, as does the same gas from an unfermented 
manure pile ; whilst during the winter it is scarcely absorbed at all, 
as at tiiat season the larger part of the rain and snow-water runs 
off the frozen surface into the natural drainage. 

* AgricaltanU Chemistry, p. 44. 



M4 APRIL. 

Of the whole amount supplied in rain, etc, not more than two- 
thirds (105 pounds) can be absorbed, and there is everj reason to 
suppose that a large portion of this is re-evaporated, while of the 
remainder a considerable proportion in most soils would be carried 
by the water with which it fell, or bj subsequent washings, into 
the subsoil, where it is below the roots of most annual plants. It 
is a mistake to look upon an acre of cultivated soil as if it were a bed 
of charcoal, chloride of calcium, or sulphate of lime, which would 
filter all water that ran through it Much of the surface of our soil 
is full of perceptible holes left bj worms, decayed roots, etc., and 
leading directly to the subsoil, through which a great deal of the 
water that falls runs rapidly into the subsoil,. without any filtration 
or purification whatever, carrying with it any ammonia it maj 
have« And other large quantities of highly ammoniated rain water, 
that of thunder-storms, fall so rapidly and forcibly as to be shed 
from the surface like that which falls in winter. 

In all these ways the ammonia (N H') supplied from the air is 
wasted (so far as our soil is concerned), till it is evident that but a 
small amount is retained for the crops. 

Again, look at the results obtained by those who use the lai^gest 
quantities of highly nitrogenized manures. Urine — whether of 
men or animals — is the most ammoniacal of manures. The fol- 
lowing table shows the composition of human urine: — * 

Urea 3.01 

Uric acid, 0.10 

Indeterminate animal matter and lactic add, and lactate of ammonia, 1.17 

Mucns of the bladder, 0.03 

Salphate of potash, • 0.37 

Sulphate of soda, 0.3S 

Phosphate of soda, 0.89 

Chloride of sodium, 0.45 

Phosphate of ammonia, 0.17 

Chloro hydrate of ammonia, ^ 0.15 

Phosphate of lime and magnesia, 0.10 

Silica, tnce. 

Water, *. 93.30 

Loss, 0.54 

100.00 
• Brown's Mack Book, p. 316. 



THE FARM. 505 

In addition to the other solid ingredients, we have 3 per cent. 
of Urea, which consists of * 

Carbon 20.0 

Nitrogen, 6.6 

Hydrogen, 46.7 

Oxygen, 26.7 

lob.o 
and is accordingly richer in nitrogen than any other organic ma- 
nure. When it begins to ferment, it changes into carbonate of 
ammonia apd escapes, giving the pungent smell to fermenting 
urine. This carbonate of ammonia is so very volatile, that every 
possible means must be taken to secure it ; one of which is to mix 
large quantities of water with urine, for although urine is mostly 
water, there must be additions made before the carbonate of am- 
monia is held. By thus diluting it, and then allowing it to stand 
for a time, a given amount compared with an amount of undiluted 
urine, equal to the urine contained in the diluted specimen, and 
allowed to stand for the same time, is found much the richer in 
ammonia. Thus, in cow's urine : t 

lb«. aoUd malter. lbs. NHS. 
Kecent urine contained 900 226 

g. , ( mixed with water and set by for 6 weeks, 850 200 

®""* ^"'M unmixed " " " 550 30 

This excrement, so peculiarly rich in ammonia, is sctupulously 
saved by some nations, particularly by the Flemish and Chinese, 
who use it largely in various fermented and unfermented forms, 
separate, and combined with charcoal, gypsum, etc, and the result- 
ing crops are larger than any which follow the application of any 
other manure, even in dilution. I say even in dilution^ because, 
as plants can take their food only in a diluted form, it might be 
said that the great returns from the use of urine were in conse- 
quence of its being in a liquid form. So powerful a manure is 
human urine, that one part of it is equal to 13 parts of horse, and 
16 of cow, manure. 

Other highly nitrogenized manures are guano, rape cake, and 
pondrette, or night-soil. The crops which follow their application 

♦ Brown, p. 319. t Brown, p. 321. 

43 



(K)6 iLPRU.. 

to various 8oib are so eoormous, as to excite fea» that the aoQ 

would be exhausted 

These facts furnish conclusive replies to those who advocate the 
exeluHve use of saline manures. 

I have followed both sides of the argument thus far, in order to 
show that there is room for thought in farming, especiallj in the 
matter of manures, and that it is a mistake to follow anj theoij 
which disregards any of the important elements of v^table 
tissue. 

We have looked at the constitution of various soils, and at the 
constitution of several crops. Now take the best soil and cultiirate 
it without manure. For many years the crops will be undimin- 
ished, but will ultimately decrease. The land is at first in what is 
called good heart ; the balance is large, and crops can draw on it 
to any extent without danger of check ; but to ensure a continu- 
ance of thb fertility, and to exactly carry out Nature's laws, w« 
must return to the soil as much of the constituents of the crops as 
they remove. If we add more of any one thing than is takea 
away, the proportion of that substance in the soil will increaaev 
and may be neglected in the next manuring ; and on the other 
hand, I repeat what I have before implied, that it is justifiable to 
pursue a course of cropping and manuring which does not in each 
individual instance restore the elements removed, but which m the 
aggregate keeps the bahmce equal 

We have seen that it is the intention of Nature, by crops of 
wood and the annual accretion of leaves, by the weathering of 
rocks, by the deposit of more or less ammonia in rain, to raise land 
to a high state of fertility ; and that if our culture returns only 
one element — organic or inorganic — it destroys the perfect sym- 
metry and balance, and impoverishes the land surely, even if it be 
slowly. It is necessary to understand this clearly in order to farm 
with the best judgment. 

The foregoing reasoning answers the question, Why manure at 
all ? We see that unless we restore the elements we take from 
the soil in crops, we shall ultimately impoverish it; let us now 
proceed to the farther consideration' of the second question. 



THE FARM. 507 

It is quite possible to attempt to keep one's land ^^ in heart " to ill 
advantage, and with a present loss greater than any future gain. 

Some enthusiasts have believed that bj analyzing crops, ma- 
nures, and soils, agriculture may be reduced to the method and 
precision of manufacturing, and a large or small crop be secured, 
just as may be desirable ; and this does seem possible when we 
k)ok at the harmony of parts, and the balance which may be main- 
tained between what we add and what we remove from our fields. 
Yet the general practice of farmers is blind and headlong, especially 
in this matter of manuring. 

Proverbial as is the folly of carrying coals to Newcastle, our 
formers are guilty of it every year ; at a great expense they carry 
manure on to land which needs something quite different. If they 
reasoned and analyzed a little, they would save botli money and 
time, and gain in crops. Had I given more lists of soil analyses, 
you would have seen the great difference in soils on the same farm. 

I do not believe that farmers ever will or could profitably have 
the soils of all their fields analyzed, and then proceed to manure 
according to the deficiencies reported and to the proposed crops. 
Farmers who have in mind analyses of ordinary land could not 
persuade themselves to manure at all. Imagine a farmer reading in 
an analysis of his soil that an acre contains 300,000 pounds of Lime, 
50,000 pounds of Potash, 75,050 pounds of Magnesia, 4,000 
pounds of ammonia ; and that the crop he expects from that acre 
will use 100 pounds of lime, 500 pounds of potash, 30 of anmio- 
nia. Could he believe it necessary to add a little more in the way 
of manure ? he would be the most obstinate of sceptics, and would 
never put in a pound of manure ; it would seem as mean and small 
as for a millionaire to save his cheese-parings. And yet with these 
thousands of pounds of rich mineral manure, the little additions of 
the farmer are necessary to any good crop. Why, it would be 
hard to say ; whether because of its being in a form more easily 
assimilable, or because of the necessity of keeping the balance 
good, or as a condition of tenure imposed by nature on landholders, 
it is necessary. 

A great error into which men fall in considering analyses of 
soils, is to suppose that the hundreds of thousands of pounds set 



508 APRIL. 

down there are all in a condition to be used by plants. Thej are 
perhaps locked in solid rocks which are nearly insoluble bj water, 
and from which they can be freed only by the slow work of ages, 
or by the rapid grinding, wasting, and dissolving of the laboratory. 
It is the free and easily assimilable elements of a soil which are 
of value to a crop ; none other are of consequence. Remember 
this when you study an analysis of soil. No fact is better estab- 
lished in geology, than that soib are not necessarily formed from 
the rocks that underlie them, but may be diluvial drift A soil 
overlying phosphatic limestone, may be wanting in both lime and 
phosphates. 

But while it is not necessary or important to have these analjses 
of our land for our guidance, each man's farming may be modi 
improved by his clearly comprehending the principles of analysis, 
and the mutual relations between crops, manures, and soils, the 
general physical character of different fields. He may then apply 
to each soil that kind of manure which is richest in the elements 
in which the soil in question is deficient ; he will not waste it on a 
soil compounded in the same proportions as itself. 

Soils may be generally divided into sandy, clayey, loamy, car* 
bonaceous, and lime soils ; and these again subdivided into coane 
and fine, close and open ; with a few exceptions we have learned 
from the analyses of soils made by David A. Wells for the State of 
Ohio that all loamy soils, with the exception of river bottoms, are 
nearly identical in their chemical composition. 

The difference in fertility arises mainly from the thickness of 
the strata, and the fineness to which its particles have been reduced 
by the action of the elements ; all diluvial soils are overlaid by a 
stratum of loam, and in its virgin condition, this soil, wherever 
it lays, is equally fertile, and will produce equal crops ; all crops 
take from the soil certain salts as we have seen. If the soil is 
virgin, it will be sufficiently rich in the salts to give a good crop ; 
just in proportion to the cropping it has received without manuring, 
just so much of the various salts will have been withdrawn, and 
must be restored in some shape to restore the soil to fertility. 

To begin with the texture of soils. Some land is hard clay, 
which (even when well drained) retains moisture tor a long time, 



THE FAHM. 509 

and whether wet or dry is hard and difficult to work. When wet, 
it is slipperj and tenacioos ; when dry, it is like a brick. The first 
improvement to such a soil is to drain it thoroughly, which lightens 
it, and renders it more pervious to air and warmth ; the second is 
to mix with it such materials as will tend to open it and make it 
light Let us compare it to a dough, which is sticky and tenadons 
when partially mixed. By working into it more fiour it becomes 
closer, but yet lighter and more friable, and by a continuation of 
the process is brought to an open texture which allows us to do 
what we please with it So a clay soil is opened by the applica- 
tion of sand, ashes, peat, or carbonaceous manure, all of which are 
opposed to the dose character of the clay. They separate its par- 
tidies, and give new channeb for the escape of moisture, and the 
access of light and air. 

These days may abound in or be destitute of lime. A little care, 
and a few simple experiments, will tell which is the case with 
yours. If lime is in excess, they are marls, and are valuable as a 
lime-manure. If lime is absent, or pi^esent only in small quanti- 
ties, its application will be of great benefit ; top-dressings of lime, 
gypsum, and ashes, will produce wonderful effects. 

Clays have great power of absorbing ammonia and other gases, 
and are useful to incorporate with manure and with other soils for 
that purpose. 

But suppose that your land is sandy ; all waters and valuable 
manures rapidly run through it, and the land is sterile. By appli- 
cations of clay you may counteract the looseness of soil, bind it 
together, and fertilize it Some other things will have the same 
effect, particularly peat, and carbonaceous manures, so that we find 
these serviceable in two quite different kinds of soil. Peat, how-' 
ever, serves in the sand rather as a sponge, to hold gases and food 
for plants, than as a binder to the soil, whilst clay answers both 
purposes. But peat being dark-colored warms the soil, during the 
growing season, by absorbing all the sun's rays, while it imparts 
moisture even in dry weather, from its loose texture, which in the 
afternoon and evening rapidly radiate heat, and by thus cooling the 
surrounding air condense moisture. A little investigation will show 
the farmer of what kinds of rocks his sand is composed ; if of 

43* 



510 APRIL. 

those rich in potash, and destitute of lime and soda, Kme and sdt 
should be supplied, and vice versd. This investigation, the wwk 
of a few evening.^ will be his first step towards discovering tlie 
secrets of nature. 

Suppose, now, that the land is grayellj ; gravel is a sort of coaree 
sand, which, however, may be of a clayey nature. It has a coarse 
texture, through which all water or manure may rapidly leach, and 
is apt to be formed in large part of quartz pebbles, and of siliceous 
matter, whilst quite often the stones and sand are cemented together 
by a fine clay. The reasoning already given may be applied to 
this soil, and will teach the farmer how it may best be drained, be 
bound by clay, or loosened and warmed by sand and peat. 

If the land is loamy, it may be overloaded with carbonaeeoos 
matter, which becomes inert when too abundant Experiment will 
teach that the application of some alkali, like lime, potash, soda, or 
ammonia, will quicken the inert mass, decompose its carbon, and 
render it exceedingly fertile ; or that an admixture of sand will 
give that openness of texture necessary to enable the roots of plants 
readily to find the food they need. 

Or the land may be peaty, full of carbon and water. Of course 
the water must be removed to let in warmth and air, to sweeten 
and lighten the soil. Carbonaceous matter, such as bits of wood, 
leaves, stems, moss, etc, are the component parts of the soil, and 
are inert, and produce only a sour vegetation, while they form ft 
sponge for water that almost defies drainage. A little thought ren- 
ders it apparent that the application and admixture of sand and 
gravel will alter the texture, and open the soil to the free escape 
of water, as well as to the admission of sun and air, and that a 
dressing of caustic lime, or potash, will decay and render available 
the carbonaceous materials. 

This is the mechanical treatment which a very slight examina- 
tion of the texture of soils leads to, and which can be pursued 
without recourse either to purchased manures or to special analyses. 
It is naturally one of the first steps in improving soils, and the 
fiirmer who has made it, finds another reach of improvement open- 
ing before him. 

Up to this time he has relied solely on barnyard manure, but 



THE FARM. 511 

now }ie linds tliat the sand, claj, or peat, which he mixes with his 
soils dot's more than improve their texture, that it has a positive 
value :ls manure ; and so he is led to look into its chemical compo- 
sition. 

In a funiier montlt, while speaking of stock, I said that the value 
of their manure is in proportion to the nature of their food. Hith- 
erto our improving farmer has cared little for the elements in his 
manure ; it has all been dungj and that was all he thought about 
it But now he must consider not only the mechanical texture and 
the chemical composition of his soils, but also the composition of 
his manure heap, and the means of improving it ; a step winch 
brings him at once to artificial manures. For with the knowledge 
that without an annual addition of the elements necessary to vege- 
tation, and removed to greater or less extent in eveiy crop, his 
most fertile land will deteriorate, then comes a sense of the im- 
portance of ascertaining whether or not he is " carrying coals to 
Newcastle." He sees the advisability of purchasing a few pounds 
of the needed elements in their concentrated form, and incorpo- 
ratiijg them Avith his more bulky manure. He understands what 
chemical elements are, and that without them his land cannot be got 
into good heart, and kept there ; and having finally come to think 
upon the subject, lie no longer thinks it ridiculous to spread 5 bush- 
els of salt, or plaster, or lime per acre. It is nothing to him that 
the amount is small ; he only a«^ks whether it is enough. 

Our farmers have gone on for ages using barnyard manure, and 
with success, when they applied it in sufficient quantity, because it 
i^proaches to the character of a universal manure, in proportion 
to the nsiture of the food of the animals that make it. But the 
wonder is that men do not grow poor by its use when unimproved. 

Before we enter on the question of barnyard manure, it should 
be premised that it is generally more readily taken up by plants, 
on account of its holding so much water that when fresh it is like 
liquid manure ; and observe that this water of composition is all 
important to its value ; without this the other elements would be 
almost useless, so few and small in amount are they ; yet it is im- 
portant only in dry seasons, and then only for a limite(t time. As 
soon as the earth becomes dry it evaporates, and the manure loses 



512 APRIL. 

the advantage it possessed Under a sjstem of irrigation, or in a 
moist climate, or in an ordinarilj wet season, it is easj to compoand 
manures much more beneficial to the crop, and at no greater expense 
per acre. 

It maj be said that in admitting the importance of irrigation, 
etc, to the success of anj other than bamjard manure, I admit 
the superiority of that manure ; since we cannot o(Mitrol clinoate 
and rain, and must therefore depend on the water of compositi<m« 

It is my wish not to deny, but to insist upon, the value of the 
coDunon manure, and to urge fieumers to make all thej can ; birt 
at the same time I propose to show that we can improve it very 
much, use it onlj in part, or wholly do without it 

The first step towards understanding this matter, is to examine 
an analysis of such manure. Of course, this will vary with the 
kind of stock kept, the number of each kind, and the nature of 
their fi)od. I will therefore give a table of the composition of the 
manure of several species of stock, as well as of tlie compost. 
This will enable you to see how money is annually wasted, and 
how to reform your farmyard economies. ^ 

Barnyard manure in its unmixed state, is composed of the 
droppings of horses, cows, pigs, sheep, hens, pige<ms ; generally 
horse, cow, and pig, are the chief makers of manure. To this is 
sometimes added the excrements of the family. On most fanns, 
cow manure will largely preponderate in a compost On fiinns 
where there are many sheep, their manure is kept separate. It b 
much richer than that of either horse or cow, one part of it being 
equal to three parts oi the best compost The simple excrement 
in a fresh state consists of* 

Water, 68.71 

Arotised matter, 23.16 

Saline matter, 8.13 

100.00 

The 8.13 of saline matter is composed of phosphate of lime, 
magnesia, silicate of potash, common salt, and silex. So powerful 
is this manure, that ^ it is said that 1,000 sheep, folded on an acre 

* Browne, p. 239. 



« THB FARM. 513 

of ground one daj, woald manare it safficientlj to feed 1,001 sheep, 
if their manure could aU be saved ; so that bj this process, land 
which can the first year feed only 1,000 sheep, maj the next year, 
by their droppings, feed 1,365. Sprengel allows that the manure 
of 1,400 sheep for one day is equal to manuring highly one acre 
of land. In France, it is allowed that one sheep inanures about 
10^ square feet of land per night" (when folded on the land). 
* "The manure of theliorse is composed of 

Water, 76.31 

Geine^ or organic matter '20.57 

Salts, 4.02 

100.00 
" The geine, or organic matter, is composed of 

Carbon, 9.56 

Hydrogen, 1.26 

Oxygen, 9.U 

Nitrogen, 54 

20.57 

<^ The geine (organic matter containing both carbon and nitro- 
gen) is nearly double that in cow manure, and the salts, which are 
mostly phosphates of lime, magnesia, and soda, are about the 
same." But its dryness and preponderance of ammonia cause it 
to heat with great rapidity, and thus to lose much of its value, un* 
less well secured. As a manure to be used alone, as a top-dress- 
ing, it is worthless ; ploughed in fresh, or made into a careful, com- 
pact compost, with loam, peat, etc., it is of great value. When 
thus composted, the heap should be broad, well trampled, ooca- 
sionally watered and sprinkled with plaster of Paris. 

Cow manure, as I have said, is usually the most abundant kind. 
Its composition is 

Geine 15.45 

Salts, 95 

Water, 83.60 

100.00 
•Dana's Mack Book, p. 168. 



614 - APBIL ' 

The organic matter of 100 parts cow dung giye * 

Nitrogen, J06 

Carbon, J34 

Hydrogen, .824 

Oxygen, 4.81S 

6J81 

1 part of nitrogen onites with 3 of hydrogen to form one equiT* 
alent of ammonia. 100 parts fresh cowdung will afford | poonds 
of nearly pure ammonia, or about 2 pounds 2 ounces of carixynste 
of ammonia. 

** Experiments have shown that one cow prepares daily 85.57 
pounds of dung, or about 13 pounds geine, 3 ounces phosphate of 
lime, 1^ ounces gypsum, 1^ ounces carbonate of lime, or per year, 
4,800 pounds geinc, 71 bone dust, 37 plaster, 37 lime, 25 taih, 15 
^phate potash/' f Of the geine, there will be 156 pounds nitro- 
gen, or 189 pounds carbonate of ammonia. 

^ Cow dung, for several reasons, its universality, its sameness of 
character, its composition, may be taken as the type of all manures, 
and all may be valued as they approach to, or depart from it** 
*^ A single cow fed on Hay and Potatoes, will yield 31,025 pounds 
dung, whose composition we have just seen ; this would have lime 
enough fi>r 140 bushels of Bye and its straw, could it all be evenly 
spread and readily taken up, and also more than enough nitn>> 
gen." I I have previously said that it is not known what part 
ammonia or any other alkali plays in the vegetable economy, bat 
the action of nitrogen in the compost hei^ is very powerfid. It 
acts upon the geine and renders it soluble ; it does the same to the 
silica, by forming nitric acid with the elements of the air, in con- 
nection with ammonia, and this nitric acid decomposes the silicates 
and produces nitrate of potash. 

Having given the composition of the two principal elements of 
the compost heap, I now give the analysis of a compost of barn- 
yard manure, just before it was applied to the soil. 

• Dana, p. 150. t Dana, p. 161. | Dr. Dana's Mnck ManaaL 



THE FARM. 515 

FMh. Dried at 2l2<>Fahr. 

• Water, 64.96 Carbon, 37.40 

Oiganic, 24.71 Hydrogen, 5.27 

Inoi^ganic, 10.32 Oxygen, « 25.52 

Nitrogen, 1.76 

Ash, 30.09 

Inorpuilo. Analyib of the uh. 

Soluble In w^er. loeolnble in water, but eolable 

in muriatio acid. 

Potash, 3.22 Silica, 27.01 

Soda, 2.73 Phosphate of Lime, 7.11 

lime, .34 " " Magnesia, 2.26 

Magnesia, .26 " " Iron, 4.68 

Solphoric add, 3.27 Carbonate of Lime, 9.34 

Chlorine, 3.15 " " Magnesia, 1.63 

SiUca, .04 Sand, 30.99 

Carbon, 0.83 

13.01 Alkali and loss, 3.14 

** Thus, 100 pounds well-made barnyard manure gave 65 pounds 
pure water, 25 inert carbon, 10 per cent inorganic, and .006 (f 
pound) nitrogen ; of the 10 per cent ash only 3 per cent are of 
much value ; but the above manure was of extraordinary value in 
comparison with the ordinary compost heap." 

I have recommended all along that manure be formed into com- 
post heaps with various materials, — at the head of which stands 
peat ; 2d, clay, old sod, or decayed vegetable matter ; 3d, loam $ 
4th, sand ; 5th, tan, sawdust, etc. 

We have already seen how great are the advantages of clay as 
an application to land. I have said that for sand it seems to be 
the specific, but its value is relative, and confined to a few varieties 
of soils, whilst peat can be much more widely applied, and is of 
more general value. Under the jgeheral name of peat, are com- 
prised several varieties, of difiTeretit value, from that which is ridi 
in vegetable matter, salts of lime, potash, etc, to those pond muds 
which are little but barren sand. ^' 100 parts of average peat 
contain t 

Water, 85.0 

Salts of lime, 5 

Silicates, 5 

Geine, 14.0 

* Text Book of Agriculture, pp. 321 and 322. t Dana, p. 245. 



516 APBIL. 

"This does not differ much from cow manure, so far as 8alt6» 
geincy and water are concerned. The salts of lime are about the 
same, whilst the alumina, oxide of iron, and magnesia in the sili- 
cates added to the salts of lime, make the total amount of salts in 
round numbers, equal to that of the cow dung. 

" If the bulks are compared, it will be found that at 90 pounds 
per bushel, full measure, and 103 bushels being aUowed to a cord, 
each contains and weighs as follows, in pounds : — * 





Weight. 


Soln-golM. 


Iiinl.K. 


TolaLg. 


SaltaerBBM. 


Dung, 
Two I Peat, 
kinds.) Peat, 


9,289 
9,216 
9,216 


128 
376 
519 


1,288 
673 
529 


1,416 
1,049 
1,048 


92 
91 
81 



''The salts and geine of a cord of peat are equal to the maaon 
of one cow for 3 months. It is certainly, a verj curious ooind- 
dence of results, that nature herself should have prepared a sab- 
stance whose agricultural value approaches so near cow dun^ the 
tjpe of manures.". 

The various analyses submitted, show that the ammonia of ma* 
nures is held in the carbonaceous matter. Peat has its share, hot 
has lost the power of forming more. This power, or disposition, 
ma/ be restored by the addition of alkali. " Sufficient alkali to 
give peat the same value with cow manure, is 2 pounds potash, or 
3 pounds soda ash, in 100 pounds. We are now no longer sur* 
prised that peat should be the best component of the compost heap, 
and it becomes clear why cord for cord, peat mixed with other 
manures, produces a compost, each cord of wliich is equally valu- 
able with any single cord of the original manure." f 

This fact established enables the farmer not only to double the 
value of his manure heap, by the addition of peat, but to add nearly 
as much more, because of the power which peat possesses of absorb* 
ing gases, holding water, collecting heat, condensing moistore. 

It is worthy of more than a passing mention, that nature shodd 
have furnished this singular substance with two powers which seem 
almost inconsistent ; the black color of the coarse and stringy fibres 
absorbs heat which is imparted to the soO, while the same t 

•Dana, p.246.t t Dr. Dana's Muck Manual. 



THE PARM. 517 

ness of fibre, gives it a power of radiation, whereby it cools much 
more rapidly than the other soil aHer the sun has gone down, and 
is enabled thereby to condense and collect the dew, so valuable to 
Tegetation in hot weather. 

But, at the same time, it is a fact that compost whether composed 
exclusively of manure, or of peat, or compounded from both, is at 
least, 70 per cent water. Therefore of each cord carried on to your 
land, 6,451 pounds are water — more than three tons ! To draw 3 
tons ^ of a mile, costs not less than 50 cts ; for 10 cords of manure 
to an acre then, you spend $5 in carting watery which, after all, 
is often of no value ; as when applied to reclaimed meadows, many 
of which are pure peat and are always too wet, particularly at the 
seasons when manure is applied. 

Of the remaining 30 parts of the compost, at least, 20 are car- 
bonaceous matter, which is of no value to the aforesaid peat land, 
or to over-rich loams, where vegetable matter collects to the injury 
of crops, and necessitating the application of alkalies to consume 
the fibres. 

If the compost is to be applied (as it should be) to sandy, calcareous, 
or day soils, this carbonaceous matter is valuable, both as carbon 
and as sponge ; if to dry soils, where irrigation is impossible, the 
70 per cent of water is valuable so long as it lasts. In short, the 
value of a barnyard composted manure is limited by the crop to 
which it is applied ; for Turnips, Cabbages, and other crops which 
unquestionably derive most of their carbonaceous support from the 
air, it has less value than for quick-growing grain crops. Thus a 
knowledge of the chemical constituents of our compost guides us in 
asing it 

We have seen that peat is in itself a manure, though an inert 
one, and that by the application of caustic alkalies to the amount 
of 20 per cent of the whole amount of manure used, we may fer- 
tilize a peaty acre, provided the manure with which the alkali is 
mixed be carefully spread over the surface. 

It may be asked whether this process of converting the muck into 
manure on the field does not eat up the very soil, and so make it 
impossible to keep land in good heart Suppose that it does ; we 



518 APRIL. 

can obviate the difficulty by withholding only the water of oompo- 
dition, and applying the other constituents. Even then the return 
of the 20 per cent of carbonaceous matter would be entirely unneo- 
essary for any other purpose than as an absorbent or to alter the 
texture of the soil, for we know that the air supplies to the soil 
yearly, at least 300,000 pounds carbonic acid per acre, or 1,800,- 

000 for the six years' rotation ; and to add the smaU amount in oar 
compost to a peat meadow already overloaded with carbon in the 
face of such a supply from the air, would be mere waste. Besides 

1 do not pretend to say that the original condition of land is always 
its best condition, and to be kept of the same by annual returns q£ 
what the crops abstract. If in any soil one constituent is laigely 
— injuriously — in excess, it should be cropped in such a way as 
to reduce that excess. This is the best kind of farming. It is 
from an excess of carbon that peat meadows seem to lose so much 
of their fertility after a few years' culture ; the ashes of the wood, 
roots, and hassocks burned when they were first cultivated gave the 
proportion of alkali needed by the peat This is exhausted in a 
tew years and must be supplied; if by barnyard manure the 
process is slow and clumsy. 

To rich loams the same reasoning will apply ; and for light sand, 
or gravel, or poor clay, I have already said that a composted ma- 
nure is best 

To the loam and the reclaimed meadow therefore, we need apply 
only the salts removed by crops, and nitrogen in the form of am- 
monia. 

The amount of these elements furnished to an acre in our ma- 
nure, is but a small percentage of the stores already in its soil, but it 
is necessary to prevent its growing poor. Small as the supply 
is, its effect is always perceptible, whether we give it in the solid or 
the fluid form ; and it seems as though plants were endowed with a 
reasoning power which led them to use the annual income from the 
manure or the air before beginning on the accumulated principal. 
Chemical laws may be explained after study, but this law is inex- 
plicable ; that a crop grown on fertile land without manure should 
be good, and yet be perceptibly increased, if there be incorporated 



THE PARIC. 519 

with the upper foot of an acre that weighs 4,094,640 pounds, an 
amount of some special salt, not exceeding 100 pounds. 

There is this limitation of the law to be stated ; viz., that for a 
6 jears' rotation, the aforesaid small dressing must not be applied 
all at once, but annually ; otherwise it will sink into the subsoil, 
below the easy access of the roots. 

Probably the action of these special manures is much like that 
of the accumulated starch in a seed potato, which feeds the young 
germ before it is old and sturdy enough to struggle with the rough 
earth. So these small doses of concentrated food give the plant 
vigor in its infancy, and carry it rapidly forward to a healthy matu- 
rity, when it can compel earth and air to yield it food. 

For a 5 years' rotation we must supply 500 pounds of ammonia. 
This can be purchased in 1^ tons of Peruvian Guano (containing 17 
per cent of ammonia) at $60 per ton — ($90). Of guano, which 
contains a larger proportion of ammonia we need not purchase so 
much. In this ton and a half there are 704 pounds of phos- 
phates; our 5 years' rotation will need only 213.80 pounds; our 
supply both of phosphoric acid and phosphates will therefore be 
ample. We shall need 200 pounds of lime. There is none in the 
guano, but, as I directed, the guano should be mixed with its weight 
or bulk of gypsum, which will give 83 per cent of lime, and 46 
per cent of sulphuric acid ; in one ton of gypsum there are then, 
not less than 660 pounds of lime, and 920 sulphuric acid, at a cost 
of $3. The crops of this rotation will require 136.52 pounds sul- 
phuric acid ; of magnesia they ask 78.50 pounds, which is not to be 
found either in our guano or gypsum ; therefore we must add 421 
pounds of epsom salts ($14) sulphate of magnesia, and of potash 
536 pounds, either in the form of ashes or potash of conmierce 
dissolved; of commercial potash it will take 600 pounds ($36), 
or 2 tons of ashes ; 350 pounds of conmion salt will give aU the 
soda and chlorine we will need. 

These should be mixed with their bulk of fine peat, sand, loam, 
or clay, to incorporate them thoroughly together, and to insure the 
proper absorption of the ammonia gas, and an equal distribution 
over the surface. The items are : — 



620 APRIL. 

1 1-2 toni Peru, gnano, fWjOO 

430 poandf epfofti salu, 14.78 

1 ton gypsam, 8-00 

600 pounds potash of commerce, 36ilO 

350 .pounds common salt, 1.2$ 

9145.03 
Cost of mixing and spreading, 5.00 

9150410 

If, instead of guano, we buy 1,500 pounds sulphate of ammonia 
(at 5 cts = $75), to furnish our ammonia, and for our 213 poanda 
phosphoric acid, buy 400 pounds phosphatic guano, 80 per cent of 
which is phosphate of lime, we shall get 286 pounds phosphoric add 
for $8, and shall need no gypsum, the sulphuric acid being con- 
tained in the sulphate of ammonia, the lime, both in that and in the 
400 pocmds of phosphatic guano, with these : — 

Epsom salts, 430 pounds, at .06 per pound, S25.80 

Potash, 600 ** " " 38.00 

Common salt, 340 " .0125 " 4.25 

966.05 

Sulphate of ammonia, 75.00 

Phosphatic guano 8.00 

Cost of mixing and spreading 50 bushelf loam, 5.00 

9154.05 
To apply the same amount of salts and ammonia by barnyard 
manure, or compost, would require at least, 12 cords of the very 
best composted manure of which there is any analysis, and this, 
every farmer knows, would be worth, in the field, spread ready for 
use, not less than $120, at the ordinary estimate, which omits many 
items of expense, that would, if considered, raise the cost far higher. 
Were cow manure used to give the supplies, no less amount than 30 
cords would be needed, to furnish the necessary amount of some of 
the elements. No barnyard preparation, really rich enough to restore 
the elements abstracted by the foregoing five years, would cost less 
than $150. Remember that I have said that for some lands these 
composts are the best manures, though not for alL 

The constituents of the crops of the 5 years' rotadon are : — 





THE 


FARM. 






521 


Ammonia, 


500 pounds, 


equal to 


S cords of 


pare 


cow dang. 


Lime, 


213 " 


it 


3 




f< 


Solph. acid. 


136 " 










Magnesia, 


78.5 " 










Potash, 


536 " 


<« 


35 




u 


Salt, 


350 " 


*( 


18 




It 



Fifteen cords of pure, iiQfennented horse manure, will iumish 
the necessary constituents, but in both cases the manure mtut be 
pure and unfermented. To make a manure then, take, — 

3 cords cow-manare (which will give ammonia and phosphate), .... $30.00 
Baj as before, the other manares, 75.00 

$105.00 

Were we to retain the proportions of salts as abstracted by the 
rotation and tabulated above, it would be absolutely necessary to 
buy many of them, as no composted manure could supply them in 
sufficient abundance, excepting at an enormous cost 

The effect of liquid manure is wonderful. 400 gallons of the 
ammoniacal water of gas-works, caused an increase of from 3 to 
10 bushels of wheat, above the results of several other powerful 
manures with which it was compared. Under the use of urine, 
there has been even a greater increase than this, but I have no room 
to give examples. 

There is one marked loss in using compost, and a corresponding 
gain with special manures applied as Wanted ; viz., some of the ele- 
ments of the compost heap are very voktile, and if the whole 
amount were applied at the beginning of 5 years' rotation, a large 
per centage would necessarily escape by evaporation, before the 
last crop was removed, while, as we have seen, a similar loss would 
result, though by a directly opposite process, if the whole amount 
of salts neede'^ during the rotation, were to be put on at once ; the 
saline elements would wash into the sub-soil, and in a short time 
would be lost to the roots, and the young crop would be deprived 
of its simple food, and its valuable stimulus. 

A supply of these constituents during the five years, drawn from 
dung, would be very uncertain, as they are needed in different pro- 
portions by different crops. When we supply them by artificial 

44** 



522 APRIL. 

manures, however, we may give the crop each jear just what it 
will want, when it starts to grow, without giving anj thing unneo- 
essaiy. 

Refer to the list of the constituent elements of the crops of the 5 
jears' rotation of Boussingault, p. 499. Potatoes and Turnips re- 
ceived large amounts of potash ; the one 195 Ihs., the other 201 lbs., 
while Wheat takes but 39 lbs., Oats but 36 lbs ; and on the other 
hand, of ammonia, Turnips require but 32 lbs., Oats, 52 lbs., and 
Wheat 80 lbs. If the potash had been all supplied at the begin- 
ning of the rotation, the Potatoes would have had an abundance, 
but by the time the Turnips came round, their supply would prob- 
ably have been in the sub-soil. 

In making an estimate of the cost of supplying special manures, 
it is difficult to present one lower than the cost of dung ; but if a 
man does not want to keep cattle, he can buy artificial cheaper than 
animal manure. The market price of all these elements is high, 
owing to the limited demand, and to the fact that purchasers are 
not acquainted with the best sources of supply. For instance, 
sulphate of ammonia costs 5 to 8 cents per lb., at the shops ; it 
could be made at gas works, from gas liquors, for very much less. 
The cost of potash is 5 to 9 cents per lb. ; wood ashes could be 
purchased in the country, or be made from refuse wood in the forests^ 
so as to bring the pried much lower, especially as in the wood ashes, 
are many other things, which we should be obliged to buy. A cord 
of leached wood ashes (or 100 bushels), contains 50 to 60 lbs. of pot- 
ash. In 1 cord of leached ashes, dry weight,* 

Phosphoric acid 117 lbs. 

Silcx 146 " 

Oxide of iron 17 " 

Oxide of manganese 51 " 

Magnesia 119 " 

Carbonate of lime 3072 " 

Potash combined with silica 50 " 

Where ashes are bought to make soap, or potash, the refuse is 
generally considered worthless, but we see that its agricultural 
value is very great, especially for Grass lands, and for all legumin- 
ous plants. 

* Dana, p. 144. 



THJB FABM. 



523 



When we have a dung heap to work upon, there ia a large list 
of materials which maj be added to it. I will give a list of some 
of the most valuable and accessible, arranged in the order of their 
value. 



No. 1. 
Human excrement, 

" urine, 
Guano ammoniated, 

" phosphatic, 
Sulphate of ammonia, 
Gas liquor, 
Bomt bones (groond), 

whole. 
Blood, 
Soot, 
Potash of^all kinds. 

No. 3. 
Sea mud. 
Pond mud, 

Soaper's waste (Barilla ashes), 
Sea-weed, 

Seeds of all kinds (dead seeds), 
Gjpsum, 
Leaves, 
Soap suds. 
Clay, 
Marl, 
Green manures, ploughed in. 



No. 2. 
Bone black. 
Hair, 

Horn shavings. 
Lime, 

Salt (waste or good). 
Oyster shells, 
Peat, 

Ashes of both kinds. 
Seeds of oil cake. 
Native phosphates. 
Soda of all kinds. 

No. 4. 
Loam, 

Starch refuse, liquid and solid. 
Sawdust, 
Wood chips. 
Tan (especially Oak), 
Sea water. 
Straw or Hay, 
Fern, 
Crushed Granite. 



Large as is this list, it is not complete ; almost all matter, organ- 
ganized or unorganized, is at some time or place valuable for this 
purpose. Persons estimate the same kind differently, according to 
their chemical theory. Liebig, the great advocate for saline ma- 
nures, says : '< No conclusion can, then, have a better foundation, 
than this : that it is the ammonia of the atmosphere that furnishes 
nitrogen to plants." Another chemical authority, Dr. Dana, a 
friend to ammonia, says : " It may be established as the fourth 
leading principle of agricultural chemistry, that soils contain 
enough of all the mineral eliements to grow any crop." In another 
place he says : ^' The nitrogen, then^ in dung, is that organic ele- 



524 APRIL. 

meot to which must be attributed its chief enrichment; the nitro- 
gen is the basis both of the production of ammonia and of the for- 
mation of nitrates ; hence the quantity of nitrogen in manures will 
form a very good element for the estimation of their value. Mar 
nures will be found rich in proportion to their quantity of nitrogen, 
or their power of forming nitrates. This is the great and first 
cause of the enriching power of dung." Liebig again says : " When 
we supply to a soil easily penetrable by the roots of plants, as well 
as by air and moisture, in the form of ashes, the constituents that 
are removed in the form of crops, the soil will retain all its original 
favorable state." Of course neither ammonia nor carbonic add 
can be supplied in the form of ashes, both being volatile. Liebig 
says again: ^^ Practice in agriculture has taught us that the 
amount of vegetable matter on a given surface, increases with the 
supply of certain substances, which were original constituents of 
the same surface of the soil, and had been removed from it by 
means of plants." And again : '* In the solid and liquid excre- 
ments of men and animals, we restore to our fields the ashes of tke 
plants which served to nourish these animals ; these ashes consist 
of certain soluble and insoluble earths, which a fertile soil most 
yield, for they are indispensable to the growth of cultivated plants;" 
and farther : *^ the action of an artificial supply of ammonia, as 
nitrogen, is limited, like that of humus, the source of carbonic acid, 
to a gain in point of time ; in other words, to the acceleration of the 
development in a given time, of our cultivated plants." 

This grants enough to upset the whole of his reasoning. AU we 
want of our fields is to yield the crops we cultivate in the growing 
season, and if the ammonia supplied by the atmosphere comes only 
at that season when it cannot be used, it is of little value ; indeed, 
as a source to depend upon for our supply, of none at all. 

Liebig further says : " It is also of importance to know that the 
rule usually adopted in France and Germany, of estimating the 
value of a manure according to the amount of its nitrogen, is quite 
fallacious, and that its value does not stand in proportion to its 
nitrogen." 

We know that the constituents of soils bear a certain relation to 
the constituents of plants, which cannot be neglected without im- 



THE FABM. dSSO 

mediate loss ; and if one set of investigators prove the value of 
nitrogen or ammonia to crops, and another that of the saline ele- 
ments, it seems to me plain that both are essential. 

The weakness of the theorizing of Liebig in this direction is 
summed up by Dr. Dana as follows : — 

** It has been proved by Krocker, that rich and even barren 
soils, at the usual depth of tillage, contain an amount of ammonia 
exceeding per acre that of any fair crop ndsed by the aid of the 
best farmyard manure on the best soil; it is not enough that tons, 
and tons of ammonia are already existent in soil, if that ammonia 
can only be extracted by chemical processes and human manipu- 
lation ; no matter how much of this element may be in rain, how 
much may exist in the soil aid^d by the inorganic salts, fair aver- 
age crops may be raised by these natural sources of ammonia. To 
obtain profitable crops, an excess beyond the natural supply is es- 
sential ; to keep up this excess and to retain the largest return for 
the seed sown, nitrogen, in the shape of salts or of readily decom- 
posing organic matter, must be supplied with inorganic salts. The 
nitrogenous principle gives at once an energy to vegetation enabling 
it to unfold early and largely those organs (the roots and leaves) 
by which the earth and air contribute their portion to the growth 
of plants. Nitrogen gives salts power to do more work in the 
same time ; it is a labor-saving machine, enabling the farmer from 
the same ground and with the same time and labor to reap larger 
rewards. Natural vegetation is a low-pressure engine, but it will 
bear any amount of pressure, so beautifully built is it in all its 
parts. Inorganic salts are the water, geine the fire which raises 
the steam to drive this machine, filling the thousand cylinders which 
are distributed throughout plants. Nitrogen is the regulator of 
this engine. Nature has everywjiere put the machine into the 
hands of man. She takes man as her apprentice, and her gener- 
ous hand supplied the daily bread, while man was learning the 
construction of valves, the working of pistons, the real power of 
the engine, the sources of the steam. These, even though dimly 
seen, nature demands should be worked up to full pressure, when 
the apprentice sets up for himself, and is determined that the sweat 



526 APBIL. 

of Ids brow, whilst it feeds his body, shall also porifyf enlai^ azid 
strengthen his intellect.'* 

The soil of any fertile acre is so full of the saline oonstitaents 
that by supplying ammonia and some few salts we may get large 
crops for many years, but we effectually reduce the stock d[ all 
minerals abstracted and not returned, a reduction which must be 
felt at last 

There is a prindple in the chemistry of plants not yet noticed 
in these pages ; viz., substitution. In the absence of the constit- 
uent which best supplies a plant's wants, the plant contents itself 
with that one of the constituents which represents, or which most 
nearly makes the place good ; so lime is a substitute for potash, 
potash for soda, soda for magnesia. ' 

Again, an xnsolvUe form of some one alkali predominates in almost 
every soil, as potash in granitic soils, lime in calcareous, and can 
be set free (made soluble) by adding to the soil the alkali which 
is deficient, to the immediate and evident advantage of the crop ; 
and when the alkali is superabundant — as carbon is in peat — 
•no large return of it need be made in manure. 

The natural disintegration of the minerals of a soil is slow, and 
the process may be hastened by careful and close culture. The 
more finely the soil is comminuted, the more rapidly the mineral 
elements are set free, and the less need there seems to be for ma> 
nure. 

Jethro Tull, in the last century, and the Rev. Mr. Smith, of 
Lois Weedon, in England, at the present time, have mamtuned 
that by careful and thorough culture, soil can be kept highly pro- 
ductive for years, and crops of undiminished perfection be taken 
without manure. The Rev. Mr. Smith has grown large crops of 
Wheat on the same land for many years without manure, by thor- 
oughly spading the soil and planting in alternate strips a few feet 
wide ; the intermediate strips being in naked &llow, open to the 
free action of air and moisture. By this culture he has been ena^ 
bled to get from an acre as large average crops as any in Enghmd. 
But his land must inevitably become all the more thoroughly ex- 
hausted in the end ; it is impossible that a ptolonged course of 



THB FARM. 527 

subtraction should not reduce the minuend, the stock of minerals, 
etc^ in his soil. Our farmers would do well to improve upon a 
part of his system, instead of adopting it entire. Thej should 
r€tam the proper amount of manure, and also-reduce and pulverize 
the soil so thoroughly that all its wealth may be opened to the crop. 

Nature has drawn a beautiful circle around agriculture, — an 
endless chain, quite independent of man's proceedings; let our 
culture be as various and exhaustive as it may ; let the growth 
and decay of animal life be as great or as small as they may ; 
nothing is added to or taken from the amount of matter in the uni- 
verse, though it is not always divided in the same proportion be- 
tween the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. All that 
grows supports some other life ; the rejected portion of the food of 
all animals — fix>m the greatest to the least, of each year — is suffi- 
cient in amount, if husbanded and applied, to produce food for the 
year succeeding. 

It rests with us to say how much of this constant quantity shall 
be organized in plants and animals in our neighborhood. We may 
improve or neglect Nature's kind provision for us ; we may get the 
gain or leave it to others more active and enterprising. If we are 
anxious to be the best farmers, we shall improve every opportunity; 
we shall giM^her up and apply every particle of manure, animal, 
vegetable, and mineral. In our thorough tillage we shall break 
the stones, and reduce their mineral manures to a shape more sus- 
ceptible to the action of the gases and adds stored in the soil, and 
ready to convert them into food for our crops ; and in return, the 
generous soil will fill our bams and our purses to bursting* 




CHAPTER LVn. 

GREENHOUSE. 

h AY. We are growing tired of the greenbouae, 
full though it may be with flowers, bright and 
fragrant Every time that we enter h, the 
approach of real, out-of-door spring, the blos- 
soming trees and wild-flowers, have paled its 
beautj ; it looks to us too much like a ball- 
room afler a party is over, and we really won- 
der how it could have given us so much pleas- 
ure during the winter ; we are all impatience to get the flowers 
out of doors, and look at the thermometer and the sky many times 
a day, to see if the weather is not mild enough. 

All the care that the greenhouse now demands, is the supply of 
sufficient water and air, the cutting of slips and sowing of seeds. 
We shall hardly need a fire unless there should be a long, cold 
storm, or a very cold night. Attend constantly to the pots and 
pans of cuttings and seeds, and gradually withdraw water from the 
stock plants, which are now to be allowed to fall asleep and to rest 
till the next season ; for dulled as our enthusiasm may be now, it 
will all revive at the approach of cold weather, and as the chills 
of the early frosts make themselves felt through the autumn air. 

No love is more imperishable than the true love of flowers; 
it may pass away when we are compelled by sickness or city 
life to forego their culture, even years may intervene between the 
times of making and owning one garden and another, but just as 
boon as the opportunity oflers, the true enthusiasm breaks oat 
afresh. 

The early days of May are at once the most fascinating and the 
most tiresome of the year. The warm and balmy mornings be- 
witch us, and with their promise of pleasure to come, draw us oat 

528 



GREENHOUSE. 529 

to long and pleasant walks, or to the delights of culture ; but soon 
come creeping over the landscape the chills of the cast wind and 
the gray mists that so oflen accompany it, and our enthusiasm and 
self-gratulation are suddenly nipped. 

Fast-day is very frequently, in the eastern part of Massachu- 
setts, the first day on which spring asserts its dominion. Every 
one knows how oflen it begins with the delicious warmth of spring, 
and how as oflen its end is cold and chilly. 

The gardening fwror of which I spoke last month, will continue 
unabated during this, and culture will soon begin in earnest. 

The time for setting plants into the borders varies very xjauch 
with different seasons. If the progress of the season has been 
regular and uninterrupted, it is decidedly warm by the middle of 
May, and you may set out Verbenas and hardy Gei-aniums, stock 
6iUy*flowers, Wall-flowers, Roses, Pelargoniums, etc.; but if you 
want them to grow, you must surround their roots with some fer- 
menting manure, and water every few days with warm water ; not 
very freely, or the roots will be likely to decay ; and you may 
save the plants from chills and checks, by sheltering them during 
any long, cold rains. Warm rains and showers are beneficial. 

The last of the month, set out Heliotropes, Salvias, Lantanas, 
Nierembergias, Fuchsias, etc. All the plants with which you pro- 
pose to enrich the garden. 

It will still be necessary to watch against frost, and to cover 
when there is danger of it. A very slight protection, an inverted 
pot, or hay cover, or even a Pine branch laid over a plant, will 
screen it from the spring chills. Transplant into the borders, also, 
all the annuals that are advanced enough to make it worth while, 
and give the others every inducement to grow. Be in no hurry to 
set stock plants out, as a single chill would materially injure them ; 
it will be better to wait till the settled heat of June. Some gar- 
deners recommend giving stock plants a shifl now, and adding 
fresh loam to the tops of the pots. I have given my reason for 
making these changes later. Those plants which are to make a 
growth during the summer, such as Euphorbias, Poinsettias, Chrys- 
anthemums, etc., should be pruned and shifled, and be set where 
they will start, but all that are to repot should be lefl undisturbed. 

45 



580 HAT. 

• 

Make cuttings of Double Primroses, cut back Heaths, Oranges, 
and Azaleas, before thej make their new growth. 

Be careful^hen plants are set in the shade for the summer, to 
raise them from the earth by slabs of wood or brick, or by thick 
layers of coal ashes, to keep out earth worms, which would riddle 
the earth of the pots, letting out the water too rapidly, and redne- 
ing the nutritious qualities of the earth. 

There are two ways of keeping the stock plants; one is 
to set them on the north side of a building or fence, or under a 
canopy of wood with latticed sides, which will keep off tlie direct 
rays of the sun, and admit the air freely. Eveiigreens need no 
sun, unless for a short time in the morning, but abundance of 
light ; other plants are uninjured By a moderate amount of sun. 
The other method is to plunge the pots into the earth up to their 
rims. When this is done, a piece of slate should be set under the 
pot to prevent the roots of the plants from getting out into the soiL 
They are very apt to do so, and though they cause the plant to 
grow rapidly, ultimate injury follows ; for when the plant is lifted 
in the fall, these roots have to be cut off, and the old roots are voh 
able to supply the demands of the new wood. It will be feund 
sometimes of udvantage to take old, cankered, potrbound plants 
out of theu* pots, and plant them in a border, more or less shaded, 
according to the variety, and allow them to grow at will ; if so in- 
dulged, they will often renew their growth and vigor, forming new 
roots and tops. It is impossible to foresee and provide for everj 
case which may occur — each must be settled as it comes up, with 
care and judgment 

The pots of Auriculas should be coming into bloom now, and 
should be placed in conspicuous places. The mealy petals whidi 
contribute so much to their beauty, must be shaded from sun and 
rain and high winds, which tend to deface and injure them. 

During the summer there will be but few flowers in the green- 
houses. Fuchsias will be in perfection, and Orchids, and some 
tropical bulbs. Achimenes and Gloxinias, which were planted in 
February, will now be well grown, and will blossom some time in 
June, while those planted later will continue in blossom through 
the summer. 



GREENHOUSE. 531 

All tuberous-rooted plants and bulbs, as Oxalis, Ixias, etc, as 
soon as their leaves have turned yellow, should be removed frofti 
the soil and laid aside in a warm, dry place, for two or three 
months, according to the time when we wish to start them anew. 

Pot into small pots, small plants of Polyanthus, of Primula si- ' 
niensis, and Cineraria, and as soon as warm enough, remove the 
pots into borders, where they may get some sun, and grow into 
stocky plants for the autumn. They will need to be shifted once 
or twice before winter, according to the growth made. 

Plant Carnations which have not yet blossomed, in places where 
they will show well ; either among tall-growing plants, or in a bed 
by themselves. 

Carnations for wintennay be struck now from cuttings, if this has 
not been done before. Or you may set old plants in rather sterile 
places, and layer all their branches. Be careful not to stimulate 
them so that the layers will blossom before winter. As soon as 
there is any intimation of the approach of cold weather in the fall, 
pot the layers. Full directions for culture will be given in July. 

Set out in somewhat similar soil the Dwarf Chrysanthemums, 
which have been under the stage since they blossomed. As 
they grow, layer the young shoots into small pots ; wTien they have 
well-rooted, remove from the parent plant, and as soon as they fill 
the pot with roots, shift into larger pots and better soil ; you will in 
this way get good, stocky plants for winter blossom, and rather bet- 
ter than when made from cuttings. 

The greenhouse, even after its principal plants are removed, will 
have some in blossom all summer ; the Orchids, Cape Bulbs, and 
tuberous-rooted plants just mentioned, Passion Flowers, Wax-plants, 
Roses, Fuchsias, etc. Take all the plants from the conservative 
pits as soon as the weather will allow. If you did not start a little 
growth in the plants by sashes, as I directed, give them all the light 
and air you can some time before removal. When you have emp- 
tied the pits, take off the sashes, clean and paint and lay them 
aside. So also the frame-work ; give all the wood-work a good 
coat of whitewash or paint, to keep off the hot rays of the sun 
during the summer. 

Frames containing Pansies, Auriculas, Anemones, and Ranun- 



532 MAT. 

« 

culuses will graduallj go out of bloom. As the flowers die and 
the leaves wither, remove the roots. The Paosies and Dakies 
may be divided and replanted in the borders, to make a new 
growth. Pansies can be better grown fix>m seeds than fit>m cut- 
tings, but Daisies should be propagated from cuttings. Set them 
in northern aspects, as the summer heats are destructive. The 
frames containing Anemones and Ranunculuses, should have occa- 
sional waterings with tepid water, but should be well protected 
against cold rains which rot the roots, and against high winds which 
destroy the flowers. Set the Cinerarias out of bloom into cold 
frames. Give the Camelias completing their growth abundant 
water and frequent syringings ; by shading the Pelargwiiums sand 
other flowers their bloom may be saved for a longer time. Fu- 
chsias shifted into large pots and manured with guano water will 
make a great show hereafter. 



CHAPTER LVm. 



CONSEBVATORT. 



The Conservatory, like the greenhouse, is getting out of date, 
and we only go throiigh it now to get at the garden. From its 
windows we see the flower-beds gay with bulbs, and we cannot but 
feel the superiority of the out-door beauty ; and yet the conserva- 
toiy is by no means bare of flowers. 

If it has been well managed it is as full now as the flower-beds 
were in the autumn, when the early frost came and cut off Helio- 
trope and Salvia, and checked the Geraniums and Verbenas. The 
clusters of rosebuds or La Marque are full and fragrant ; the deli- 
cate blush on the Saffrano and long, greyhound-like buds of the 
Yellow Tea, were never more beautiful ; while overhead the blos- 
soms of the Passion Flower shine like stars in the sky. The 
Greraniums are in full blossom, and the Heliotropes fill the air with 
fragrance ; and yet the sweet English Violets among the litter in 
the garden, the Hyacinths and Tulips of the beds, the Wisteria 
over the windows, greet us together with the song of birds and the 
gentle airs of spring, in so attractive a language that we think them 
more beautiful than the children of the tropics which we have only 
induced to grow and blossom by extra care. What a mysterious 
power is exerted over every mind by the spring. 

The returning birds, the soft breezes, the swelling buds, the 
springing Grass, seem to re-invigorate the dullest minds, and every 
earnest man is braced anew for noble enterprise. In the dreams 
of early morning, in the reveries of evening, we see the days of 
our untarnished youth ; we recall the many games which the re- 
turning warm weather always renewed; we remember the May 
parties, when every one was eager to find the first blossom ; the 
longing looks sent over the greening fields as we dragged our un- 
willing legs up the schoolhouse steps, and wished that we were 

45* 533 



534 KAT., ^ 

dogs or birds, — any thing but schoolboys, — that we mig^ht frolk 
in the sunshine all daj long. We remember the aspirations ni 
our early manhood, how the world all seemed &ir and pleasanL 
We had grown up in the shelter of our pleasant homes, and all we 
knew of life was its green pastures; and, standing at the gate of 
our new year, we looked forward to the crops of glory and wealth 
we were to gather ; we trace the footsteps we have made ; some 
through pleasant fields and in gardens rich with all the blossoms of 
worldly success and pleasure ; some through the wintry days of 
sorrow and disappointment, the wintry fields of poverty, whence 
we could with difiiculty glean a meagre support. We feel how 
much of beauty and promise, of sorrow aqd ugliness, is covered 
by the pleasant spring ^ and whether successful or not in the strug- 
gle hitherto, there is each spring a new start of the blood in oar 
veins, a new uprising of determination to reap a full harvest the 
coming summer, and to meet the next winter nobler and better 
men. We look more lovingly on the children we meet, have kinder 
words for friend and stranger, and there is through every part of 
our nature an atmosphere partly our own, partly the influx of the 
external promise, which seem.s, like the golden hazes around the 
rising and setting sun, to gladden and warm and animate every 
thought and impulse. 




as 

o 

H 

< 

> 

as 

O 
H 
O 



-< 
^ 



H 
H 



M:iiA!*TFa: i.f> 

TiTr, fruit on Cv- «.'arlif'>t vlne^ w'. »'.; i. u ... •• 
li'' i'.ii' of ^'u' lu" .1., (iiiJ tlic !ji .' k n.4. • :•, \' ■ 
'.^> ♦'.•; hisl. As tin: iVuil Colui'> .>l» tl'» . . t ' •• 

jMJiM of '»\uL"r I'liiiii rlic 111"'.-, a»r' '.'n«' .' "• , •• • i 

:*»r tl-e ia^i ili.i^, ci.'t'iu '» - lvci-v ti, :. ■ . :• . 
('w. ' ,.j' • \rc i:iL..'f i»" !;ik«'ii to ki;t p ,-••.'•; • u • 
ofT'-f! i-p ob-<'iin".: !l:'-«»in<' li 'bis b\ rh» ■■ .1 . ' '•■ ••iii 
wi'li tirfii'Tclnij^ puwi'i'. Jl«>u>e<5 vc«'. ...'•' ••• :. • *»' 

ii**-, -m.tiikLiN ! . !."• i)v ci'heaN'H i,_, i: . ■. <• ... ;]i. ^\ 

' • .•'•.. oh', '•!• ..:!• ..loii, a. tii»: s* ■ • • .. : .■•.!. k 

• .-'\ n^J.li* -luri:!'.' '..UKiUJi ^* • ..'-,.• a,. :.l- 

,J.. " . .' • • luii it ciui ^ ■'•.•. I . . ...' I -I of J'liiM 
.: . :! ' . \iiiU n." unl, :.'J i .1..' J . .. n* nil' h*- to k* rjj 
•' .1 n^J (11 V. 

I U-! . '»' ^Vi:ir.;/c iliiriij»: ." -'I'Mfi. r. i.| tm- foivi*. ^" 

i-»v. ]v lin;', .11 i!'. uiiit* . ' 1,-5, un<l ul>o, lua* 

»;•.-. 'i'i.* ^<' •.'" ^)C I'll!;*?':- »_\ tl« la^l of May, or 

»'.:.' 'ui* ut' v.'- jii'.'l in*' ' ' 'I . '* jMove ill' «.*;t»-. 
•• ■■ h'!m* wut. . 'M! :l j-«r lime to cl '• i';Min in ll-cfvi • • 

'• »:.<.. suU'bur .-'ixMit the thH^rs, and "('(.isj- ir '• 

.1. I. ii.-rnre s'liitf'n;; up in ilu ,. it. Mm 
• 't i«'S .iiid pip*\'', and iii'i:;*' jn-,* lire onowi- 



CHAPTER LEX. 



FORCING-HOUSE. 



The fruit on the earliest vines will ripen from the first to the 
middle of the month, and the Black Hamburghs will begin to color 
hj the last As the fruit colors on the principal vines, remove the. 
pans of water from the flues, and give generally less water. Thin 
for the last time, cutting out every defective or imperfect berry. 
Constant care must be taken to keep ventilation good ; the sun will 
oflen be obscured for some hours by the clouds, and then come out 
with tremendous power. Houses ventilated in the wall, as ours 
are, are not likely to be overheated by these sudden changes, if they 
receive reasonable attention, as the ventilators in the front and back 
will prevent too rapid accretion of heat. But houses not so venti- 
lated are very often injured exceedingly, and should, therefore, be 
anxiously watched during variable weather. To manage an ill- 
ventilated house, on a changeable day, taxes the best efforts and as- 
siduity of the gardener, but it can be done. By the middle of June 
the fruit will be quite ripe, and, after that, the aim will be to keep 
the house cool and dry. 

The treatment of fruit-trees during the summer, in the forcing- 
house, has been already given in the winter months, and also, that 
for pot Grapes. These will be fully ripe by the last of May, or 
first of June. 

When all the fruit of vines and trees is cut, remove the sashes, 
and give but little water till it is time to close again in the autumn. 
During the summer, red spiders may make their appearance. To 
expel them, strew sulphur about the floors, and occasionally dust it 
over the vines. 

As soon as the wood is ripe in the autumn, prune and lay down 
for the winter. Before shutting up in the autumn, strew sulphur 
over the flues and pipes, and make just fire enough to melt, with- 

535 



536 HAT. 

oat igniting it The fumes will fill the house and kill the insects 
After the fumigation, scrub and paint as directed in September. 

Before the middle of May all the vegetables should be remoTed, 
as they will not thrive, and will injure the ripenmg fruit. 

We here take leave of the forcing-house. I have given direc* 
tions, which, if followed carefully, will insure good and healthy 
vines, and full crops of fruit, but the minute culture of the vine de- 
mands a book by itself. 

I have given a connected description of the culture of fhiit and 
pot Grapes, in another place. Farther directions seem saper- 
fluous. 

The cold grapery will be during May, in the condition of the 
forcing-house in March, and early in April. The vines will be in 
flower during the month, and some will set their fruit, .when thej 
must receive their first thinning. 

The danger of shanking and shrivelling from ill-balanced heat 
and moisture, has been already described. 

The fruit will go through all the stages of setting, swelling, and 
thinning during June, will ripen in August, and be in use throogii 
September and October. 

The treatment of the cold grapery through June, July, and 
August, is like that of the forcing-house in April, May, June, and 
July, and needs no fisirther description, so we may here bid farewell 
to this branch of our subject 

The fruit-trees will be treated as before directed. Ripe Cherries 
may be expected in May, Apricots and Nectarines in June and 
July, and Peaches in July and August ; this is the harvest season 
for glass-houses. 

But though the work of these houses is not varied enough to 
need farther description, it has imperative claims on the gardener. 
He must expend a great deal of time and thought upon his houses, 
or his ripe fruit will be destitute of cdor, size, and beauty, and his 
vines and trees will be ruined for future crops. 

Remember that too much heat, and too much moisture will not 
benefit the crop ; it must be aeeeleraiedy not forced, A neglect of 
this &ct has ruined many an establishment 



CHAPTER LX. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

CoNTiNTTE the work of April, — digging, preparing borders, and 
clearing up. Just as soon as the ground is ready, you can sow 
seeds of the most hardy flowers, such as Mignonette, Sweet Alys- 
sum. Candytuft, Catch-fly, Flos Adonis, Heart*s-ease, Larkspur, Lav- 
atera. Lupin, Sweet Pea, Hawkweed, Annual Snapdragon, Zinnia. 
Sweet Peas should be planted in large masses, at the back of the 
flower beds, or in hedges along the walks of the kitchen-garden, or 
elsewhere. Or they may be sown in circles around a bush or some 
kind of trellis-work, when the size of the other plants warrants it 
Beds 6, E, may have such groups. Sow Sweet Peas again in 
June, that they may last till late in the autumn. 

The size which plants usually attain is generally given on the 
outside of the seed-bag, and you may be guided by it in the choice 
of places for planting. Towards the middle of the month, almost 
all the flower seeds may be planted, Amaranths, Balsams, Asters, 
Gillyflowers, etc. It will be well at this time, also, to plant the 
seeds of many biennials ; they will thus get well grown this year, 
and blossom better next, than if sown later. 

Among these are Sweet William, Antirrhinum, Canterbury Bell, 
Foxglove, Coreopsis, Dracocephalum, Asclepias, Cassia, Gerardia 
Hedysarum, Hibiscus, Enothera, Penstemon, Lychnis, Rudbeckia, 
Solidago, American Aster, Spigelia, Chelone, Trillium, Veronica, 
Podalyria, Liatris, Ragged Robin, Columbine, Iris, Valerian, Thrift, 
Lily of the Valley, Hollyhock, China Pink, and common Pink, and 
many others are enumerated in all dealers' lists. 

All flower seeds should be planted very shallow. If planted too 
deep, seeds are in danger of decaying ; but if shallow, they receive 
the full benefit of the sun and showers of spring, in their germinat- 
ing season. Dig the bed up thoroughly, either with a spade or 

537 



688 MAT. 

trowel ; then beat it fine with rake or fork ; remove one qnarter 
of an inch of the top earth, either by skimming or bj pushing it back 
with the rake. Scatter the seed thinly over the surface ; then sift 
back the loam, not more than one-fourth inch deep, over the seeds. 
Or, having prepared the ground as before, with one tine of the 
weeding-fork, or a stick, draw a line in the earth one quarter of an 
inch deep ; scatter the seeds into it, and cover as before. It is 
pretty to plant seeds in circles, stars, or other figures. Concentric 
circles of different fiowers have sometimes a charming effecL For 
instance, a small circle of purple Candytuft, surrounded with one 
of white, then Escholtzia, and outside of that Portulacca, white, 
red, or yellow. Mignonette and a fringe of Tassel Flower ought 
be introduced. 

The disposition of fiowers, with a view to producing a good eflfect 
when in blossom, is a matter of individual taste, and there is ample 
opportunity for va^riety. It is difiicult, indeed, to produce other 
than a good effect, with such beautiful material, but the general 
rule should be followed of keeping the tallest plants in the back- 
ground. 

Some varieties should be used but sparingly ; Zinnias, Four-o'- 
dock's, and such tall, stiff plants occupy a great deal of room, and 
their fiowers are never particularly pleasing. Four-o*-clock opens 
only morning and evening, and has nothing to recommend it at 
other times. 

I recommend the use of only the more delicate annuab ; they 
give a greater abundance of fioWers, and of the kinds most desirable 
for bouquets and vases, and they harmonize better with the bedding- 
out plants. It is always well to have some bulbs, some perennials, 
some bedding plants, and some annuals. By such an intermix- 
ture, a great deal of pleasure is secured, without much labor. 

The trouble of cultivating most annuals goes far towards counter- 
balancing their attractions. It is better to plant a few of their seed 
in many places, than many in one place, with a view to transplant- 
ing them. Some bear transplanting ill, others scarcely notice it 
When all the seed is sown in one place, you have first to prepare 
the ground and plant the seed, then to thin and weed the young 
plants, then transplant as they are wanted ; protect from the sun. 



FLOWEB-OABDEN. ^89^ 

and water them, and so you get your plants with a great deal of 
trouble ; and as many of them have but little top, they do not cover 
much ground, and must, therefore, be planted in large numbers to 
produce any •effect. 

The rules to be observed are : Sow the seed thm, cover but 
slightly, water in dry times, do not let plants stand too near together, 
cut down all plants as soon as out of blossom, remove dead leaves, 
tie up to sticks the drooping heads and branches, let all be neat and 
orderly. 

Where effects of color or form are attempted, by concentric cir- 
cles, irregular, straight, or wavy lines, or otherwise, great care is 
necessary. The outer shoots of the plants should be supported 
by small branches of Birch, Beach, etc., stuck into the ground, 
deep enough to be firm, and so far under the plants as to be con* 
cealed by their leaves and side shoots. The greatest obstacle to the 
successful culture of annuals, is the too great luxuriance of their 
growth, and rather poor soil is generally better for them, on this 
account, than very rich. Much may be done towards producing 
a perfect bloom, by thinning out side branches, and occasionally 
pinching back leaders. 

I shall give, in a few pages, a list of plants which will grow and 
blossom at different seasons, and the sizes and colors being given, 
any person can easily choose such as will produce the effect he de- 
sires. But to get effects of color, you must plant a large mass of 
the same kind, or color, together, otherwise, only a thin, meagre, 
and spotty result will be obtained. Many treatises devote a large^ 
space to the analysis of colors, showing how plants may be mixed 
and blended, correctly and pleasanUy. Their statements are based 
on some theory of colors, in which I have no faith. I do not be- 
lieve that the exact and minute gradings and blendings of color 
proposed can be produced in an ordinary garden. These treatises 
analyze the colors of the rainbow, and show how its harmony was 
produced, and may be reproduced. But in their reasonings, they 
forget that there is a great difference between the spectrum which 
they study, and the flowei^garden. For the colors of the spectrum 
are blended where they meet and merge in each other, in a way 
that is impossible with the distinct lines of color in the flower-bed. 



540 XAT. 

and their connection in the latter case, is still farther effected by the 
green leaves that mingle more or less in every part. Besides, if it 
were possible to give this wonderful effect from one point of view, 
it must be lost with a step in either direction, and a flower-bed i» 
manifestly made to be seen and enjoyed from many points ; far- 
ther, plants are constantly growing in height and breadth, and no 
two can be expected to grow just alike. Therefore, elaborate 
plans of coloring in flower-beds must fail ; and yet, in arranging 
flowers, we should always be guided by a regard to the relative po- 
sitions which their colors occupy in most harmonious combinations, 
60 that they may, when in perfection, resemble a well-arranged 
bouquet, or dish of flowers. By familiar observation of their colon 
in beds, both the eye and the taste may be cultivated till we learn 
to love and appreciate color, and instinctively, as it were, how to 
combine with the pleasantest effect. A bouquet or dish of flowers 
so arranged that all their colors show to the best advantage, is 
seldom seen. Flowers are too often mixed confusedly, so that there 
is no distinct character obtained, and the eye gets no healthy ex- 
citement. Arrange your flowers always so that one decided color 
shall predominate in the whole, and also be massed in some portic* 
ular place. Then contrast with the principal mass of color, those 
colors best calculated to relieve and show it to advantage. Do not 
entirely disconnect the main mass from the same color in other parts, 
but, by a single flower of the same, or a similar hue, carry the eye 
along to the other parts where the dominant color is again to be 
seen. Do not put your flowers in blotches, or formal masses, but 
introduce them with graceful irregularity, so that while you are en- 
joying the principal color, your eye may be unwittingly led into 
the other forms and colors that blend and intertwine with it Do 
not fall into the common mistake of making your bouquet of noth- 
ing but flowers ; they should be in abundance, but not so as to con- 
ceal the green leaves, twigs, and berries. To show them to their 
best advantage, mix plenty of green, and in autumn, colored leaves 
and berries with them, which may rest and divert the eye, till it re- 
turns to find the flowers more bright and beautiful than before. I 
believe that very much more beautiful dishes, or bouquets, may be 
made in the autumn, when the flowers are almost gone, than in 



FLOWEB-aARDEN. 541 

their midsummer profusion. In the summer, the richness cIojb, we 
eojoj them less, because of their quantity, and cannot help feeling 
that what is abundant, is cheap, and yet in this abundance of flowers 
we cannot persuade ourselves to use green enough. 

As in the dish or bouquet, we approach the reds and crimsons 
with the colored leaves of autumn, or the scarlet berries of HoUj or 
Wintergreen, or the hips of the rose, the haws of the Thorns, or 
the jetty black berries of the Privet, we gain an intensity of color 
that the flower could never attain except in such union. If the 
edge of the dish, or outside of the bunch, is bordered with the 
brown greens of the Cedar, Arbor Vitae, and Juniper, the whoK 
tone is still more intensified. Try now the effect of laying under 
your Crimson Verbena, or Scarlet Greranium, a bit of cool, gray 
moss, and, a little farther off, a purplish Heliotrope, and still 
&rther, a group of White Verbenas, contrasted with the rich 
green of the Geranium leaf, and again toned by some pink flower, 
and you will find a wonderful effect, one that will vibrate as you. 
look at it. 

The habit of heaping colored flowers one upon another, and put- 
ting nothing else in the dish, arises, I think, partly from the want 
of delicacy of taste, and partly from taking as a standard of color 
the spectrum, or pictures, where other things, as light and shade, 
atmosphere, etc., come in to blend and tone the whole. 

To return to the colors of the garden. As I have said, arrange 
your plants according to a well-digested system of colors, but re- 
member that unity of effect and harmony is almost impossible 
from all points, or for a length of time. My flower-garden, if I 
have in it all the varieties I want, if I work over it for weeks, cul- 
tivating, pruning, tying up, and watching it, during all that time, 
may give me the precise effect I have desired and looked for, yes 
longed for, for months ; but it will probably only be for one day, or 
even for a part of a day, and never again during the year ; and if 
I can get that perfect effect for those few moments, I shall be cer- 
tainly satisfied and repaid, and regardless of comment from those 
too duU to appreciate or too critical to admire. I shall be content 
to work another season, just as long, for the same few mcMnents' 
pleasure. 

46 



548 XAT. 

There are moments in life when the beantifal is recalled to us, 
for which we have waited, watched, and longed, for which we hare 
spent monej, time, study; moments which others cannot share, 
and may not know, which are gone as soon as come, but whidi are 
the best reward for all our labor and trouble, and which open 
glimpses to us of the beauty and nobleness, unseen and unattainable 
here, but which we can thenceforward believe have an existence on 
the other side the grave. 

The artist may see this desire of his heart, in some early morn- 
ing, as the clouds roll away from the rising sun, showing sea, moon- 
tain, and forest, or he may come upon it suddenly, in the glbten of 
drops of rain, or dew, or in the blaze of ice-clad trees and bushes 
under the moonlight, when each twig is a seeming fire of diamonds, 
or it may look up from the depths of the water, which reflect the 
awful beauties of the heavens, stretching unfathomable distances 
beneath his feet ; the musician may hear it in some strain floating 
through his dreams, in the voice of a singer, in the caroling of 
birds, in the tones of the sea, in storm or calm, in the lulling, lilt- 
ing, babbling of the brook ; he may have studied and sought for 
it through a lifetime, and it may come to him as the reward of his 
labor, or in apparent mockery, heard for so short a time, so soon 
gone ; nevertheless, it is something to have lived for, and to diefot 
The poet will get it in that song which is irrepressible, and from 
his heart's depths a wail of unbounded sorrow, or a burst of im- 
measurable gladness. 

Every lover of beauty sees it now and then, it jnay be, when 
the glorious and beautiful waterfall of Montmorenci leaps before 
him, unexpected and terrible, one moment a hurrying mass of 
water and rapids, a confused outline of hills, river bank, wierd ever- 
greens, rocky ledges ; the next shut into a gorge beneath his feet, 
it leaps in the glad sunshine, spanned with rainbows, 300 feet, a 
torrent of foam, a resplendent veil of mist, a wonder and glorj 
forever ; and then, gathering its waters, gently and peacefully glides, 
over stones and sand bar, to the broad St Lawrence. He may see 
it in his own child, or in the flower-bed before his door. It is never 
the certain reward of labor ; we may work for it a lifetime, and 
never find it while we seek it ; but the seeking will so ennoble and 



FL0WBR-6ABDEN. 543 

purify the mind, and quicken the powers of appreciation, that when 
a sudden movement unexpectedly brings us upon it, we shall be 
repaid and stimulated, let it vanish as speedily as it may. 

The flower-garden may give this momentary delight, or a dish 
of* flowers that we have arranged ; but in whatever form it comes, 
when you receive it, you have lived ; the moment is an epoch, one 
of the milestones on your way ; you will remember it forever, and 
date from it all kindred matters. 

Colors. — You are now in the joyful spring ; you have begun 
the culture of beauty anew. Out of cold earth, rough clods, un- 
Qontrollable elements, mysterious seeds, you may, with love and 
patience, bring out the rarest beauty, capable of administering to 
whatever is best in our natures ; or, in discouragement, you may 
let weeds choke your flowers, and disorder and neglect turn your 
garden to a reproach and a sorrow. 

The following arrangement of colors I have taken out of Mcln* 
tosh's Book of the Garden, and they may be expected, according 
to that treatise, to produce harmonious results : — 

Dark bine, scarlet, white, black, blae, browD, scarlet, white, black, light 
drab, black, orange, black, light drab, black, white, black, claret, orange, 
graj, white, scarlet, dark green, crimson, white, dark gray, dark red, black, 
deep crimson, mixed, geranlam, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, violet, dall 
red, gray, mulberry. 

The reds need not, and should not, be all of the same shade ; 
and so of other colors. Black, of course, cannot be got ; in its 
place may be substituted the deepest crimson and the darkest pur- 
ple ; why it is introduced, I do not know, unless it be for intensity 
of tone. I shall not give any of the elaborate patterns, geometric 
and irregular, so common in books upon flower-gardens. 

You n^ay get a beautiful efiect by a number of small round beds 
along a path, each of which is filled with one kind of flower, sur- 
rounded by slate edgings, and in the Grass. They give great va- 
riety, in spite of their sameness of shape. 

For instance, fill one bed with Carnations ; they will blossom 
all about the same time, and may be full of flowers for some 



544 



MAT. 



weeks ; the next two or three beds maj be filled with varied Pi- 
cotes, one red, one yellow, one white, one yariegated ; after them 
Carnations again. Or you may fill one with Mignonette, the next 
with white Candytu^ the next with pink Lantana, pegged down, 
then two Verbenas, first purple, then crimson, deep blue Ageratnm, 
dark purple Heliotrope, then Horse-shoe Greranium, and down the 
other side with a similar succession. There must be enough of 
each kind of plant to produce a decided spot of color. 

Another bed, as G, in our flower-garden, may begin, 1, Ne- 
"mophila, 2, Gilia, 3, Ageratum, 4, Heliotrope, 5, Purple Lantona, 
6, Scarlet Geranium, 7, Yellow Tjantana, 8, Scarlet or Purple Sal- 
via. A, in this garden, has in the middle 1 Heliotrope, outside 2 
Mignonette. F has 1, Scarlet Geranium in the middle, 2, Scariet 
Verbena on the edges. O, 1, is Heliotrope, 2, Gilia and White 
Verbena. B and C are full of bulbs in the spring ; as thej go, 
prick out among them such bedding plants as you like. As there 
are shrubs all along here, I shall put in these beds the lowest 
growing plants. Verbena, Gilia, Nemophila. 

In G and E put annuals among the perennials, and set out 
among them, like shrubs, large plants of Salvia, Heliotrope, Lan- 
tana, Brompton tenweek Stock, Wall-flower, and Carnation. 
The groups of sweet Peas must be so managed as to cover all the 
brush which they trail over. 

The following lists of hardy annuals are taken irran the Book 
of the Garden, p. 817. They are the best for general use among 
the many there given : — 



Ageratum, 


cellcstinnm, 


pale blae. 


18 in. 


seed or cutting. 


" 


oderatam, 


lilac, 


18 


« 


Alyssum, 


caljcinam, 


white, 


18 


<f 


Anagallis, 


cceralea, 


bine. 


6 


« 


it 


carnea, 


fleah colored, 


6 


« 


n 


indica, 


purple. 


6 


Sow in 


<f 


Utifolia, 


blue. 


6 


frames in 


« 


grandiflora, 


red, 


6 


March. 


Aaters, 


china and ger- 


many colored, 


12-24 seedormttiiig. 




man. 








Aiiianuith, 


globe, 


red and white. 


12 


« 


Bartonia, 


anrea, 


yellow. 


18 


M 



FLOWEB-OABDEN. 



545 



Bndkjeomii, 


iberidifolia, 


bine and white 


12 


seed or cutting. 


Balsam, 




colors, 


12-24 


" 


Calandrinia, 


ascendcns, 


dark crimson, 


6 


" 


«i 


glandulosa, 


red. 


12 


i( 


(1 


grandiflora, 


rose lilac. 


12 


« 


•♦ 


Bpeciosa, 


maroon, 


18 


tt 


Calendula, 


officinalis, fllo. 


pleno, orange, 


15 


seeds 


If 


Btellata, 


yellow. 


24 


i< 


Campannla, 


loreyi, 


dark blue. 


9 


i( 


« 


pentagona, 


bluish purple. 


9 


tt 


K 


fltricu. 


blue. 


9 


tt 


Candjrtnft, 




white and purple. 


, 9-18 


it 


Cacalia, 




•scarlet. 


9-18 


tt 


Centaarea, 


cyanns mijor, 


blue. 


18 


n 


i< 


deprcssa. 


bright blue, 


18 


** 


Cientranthns, 


macrosiphon. 


scarlet. 


18 


l€ 


ChrTsanthemam, carioatam. 


white, yellow, pur- 








ple, 


15 


tt 


Cheenostoma, 


fastigiatum, 


pink, 




tt 


(( 


polyanthum. 


lilac, 




tt 


i< 


viscosnm, 


brown, 




tt 


Clarkia, 


pnlchella. 


red purple. 


18 


tt 


<f 


flora alba, 


\ white. 


18 


" 


CUntonia, 


pnlchella, 


blue and white, 




tt 


Collinsia, 


bicolor, 


purple and white, 


»ia 


tt 


K 


graDdiflora, 


blue and purple, 




tt 


Collomia, 


coccinea. 


scarlet. 


9 


" 


tt 


grandiflora. 


buff. 


12 seed and enttiog^ 


ConToWulas, 


tricolor, 


blue and white. 


12 


tt 


n 


atroTiolacea, 


dark purple, 


12 


tt 


DelphiDinm, 




various. 


18 


tt 


(( 


consolida, 


« 


18 


tt 


Dianthos, 


siniensis, 


« 


12 


tt 


Rr^mum, 


perowskiannm, 


dark orange, 


24 


tt 

• 


Escholtzia, 




orange. 


12-18 


tt 


tt 


califomica, 


yellow. 


12r.l8 


tt 


Eacharidiom, 


grandifloruin, 


dark crimson, 


12 


tt 


tt 


concinnnin, 


. reddish, 


18 


tt 


Gilia, 


tricolor, 


lilac and purple, 


18 


tt 


Godetia, 


tenella, 


« 


18 


tt 


Gramnanthes, 




deep orange. 


6 


« 


" 


flora lutea. 


yellow. 


6 


tt 


Gillyflower, 




various, 


12-24 


ft 


HeUophiU, 


arabioides, 
46* 


blue. 


.9 


« 



646 



MAT. 



Heiiiinerifl, 


incisifoUa, 


scarlet. 


24 se 


ledand eoti 


Hibiscus. 


africanas. 


pale yellow. 


18 


ff 


Iberis, 


(candytuft,) 






" 


Isotoma, 


axillaris. 


bine. 




M 


Kaalfassia, 


amelloides. 


ff 




<f 


Lasthenia, 


californica. 


yeUow, 




« 


Leptoaiphon, 


densiflonis, 


Ulac, 




ff 


If 


androsaceos, 


rose lilac. 




ff 


Linaria, 


spartea. 


golden yellow. 




" 


« 


tristis, 


brown, 




4( 


Lobelia, 


crinoides. 


bine. 




i( 


ft 


heteiophylla. 


ff 




(f 


tf 


ramosa. 


ff 




*t 


Lotos, 


jacobeas. 


black. 




t€ 


Lapinns, 


bicolor, 


deep bine. 




fl 


ff 


pilosns. 


If 


24 


<f 


ft 


nanns, 


bine and white. 




»f 


Malcomia, 


maritima. 


red. 




tf 


ft 


flora albo, 


white, 




tf 


Mathiola, 


(stocks,) 


YarioQS, 


12-18 


ff 


Mesembryanthe- 


tricolor, 


red, 


8 


ff 


mum. 










ft 


pomeridiannmr 


yellow, 


8 


ff 


Nemophila, 


insignts. 


bine. 


9 


ff 


Nierembergia, 


maculata. 


white and parple, 


6 


ff 


ff 




blue and white. 


6 


<f 


Nastaitinm, 




yellow and onmgc 


1 


▼me or cut* 


Oxalis, 


rosea, 


rose colored, 


9 


bulbs 


Oxyura, 


chrisanthemoidMj 


yellow and white 


12 


ff 


Phlox, 


drummondi. 


yarions, 


, 12-24 


cuttiogs. 


Petunia, 




ft 


12 


ff 


Platystemon, 


califomicam. 


pale yellow. 


9 


ff 


Podolepis. 


gracilis, 


pinkish lilac. 


18 


ff 


Portnlacca, 


thellosonii. 


orange crimson. 


6 


ff 


ff 


grandiflora. 


ft 


6 


ff 


ff 


anrea, 


yellow. 


6 


ff 


ft 


alba, 


white. 


6 


ff 


ft 


gillesi. 


purplish crimson 


, 9 


ff 


Reseda, 


odorata, 


(Mignonette,) 


9 


ff 


Rhodanthe, 


manglesi. 


bright rose. 


12 


If 


Sanvitalia, 


procambens. 


yellow. 


6 


ff 


Saponaria, 


calabrica, 


carmine. 


9 


ft 


ff 


ocymoides, 


red, 


9 


Cf 


ScfaiaanthiiB, 


difl^sns, 


purple and white 


,18 


ff 



FLOWER-eARDEN. 



547 



Schizanthas. 


yennstufl, 


lilac, purple, and 
yellow, 24 


« 


pinnatas, 


84 


Schiziopetalon, 


walked, 


white, 12 


Sedam, 


asuream, 


pale blue, 6 


Senecio, 


elegans, 


yarions when dou- 
ble, , 24 


Shortea, 


palifornica. 


yeUow, 6 


Yesicaria, 


ocnlata, 


bright rose, 12 



cuttings. 



It is very likely that all these flowers cannot be at first obtained 
in this country, and probably all would not be desirable, except in 
a very large garden, where very elegant and precise effects are 
wished for, but the sizes and colors being distinctly marked would 
enable a careful horticulturist to produce any result that he had 
planned. The time of bloom is not given, but all blossom about 
the same time, or may be made to do so by starting such as are of 
slow growth, in hotbeds or the greenhouse. 

The practice in the best English gardens is to have what is called 
a reserve-garden, which stands in relation to the flower-garden as 
the hot and green houses do to the conservatory ; in it plants are 
brought into condition for setting in the main garden, into which 
they are removed to supply gaps. Without such a reserve, it would 
be almost impossible to keep a garden in perfection for any time, 
or even to have it so once. 

A real flower-garden is iCrely seen in America, and I do not 
know of any one which can be at all compared either in style, keep- 
ing, or size, with the remarkable gardens of England, where 20 
acres have been devoted to the display of annual, perennial, and 
bedding-out flowers. Of course this area includes other ornamental 
features suitable to a flower-garden, as sheets of water, fish- 
ponds, and fountains, arbors, statues, vases, etc. The cost of keeping 
such a place is enormous, and in a country where labor is as costly 
as it is here, would be beyond all bounds ; and certainly, the pleas- 
ure to be derived from it is not in any measure proportionate to the 
cost and trouble expended, for size and quantity do not add beauty 
and pleasure in such a case. Still, such a garden, kept open to the 
public, near some large city, might be of great service to the people ; 
it would expand their minds and cultivate their tastes, and give an 



548 MAT. 

impulse to floriculture throughout the whole oountrj ; but it will be 
long before such a thing exists here ; this generation certainly wiU 
not live to see it. Such a garden would be, too, a fitting and beao- 
tifiil feature in the laying out of a great park of several hundred 
acres, where its artificial and cultivated beautj would be an agree- 
able contrast to the wild natural style in which most of the grouiid 
would be laid out. 

Such a garden is not to be produced merely by having a good 
design to start from ; I could give any number of elaborate designs 
for such a purpose, but even if the ground were carefully staked 
out and planted in accordance with them, they would need to be 
watched and tended by some person who loved the work, and who 
could devote all his time and thought to it. 

Flowers are naturally simple and retiring ; — they rarely intrude 
on the notice of man ; they bend over the brooks, lending and re- 
ceiving beauty by the reflection ; they peep out of the graas, they 
fringe the roadsides, and their masses of bright color contrast with 
the gray stones and dark foliage about them ; but they never insist 
on being noticed ; they are always subordinate to leaves and branches 
and stems, and those that give the best and most enduring pleas- 
ure, combine modesty of appearance with beauty of color and 
delicacy of fragrance. The possessor of a bed of such fiowers, 
however simple and familiar, if they are perfect of their kind, and 
well-cared for, need not envy the OYffAV of the widest and most 
expensive flower-gardens of England. 

There will not be much return for the care of the garden during 
this month, unless there is a good collection of bulbs, and they will 
be in their glory before the month is over. 

Choice Hyacinths and Tulips should be shaded from the hot sun 
and severe rains and winds, and early in the month it is well to 
loosen the earth amongst the bulbs with a trowel or fork.. The sun 
blends the colors of the Tulips, and destroys the Hyacinths. Drive 
in stakes round the edges of the bed, at moderate intervals, and 
higher ones through the middle at corresponding distances, and 
connect them all together by strips of wood or strong cording, over 
which a canvass or well-oiled cotton cloth can be spread to form a 
roof. The cover should hang down a little over the sides. It will 



FLOWEB-OARDEN. 549 

be an efficient screen from the sun, and in case of a storm can be 
lowered on the exposed side, and defend the flowers perfectly from 
the beating of the wind and rain. 

Conmion bulbs will not need this protection, but the rarer plants 
will not repay us for the time and money we have spent on them, 
unless we take this extra precaution, which will often keep them a 
week or two in perfection. 

As soon as the leaves decay, remove those bulbs which you wish 
to divide or reset, and pack them in diy sand until it is> time to 
plant them in the fall. Common bulbs may be lefl in the ground 
for three years, but the choice kinds should be removed annually. 
When you take them up remove all the outside skin, to the brown 
under skin. Be careful in taking them up to keep a catalogue of 
kinds and qualities, otherwise you will be unable to plant them 
with judgment in the autumn. 

Before the tops of the bulbs decay, set amongst them the an- 
nuals and bedding plants, by which they are to be replaced, and 
give the new plants all the care possible, to stimulate early growth. 
If pains are taken, there need be but a short interval of nakedness. 

During the summer, water occasionally with liquid manure, or 
shake over and rake into the bed dressings of guano, just before 
rain. 

Set in place all trellises and wire baskets, and plant the seeds or 
cuttings which belong to them. The Tropeolum, or Canary-bird 
flower, and the Maurandya and Ipomea, and Grerman Ivy are the 
prettiest summer vines, on a small scale, while Nasturtium, Convol- 
vulus, Maderia, Ipomea learii, are quick growers and beautiful 
coverings of a larger kind. 

In the course of the month make all the plantations of woody 
vines, as Wisteria, Honeysuckle, Rose, Periploca, Aristolochia, 
Gematis, etc. 

The first of June should find you about ready to enjoy and weed. 
If, however, the sowing of flower seeds out of doors is delayed till 
the last week of the month, when the ground is warm, but little 
time will be lost. 



CHAPTER LXI. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



The hotbeds are to be watched with care ; the Melons and Cu- 
cumbers will be in blossom, and showing fruit, and all plants are 
in a state of advance. Give air in abundance, to make them hardj. 

Make a dungbed earlj in the month, just as jou would for a 
hotbed, in some sheltered situation, and cover with 3 inches of 
loam. As soon as the manure begins to ferment, set into this bed 
the Melons and Cucumbers which are in thumb-pots, or on bits of 
sod in the greenhouse. Set 2 Melons or 3 Cucumbers in each 
place ; cover with a hand bell-glass, keeping the glass on all the 
time, unless the weather is decidedly warm, till there is no danger 
of fitMt, giving air in the middle of sunny days by tilting the glass. 

Prick out into sheltered places the most forward Lettuce, Cab- 
bage, Cauliflower, and Broccoli plants ; make beds in which to sow 
seeds (as directed in the flower-garden) of these plants for later 
summer use ; and carefully forward and harden those which are 
still in the hotbeds. 

Plant an abundance of early Peas, and continue sowing later 
crops once a week during the month. Sow seeds of Radish in the 
same manner. Radish seed may be mixed, two for one, with Car- 
rots, Beets, and Turnips, when sowed in the seed-sower ; the Radish 
will germinate early and grow rapidly, and mark the rows so that 
they can be cleaned readily, and they may be pulled long before 
the other vegetables are much grown. 

Asparagus will be fit for the table as soon as it has grown irom 
2 to 4 inches. It is better so than larger. Be careful when cat- 
ting it not to injure the buds of the crown of the roots, and be sure 
always to cut it below the surface. A common knife will answer, 
but it is not so good as one made for the purpose. The objection 
to the common knife is that it makes a smooth, dean cut, in which 

550 




KITCHEN-G^DEN 551 

case the stamp of the shoot will bleed considerably, while by cutting 

it with a saw-toothed edge, 

70a leave a jagged surface, 

and the sap is not inclined to 

extravasate. 

Lettuce in the hotbeds should be now about ready for the table, 
and in the graperies an abundance of Salads, Strawberries, Cauli- 
flowers, etc. 

Sow in beds seeds of small Salads, Mustard, etc, as oflen as 
once a week, to ensure frequent and tender growth. 

This is the proper time to make beds of Artichokes, either for 
the table or the field. Sow in beds seeds of Sea-kale, Cardoons, 
Alexanders. Make beds of Horseradish. Sow seeds of Parsley. 
This will remain for some years in the same spot, and should, there- 
fore, be planted in some place whence it need not be moved. Sow 
Spinach, for summer use, several times in the course of the month. 
Plant early table Turnips ; English White are the best. 

Procure the roots of Rhubarb, to make new plantations the first 
of the month. The best variety for fiunily use is not that which 
grows the laj^est, but that which melts most completely in stewing. 
Victoria Rhubard is a very large and rather coarse variety ; the 
Early Prince Imperial is better for family use. Plant it in deep, rich 
soil with plenty of manure. Every autumn cover with a foot of lOam 
and manure, and in the spring repeat the process, and dig in around 
the crown. The leaves will push before the middle of the month, 
and it will be ready for the table before its close. Some farmers 
recommend covering heads of Rhubarb with an inverted barrel, for 
the purpose of hastening its growth, at the same time that they 
blanch and make tender the edible portions. The latter purpose is 
accomplished, but not the former, and it is maintained by some that 
the process develops some medicinal and disagreeable qualities. 

The very first of the month plant Strawberry beds ; the earhest 
planted generally make the best beds. Mulch old beds with tan. 

There are many methods of making beds, and many varieties of 
vines, as I have before said. The size and shape of the beds must 
be determined by the amount of room that can be spared them. 
Sometimes Strawberries are planted as an edging to the large 



562 MAT. 

divisions of the vegetable garden. For this purpose set them akmg 
the edge of the bed, and take care to turn the runners in towards 
the bed as they begin to grow, and thus ensure a thick and well- 
filled edge. 

The more delicate varieties of fruit are by no means the best 
for general culture, as they are with considerable difficulty gath- 
ered and preserved for marketing. But they are, of course, the 
best for the table. Shake some guano amongst the plants in M 
beds, but do not set new beds in newly manured land. 

Set out Raspberry beds now. Set the rows 3 or 4 feet apart, 
and the plants 2 or 3 feet apart in the row. Select for planting the 
best of last year's suckers ; they should be well grown and have 
an abundance of fibrous roots. Cut the cane of the plant back to 
within four or five buds of the roots ; set the root 3 or 4 inches 
deep in the earth, and at the same time set stakes if you are to use 
them, so as not to injure the roots by driving them afterwards. 

The best varieties of Raspberry vary with the latitude and often 
very greatly with a short distance. The advice of a good and 
honest nursery man in the neighborhood is the best guide in selec* 
tion. 

Make the beds for pot herbs as before directed, and be sure 
before planting the seed that you rake the loam on the surface of 
the bed until it is reduced to a fine tilth, and then sow the seed not 
more than one-half inch deep. Set the ofisets of roots rather 
deeper, enough so to be well covered. 

Caraways are biennial, and if sown this year will bear seed next; 
they are valuable for medicinal and culinary purposes. 

Plant Onions for seed the first of the month, as directed in Octo- 
ber. The earlier they are planted, the earlier and better crop they 
will bear. Sow the seeds for late onions during the month ; be sure 
to have the loam well pulverized before sowing the seed. 

Plant Beet seed any time this month ; the early-planted often 
grows better and produces less stringy, and more juicy Beets, than 
the later ; this depends, however, much on the character of the 
season, whether wet or dry. To ensure success with Beets or any 
tuberous root, the plant should grow regularly, rapidly, and unin- 
terruptedly, and with sufficient moisture ; the tuber becomes ooarse, 



KITCHEN-OARDEK. 558 

hard, or stijngy, when checked in its growth bj drought or any 
other cause. 

The best variety of Beet for home consumption is the long Blood 
Beet ; turnip-rooted Beets grow more rapidly, and are equally well 
liked by many. 

The Beets for field culture will be described hereafter. All the 
roots for early kitchen use can be planted in May, but for winter 
not till June, July, or August 

In selecting seeds of Celery, remember there are several kinds, 
some of which are ready for the table earlier than others. Make 
a bed for them near the last of the month, in a warm spot, and sow 
them as in a hotbed. 

Plant beside fences, or in other favorable places. Nasturtiums for 
pickles ; the seeds have quite as good flavor as capers, and the 
brilliant flowers contribute largely to the gaiety and pleasantness of 
the kitchen-garden. The seed vessels are taken for pickling when 
about half ripe. 

Sow in a good place, according to previous directions, Endive for 
salad use in August, also the seed of broad-leaved Sorrel. 

In the middle of the month sow Sweet Com, and Stowell's Ev- 
ergreen Com, as mentioned in April. 

About the third week plant the seed of all kinds of Melons. 
Earlier planting than this for out-door crops is rarely successful. 
Do not make the common mistake of putting a shovelful of strong 
manure under each hill. It soon dries, and unless frequently wa- 
tered* hinders the growth of the young plants. Make the hills in 
a rich, moist soil, for Cantelope, Musk, and similar melons, 3 feet 
apart; for Watermelons 4 feet; for Squashes 10 feet. Dish the 
earth where you propose to make the hill, and scatter a little guano 
over the earth ; rake it in, and sprinkle the seed four or five in the 
hill, intending when the plants are fairly established to reduce them 
to three. If the land is not rich and moist, dig or plough in over 
the whole area a heavy dressing of rich, well-rotted, barnyard ma- 
nure. 

The best land for vines of all kinds is a newly broken sod. It 
is unnecessary to give any general directions for the selection of 
Mek>n seeds ; the experience of each locality must decide. The 

47 



554 HAT. 

flavor of the Mask is not so delicate as that of the Csnt^ape^ bat 
the yield is generally larger. The Mountain Sweet Watennekn 
is the most reliable in the neighborhood of Boston, but many eolti- 
▼ators have been very successful with the Black Spanish and odier 
varieties. At the South there is a Watermelon called the loe^ 
Cream melon, the rind of which being turned back like that of the 
Banana, shows a perfectly regular and delicious pulp. 

Of the Summer Squashes there are at least two varieties, the 
round or scallop shaped, and the club shaped. The latter is much 
covered with warts and wrinkles, and is gourdlike ; the former is 
the more common Scallop Squash, and rather the better for use. 
There are also several varieties of Winter Squash ; the Crook- 
necked and the Marrow are those most generally cultivated. The 
latter ripens earliest, the former keeps longest; the Hubbard 
Squash is very much liked by many and keeps welL 

There is also a Squash called the Chili or Valparaiso, which is 
not fit for use till the spring after it is planted. 

The treatment of Pumpkins is the same with that of Squashes, 
except that in New England the seeds of the Pumpkins are gen- 
erally planted in the hills of Com in cornfields. 

Cucumbers vary in kind, and may be planted early in the month 
for table use, but for pickles not before June ; for the latter purpose 
the small varieties are best 

By the third week in May it is safe to plant Lima an4 Sieva 
Beans. The seed of the former is sometimes out of the market ; 
they are rarely ripened in our latitude. The Sieva is next to it in 
quality, and is also late in coming into bearing. However eariy 
they are planted, they are seldom ready for use till September, and 
may then be used constantly till frost, and if, after severe fiiosts 
have destroyed the leaves of the vines, they are pulled up, poles 
and all, and stacked and covered at night from the cold, the Bean 
pods will remain uninjured, and may be used for a long time — in- 
deed till they are all gathered. 

These are pole Beans ; set the hills 4 feet apart, and make the 
hill by setting the pole, and then planting the Beans around it. 
Treat all pole Beans in the same manner. 



KITCHEN-6ABDEN. 555 

Set bushes for the Peas to run upon as soon as they show the 
rows distinctly. 

It is but little use to plant the seeds of Tomatoes in the open 
ground, as they rarely get sufficiently advanced to bear. The eai> 
liest Tomato plants may be set out and covered with boxes as pr^ 
yiously directed, the first of this month. 

Red Pepper seeds can be sown in beds the middle of the month, 
to be transplanted in June. 

Scorzonera and Salsify are two plants not in general use, but 
valuable. The latter is better known as the Oyster plant Sow 
the seeds the first of the month, in rows 6 inches apart, and covered ^ 
inch deep. Thin to 6 inches apart as soon as well developed. They 
may also be propagated by slips from the roots. The roots are fit 
for use as soon as the leaves decay in the autumn, but may be kept 
like Parsnips, till spring. The roots may be sliced and fried, 
boiled, or stewed. If left in the ground till spring, the Salsify 
will early throw up an abundance of young shoots, which are a 
very good substitute for Asparagus. These plants need a good 
deal of moisture, and should be planted in a deep soil. 

Skirret is a plant similar to these ; the edible portion is the root, 
which is composed of a cluster of fleshy tubers, as large as the fin- 
ger, which may be eaten boiled and dressed, or fried in batter, or 
having been boiled, cold with vinegar and salt. 

The seed of Skirret, as of the last two plants, may be sown in 
April, if the season is early ; it may also be propagated by taking 
up the old roots in the spring, and cutting off slices, or slips, each 
having an eye, which are to be planted in rows, 6 inches apart each 
way; but by seed is the easiest method. 

Another plant not commonly cultivated in this latitude, is Okra, 
the green capsules of which are very much esteemed in soup, to 
which they communicate both flavor and body. The dry seeds are 
burned and ground like coffee, and are preferred to it by some. 
Sow the seed by the middle, or last of May ; set it in drills 4 feet 
apart ; seed an inch deep, and hills 8 inches apart Put three or 
. more seeds in each place, to allow for failure. Weeding, hoeing, 
and occasionally drawing the earth up to their roots, is afterwards 
necessary. 



556 



MAT. 



Bj the last of the month it will do to set out Egg plants, from 
the hotbed, particularly if some slight protection against frost is 
provided ; set them 8 feet apart each way. The purple-fruited is 
the best for culinary purposes. If there are no plants in the hot- 
beds, sow the seed in a sheltered place about the third week, and 
set them out permanently in June. 

Sweet Potato. — "This plant re- 
quires a dry, rather light, deep, well- 
stirred soil, which must be located oa 
a dry subsoil, and the whole either 
rich in organic manure, or rendered so 
by manuring. Stiff clay does not suit 
it Slips or sprouts from the preTioos 
year's tubers are used for planting, and 
are obtained in the following manner: 
On a bed of earth make a box with 
planks set edgewise, and fill in about a 
foot in depth of good, warm, fresh ma- 
nure ; over which spread two inches of 
fine, rich earth, and on this lay the potatoes, so near as to almost 
touch each other, and cover them from 2 to 2J inches deep with the 
same earth. If the nights are cold, this bed must be covered with 
straw, or some other warm covering, which is to be removed dur- 
ing the day. There is danger in making the bed too warm, and 
so spoiling the roots ; they must be kept tolerably wet after the 
sprouts appear. When these are 3 inches long they are fit to set 
out. a, Sweet Potato sprouted, by a sprout ready to plant 

Plough the ground very deep, and throw the earth into ridges, 
or common Potato hills. Do this immediately before planting, that 
the earth may be moist and fresh. Remove the slips, or sprouts, 
from the Potato, and set 2 in each hill, 2 or 3 inches apart, and 
make the top of the hill sufficiently hollow to hold a pint of water. 
If there is no rain, watering in the evening is requisite for a few days. 
When planted in ridges, the sets should be 8 or 10 inches apart ; 
keep the weeds clean, and hoe earth up about the bottom of the 




KITCHEN-6ABDEN. 557 

plants ; when ploughed the last time, about the last of July, hill them/' 
Be careful in ploughing not to bruise the vines, or cover them with 
earth ; when covered, thb vines will root and produce small Potatoes 
At the South, the crop is increased by covering the vines ; our season 
is too short '* They should be dug as soon as frost kills the vines.'* 
. Store in boxes, tubers packed in dry sand, the temperature of the 
room equal, and above frost. 

By the last of May, the Onions planted for seed in the fall will 
have advanced so far as to need to be tied to sticks. 

Tie up the leaves of Cos^ or Roman Lettuce, so as to insure 
blanching. 

Thin out all vegetables which are well growing, and hoe up the 
starting weeds. A great deal of time is gained, and labor saved, by 
destroying weeds when young, before they have got firm hold in the 
soil, as later they impoverish the ground, and shade the plants from 
the sun. During the next month the care of removing weeds is a 
serious annoyance ; they should be dug up in the morning on sunny 
days, and will then entirely dry up before night, whereas, if hoed 
in dull weather they are likely to grow again. 

£xamine the Strawberry beds occasionally, and remove weeds 
when it can be done without injury to the vines and young fruit. 

By the last of May, the early Cabbages, Cauliflowers, Broccoli, 
etc, will be ready for hoeing. 

The kitchen, like the flower-gardener, should never go into the 
garden without knife, strings, and sticks. It is surprising to see 
how much may be done by early attention; in nothing more 
than in the various branches of gardening, is the old proverb ex- 
emplified, that " an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of 
cure." 

By the last of the month the largest Radishes may be thinned, 
and there will be ample supplies of Lettuce in the hotbeds. 

Do not leave any piles of stones or rubbish in Uie walks of the 
kitchen-garden, but remove them at once to the manure pile and 
waste hole. 

Examine the espaliered fruit trees, and rub off all buds which 
will produce shoots in bad positions; this saves future pruning. 
47* 



558 KAT. 

Anj stocks or branches which were budded in the aatanm, mm, 
be cut back to the bud the first of May, that the buds maj start 
with vigor. 

At the same time uncover the Figs, and get them ready fan 
mer. For details of culture, see July. 



CHAPTER LXIL 



ORCHARD. 



The pruning is, of course, over, and the hunt for caterpillars 
proceeds with full vigor. The trees will begin to blossom about the 
last of the month. 

This is the best month for grafHng all kinds of trees ; the sap is 
in free circulation, and the weather mild, which promotes the rapid 
growth of the scion, and the healing of the wound. 

It will not be necessary to mi- 
nutely describe all the kinds of 
grafting, as but few are ever prac- 
ticed on a large scale. Cleft and 
whip grafting are the common 
kinds, especially the former. The 
method of whip or tongue grafts 
ing is described by Downing as 
follows : — 

" Having chosen the stock, cut 
it off at the point where it appears 
best to fix the grafl (see cut) ; if the stock is quite small, it may be 
within 3 or 4 inches of the ground ; then with a very sharp knife 
make a smooth cut upwards, about 2 inches in lepgth. Next make 
a split from the tpp of this, cut about quarter of the way downwards, 
taking out a thin tongue of wood ; cut the scion 4 or 5 inches long, 
so as to have 3 buds ; then shape the lower end with a single 
smooth, sloping cut, about the same length as that on the stock, and 
make the tongue upward to fit in the downward slit of the stock ; 
now apply the scion accurately to the stock, making the inner bark 
of the scion fit exactly the inner bark of the stock, at least on one 
side. Without changing their positions tie them carefully together 
with a piece of bass matting or tape, and finally cover the wound 

559 





560 



MAT. 




with well-prepared grafUng day, or wax. This ball, if claj, should 
more than cover the anion bj an inch above 
and below, and should be about an inch thicL 
If grafling-wax be used, it need not be more 
than half an inch thick. About the middle of 
July, for plants in the open air, after a raioj 
day, remove the ball of clay, and if the grail is 
securely united, also the bandage, and the angle 
left at the top of the stock should now be cot 
^^^•^ \^lM off smoothly, in order to allow the bark of the 
^^j VI ' stock and the scion to heal over the whole wound. 

Though it is little attended to in common prac- 
tice, the amateur will be glad to know that the success of the 
graft is always greatly insured by choosing the parts so that 
a bud is left near the top of the stock, and another near the bot- 
tom of the scion ; these buds attract the rising si^ to the portions 
where they are placed, from the woody matter, and greatly fiunli- 
tate the union of the parts near them, the upper part of the stock 
and the lower part of the scion being the portions soonest to perisb 
for want of nourishment." 

The cut No. 1 here given shows sad- 
dle grading, and needs no further expb- 
tion. a is the scion, h the saddle-shaped 
stock, and c the completed grail. 

'' Clefl grailing, Na 2, appears to have 
been one of, if not the most primitive 
of all modes, which may be naturally m- 
ferred from its great simplicity. Al^ 
though easily performed^ it has a dumsy 
appearance, but is yet very useful in 
the case of old trees requiring to be 
cut down from old age, disease, or other causes." 

The figure shows a specimen of clefl grafting. '' a the stalk, of 
almost any diameter ; 6, c, scions ; but there may be several, ac- 
cording to the size of the stock. The operation is thus performed : 
The head of the stock is first sawed over, and then smoothed witb 
a knife ; a clefl is then made in the stock with a hammer and spht- 





OBCHARD. 561 

ting knife, or as often with a carpenter's chisel. The scion is pre- 
pared by cutting it down to a wedge shape, taking care to preserve 
the bark, on the outer edge, pushed into the clefl as 
the knife or chisel is withdrawn, taking care that the 
inside bark of the scion fits the inside bark of the stock. 
When the number of scions desired is inserted, the 
whole is bound round with matting, and clayed in the 
usual manner." 

Instead of using coarse and unsightly lumps of clay, 
where directed, you may use the grafting-wax and a 
firm cotton cloth. The wax is poui*ed on warm, and runs into 
and over the apertures ; pierce a piece of cloth with holes to 
fit over the scions, and then bind it around the stock, as round 
a sore finger, covering it with a little more wax, to keep it firm 
and in place. The wax will inmiediately harden, and hold all 
in place, exclude air and rain, and as it is not rigid, will expand as 
the scion grows, and finally fall off. 

Downing further adds, ^' Apple stocks are grafted in great quan- 
tities in this mode, the stocks being previously taken out of the 
ground, headed down near the root and clefl-grafled with a single 
scion, sloping off with an oblique cut the side of the stock oppo- 
site that where the grafl is placed, and then planted in rows, so as 
to allow only a couple of buds of the scion to appear out of the 
ground. It is not usual with many either to tie or clay the grafts in 
this case, as the wound is placed below the surface ; but when this 
plan is adopted, the grafts must be set, and the trees planted at once, 
drawing the well-pulverized soil with great care around the grail. 

^ Another way of grafting Apple-stocks, in some western nurse- 
ries, consists in tongue grafting on seedling stocks of very small 
size cut back to the root ; this is performed in the winter by the 
fireside ; the grafts carefully tied, and the roots placed in the cellar 
in sand till the spring, when they are planted, the top of the graft 
just appearing above the ground.*' 

'^ Cleft grafting with one scion is in general not a good mode, 
because if the split has been made right through the stock, it is in 
danger of being injured by the weather, before it is covered by the 
wood of the ffcion. If the cleft is only made on one side the stock, 



562 



MAT. 



the evil is mkigatecL Another objection arises when only one Bckm 
is used ; the tree becomes as a matter of course, attached, as it were, 
to one side of the root ojolj/* 

^ Clefl grafting the vine is sometimes done in the following man- 
ner. A spur is cleft commencing the incision exactly above the 
second eye. The scion when chosen is cut in a wedge-shape fonn 
at its base, commencing the slope of the wedge just below a bod, 
and so that when the scion is inserted into the clefl, the bud of the 
latter and that of the stock may be placed opposite each other, 
which is considered the most favorable position for success ; the 
process of tying and claying goes on in the usual manner, with the 
exception that a small hole is lefl in the clay opposite the bod of 
the scion, to allow that bud to develop itself freely. 

" When the scion has grown 14 or 15 days it is then headed bai^ 
to one bud, which is lefl to draw up the sap until the union hs 
fairly taken place between the stock and the scion. The proper 
season for grafling the vine in this way is when the shoots have 
made four or five leaves. If done sooner there is danger of the 
sap flowing so fast as to prevent a union taking place, by what is 
called bleeding. This process is oflen adopted in grafling succn- 
lent plants, and some European growers employ it in propagating 
Roses and Camellias. For the latter purpose it is of considerable 
importance, as each individual bud is made to form a plant, the 
Bcion being so cut that only one bud is attached to each. 

" Croum grafling is merely a variety of clefl grac- 
ing, and is sometimes called rind grafling. It is 
practised upon old trees either for their total re- 
moval, or upon large amputated branches, to renew 
by degrees. It is upon the whole better than defl 
grafling, because the stock if old is not subjected 
to the chances of being split, the scions in this case 
being placed between the wood and the bark. 
It is performed later in the season than cleft 
grafling, because the bark separates more fireelj 
from the wood than at an earlier period. Id 
rind or crown grafling, great care must be taken 
that the bark of the stock be not bruised during 




OBCBARD. 568 

the process of opening the bark for the reception of the scion, and 
for this purpose a proper spatula or grafting knife should be used." 

The irory end of the budding knife is the best instrument for sep- 
arating the bark from the wood, as it is made for a similar use in 
budding. 

^ The scion is to be prepared without a tongue, and is placed in 
the stock so that its wood may be in contact with the albumen of 
the stock. Sometimes it is cut with a sort of shoulder at the top 
of the graft, that the graft may rest on the top of the wood, in 
which case this kind of grafting is called shoulder grafting. 

•* The scion being prepared in either way, the bark is opened to 
the extent of 2 inches, and the scion is made to pass down between 
the wood and the bark. If the bark of the stock is hard and dry 
and does not yield readily, it may be scored or cut perpendicularly 
downwards, to. enable the operator to open it (as in budding) so 
that he may thrust the scion into its place with its cut side next the 
wood ; this being done, tying and claying follow as in other cases." 

fferhaceotu grafting a, b, p. 564, is rather a singular kind of graft- 
ing. It consists in attaching the solid parts of herbaceous plants, or 
of woody plants, when in a herbaceous state, to others of the same or 
similar species, while in a similar state. The Tree Peony has 
been successfully grafted on the fleshy roots of the herbaceous 
plants of the same genus. 

In the case of the Tree Peony, the operation may be performejl 
at any time from the middle of July to the middle of August. 
The tul>ers throw out roots in the autumn, and are then taken up 
and potted, and preserved under cover during the winter. The 
operation is exceedingly simple; it consists in selecting single 
tubers of the plant, in which a triangular notch is cut near its top, 
bj to which notch a scion of the tree sort, a, is made to fit, having 
two or three buds upon it 

When placed, it is tied with soft matting, and clayed or waxed 
over in the usual manner. If the plant which supplies the scions 
be scarce, only one bud may be used, instead of three. In select- 
ing tubers for this purpose, barren ones, that is those having no 
visible eyes, are as good as fertile ones, or better. 

By this means, Dahlias may be largely multiplied, as every 



664 



MAT. 




tuber is a Btock, whilst only the crown <£ the root prodaes 
bads. 

When whip grafting is the means naed, and 
the bud is set high up from the root, it is well 
to wrap the Whole stem with moist mosa, to 
keep it in good condition for the union to take 
place. 

Whipj splice, tongue, and saddle grafting can 
only be effectively used when the stock and 
graft are about the same size, as otherwise the 
proper parts could not be brought together; 
but cleft and croim grafting are possible, no 
matter what disparity there may be. 

There are many refinements upon grafting^ 
with which I shall not trouble you, for when you 
have advanced so far as to inquire about the 
refinements of culture, you will no longer need 
sQch aid as this book offers. 

The other work of the orchard will be very simple — a mere 
repetition of the work of April. 

Keep the caterpillars well rubbed off. No more tar need be put 
on between the hist Qf the month and November, for in that inter- 
val the egg-laying canker worms do not run. You will find it a 
simple way of destroying great numbers of the worms which eat 
the leaves, after they are hatched, to jar the trees by heavy blows. 
The worms feeling the jar, cease eating, and drop to the ground, 
lowering themselves softly by a thread which they spin &s they ga 
The thread will be broken directly, and the worm will run for the 
tree to climb back, and be caught in the tar on his way. 

The appearance of these worms is very unlike that of the grub 
which laid the egg, and if there is no sign of perfect, leaf-destroy- 
ing worms, the tar may be omitted early in the month. 

If your orehard is surrounded by stone walls, or close board 
fences, you will find it advantageous to plough very early and sow 
with any succulent fodder, and to turn in young pigs when it is 
pretty well grown. They eat all the green crops, particularly 
Clover, greedily. A good Clover field is a certain source of fat 



ORCHARD. 565 

and growth for pigs, and in an orchard they will pick up windfalls 
through the summer, thus destroying enormous quantities of worms. 
The great value of pigs, in this way, is not sufficiently appreciated. 
They thoroughly root over a field in which they are turned, and 
eat all the worms and grubs they can find. 

A litter of spring pigs, fed in such an orchard, and supplied be- 
side with skim milk, will thrive wonderfully. 
48 



CHAPTER LXm. 



THB FAEX. 



Continue the work of April vfiih regularity and rapiditj ; posl^ 
pone no necessary job, for a loss of time, howerer small, in the 
spring, can not be made up during the year. On every farm there 
is always far more to do than time in which to do it, and this is es- 
pecially the case on a place like ours, where there are ornamental 
grounds, which offer employment for every leisure moment 

We sowed clover over the Wheat field in No. 3, and also over 
the Rye in orchard No. 1. The pasture in No. 1 will have given 
good feed during the last half of April, if properly irrigated, and 
should now give abundance. 

The Grass lands and Wheat fields may be kept constantly irri- 
gated through May. 

Our Spring Rye should have been sown in April, unless the 
season was late, in which case sow it early in May. Sow one acre 
of Rye, Clover, and Grass, and one acre of Oats, Clover, and Grass, 
to be cut in the milk ; reserve the third acre for fodder, one*half of 
which should be got in as soon as the warm weather has r^ularly 
begtm ; sow 2 to 4 busheb seed to the acre, in a seed-^ower ; sow 
very thick, and set the rows within 3 feet of each other ; the Com 
will come up thick, and will tend* to leaves more than butts, and will 
keep the ground well shaded. You may either broadcast your 
Grass seed before sowing the Com, and trust to hand weeding, or 
sow it at the second hoeing, as I have directed, when the Com is 
just large enough to cover the ground. No hand hoeing will be 
necessary, if the land has been well attended to heretofore. 

With the Rye and Oats spread 300 lbs. guano, 300 lbs. plaster, 
one cart-body full of fine peat, 100 lbs. potash, mixed, unless yen 
gave a generous ooat of manure at the beginning of the rotation, 

566 



THE FAJUC 567 

in which case omit the potash. The Grain should be sowed with a 
drill, and the manure spread at the same time. 

Cut the Winter Rje in orchard No. 1 just as soon as there is 
enough for the scythe, and feed it out together with Roots, any 
which are lefl, and Grain and Haj to the milch cows. The Rje 
will grow veiy fast now, and may be stimulated as much as jou 
please hj liquid manure. 

In the orchards to be cultivated there are rather more than 6 
acres, half of which- is not to be cultivated; but half is for 
culture, which will not injure but rather stimulate the "growth of 
the trees. Two acres should be devoted to Indian Com, one to 
fodder. Sow the fodder on this land rather later than on No. 3 ; 
one-half as late as the second week in July, and then sow Millet 

The Sweet Com fodder will then follow the Rye, the Sugar 
Cane, the Sweet Com, to be again followed by Sweet Com and 
Millet 

During much of the month there will be good feed upon the pas- 
ture in No. 1 ; and after the lower lawn and No. 4 are mowed, 
they may be fed. Remember that the pasture in No. 1 is no com- 
mon New England pasture, needing d acres for one cow, but land 
well able to give 1^ tons per acre, and must therefore be fed early 
and close, to prevent the grass growing rank. Small as the en- 
closure is (5 acres) you will gain decidedly by setting a hurdle 
fence across half way, and eating down one-half before you turn 
on to the other. 

Before turning out your cattle sell those cows who have proved 
poor milkers during the last year, and be on the lookout through 
the summer to buy better. It is not for your advantage to keep 
many cows during summer, unless for butter. The price of milk is 
higher in winter than in summer, and we know that the manure is 
neither so valuable nor so easily saved in summer. Try to keep 
enough, and no more, of the best kind for dairy purposes, and 
devote yourself to getting large craps to be fed out the next win- 
ter to cattle, sheep, or milch cows, whichever is the best in your ex- 
perience. 

It is well now to start a calendar or account-boc^ with each of 
your animals, as a test of their value. If you begin at the date 



5te MAT. 

of turning out to pasture, charge each with its cost, pasturage per 
week, eveiy item of food and care for the suceeding year ; aod 
credit it with its milk and manure. You will then know how jos 
stand, and what is profitable and what not. 

The same should be done with each field and each crop, chaigmg 
it with all the expense it makes, with interest, with one-half of the 
manure spread on it, and crediting it with its crops, wherebj joa 
will soon learn the profit and loss of crops and manures. 

If there come any wet days, when you are short of work, go 
through ail the celbrs, and thoroughly clean them, cleaning away 
all cobwebs, etc., and then apply a strong lime wash. We are told 
never to apply whitewash except in bright weather, as it will not 
dry white at any other time. I give the statement for the satis&o- 
tion of those who believe in it, of whom I am not one. I have 
whitewashed the ceiling of good houses during dark and rainy 
weather, and have never seen any inferiority in the final whiteness 
and lustre. But in stables and cellars it is of no consequence 
whether the wash prove white or not ; it is for cleanliness. 

We are to plant 2 acres with Potatoes, in No. 2, and will select 
some variety to test its quality. If you must buy the seed, you 
will like to know the proper quantity. A large Potato judiciously 
cut into 3 pieces, and all these planted in one hill, yields better than 
it would if planted whole. A medium-sized Potato should be cot 
into 2 pieces ; cut from end to end, and not across. Remember 
tliat the tuber is like the branch of a tree ; the buds at the ends 
are perfect or not, as it is perfectly or imperfectly ripened ; the 
middle buds, or eyes, are certainly ripe and perfect. By cutting 
across the .middle, you divide the middle eyes, and are liable to pot 
all the immature buds into one piece. Were the two ends of the 
Potato to go into the same hill, it would not matter much ; but 
the cut pieces are mixed in the basket fi-om which they are planted, 
and if they are all cut across, there is great chance that some hills 
will be planted wholly with immature eyes. The quantity of seed 
cut as above, which will be needed, is about 8 bushels. It depends 
somewhat on the variety. In a bushel of State of Maine, Eastr 
port, Chenango, Jackson White, Worcester Red, or other round 
Potatoes of medium size, there are about 400. If the rows are 4 



THE FASM. 509 

feet apart and the hilh 3 feet, each hill has 12 square feet = 3,630 
hills. Call it 3,500 hills, the acre will need 8| bushels of seed. In 
any case, 10 bushels to the acre ought to be an abundance. 

Be sure that the rows are perfectly straight, for this saves a deal 
of time and trouble, first and last 

If you are depending on farmyard manure to keep your land in 
good heart, cart on to the 2 acres of Potatoes not less than 20 cords 
of your best compost Now is the time to manure for the whole 
rotation. Had the bed been manured last year for Indian Com at 
the same rate, there would now be no need of any other manure 
than plaster. Cart on only just in advance of the plough, and spread 
thickly over the surface ; plough as deeply as a stout pair of horses 
can carry a deep-tiller plough, and follow with a one-horse subsoil 
plough. On most land one horse will make but little impression 
with the subsoil plough, but that little every year is all important 
He will, if the plough Ls held firmly, deepen the soil one or two 
inches every time he goes over the field. These two inches are 
the top, and, consequently, the hardest part of the subsoil, and being 
k>osened and improved, will be seized on by the roots of the crops, 
and mixed with the top-soil when the deep-tiller plough gcfps through 
again. When you plough the same field in the fall for Rye, or 
Wheat, you will find the first plough gaining much more than 2 
inches on the spring ploughing, and a new subsoiling will show the 
wisdom of the proceeding through the rotation. 

Having ploughed in the manure, draw straight furrows across the 
field both ways, with ia one-horse plough. Strike the first furrow 
by what the English ploughman calls feering poles. These poles 
should be a part of the permanent equipment of the farm. They 
are 9 feet long, shod at one end with an iron point ; paint them in 
3 colors, red, white, and blue ; but do not put the paint on the same 
part of all the poles ; vary the arrangement, so that when set up in. 
the field it will be the easier to distinguish them from the objects 
around ; graduate them into 3^ feet lengths, so that they may serve 
fyr measuring. When ready to begin ploughing, measure off from 
B, p. 570, the straight side of the field, a head land, 15 feet, or one 
ridge wide, and set one pole, c, 3^ feet from the fence A ; then go as 

48* 






570 



MAT. 



fiir as joa please along the side J^ at a right angle to the headland, 
and measore another 3^ feet, and set another pole, d, and so on to the 



1_ A k I m 2 • 

I \ I \ T 

i I •• 

I i I 



end of the side A. Now start jour horses and plough exactly down 
the line of the poles c, g^ keeping them always in line, and allowing 
the cord which connects the horses, or the yoke of the oxen, to 
knock the poles down. As soon as it (<f) is ploughed over, stop 
the team, and take the pole once and a quarter the width of the 
ridge, and at right angles to the line of poles, and there set it firmly 
into the ground at dl; go back to the beginning of the furrow, and 
take the first pole c, and carry it once and a quarter the width of a 
ridge, and at right angles to the line of poles, and fix it at ib; start 
your plough again, and when you plough over the next pole, «, treat 
it like d and c, and set it at e', and so on. Return on the back of 
this furrow, and continue to plough till you arrive at the end of the 
quarter ridge made on one side by your first furrow and the fence on 
the other. You will thus have ploughed half a ridge. Return to the 
line of feering poles, and plough down from h to <, and back as be- 
fore ; as the poles are ploughed down, reset at the distance <^ a 
ridge. See diagram. This method leaves an open furrow for sor- 
fiM» drainage, etc, from A to r, from i to t, from n to ty. 



THB FABH. 571 

Of coarse this method of ploughing cannot be followed on new, 
stumpy or unbroken land ; it is suited to subdued and open land, 
eTcn to that which is verj stony, but not to ledgy land. Ledges 
are as invincible by the plough as stumps. 

A land is that portion of ground marked out by natural limits, 
by the eye of the ploughman, or by stakes, which is to be ploughed 
through before starting afresh. Its width and the method in which 
it is to be ploughed depend on circumstances, but it should not be 
wider than 30 feet. 

It would seem to the uninitiated that the length of the furrow, 
the width of the slice, the area of land, were of no particular con- 
sequence to team and ploughman ; but these things are of real im- 
portance, and the work must be broken with stopping, turning, etc., 
to insure its being done to the best advantage. Careful experi- 
ments have been made in England and tabulated, to show how the 
amount of land ploughed in a given time by a given force is effected 
by the width of furrow-slice and the length of furrow ; it is upon 
these that the speed of the team, and consequently the amount of 
work accomplished, depends. 

SpMd per hour 



1 1-2 



Distance fnOked in Bnadth of fanov- 




lAndploQsbedlo 




Si boon. 




sUco in inches. 




81 


honrs at that 
speed. 


MUm. 




Tuds. 


Inches. 


A. 




R. P. 


J 8 


And 


1,284 


9 







3 1 


8 


(( 


440 


10 







3 14 


12 


(t 


642 


9 


1 




21 


12 


« 


220 


10 


1 




34 


17 
16 


14 


808 


9 


1 




2 2 


(1 


880 


10 


1 




2 28 


26 
24 


« 


382 


9 


2 




1 3 


« 


1,320 


10. 


2 




1 42 



NoTB, — The aboye is taken from " Stevens' Book of the Farm," vol. 1, 
p. 167. 

In calculating the time necessary to plough a given area, remem- 
b^ that the team cannot be kept constantly at the same rate of 
speed ; apart from the time lost in turning, allowance must be made 
for stops and rests and changing lands. 

The next table shows phdnly which length of furrow was fooiid 
the best 



572 MAT. 

LngthofrUflB BreMlth of tllot TSoMkwtln 

In yards. Inlsches. timing ploughing. 

n. M. H. M. a 

78 10 5 11 4 49 10 

149 " a 44 7 16 

200 " 2 01 7 59 

212 *' 1 56 1-2 8 3 l-S 

274 " 1 22 8 32 

NoTB. — Stevens' Book of the Fann, vol. 1, p. 167. 

In ploughing longer ridges a loss of time appeared, thoagh not 
80 much as in the short, but the ridge of 274 yards (or a medium 
one of 250 yards) gave the best average. Just look at the differ- 
ence ! in one case, out of 10 hours work, 5 hours 11 minutes were 
lost in tupiing, whiLf^t in the ridge of 274 yards there was a loss of 
but 1 hour 22 minutes in 10 hours work. 

Tliis is of the greatest importance, for you may thus lose or save 
one half the time you have to plough. Under the best circom- 
stances ploughing is a difficult and slow process, needing eveiy 
possible advantage ; yet it is generally done as if it were susceptible 
of no improvement. 

Breadth of slice and kind of land are the next considerations, 
and are decided by the character of soil and crop. 

It should be the work of the best ploughman on the farm to set 
the feering poles and plough down the ridges the first two furrows; 
the rest of the ridge may be ploughed out by a less expert hand. 
The headland is lefl a ridge wide and ploughed last. The proper 
width for the ridge, in the opinion of experienced cultivators, is 15 
feet ; from open furrow to open furrow, 30 feet By ploughing thus 
you will make all your furrows lie in the same way on the same 
side of each ridge. 

Such care in laying out lands and ploughing will be ridiculed by 
most of our farmers, and pointed out by some of my readers as an 
evidence of the foolishness of my theories. Nevertheless it is wise ; 
it saves time and labor, and pays well. The extra work, i^ 
skilled labor, should be done by the head of the farm, and thm 
money be saved ; there is no time lost in turning, no comers un- 
plougfaed or half-ploughed, and the land is in the best conditk>n for 
aAer culture. 



TBB FARM. 573 

Certain circumstances decide the best way of ploughing ; for 
instance, on a hill-side all the furrows of each ridge are turned 
down hill ; but the principle of the detailed plan will applj to all 
lands. The calculations of time etc., in the preceeding tables are 
l>ased on ploughing Grass land. 

Many farmers plough stubble land and sod in opposite ways ; but 
it seems to me that their practice should be just reversed. The 
plough they use in stubble land has a somewhat convex mould- 
board, and leaves the furrow-slice on its edge, where it is well ex- 
posed to the air and the harrow ; but the plough they use in sod 
turns it down flat, the idea being that each sod should just fit into 
the place of the last, so as to leave no sign of grass, c, p. 574. No 
better method than this last could be devised to consolidate land, and 
it is the best for sandy lands or those where wheat is to grow ; but 
for the general purposes of agriculture it is bad. Where the sod is 
thus inverted, the grass is turned over upon the subsoil, air is shut 
out from it, wliich can be neither ameliorated nor sweetened, and the 
sod will only decay after a long time, and the roots of the crop get 
nothing from the subsoil till they have penetrated the thick sod. 

Plough such sods with a very concave mould-board, which will 
roll the sod into a pip^, double it on itself, d^ p. 574 or leave it on its 
edge. To most lands it is important that the air should get into the 
sod to feed the roots, to sweeten the soil, to decompose the turf. 

The* Michigan plough answers this purpose admirably. It peels 
off a thin sod, which it rolls over on itself like a pipe, and then 
covers it with a quantity of under soil, in which the seed will be 
sown, 0, 574. 

On p. 574 are diagrams to show the appearance of the ends of 
these different furrows, where tlie sods 0, are cut narrow and rolled 
upon themselves, whilst they are. covered by the loam piled on 
them by the stubble plough, which follows on the same beam. As 
soon as the harrow runs over the field afler this plough, it crumbles 
the furrow-slice of subsoil, down over the sod, and leaves plenty of 
fine earth in which to plant ; whilst the sod is so doubled over as to 
be broken at the same time, that it makes a kind of pipe in the soil, 
a good opening for the circulation of air and gases, which gradually 
crumbles and settles under culture. When the ridge is ploughed 



574 MAT. 

ooty the ploagh Bbould go down the open fmrowB and baek, to kj i 








new small farrow of subsoil upon the bottom edge of the iniroir- 
sKoe, thus:— • * 

The furrow slice should be 
about 10 inches wide, aod 
from 7 to 12 thick; but the 
thicker it is, and the deeper 
the plough goes into the soO, 
the more careful we mask 
be to turn the slice enough to loosen it from the earth, and tbor- 
oughlj commingle the parts. Picture to yourself a field well 
ploughed, and you see how thoroughly the manure, whidi wu 
q>read before ploughing began, is tuned into the subsoil, when all 

* It will be obsenred that d and e are incorrectly drawn, as they shoald rep- 
reiant the left instead of the right side of the ridge ; and the team would seem 
to be walking towards ns. 




THE FARX. 



675 



that is unoonBamed the first season must wash down into it, out of 
the reach of vegetation ; and you can see for yourself how bene- 
ficially artificial manures come in during a rotation, to supply that 
which the crops are in immediate want of, which was in the barn- 
yard manure, but has washed down out of their reach. 

Subsoil ploughing is considered by many as the great discovery 
of modem agriculture. And it is easy to see that ploughing the 
same soil year after year, to the same depth, with heavy plough 
and team, compresses the soil, and makes the subsoil very hard. 
Into this the roots can no more make their way than into a ledge 
of rocks ; they are denied the use of the valuable manure which 
has washed into it for years, and thrive only in proportion to the 
richness of the surface soil. Though the subsoil be a mine of 
manure, they cannot work, and must spread out on its surface. It 
may be full of water, yet can 
only delay vegetation in the 
spring, without nourishing it in 
times of drought The wealth 
which is shut up there, out of the 
way of air, etc., becomes its in- 
jury ; undecomposed and uncom- 
bined, what may be food often 
becomes poison ; so that when 
an adventurous ploughman stirs it a little, and brings some of the 
" yellow stufi*" to the surface, it hinders, and perhaps even kills 
vegetation. Thought has unlocked the treasures of the subsoil, 
and shows the enterprising farmer that if he can loosen it up, and 
open it to air and moisture, without turning it on top of the good 
surface earth, he can ameliorate it and make it available food for 
his crops. 

The first step is, of course, thorough-drainage ; the next, to put 
in the subsoil plough, invented to break up the hard pan, and open 
and improve the subsoil in just the way I have said is necessary ; 
so that when the stubble plough runs through next year, it brings 
up more earth to the surface, and enriches, without injuring, the 
topsoil. In a word, the subsoil plough runs under ground, like a 
mole, loosening the earth, and leaves the other plough to turn up 




innnnmHinifiisaLaiiniriiitiiii 



576 MAT. 

bereafler the earth which it has loosened. In this waj the power 




if put into the farmer^s hands of doubling or vastly increasing bis 
acreage, of giving his crops 12 inches instead of 6 to feed in, and 
the additional 6 inches contain the accumulated food of years ; bow 
the roots descend if an opportunity offers, is shown in the cut 
Some subsoils are the worse for stirring. An open, loose, grav- 
elly, or sandy, leachy subsoil, a 
strainer to the surface soil, car- 
r3ring off rapidly water, and all 
things dissolved in water, should 
be lefl undisturbed, and rather 
compacted than lessened. Oth- 
ers are overloaded with mineral 
matter, deleterious to vegetation 
until after their combination with 
air and oxygen ; and they, like 
that before spoken, should be deepened slowly, and not ploughed up 
to the surface till the atmosphere has had time to do its work. 

To enter farther into these details would be inconsistent with mj 
plan ; they may be found elsewhere discussed in full and by more 
oompetent persons. 

The 3d week in May is quite early enough to plant field cn^ 
of Indian Com. Country tradition says, " Pknt when the oak 




THE FARM. 577 

leaves are as large as a mouse's ear." Afler this week there b 
rarely a frost severe enough to do harm. The 90 day variety may 
be planted as late as the 3d week in June with a good prospect 
of success. The seed may often be saved from insects by steeping 
it in solutions or pickles of soot, alum, blue vitriol, etc., by rolling 
it in tar and aflerwarda drying it in ashes. 

Though any crop may be planted in May, I do not recommend 
the planting of Roots before June, or in some cases till July. Their 
place in the notation must decide how liberally it will pay to ma- 
nure them. I wish to persuade you to adhere rigidly to the rota- 
tion ; by so doing you give your land tfie best chance with the least 
outlay. Remember that frequent experience says there is a gain 
of 5 bushels of Com on an acre, where 100 pounds of the best 
guano has been sowed with the seed, and that by the use of such 
manures there is no fear of exhausting the land. 

The benefit of these manures is especially in the early start 
which the plants are enabled to make, when the rains are frequent 
and the plant is young. Nine-tenths of all the accidents which 
happen to crops occur during their infancy, and may be avoided by 
careful stimulus at that time. 

The special manures being in the form of a dry powder, need 
moisture to dissolve them and take them to tlie roots of the plants, 
and should therefore be applied when the rains are abundant I 
have seen Grass crops increased from 1 to 2^ tons to the acre, by 
the application of 250 pounds of guano in April, when the ground 
was first thawing and the frequent rains carried it directly to the 
roots of the grass, and I have observed that the increase was not 
nearly so great when the same amount was applied in May, after 
the Grass had started, and the spring rains were mostly over. But 
the person who used it in May, is to this day convinced that guano 
is of no value, '^ at least on his land," not knowing that the mistake 
he made was in taking the wrong time to apply it. 

JS3ij}erime7its are trials^ and the experiments of the agricul- 
turist being more than usually uncertain in their issue, because of 
the uncontrollable nature of the influences with which he has to 
deal, more than common care and thought are required on his part, 
that nothing that he can do may be wanting to his success. He 

49 



578 Mi^T. 

cannot rely upon sun or air or rain, so that he must all the more 
make sure that what he can do is done with exactness, to make np 
as &r as may be for the uncertainty of the elements, and yet it is 
in agricultural experiments that, as a general rule, the least care 
is observed. 

To perfect a chemical or mechanical experiment is admitted at 
the outset to be a very nice matter, and all the elements are care- 
fbUy calcuhited, and the manipulation is put into the hands of an 
expert In agriculture, on the contrary, men think any one may 
tiy an experiment, and go so far as to send a stupid Irishman to 
make the applicadon, and note the results. Nothing is more com- 
mon than to hear farmers say certain things may do for other peo> 
pie, but not for them ; their farms are never benefited by the im- 
proved, or new-fangled notion ; and this because they are too lazy 
to take the nece?tsary pains. I heard not long since, of an old and 
quite successiiil Maine farmer, who, leaning over the fence, ob- 
served some men gathering pickles ; t.e., small Cucumbers. He 
looked on for some time, and then asked how much the crop would 
pay. He was told (200 an acre. He looked some time longer, 
and then said, *' that if it paid $500 an acre, he would not bend 
his back all day in picking the * tamal ' things." I might give 
numberless instances to prove this point were this the proper 
place. 

Set the hens, geese, and turkeys, whenever yon have eggi 
enough, and the fowls show a desire for it For details, see next 
month. 

I quote the following as a guide to experimenters and to give 
some idea of the value and effect of special manures. 

Experiments with Special Manures on Grass. By Mr, 
Alexander Hoss, Land-steward to George Oranstouny Ikg^ of Core- 
houte, Lanarkshire, 

''The manures were top-dressed on young Grass for Hay on the 
14th of April ; the Grass was cut on the 3rd of July, and the Hay 
weighed and stacked on the 15th of July. The hay is valued at 
$15 per ton. Nature of the soil light brown loam. Exposure, 
Elevation about 700 feet above the sea: — ^ 



THE FARM. 



579 



11 



Gnin firam 
application. 






Talaeofthe 

uenof 

Hay. 



«I t^ to C9^0 QQQ<PQ O O eo O Q 
a <^c« a>(0(0 «B^poq '^ '^ « ei p 
• eop oi ei t^ toeitoeoeo lo m fi^ eo d 



BxMti of 
prodaco In 
Haj. 



S tf> CO 



M ^ 00 io m t* -^ n 00 o) 



I 



Valne of the 
Hay crop. 



%0 to O (OQOOVDO «£!? lO «0 

i ii i n n ^ n sss 9 ^ 



Prodoe* gf); 
H«J per 






2 



S 5 ? 



• <^eo iO <<• 



Ooctper 
acre of tine 
special ma- 
nuxes 
mixed. 



8 S 8 

i4 eo eo 



s s s 

eo 00 00 



S S S S S 8SS S 9 

e6e«o«oie«eo'eoeoeo«« 



Cost of do. 

per acre. 



^ 8^SS9S9SSSS.3SSSS3§888:29 

«^ eo 01 1^ 01 ^ CO ^ ^ »-« •-• ei ^ ^ o4 ^ ^ eo eo eo ©i ^ CI 



Coet of do. 
per ewi. 






Quantity of 



J$ <0OOOOOOOOO<PO9OOOOOOOOO 



I 




^04 eo «ir)<0 r«Q00»O'-4 e« eo ^ lo «o 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ORNAHEXTAL GROUNDS. 

On estates which were thoroughly put m order in the fisJl and 
winter, the spring work on the ornamental grounds is very small ; 
but whoever is laying out a new place should have begun as early 
as April, if the frost was out of the ground, and should have decided 
before that time all such preliminaries as plans and contracts. 

It is no small matter to lay out a country place, be it large or 
small ; nothing in the range of agriculture, or horticulture, demands 
more refinement and culture, more rare and peculiar qualities ; yet 
there is nothing which every one feels so competent to do. Insin- 
uate that a man does not understand this kind of gardening, and 
you lay yourself open to the same retort as if you hinted that he 
was not to be trusted with a horse^or managed his children ill; 
viz., that you had better mind your own business. I have known a 
great many persons who wished advice about lajring out their 
grounds, but of the whole number, not ,10 per cent ever attributed 
their wish to ignbrance of the proper method of doing this woik. 
It was always a press of business, or a natural disinclination f(v 
such occupation, which led them to employ a professional person. 
Adroit inquiry will generally show that these persons have bought 
and read all the cheaper books on the subjects, have pumped their 
neighbors, have tried various experiments, and have at last discov- 
ered what was plain to all lookers-on from the first, that they have 
neither the knowledge how to lay out their places with taste, nor 
the necessary qualities of mind to enable them to receive suefa 
knowledge! 

I will not attempt to say which are the most essential of the 
qualities that go to make up the perfect landscape gardener. The 
man is not to be found who possesses them all. 

The true landscape gardener wiU scarcely think of worldly sue- 

580 



OBNAMENTAL. 581 

oess, which in this country he can hardly get, but he will be im- 
bued with a love of nature, which compels him to search out and 
develop her beauties ; the occupation will be bread and melit, and 
the money returned for his services will be of value to him only as 
a means of enabling him to contirue in the work. He must have 
a large share of innate taste, good taste. 

I will not pretend to dogmatize on the nature of good taste. As I 
understand it, it is the power of perceiving the beautiful wherever 
it exists, the love of it, and the wish to reproduce it. The power 
of reproducing it may be totally wanting in the man of good taste ; 
he'may be appreciative only, and in no wise executive. But the 
tnie landscape gardener must be both a man of taste, and of ex- 
ecutive ability ; otherwise, his works will be weak and worthless 
in their conclusion, however grand they may be in conception. 
I have known the worst blunders to be made by men of acknowl- 
edged taste. 

Beside taste and executive ability, he must have a practical edu- 
cation, which is the basis of judgment. He must be a good botan- 
ist, and must understand not only the species of plants, and the 
localities and circumstance&in which they thrive best, but also, how 
thej may be planted and grouped so as to display all their beauties. 
He must be a geologist in the general way, understanding the for- 
inatk>n of soils and surface, the stratification of rocks, and the prin- 
cipal features of the various transformations the earth has under- 
gone. He must be something of a chemist, for he will be obliged 
to use many compounds in his varied work, such as limes, cements, 
washes, steeps, etc., the quality of which will depend on their com- 
pounder's knowledge and judgment Above all, he must have a 
good engineering education, and be earnestly interested in all kin- 
dred studies, and must keep up with all improvements in engineer- 
ing and mechanics. He is to be the pioneer of all agricultural 
improvements ; with him it rests to try all new machines, to sim- 
plify all agricultural processes, to appeal to and stimulate' the love of 
agriculture, ps a means of developing the beautiful. 

He should have a fair knowledge of architecture ; enough to tell 
him when and how the grounds should be subordinated to the 
house ; as in the case of a fine house in a small area, in city or 



582 MAT. 

town, where architectural ornaments should be so combined with 
gardenesque cfTecta that house and grounds may seem but parts of 
the same whole. So too, in the country, there should be gradatioo 
in the improvements ; those near the house being more architectural 
in character, the house being forgotten, and nature borne in mind 
more and more as the distance widens. This cannot be done by 
one who knows nothing of architectural styles and effects. 

And the true landscape gardener must have a genuine sense and 
appreciation of fine pictures, must be an artist in this respect, 
though he be unable to make a picture or drawing which can bear 
criticism. For his aim must be to show pictures both within and 
without the grounds he lays out, to screen or to show objects near 
or remote, by judicious planting, to fix attention to favorite spots 
by single trees, to secure or preserve beautiful reflections in water. 

But though thus much familiarity with engineering, architecture, 
and painting is essential to the landscape gardener, no amount of 
proficiency and excellence in either of these arts will fit a man for 
landscape gardening. Great and glorious though they be, a position 
at the very head of them is no guarantee, but rather tbe opposite, 
of success in their sister art What Michael Angelo sud of one is 
(rue of all the arts ; they are ''jealous mistresses ; no man shall be 
taken into their intimacy and confidence, shall be blessed with their 
smiles and favors, in whose heart they do not reign alone. Each 
must be worshipped and wooed faithfully for a lifetime, or she can 
never be won. Most worthy are they of all the devotion, the genius, 
the patience, study, labor, that have been offered them. These are 
the elder arts. But their younger sister is their Peer, and will not 
smile on their refected or inearutant lovers. She too demands de- 
votion, life-long devotion. With whomsoevor she is mistress, the 
others will be handmaids, and vice versa." 

When a painter looks at grounds, he looks for a painter's effects^ 
and approves or condemns as the picture is good or bad. Were he 
to lay out grounds; his constant thought would be to produce pie- 
tures on the large scale. Had he miles of country to deal with, 
could he move houses, hills, woods, towns, rivers at will, he might 
make pictures to his liking. But this he cannot do. The work 
must be confined to a few acres ; the place is to live tn, not to look 



OBNAMBNTAL. 583 

ctf. Were the most admired picture criticised on the score of fit- 
ness for a home, it might prove a failure. K our grounds are not 
well adapted for our use and enjoyment, thej are useless to us, 
however beautiful they may be. The tree which is all important 
to shade a favorite seat or walk, may to the painter's eye be just in 
the wrong place, so that he longs to paint it out, and yet in its ab- 
sence the seat, the walk, the lawn would be naked and desolate. . 
Still more impossible is it that an engineer should be a first-rate 
landscape gardener ; his watchwords are regularity, order, method* 
precision ; he works by formulas, he thinks mathematically ; he 
rules nature, cuts down a hill to fill a valley, hollows out the bed of 
a lake, dams a river. He deals in force, and his pride is that the 
forces of nature are under his controL 

Of architectural gardening too much may be found here, and in 
Europe its effects have been much more disastrous. I need not 
enlai^ on the artificial and unsatis&ctory results which would fol- 
low from the extension of the architectural style, which has been 
spoken of as so important under some circumstances over a large 
estate. 

The education of this artist who works in ground, trees, grass, 
water — all out-of-door things — is never complete, and always ad- 
vancing. The Violet, hidden under its leaves, the tuft of Golden- 
rod, which fringes and rounds a corner, the spot of color among the 
green leaves made by the Wild Rose or Sweetbrier, thrust through 
the branches of a Cedar, or relieved by a Pine, the Columbine 
nodding on the ledge of a rock, the blasted tree, the dash and play 
of a mill-race, the mighty waterfall, the snow-laden tree, bending 
and struggling with its burden, the sublime and the picturesque, the 
ugly, which he is to eschew, the lovely, which he is to reproduce, 
are acting on his mind as regularly as the air upon his lungs. He 
9663 a beauty of color which the artist's eye never notices, because 
he must reproduce the near effects, which the other may neglect. 
He watches varieties of form as closely as the sculptor ; he seizes 
improvements in engineering as eagerly as the engineer, for his 
success depends much on his observing the maxim, ^ Ars est celare 
artem.'' 
But above nil he must be able to appreciate the true home snirit 



584 MAT. 

of the class for whom he maj be working. He may as g^Ij laj 
out the grounds of the viUage carpenter as the estate of a retired 
merchant ; but his success in either case must depend on his ability 
to enter into and thoroughly appreciate the peculiarities of his em- 
ployer ; he must know them better than the man himself; and whikt 
he neither fawns nor flatters, never yields a point which he knows 
to be right, he must be able to present his views to his empk>yer 
in such a way that he may see them through the artist's eyes, and 
follow the artist's ideas as though they were his own. 

As the sketch-book of the earnest painter is always in his band, 
so should the mind of the landscape gardener be always open to 
new impressions, and his memory^ should be as retentive as his eye 
is quick, that he may have the power to recall the effects he would 
reproduce. And finally, he must be a good draughtsman, to show 
hb ideas on paper to his employer, before the work is begun. 

If such a man could be found, his advice must be liberally paid 
for. Years of study and observation have contributed to make 
him what he is ; and his occupation can be pursued for a portion 
of the year only. When you employ him, you expect him to be 
a walking dictionary, an enclydopaedia, to which you need only 
mention a subject to receive all the information you want ; and for 
this collection of ideas and learning on legs, you must pay a fiiir 
price ; enough to support the artist and pay the interest on the out- 
lay with which he bought his knowledge. 

And if you decide to employ a man like this, if he can be found, 
and to pay him fairly, expect him to be an honest man when he comes 
on to your grounds ; do not expect him to be in love with what you 
love. In all matters, acquaintance is needed to develop apprecia- 
tion ; you have lived on a spot and loved it, association gives it 
beauty and value in your eye, and it is well to employ a stranger to 
improve it ; he will see it as it is, and prescribe for its real wants. 
If you have a long, narrow strip of land like a turnpike, he will 
know how to disguise its defects, for he will see them at once ; and 
so in other and more important things. 

But you take alarm at the expense of the advice, and the de- 
signs of such a man. Remember that it is a work of time and 
money to make a beautiful place ; that a good landscape gardener 



ORNAMENTAL. 585 

has laid out many places, has learned all the short cuts in time and 
money, has tried all th^ new experiments, and is able to set you 
on your legs at once, and save your creeping. In such matters 
time is money, and you save both by employing a skilful person at 
the outset ; the $20 you pay him for advising you how to begin, 
may, and probably will, save you hundreds before you finish. 

And above all, whether your place is large or small, have a plan 
of what you propose to do before you begin, that you may know 
definitely not only what is to be done, but what it will cost, as you 
may within a small per cent, with a good plan and specifications 
before you. But never expect your place to look like the plan. 
Under no circumstances could you see it from the same point of 
view or distance. The resemblance between the completed work 
and the plan must be so great that it will be at once recognized, 
but no more. 

And if you employ an artist, let his work alone af^er its comple- 
tion long enough — for years — to allow it to show what he in- 
tended. The architect, painter, engineer, leaves his work per- 
fected ; it may be seen at once in its beauty or ugliness. The 
painter does his work on smooth canvas, with pliable brushes and 
easily flowing oils. The landscape gardener works with clods of 
eartli, trees, wheelbarrows, shovels, laborers; and when he has 
done his best, he must leave time to finish and smooth his work ; 
eight, ten, or fifteen years may be required to show what he saw 
in his mind when he began. Long before that time, the caprice 
of the owner may have pulled to pieces and planted, may have 
neglected or altered ; Nature may have refused the sun and rain 
on which the artist relied ; and the roost beautiful design may be- 
come a sorrow and a mortification to its originator. 

Bear in mind all these things ; and then before the frost is gone, 
as I have said, get a real landscape gardener to examine your 
place and direct the summer's work. 

If there are any trees to be planted, plant the deciduous between 
the Ist and 15th of May ; the evergreens between May 15th and 
June 6th. Be guided by the new growth ; when this is just be- 



586 



ICAT. 



ginning or has just begun, and the buds begin to tassel out, it « 
the best time to plant 

Prune all trees, evergreens as well as deciduous, but the former 
must be thinned as directed in September. 

Renew seedbeds in the nurserj, and clean up the rows of 
young trees. Plough through the rows, and tie up to stakes all 
that are bent by snow and wind. Cut back to bud or graft all 
budded or grafted trees and plants. 




CHAPTER LXV. 




OREENHOUSE. 

UNE. The greenhouse in June gives but little 
pleasure and considerable care. During the 
month remove out-of-doors all the movable 
plants that are not to be retained to flower ; 
there is no longer danger of frost, as it but 
rarely occurs in June. Sow seeds of plants 
for winter. Repot Gloxinias, etc., for summer. 
Repot Euphorbias for winter ; prune and repot 
Heaths and Epacris ; tie, prune, and water Stephanotus, and other 
running plants. 

The graperies will be attractive through the summer, with their 
ripening and gi*owing crops of grapes and fruit, and will, if well 
managed, be an honor and pride to the place, while the flowers left 
in the houses, though few, as Orchids, Fuchsias, Cape-bulbs, etc, 
will be interesting from rarity and beauty. 

Withdraw moisture, as far as it is safe, from all the vines and 
permanent plants, while those which are to blossom during the 
summer must be abundantly watered. Many of the Orchids which 
need the greatest amount of heat will blossom now. As soon as 
the flower buds on the Camellias are easily seen, remove them to 
shade, and reduce; water permanently. 

The sashes should be let down, and raised only in case of a long, 
driving storm. Overhaul the houses during the summer, to repur, 
sweeten, and restock with plants. 

This is the proper time to begin such a conservative pit as I have 
described, and also any greenhouse or conservatory. An early be- 
ginning gives time to get a stock of plants started, and to have the 
work thoroughly done. 
Take down and clean out all the pipes^ and clean out flues, etc 

587 



588 JUNE. 

Soot i» a very valuable manure, is highlj nitrogenous, and ^h(.>uW 
be preserved. 

Many of the tools will not be used again for some montlir^ ; xn 
inventory should be made of them, and they should be clean^^l and 
put away. 

Constant work in the garden now occupies the gardener and i\- 
should be very careful in attendance on the young stock ot ^I'atit^ 
which he is to bring forward in the autumn. They should be set 
in cool and partially shaded places, and on good drainage, and be 
secured against damping off. 

The bulbs which have gone out of flower, and whose leaves are 
yellow or withered, must be removed from the earth, dried and 
wrapped in dry moss, or covered with sand, and laid away in a cool 
but dry place, till they are wanted in the autumn ; do not put them 
where the temperature will fall below the average before given. 

Cuttings may be made at any time during the summer, and seeds 
should be sown early of such annuals as will be wanted in blossom 
in the greenhouse in autumn and early winter. 

Bud the hard-wooded plants whenever the bark slips readily from 
the wood, and the wood from the eye of the bud. 

The treatment of the greenhouses, etc., will be the same through- 
out the summer, and will require no further mention. 

The conservatory being near the house, will be more subject to 
observation than the greenhouse, and will require some care to 
keep it attractive. The front perpendicular sashes may be removed, 
and a canvas cover hung over the top glass in sunny weather will 
convert it into a verandah, or the glass may receive a few coats of 
whitewash. In the place of the plants which are removed, bouquets 
and baskets of flowers from the garden should be set about on the 
shelves, and various floral decorations devised to conceal the bar- 
renness of the place. Indeed, the evergreen plants may as well be 
kept here as elsewhere, if the sashes are removed, and they are 
well shaded. 

I might have entered more in detail into the management of 
these houses, but' I think I have said enough to enable any reader 
to supply, by his mother wit, all that I have omitted. I hope, at 
least, that I have said enough to awaken or strengthen a love for 



OBEENHOU8E. 589 

the subject, and perhaps to arouse in some a determination to begin 
at once some house of the kind. I repeat that I know of no kind 
of culture that better rewards the loving patience of him who de- 
votes his time to it; and no one who can afford the expense, which, 
after all, may be very much reduced bj judgment and economy, 
does well to forego the enjoyment it affords. 

The great drawback to the full enjoyment of such houses is, gen- 
erally, the employment of an ordinary gardener. Most of the men 
who apply for this situation, if competent men, are either dogmatic, 
and overbearing, angry if the proprietor pr family remove a flower or 
plant without permission ; or have had but very superficial instruction, 
aiid are by no means fitted by nature or education for the delicate, 
careful, thoughtful attention that the work requires. So they freeze 
the plants one day, and roast them the next, they drown or they dig 
them up, kill them by kindness or neglect, and the whole history 
of a greenhouse, in the mind of its owner, is often only a series of 
chapters of accidents, resulting from the stupidity or carelessness or 
self-will of a succession of ignorant would-be gardeners. 

More may be learned of a gardener's character and competency 
by previous investigation, than of that of any other servant ; and 
much of the trouble so common may be avoided by careful and dis- 
creet inquiries. But the only way in which the owner can be 
secure of good service, is first to make himself thoroughly master 
of the work to be done. Then he knows exactly what to require, 
and can put his finger at once on any mistake or omission ; and the 
very fact of the master's being so well informed will of itself be 
likely to ensure better service than any other thing. And such a 
master can detect directly a man's incompetency, and decide whether 
he is worth training or not ; if he is, he can train him, if not, dis- 
miss him before he has had time to do much injury by his igno- 
rance. 

Therefore, if you cannot spare the time to take care of the green- 
house yourself which is the way to get from it its utmost pleasure 
and benefit, be sure you know how it should be taken care of, if 
you would have it well done by others. 

After all, beyond the knowledge of the general principles of culture, 
the chief requisite in a gardener is judgment ; the power to adapt 
50 



590 JUNE. 

himself to emergencies, to decide where the neglect of rules is 
better than their observance. The mere labor of taking care of a 
greenhouse is not great ; many a lady has done the chief part of 
the work, and women might often be employed in them to great 
advantage. 



CHAPTER LXVI. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

The flower-garden in June is more attractive in name than in 
reality. It is in fact more meagre than in the month past, or 
those to come. The bulbs have nearly gone, and the annuals and 
bedding-out plants are not sufficiently advanced to take their place. 
Still, a little skilful management will shorten the interval very 
much, and many gaps can be filled as soon as made. 

Bedding-out plants should be watered for some weeks, every day, 
directly on the ball, unless rain is abundant ; so too, young annuals. 
Remember that it is but little more trouble to enrich the water a 
little, than to give it pure and poor ; and the growth of the plants 
depends, of course, on the care they receive. I refer rather to pot 
plants than annuals. They have been accustomed to find their 
nourishment within the narrow limits of a pot, and do not readily 
push out roots. You will oflen find, on taking up the pot plants in 
the autumn, that the involved, cork- screw roots which they had in 
the pots, have not opened at all in the ground, but only grown more 
involved and contorted. It is, therefore, important to open out 
the roots before planting, as much as possible, to assist them to 
stretch out for their food. 

If your flower seeds have not all been planted, lose no time ; set 
the Dahlias from the hotbeds, Tuberoses, Amaryllis, Gladiolus, etc 
Transplant from the frames all the annuals whose seeds were sown 
there, and so far as the season's culture is concerned, have no more 
to do with greenhouses and hotbeds. Should the month prove very 
dry, water the flower-garden thoroughly, from time to time. Water 
copiously, and in the late afternoon ; the water will then have time 
to soak in. 

Remove those bulbs which are to be taken up, as fast as the 
leaves dry up. Fall flowering bulbs, Colchicum, Crocus, etc, 

591 



592 JUNE. 

should be taken up, if not already separated and replanted, as 
soon as their leaves are decayed, in order to replant later. 

Attend carefully to the edgings of the beds, and eradicate weeds 
as soon as they make their appearance. Watch the vines on the 
garden or house treUises, every day, and train them frequently, if 
you would have them make their best growth. Vines always grow 
better and faster when constantly trained than when left straggling, 
to be threshed about and broken by the winds. Cut down and tie 
up &s previously directed, and make neatness and order role 
throughout the garden. 

June is the month of roses, and we may now enjoy a profbsion 
of the most beautiful flower that nature affords. No cottager in 
the country is so poor as not to have a rose-bush, and in oar older 
settled country we often see roses blossoming along the stone walk 
and hedgerows in great abundance, which may be recognized at 
once as former inhabitants of the garden. 

We do not see such large general collections of Roses now, as a 
few years since, owing, I think, to the rose-bug and green slug, 
more than to any thing else. 

It is very discouraging to see one's Roses when in full luxuriance 
of leaf and flower growing brown and sere, and looking as if they 
had been burned by fire, and still more so to find the centre of oar 
Damask and Moss Roses, instead of being the seat of fragrance 
and beauty, full of disgusting bugs ; and yet, we all sufier alike 
from them. If there were no way of restraining them, we might 
abandon the culture of the Rose in despair, for the fleeting beauty 
of the blossoms illy compensates us for the red and withered bushes 
left by the insects after the flowers are gone. 

But we do seem able to check insects if we take care enouc^. 
Great vigilance is needed to insure success, but success well repays 
all trouble. 

The flrst insect which attacks the foliage is a green fly, much 
like the vine fretter, and comes about the l&st of May, or the first 
of June. Its ravages, however, are not alarming, and the fly may 
be driven off by showering the bushes with dry lime and linfe-water. 

But the slug of the saw-fly is the great enemy. The egg is laid 
in May, and hatches by the last of the month. They confine them- 



FLOWER-OABDEN. 593 

selves to the under side of the leaves, and eat off the oatside^so that 
the circulation is destroyed ; it is this which gives the red and 
burned appearance to the foliage. 

For a long time these slugs baffled all efforts to destroy them, 
until it was discovered by Mr. Haggerston, of Watertown, Mass., 
that syringing the bushes thoroughly with weak solutions of whale 
oil soap would destroy the larvae, and drive away the fly. The so* 
lution may be made as strong as can be used without injury to the 
young foliage. A pound of the soap to 4 gallons of water is a strong 
solution ; to ascertain how strong it is safe to use it, dip a few half- 
grown, tender leaves into it, and observe the effect. The stronger 
the solution, within the bounds of safety, the greater the benefit. 

Shower the suds over and under the bushes from a syringe with 
a fine rose, so as to give a powerful and yet well-divided shower. 
After twelve hours, repeat the operation with clear cold water, and 
again with the suds, afler an interval of two days. This process 
performed three times, will banish the slugs and save the bushes 
for the season ; and if the practice is followed up for three succes- 
sive years, worms and flies will be driven from the garden, unless 
it is surrounded by other gardens not so protected. 

The showering should begin in May, when the little fly first 
makes its appearance, to discourage the la3ring of eggs. As the 
smell of the soap is very offensive, it should be applied for the last 
time not less than a week before the fiower-buds expand, that they 
may be untainted when they unfold. Select for putting on the ' 
soap, a dry time, with promise of fair weather ; if rain follows 
within twelve hours, the benefit of the soap is diminished. 

Whale-oil soap is equally effective with all kinds of slugs, can- 
ker worms, etc, if well applied. 

The next nuisance is the rose-bug, which appears after the Rose 
is developed, and feeds upon its petals. These bugs are so hard, 
and covered with such homy shells, that showering does not affect 
them. But with care they may be subdued. 

In the first place, use toads ; they eat the rose-bugs with avidity, 
and if the bushes are shaken, a great many bugs will fall off and 
be snapped up at once by their waiting mouths. The proprietor of 
50 ^ 



594 JUNE. 

a fine garden could well afford to pay $20 a hundred for toad^, a< 
the J are gluttonous consumers of worms and flies of all kin^ 

A more certain method is to take a basin of boiling water, and 
go over the bushes, picking off every bug and dropping it into the 
water ; this is a good deal of trouble, but it is effectual. 

The later blossoming Roses, and the second blo8sti|ns of the per- 
petuals, escape all these nuisances, which are gone by July. 

Showering the bush^ with strong decoctions of quassia drives 
away and kills slugs and flies, without any bad smell. Use 1 oonee 
of chips quassia to a quart of water. 1 quart of gas liquor to 10 
of water, showered over the plants in the same way, is effectual 
against aphides and other insects. 

Aphides are but little annoyance out of doors. Smoking hss 
been described in the winter months as a remedy against insects. 
Sprinkling with fine Scotch snuff oflen kills small insects. 

In confined situations, mildew is very apt to attack the Rose, and 
injure its foliage. Syringing with sulphur and water, or nitre and 
water, is good for prevention or cure ; or flour of sulphur may be 
dusted over the bushes from a sulphureter. 

A species of red fungus sometimes attacks the plants in late 
summer, which may be rubbed off by hand. 

When a Rose thrusts out a bunch of leaves^ from the middle of 
a bud or blossom, it indicates too much strong manure at the root^ 
and the supplies should be withdrawn for a time. 

It is generally supposed that Roses may be grown by any one 
in any soil, and indeed, the poorer kinds do not seem very fastidi- 
ous, but the really fine ones are shy and dainty, and unless well 
eared for never thrive. They will not grow well in poor soil, nor 
on lawns choked up with Grass ; and although all thrive best when 
fed with abundant moisture and liquid manure, most of them are 
particularly averse to wet situations. 

The number of varieties is very great ; some European culti- 
vators having had at one time 30,000 ; but of this vast number bot 
very few are worthy general culture. 

There are several large families with well-marked peculiarities, 
needing different culture and giving very different returns for 
kindness. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 595 

The method of propagation to preserve varieties is by layers, 
cuttings, and budding, the latter being the quickest way on a large' 
scale. Seeds have been the original source g^ nearly all the vari- 
eties. Cuttings are readily made to grow, of almost all kinds, par- 
ticularly when taken off with a heel of the old wood. 

Many varieties of $oil and manure have a remarkably powerful 
effect on the Rose. Charred turf from old pastures seems to have 
wonderful virtue, inducing the roots to send out new fibres at once, 
and consequently producing new and enlarged growth. Guano, as 
a liquid manure, is also very beneficial, while soapsuds from the 
house washings has an excellent effect, especially on the strong- 
grow^ing varieties. 

June Roses are familiar to every one, and having once blos- 
somed they are soon gone. If your means and opportunities con- 
fine you to Roses of this class, have them by all means, but get 
better as soon as you can. By better, I do not mean better blos- 
soms, for what is better than the old Damask, the Red Moss, the 
White, or the Hundred-leaf? They are unsurpassed in color and 
fragrance. But I mean better varieties, which, though they may 
bear no flowers equal to June Roses in perfection, bear their own 
several times in the course of the season. 

Before describing the improved Roses, I wish to draw your at- 
tention to our wild Rosesy and the Sweetbrier. I do not know 
whether any efforts have been made to improve this class of Roses, 
and doubt very much whether their especial merits could be im- 
proved upon. 

They are single, mostly rather low growing, and with smidl 
leaves. But they are perfectly hardy, accommodating themselves 
to all soils, and growing freely among other bushes, or in the 
Grass; are very fragrant, and their blossoms are succeeded by 
red hips, or seed vessels, which contribute much towards the en- 
livenment of the shrubbery during the winter. A bank of these 
Roses has often seemed tp me more beautiful than any garden 
collection. 

Grarden Roses need careful culture, and should generally be 
grown singly to insure perfection, whilst the effect of the Wild 
Rose is increased by numbers. To fill a bend in a path or road, 



596 JUNE. 

to akirt a plantation or fringe a pond, they are as beantifol as anj 
thing. For the latter purpose, the Carolina is the proper varietj. 
It is a late and strong growing plant, with large, dark green foliage, 
perfectly hardy, and very fragrant ; it has an abundance of flowers, 
produced in clusters of three, or more, and it continues in bloasom 
for several weeks. It will thrive beside a pond, on an island, in a 
brook, or along a springy bank, and I class it in the first rank of 
shrubs. 

The R. blanda, the nitida, and lucida, are lower-growing, blos- 
som very early, do well in poor, sandy, or gravelly, dry soil, and are 
as beautiful in color of flower as the Carolina, but inferior in color 
of foliage and fragrance. 

The Sweetbrier, everybody knows. Its delicate pink an^ white 
petals, constrasting with its rich, dark-colored and fragrant leaves, 
have long made it a universal favorite. It differs materiaUy irom 
the Eglantine, or Sweetbrier Rose of England. 

Our Sweetbrier is second to no other plant or shrub, for its many 
virtues. It is properly a wall, or pillar Rose ; it throws up long 
shoots, oflen 20 feet in a single season, and soon covers a trellis, 
but, like all other running Roses, dies down in a mysterious and 
rapid manner. It is a capital stock on which to bud other Roses, 
its strong and hardy habit giving increased strength and hardihood 
to the bud. When planted on a trellis it should be trained with 
care, and some of its shoots may be budded to produce variety; 
the same plant may have half a dozen different varieties upon it, 
and some of its own also. It is very much nourished by soi^ods 
or guano water. 

The Michigan, or Prairie Rose, is found wild only at the west, 
but has been extensively introduced here as a climber ; it blossoms 
profusely late in the season, and has an especial value from coming 
in after the other running Roses have gone, but it has no fragrance. 
From its seeds the improved Prairie has been derived. 

The Cherokee Rose, of the south, is the most magnificent of onr 
American Wild Roses. It grows strong and flowers profusely. So 
strong, indeed, is its habit of growth, that it is used at the south for 
hedges and fences, for which purpose it is unrivaled, as it cannot 
be penetrated even by a hog. It seems to be too tender for oar 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 597 

latitude, although when sufficiently experimented on, I do not doubt 
that some seedlings, or hybrids, will be found which will combine 
all its virtues, and be hardy besides. 

With these Roses, our list of American Roses may close. There 
are some hybrids besides, which are more properly garden Roses. 
In Plymouth County, Mass., there is to be seen along the road 
sides and old walls, a very large, semi-double, crimson Rose, which 
seems almost naturalized, but it undoubtedly escaped from some 
gardens at first, and is not of sufficient value to induce any general 
culture. 

The Cinnamon Rose, R. cinnamomea, has all the qualities of a wild 
Rose ; comes early, grows anywhere, defies Grass, thrives in gravely 
and, if ^ let alone, will make a thicket full of flowers in June, but 
the flower, apart from its fragrance, has no attractions. 

I would urge strongly the use of these native Roses in the mak- 
ing of new plantations and shubberies, for the reasons already 
given. Our planters and gardeners, hitherto, have been too apt to 
consider all wild flowers as worthless, and have lefl them to their 
native woods ; but as a better appreciation of these plants prevails, 
they will be sure to receive more attention. The wild Rose has a 
value that the garden Rose cannot have, for the latter can never 
bear neglect. The Rose is as much the queen of flowers in her 
exaction of attention thus, as in every other respect. Neglect kills 
her, and to thrive weU she requires to be appreciated, praised, and 
cultivated, and then when duly worshipped, her gracious bounties 
are lavishly bestowed. 

June Roses, so called, are not, in my estimation, equal to our wild 
Roses, which so readily and abundantly hang out their treasures by 
the wayside, for man or nature', as either is ready to enjoy. The 
June Rose blossoms once, and then in perfection only if well cared 
for, and then is gone for a year, while there are Roses which, with 
the same amount of care, will blossom several times in the season, 
or even every month. There is something very fascinating in the 
constant succession of buds and blossoms, always oflering some new 
beauty to our admiration. 

The following remarks upon the Rose, and those on the same 
Bubject in July, are condensed in great measure from Paul's Rose 






598 JUKS. 

Garden, and from Mclntosb'd Book of the Grarden» but mj own ob» 
servations are so interwoven as to make it impossible to use qaotft- 
tion marks in all cases. 

Besides the Natives, Roses are divided into several classes ; tbe 
Bourbon China, Noisette, Ayreshire, Scotch, Perpetual, or Bemoa- 
tant, Tea, Banksia, Austrian Brier, Provence, or Cabbage, £Ter- 
green, etc. Each of these classes has its own peculiar nneiits ; 
Kome individuals of each class are nearlj, or quite hardj, and scMne 
of each are very tender and can be cultivated only under glas^i. 

The countries in which Roses naturally arrive at the greatest 
perfection, are all warm and dry, as Italy, Turkey, Syria, India, 
and our Southern States ; and in order to attaip such perfection in 
our colder regions, we must imitate those climates in bouses built 
for the purpose. 

It seems strange that no large collection of Roses under glass has 
been made in America, for the Rose has a large number of admir- 
ers, and is as worthy of a special house as the Orchid or Camellia. 

The full beauty of the Rose can only be understood when many 
individuals are collected together and in blossom, at the same time 
where the effect of each may be heightened by massing and contrast 
Even in out-of-door collections, the gain over the usual practice 
would be very great, if a larger number of bushes were collected 
in one place, the sizes being carefully arranged. 

The Provence or Cabbage Rose lias many varieties, and has 
given origin to many beautiful Hybrids. The Unique Provence is 
very beautiful, sometimes white, sometimes striped. These are 
June Roses, may be propagated by seed and cuttings, but make 
few layers, are almost universally hardy, are free growers, but do 
not usually attain a very great size ; they should be pruned in the 
autumn, as the wood is then pretty well ripened, and by pruning, 
them the sap is induced to settle into the remaining buds, thus im- 
proving them and inducing a better bloom the next year. 

Disbudding is found as advantageous with the Rose as with fruii 
trees, and is to be practised as much as possible. The Provence 
Roses should be cut down to 3 or 4 eyes, according to their strength, 
afler the removal of all malformed and superfluous shoots. 

The Hybrid Provence tend to form dense heads, and should be 



FLOWSR-GARDKN. 599 

thinned out to about one-third the number of shoots, and those led 
must be shortened to 6 or 8 eyes. No apprehension need be felt 
that this autumn pruning will start the buds of either the Provence, 
Moss, Damask, or Alba Roses, in case of mild weather in winter ; 
this is only to be feared with the tender or half-hardy varieties. 

The Moss Rose springs probably from the Provence, and has 
many beautiful varieties. The old Red Moss is generally the most 
esteemed for beauty and thickness of flower as well &s mossiness. 
They must be treated like the last. The best varieties are the Old 
Red, Crested, Princess Adelaide, White, Unique de Provence, and 
Perpetual. 

They differ very much in constitution, some being very delicate, 
ethers hardy, some loving a poor, others a rich «oil, but like the 
Provence they need high culture to bring out their best powers. 
The Miniature Moss is a pretty and delicate little Rose. 

The French Rose, or Rosa Gallica, is the largest class of summer 
or June Roses ; these are hardy and robust, and afford fine plants for 
standards and for large specimens ; among them are many splendid 
varieties, and if they were not single bloomer.<«, they would certainly 
stand first in Rose culture. By pruning some of the June Roses 
in October, and leaving others till May, a regular succession of 
blossoms may be obtained. By pruning in this way, from month to 
month, the time of blossoming may be materially altered. 

Some gardeners delay pruning their French Roses until they 
show flower-buds, and then prune severely, by which means they 
not only remove the flowers about to come, but induce the plants 
to throw up new strong shoot.s which blossom in the fall. I do not 
altogether believe in this practice; for although it sometimes proves 
successful, it is by no means certain, as the plant oflen contents 
itself with making a new growth, not accompanied by flowers. It 
is in this class that< we find the best variegated Roses. 

Among the Hybrid Provence Roses are many well adapted to 
pole or pillar culture ; they are easy of culture, and require to be 
moderately pruned. 

**' The Hybrid China Roses are a cross between the Bourbon, 
China, and tea-scented Noisette, crossed with the French Provence, 
and other summer Roses. This class of Roses illustrates a very 



600 ' JUHS. 

curious principle ; that impregnating the Bourbon, China, Noisette, 
or Bengal Bose8, ail free summer and autumnal bloomers, upon the 
summer Roses, Provence, or GalHca, takes away all perpetual or 
remontant habit, and leaves them onlj summer bloomers.'^ 

^ The Hybrid China are very vigorous growers, and are often 
used to advantage as pillar Roses. When grown as standards, thej 
should be trained down to check luxuriance of foliage, and induce 
flowers. They should, in pruning, have some shoots left long, and 
others entirely cut out The strongest growers should be cut away 
at least one-third, the weaker, one-half, and be thinned out. Such 
Hybrid Chinas as are used for pillars should have three canes left, 
which should be allowed to grow without stopping ; the spurs fttmi 
them will give an abundance of flowers for some years ; when they 
show age or weakness, cut down and replace by new shoots. Dis- 
bud through the summer, and prune in the autumn." 

Most of this class bear our winters without covering, but are 
benefited by pruning down and covering with litter or straw. 

^ The Hybrid Bourbons are derived ftt>m the Bourbon, and are 
similar to the Hybrid China in vigor of growth and abundance of 
flowers (with more substance in both flower and foliage), but re- 
quire closer pruning ; otherwise they should have much the same 
treatment with the Hybrid China." They are mostly hardy with 
us, but improved by coverings of straw and litter. 

The White Rose, as a family, is better known in New England 
than most of the other Roses. They are not all white, some having 
a delicate pink or blush on their petals. I have seen the most 
superb of White Roses as far north as Norridgewock, Maine, some 
bushes being 10 feet high, and white with flowers. They are all 
distinguished by the glaucous foliage, by being nearly thomless, 
hardy, and for the most part of moderate growth ; they should be 
closely pruned in November, but if pruned in spring will blossom 
rather later in the summer. 

^ The Damask Rose is a free grower, does not require close prun- 
ing, is light red in color." It is the Rose from which, in Asia, the 
largest quantity of rose water is made, has always been a favorite, 
and is well adapted for general culture, being quite hardj. Prune 
in November ; blossoms in summer. 



FLOWSR-OARDEN. 601 

It is from this rose in some of its older varieties, that all the 
favorite Perpetuals have originated. They have thick leathery 
foliage, and thorny shoots ; are propagated by seed, offsets, cut- 
tings, or layers. 

The Scotch Roses are well )^nown, and are always favorites ; 
they grow almost as readily as our wild roses, and may be used 
with excellent effect in the formation of shrubberies. When once 
planted they need little pruning or attention for many years, as they 
sucker freely, and keep themselves well replaced. There are a 
great many varieties, although they do not differ much in color, 
being generally some shade o^ white and pink. The Yellow Har- 
rison is sometimes called Scotch, but is, undoubtedly, derived from 
the Austrian Brier. 

One of the most beautiful rose-beds I have ever seen, was made 
from a large number of Scotch Roses planted in a bed shaped like 
a cross. The Roses and their offsets soon filled the bed, and spread 
on all sides, sloping from the highest old plants in the middle down 
to the grass. The effect when in' blossom was a large quatrefoil, 
and could hardly have been excelled in beauty. 

They may be planted with good effect along the sides of an 
avenue, in its bends, or on the edge of a plantation of other shrubs 
or Roses. The foliage is not so liable to be destroyed by insects 
as that of other Roses ; the fragrance is exquisite and they are 
perfectly hardy. 

The American Sweetbrier, I have already ^nentioned. The 
English Sweetbrier, '^ R. Rubiginosa, is a beautiful Rose in its 
original condition, and there are many improved varieties. The 
Splendid, less fragrant, but with large crimson flowers. The Rose 
Angle, very double, bright rose-colored flowers ; the Celestial, very 
double and fragrant ; the Carmine, semi-double red flowers." 

The Austrian Brier is the source of many very beautiful hybrids. 
The whole family and its hybrids are very impatient of all smoke 
and foul air, and rarely thrive well in cities or large towns. The 
Persian Yellow is the best hardy Yellow Rose, but is weakly in 
habit These Roses all require rather poor, moist soil, and moder- 
ate pruning. 

51 



602 JincB. 

*^ The Sulphur Rose, R. Sulphqrea, is of this family, and is a 
magnificent Rose, but is blossomed with the greatest difficulty in the 
open ground, and can be best brought to perfection under glass. It 
should be budded into strong growing stocks like the Dog Rose, R. 
Mannetti, or the American Sweetbrier." 

^ The Boursault Rose is well known amongst us, and b the com- 
monest of all our climbers or pillar Roses ; there are several vari- 
eties, varying from red to pink ; one, Elegans, being red with white 
stripes.'* These Roses are peculiar for 'their reddish, thornier 
wood, and dark reddish foliage ; they are very easy to grow, and 
for covering arboi's, festooning along chains, climbing walk, are 
second to none. 

I have already mentioned the American Fitiirie Rose, R. Seti- 
gera. The original Michigan has been hybridized and developed, 
until from being a late-blooming single, it has become an early- 
blooming, very double Rose. The Queen of the Prairie is the 
most double of all the wall Roses. In spite of its profusion of 
very double flowers, and its very' rapid growth, I do not like it so 
well as many other wall Roses. The Baltimore Belle, Milledge- 
vilie, Superba, Mrs. Hovey, Eva Corinne, are better in color than 
the Queen of the Prairie, and the King of the Prairie has the su- 
perior merit of being very fragrant. 

These Roses should be trained to three shoots and allowed to 
grow their whole length; the long shoots will throw out spurs well 
filled with flower<r. As the shoots show signs of age, cut down in 
spring, and induce new growth to replace them. Prune in No- 
vember. Mrs. Hovey is rather more tender than the others, and 
should be covered with straw. 

R. multifiora is a very charming family of pillar Roses, but 
tender ; with care, a dry soil, hot manures and protection in the 
winter, it may be blossomed out of doors, but they are more prop- 
erly in this latitude greenhouse Roses. Laura Davoust, R. gre- 
villa, and R. multifiora are the usual representatives of this family ; 
they require but little pruning. 

" Banksia Roses are natives of China, vfty fast growing, but 
too tender for out-of-door culture ; they are admirable for| the 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 603 

i^-alls and pillars of the conservatory. They require a rather dry 
^ oil, and but moderate pruning; the short branches bearing the 
flowers. 

**• In our more Southern States, and even in the Northern States, 
if grown on walls and taken down and covered in the winter, these 
Boses might be got into good flower, but could not be much de- 
pended on. They make many strong shoots from the roots which 
are to be removed every autumn unless there is need of new canes 
to replace the old ones." 

The family of Hybrid » Climbing Roses vary in their source. 
Laura Davoust and Russelliana are from the Multiflora ; Garland 
and M'me D'arblay are fi-om the Musk ; Sir John Seabright from 
some Italian Rose. 

" The Evergreen Roses are found to thrive well in France, Eng- 
land, and Scotland, and it would seem that they might come into 
general culture in this country, as they will undoubtedly thrive, if 
well protected during the winter, and grow in a dry, warm soil. 
They give clusters of from 10 to 50 blossoms at a time, and from 
their trailing character are used as creeping Roses. The s^hoots 
should be grown to their full length, and allowed to flower from 
spurs as long as they will, and then be replaced. They should 
be well thinned out at pruning, and some of the shoots should be 
shortened back ; the latter will blossom later in the season than 
the former." 

^ The Ayrshire Rose is but little known among us, which is 
much to be regretted ; for although they are not a large family, 
they are very beautiful, and would be a great acquisition for wall 
and pillar culture; they also make good weepers and trailers. 
Their origin is a mystery, but they are supposed to be derived 
from some of the trailing Roses of the wood and are hardy." 

Trailing and weeping Roses are not oflen enough used in our 
planting. Beautiful effects may be produced by setting in the 
centre of the bed a strong-growing standard Rose, like Pio Nono, 
which will make a good upright growth, and yet is well furnished 
with pendant side branches. Next to the standard, all round, set 
several pendulous Roses; round these, again, Hybrid China, or 
Bourbon; then Moss, and edge with Scotch. Instead of Pio 



604 JUNE. 

Nimo, which u a perpetual, while the others are summer Roses, 
may be used some standard, Hybrid Bourbon, or China. 

That the Ayrshire will answer in our latitude with slight pro- 
tection, I am certain ; for I have seen the R. Ruga and Dundee 
Rambler for several years doing well on a north-east exposure, 
without winter covering, and they were rarely cut down by the 
frost more than two-thirds their length. 

The Roses I have described thus far are all summer Roses, and. 
as I have said, are well deserving of especial attention and culture, 
but are not equal in real value to those which may be properly 
called Reraontants, which blossom two or three times a year. 

The China and Bengal Roses are monthlies, but are all tend^« 
or not more than half hardy. The latter, as well as the Tea- 
scented, are usually found in greenhouses, and are the main de- 
pendence for flowers in the winter, and are very desirable, but not 
to be compared to the hybrid perpetuals, or summer. They are 
rarely more than semi-double when open, and although delicate in 
color, and of good fragrance, are possessed of Bose quaUHei in but 
a moderate degree. 

Much objection has been made to the so-called perpetuals, be- 
cause they blossom only two or three times, instead of monthly, 
and are rather short lived. The first of these objections seems to 
me to have but little weight, as certainly two blossomings are just 
so much better than only one. The second, that of their short 
lives, may be done away with. They are usually budded into 
other stocks, to get hardihood and size, and to increase the number 
in proportion to the demand. 

A budded Rose may be known on the slightest inspection. The 
lower part of the stem is at a different angle from the middle, and 
at the point where the angle is made a cicatrice is plainly visible, 
showing the mark of the incision for the bud. 

The Rose is affected by its stock, as a fruit 
tree, only in vigor of growth and hardihood, 
and in the latter respect the influence is not 
very great. 

The Rose stem is full of latent buds down 
to the very roots, and as a little attention will 
show, it is inclined to sucker, or throw out sub- 




FLOWEB*OARD£N. 605 

terranean branches, which struggle through the earth to a greater 
or less distance, and then come up to Uie surface, making each a 
new bush. The stock prefers to develop its own buds on these 
suckers rather than to nourish the bud or graft ; and as tnwnj of them 
are made under ground, it is quite difficult to detect th^n ; but if 
the stock does develop any of its own buds or suckers, it will send 
all its sap to them, and the budded Rose must die. To prevent 
this, the plant must be narrowly watcheil, and every bud cut off as 
sooii as it appears; and occasionally the earth must be removed, the 
roots examined, and any detected suckers destroyed. 

This trouble may be qualified in the following manner : Set the 
budded Rose into the earth so deep as to fully cover the junction 
of the bud with the stock, and score the budded portion a little. 
If it is strong enough to allow it, tongue it as for layering, and put 
a stone or piece of wood in to keep the deft open. In time, the 
budded Rose will send roots out into the earth, and support itself 
quite independently of the stock. Some of the choice varieties, 
however, are very much disinclined to root when budded, and by 
thus rooting lose any benefit which might have been derived from 
the stock. 

The second source of loss is a difference in hardihood between 
the bud and the stock, the latter being either more or less hardy 
than the former. In either case, a severe winter will sometimes 
kill the one and not the other. 

It generally happens that the stock is the most hardy, and it is 
therefore prudent where there is any room for doubt, to cover the 
plant with straw, etc., below the junction of stock and bud. A 
prudent gardener will protect himself against reverses by having 
cuttings of his budded Roses in case of accident, for although some 
of them may not be as fine on their own roots as when more amply 
supplied with sap, yet the difference is slight, and scarcely percep- 
tible to the uncritical eye, and after all, ^' a live dog is better than 
a dead lion.'' 

The Hybrid Pei^etuals are more troublesome in another way ; 
they have to be pruned at least twice in the season. All Roses 
blossom from the new growth only, and after blossoming the bush 
must be cut back, to stimulate a new growth. 

51* 



606 JI7NE. 

** This invaluable fiunily has been got bj crossing the H. China 
with different varieties of China and Bourbon Boses, until a great 
variety have been obtained. 

^ Among this great variety, some are much more hardjr than 
others, and those which are best adapted to different latitudes are to 
be ascertained only by actual trial. Being difficult to root when 
layered, is, no doubt, one reason for their being so oflen on other 
stocks than their own ; but on their own stock they thrive better 
on poor soils than when worked.*' 

I think, on the contrary, that it is useless to hope much from 
Hybrid Perpetuals in poor soils, under any circumstances. 

To insure a good second blooming, the plants must be well wa- 
tered and manured ; but, though needing plenty of water, Roses 
dislike a wet soil, that is, one in which water stagnates. 

Liquid manure is particularly grateful to Roses, and no better 
use can be made of soapsuds than to water them with it. 

** Damask Pierpetuals are a very beautiful class ; they make thick, 
close heads, their flowers are abundant and fragrant; they are 
equally good for garden, or pot culture. Disbudding and pinching 
off the young growth may be substituted for after pruning to some 
extent." 

" Perpetual Scotch Roses are a hybrid between the Scotch and 
the Damask Perpetual. They come into blossom in June, and con- 
tinue till frost." 

** The Bourbon Roses as a class, are perpetual, and are all worthy 
of cultivation, some more so than others. They seed freely, and 
are, therefore, good for further experiments. They do not form so 
good heads as some of the other Perpetuals, and, therefore, should 
not be budded high to form standards ; they do well on their own 
stocks, but make rather better plants when budded ; their pro- 
fusion of bloom and long continuance, especially recommend 
them." 

The Perpetual Moss is a small group, and yet, a delicate one ; 
the bud is the charm of the plant, and, if we could have them in 
October or November, they would give as much pleasure as the 
greenhouse in January. Like the common Moss, they reqnire a 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 607 

rich, deep soil, and thorough pruning. Perpetual Maguet is the 
best ; Perpetual White and General Davoust are bad growers, and 
uncertain in time of flowering." 

'^Tlie Musk Rose is common in all mild climates, but must 
have a mild and humid atmosphere ; it succeeds well as a wall or 
pillar Rose, and is the oldest of the Perpetuals. Its great charm 
is that it blossoms rather late in the season, and thus comes in be- 
tween the earlier and later Roses« It blossoms in quite large clu:}- 
lers, and the flowers have a musk fragrance." It should be cov- 
ered in winter, and should have a good deal of attention ; our 
summers are rather hot and dry for it. 

The China and Tea Roses, as I have said, are the stock green- 
house Roses, blossoming monthly ; they may be removed into the 
garden in the spring, and will blossom all summer profusely, 
when they may be removed to the house, or lefl where they stand, 
either protected or abandoned. The roots rarely die if they are 
covered, and although nearly the whole top will winter-kill, the 
roots, if not dead, begin to grow very early in the season, and do 
well all summer. Cut as freely as you choose when in blossom, as 
this induces a more abundant growth. It will be observed that in 
this class those Roses which, like Safrano and Yellow Tea, are pil- 
lar Roses, and large growers, do not get to be any thing beyond 
shrubs in the open ground. There is not time for them to grow to 
perfection, and yet, when single plants are set out early, they will 
blossom profusely till frozen, and the Safrano will live with slight 
covering through the winter. 

I think the Safrano the queen of Tea Roses. It has not the long, 
greyhound-shaped buds of the Yellow Tea, the brilliancy of the 
Cloth of Grold, the yellow of the Solfaterre, nor the strongest tea 
fi*agrance, but its rich-colored wood and ruddy foliage, its splendid 
color, comparable only to the orange tints of the most glowing sun- 
set, and its profuse bloom, ought to make it indispensable in every 
collection, however small. When budded on a strong stock, like 
the Sweetbrier, it gets a much stronger habit of growth, and both 
buds and. Roses increase very much in size. I have often seen 
them as large as the Cloth of Gold. 

^ The Macartney is from China, and does well under glass, or 



OUO JUNK 

during the summer in the border. It maj be trained as a wall 
Rose in the greenhouse. The old Macartney is not equal to the 
Maria Leonida." 

^ The Minature Rose (/?. Lawrenciana) seems to be a small va- 
riety of the China, and is best adapted to pot or border cultare. 
Thej prefer a light, diy soil, and a warm situation.'* 

*^ The Noisette Roses are in some respects, the finest of this class; 
thej are nearly all for the wall and pillar, and are generally too 
tender to do well out of doors, but are the main reliance for the 
conservatory and greenhouse. The original Noisette is ao Ameri- 
can, and seems to be a hybrid of the Musk and China." 

The originals were quite hardy, although needing in our lati- 
tude, some slight protection during the winter ; but the more nearly 
they liave approached the China parent, and the more richly they 
are perfumed with the tea fragrance, the more tender they have be> 
come, and the less of the Noisette appears in the clustering buds 
and blossoms. 

The pruning of this class differs with the individual ; some being 
of a long and straggling growth, others short and compact. They 
are free bloomers, and mature seed readily. All flowers should be 
removed from those inclining to fruit, as soon as withered, as a 
single bunch of seed weakens the plant more than many blossoms. 

Such of the Noisettes as are of compact and dwarf habit, may, 
like other half-hardy kinds, be cut down in the autunm, and cov- 
ered with litter for the winter. 

We have now gone through the list of the Rose families, making 
but little reference to the varieties, which will be considered again 
before leaving the subject 

I have endeavored to inform you with regard to the specific dif- 
ferences, and the sources of varieties, in order to enable you to 
decide upon the treatment to be adopted towards such plants as yoa 
possess. It would only be confusion, if I were, in October and 
November, to run over a list of names, and tell you to cover this, 
cut down that, and neglect others. I have here explained what 
kiniis mutt be covered, what may be, and what need not be, and 
when the time comes you will act accordingly. 

These general divisions of species will be a great assistance also 



FLOWER-GARDEN. ^9 

in bnjing ; bearing them in mind, yon can pass steadily and with- 
out distraction through the bewildering lists of names, put into 
jour hands to choose from at the nursery or at the trade-sale. 

One general fact in the treatment of Roees you have plainly in- 
ferred from these directions ; viz., that they should be collected in 
family groups, which should be kept separate as far as possible ; 
not only for convenience in giving them similar treatment, expos- 
ure, soil, pruning, etc., but in comparing individuals, and retaining 
or rejecting them, according to their merits. It would be beautiful 
to have a Rose garden arranged with a bed for each family, the 
size of each bed corresponding to that of the family. . Such a 
garden would be a source of great advantage and satisfaction. I will 
hereafter give a few designs for such gardens. 

The variety of forms that Roses assume when grown according 
to their nature and inclination, is very great, and it is not easy to de- 
scribe or conceive their beauty when allowed to grow in that way. 
We are accustomed to think of them as 
shrubs, or, at the most, low standards ; but 
when we have such plants as those, we are 
lost in astonishment and delight. The pillar 
Rose is grown, as will be hereafter described, 
around a cedar post ; these posts may stand 
in the open lawn, or along the sides of the 
walks in the Rosary, or they may be used at ^ 
the comers of the house, or wherever fancy '^ 
may dictate ; they cannot be out of place, 
and they are beautiful in any position. Quite 
tender Roses may be grown thus, as they can 
be taken down in the fall and covered. By 
pillar Roses are meant the strong-growing, 
•vigorous kinds. 

Climbing Roses are of a strong but pendu- 
lous growth, and are used very efTcctively for walls, arbors, and 
chains. The latter method is rarely used in America, but if once 
introduced, could not fail to be admired and imitated. The Roses 
are grown up to a series of posts, enclosing the garden. Two or 
three shoots, not more, are allowed to grow to the top of the posts. 





610 JUNE. 

When the post is well furnished in the spring, chains are stretched 
fix)m post to post, and allowed to take tlieir 
natural curve, and the next season shoots are 
trained along the diains. By a judidoos 
J jL course of disbudding and cutting back, the 
%r^ ,V^ chains in a single season become entirely en- 
\i^ wrapt. The next season they form festoons of 
flowers from post to post. 

In attempting to give lists of those Roses 
best ^adapted to our climate and purposes, I 
find myself met by various difficulties. In the 
first place we are sadly in want of reliable 
data, as to what varieties will flourish best 
s^ardRoM. hcrc ; different towns and localities suit Roses 
very differently, and when the most careful precautions are taken, 
each person must try for himself, and must expect many dis- 
appointments. Yet every one complains of such lists as those I am 
about to give, that they are too general and indefinite, and do not 
give sufficiently minute directions to enable the reader to decide 
beyond a doubt as to a proper choice. 

But even if it were possible, which it is not, to give such a list 
and such directions as should infallibly meet the wants of each 
reader, another difficulty arises the moment he presents himself, list 
in hand, at a nursery or at a trade-sale. The nursery man is very 
sorry, but though your names are all down on his printed cata- 
logue, he unfortunately has not just now all that you require. He 
is just out, or has ordered, or will order, or those that he has not, 
are, he is sure, too tender or too shy to answer your purpose ; here 
are others that would be a great deal better. 

At a trade-sale you are even worse off", for if you find what you 
want, the chance is, ten to one, that it is in a bundle with half a dozen 
things that you do not want, and you must either lose the one or 
take the whole. I have myself seen at such sales a bundle made 
up of Pio Nono, La Heine, La Marque, and Souvenir de la Mal- 
maison, the first two hardy, the last tender, and the third so delicate 
that it will live in a garden only by great care and attention during 
cold weather. 



FLOWEB-OABDEN. 611 

I shall, however, give you several lists of Roses, the best of their 
kind, describing the families and degree of hardihood, and their 
peculiarities, as far as my space will allow. 

The first are Downing's lists ; the second, those of Mcintosh 
given for Scotland ; and though our climate is more severe than 
that of Scotland, they will thrive with us with such limitations as I 
have added. 

HALF ▲ DOZEN BOURBOK K08B8. 

* Souvenir de Malmaison, pale flesh color. 

Paul Joseph, purplish crimson. 

Hermosa, deep rose 

Queen, delicate fawn color. 

Dupetit Thouars, changeable carmine. 

Acidalie, white. 

BALF ▲ DOSBH BBHOKTANT8 OB PBBPBTUAL8. 

La Reine, deep rose color, very lai^. 

Duchess of Sutherland, pale rose. 

Crimson Perpetual, light crimson. 

Aubemon, brilliant crimson. 

Lady Alice Peel, fine deep pink. 

Madam Dameme, dark crimson. 

These would most of them stand our winters, but would be none 
the worse for a light covering. 

BALF A DOZEN CBXNA BOSE8. 

Mrs. Bosanquet, pale flesh color. 

M'me Breon, rose. 

Eugene Beanhamais, bright crimson. 

Clara Sylvaine, pure white. 

Cramoisie Supi^rieura, brilliant crimson. 

Virginale, blush. 

All half-hardy. If covered in the fall the roots will start anew 
in the spring, but they rarely live uncovered. 

HALF ▲ DOZEN TEA BOBE8. 

Safrano, buds, rich deep fawn. Already 

descnbed. 

SouTenir de mon ami^ salmon shaded with rose. 

Gonbault, bright rose, large and fragrant. 

Devoniensis, creamy white. 

Bongi^re, glossy bronse. 

Josephine Maltoo, shaded white. 

All tender ; the roots will live through the winter if covered. 

BALF A DOZBN HOI8BTTE8. 

Solfaterre, bright sulphur, large ; will not blos- 

som out of a greenhouse. 

• Needs protection in winter. 



612 JUNE. 

Janne Desprei, luge bright fawn, greeahonae. 

Cloth of Gold, pure vellow, " 

Aiiii<$e Vibret, awari in the border yeir tender. 

Fellenberg, brilliant crimson, '^ " 

Joan of Arc, white. 

These Roses should never have been given without the oom- 
ments here appended. 

HALV ▲ oozBM HTBBID8 ; need little protection. 
Ohenedole, Village Maid, Fulgens, 

George IV., Great Western, Blancheflenr, 

Old rod Mo8s, Crested Moss, Qen. Dnbonig. 

Persian Yellow, 

Three best, Souvenir de Malmaison, Old Bed Moss, Gen. Du- 
bourg. 

FOB WALLS IK HOBTHEBH OABDBKS. 

Qneen of Prairie, Baltimore Belle. 

POB BOUTHEBir OABDBITS. 

Rnga Ayrshire, Lanra Davonst, Grerille. 

The following lists are taken from Mcintosh. One word first, 
to those about purchasing Roses. Go to the dealer and buj what 
he has of those on your list, and no more ; the next year of the 
same, and so on tiU jou have them alL Nursery-men, like 
store keepers, wish to suit their customers, and if you insist on 
what you want, you will have it in time, but if you can be per- 
suaded out of it, you will have put upon you instead, whatever has 
been grown with the least trouble, and can be sold at the largest 
profit 

Winter Roses in bloom in November and December, under glass, 

HTBBiD pbbpetual; hardy. 
Comte d'En, Gloire de Rosameae. 

ROISBTTB. 

Fellenberg, Vittellina. 

TBA-SCBHTBD (Perpetual). 

Bride of Abydoi, Laura, 

Nitida, Mondor, 

Fragrans, La Srlphide, 

Goiumttlt, Caroline. 
Nina» 

GBiMSOH oaiNA (Pcrpetnal). 

Alba, Fabrier, 

Bardon, Belle de Florence. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



613 



BOURBOW ; hardy in America. 
Amarantine, Celim^ne, 

Cornice de Seine et ICame, Splendens, 

Hermosa, Queen. 

Jnstine, 

Weeping Roses, wMch, when wrought on stems fix>m 6 to 9 feet 
high, are trained in a pendulous direction to a framework of wood 
or iron. Such Roses are difficult to manage, from the constant 
tendency of the stock to throw out its own buds and suckers, and 
finom that of both stock and bud to die. 

Noisette Da Lnxembonrg, tender ; Hybrid Noisette, Adolph, tender ; well 
covered in winter ; Evergreen, Felicit^ perpetual, warm, moist atmosphere, 

Ktted in winter; Bonrsauit, Amadis, hardy; Hvbrid China, Belle Fleuretta ; 
rdy, but improved by Utter in winter. Ayrshire, Splendens, half hardy ; 
Multiflora Laura Davoust, hardy in summer but needs great care in winter. 
Bourbon, Pierre de St. Cyr, hiurdy. Musk, Princess de Nassau, needs moist, 
warm atmosphere. 



Mrs. Elliot, 



PILLAR OR POLE ROSES. 
HTBBiD PERPETUAL ; a little covering. 
Louis Bonaparte. 
HTBBID CHINA-; a little covering. 



DecandoHe, 
Vingtneuf, 


Petit Pierre. 




dahask; hardy. 


Mad. Hardy, 


La ville de Bmzellds. 




HTBBID CHINA ; cover a little. 


Berenice, 


Ch^n^dole, 

Richelieu, 

JuUlet 




Hoss; hardy. 


Emperor, 
Princess Adelaide, 


Princess Royal. 




HTBBID noisettb; tender. 


Madame Plantier, 


Madeliene. 




HTBBID boubbow; hardy. 


Henri Barbet, 
Victor Hugo, 
Great Western, 


Charles Duval, 
Paul Perras. 


Bouquet de Flore, 
Acidalie, 

Madame Desprez, 
Pierre de St. Cyr, 


boubbok; hardy. 

Amenaide, 
Imperatrice, 
Josephine, 
Mndam Aude. 



52 



614 



JUNK. 



BXHIBITION R06BS, WITB LAROB, FVLL FLOWBBB. 

Felicite Parmentier, Alba (hardy), 

Eugeino BeaaharoaiSp Crimson China (tender). 

TEA-8CBWTED BOURBON ; tender or half-hard j. 

Comte de Paris, Souvenir d'one Amie, 

Triomphe de Luxembourg, Josephine, 

Bougere, Malton, 

Moiret, Sil^ne, 

Devoniensis, La Renomm^. 

china; tender or half-hardj. 

Madam Bit^on, Clara Sjlvain. 

BOURBON ; hardj, if sllghtlj covered. 

Souvenir de Malmaison, Mad. Soucher, 

La Cam^, Le FloriAre, 

AcUlalia, Lichas, 

Mad. N^rard, Dupetit Thouan. 

HYBRID PERPETUAL : cover a little. 



Baronne Prevost, 
La Reine, 
Dr. Marx, 
Count Egmont, 
Rcine de Fleun, 



Mad. Hardy, 
Mad. Soetman's. 



Coupe de H<^, 
Victor Hugo, 
Legouve. 
Comte Boubert, 



CristaU, 

Adrienne de Cardoville, 



Duchess of Sutherland, 

William Jesse, 

Mad. Laifay, 

Robin Hood, 

4>ustnan and hardy Persian Yellow. 

damask; hardy. 

Triumphe de Rouen. 

HYBRID bourbon; hardy. 

Paul Perraa, 
Charles Duval, 
Tippoo Saib, 
Sylvain. 

protencb; hardy. 

Laura. 



Laneii. 
White Bath, 
Louise Colet, 
Comtesse de No^, 



Brennus, 
Galien, 

Comtess Plater, 
Lady Stuart, 



moss; hardy. 
(I have indicated the best moss before.) 

Etna, 

Alice Leroi, 
Blush. 

HYBRID china; cover. 

Ch^n^ole, 
Maijolin, 
Belle Marie. 



FLOW£B*OA.RDEN. 



615 



Dubois Dessanzaifl, 
Pauline Garcia, 



Adble Preyost, 

Berenice, 

Col. Coombs, 

Guillaume Tell. 

La ville de Gand, 

Leo X., 

Ne plus ultra, 

Surpasse tout, 

Sopnie Duval, 

Randolph, 

Omphale, 

La ville de Londrea, 



HYBRID FBBircH; hardy. 

La Yestalle. 
Alette. 

fkbncr; hardy. 

Ohl, 

Belle Rosine, 

Cambronne, 

Celestine, 

Due de Trevise, 

Eclat de Roses, 

Couronne d'Amour, 

Due do Trevise, 

Due de Valmy, 

Franklin, 

Gloire des Amateun, 

Jeanne de Laval. 



Roses for grouping, to produce contrasted colors : — 

BOUBBON ; hardy, slightly covered. 
Armosa, Princess Clemantine, 



Paul Joseph. 



Mrs. Bosanqnet, 
Queen, 

HYBRID china; tender. 

Beauty of Billiard, Belle Thurette. 

HYBRID perpetual; cover. 

Mad. Laffay. 

K0I8KTTE ; tender, but may be kept if covered. 

Miss Glegg, ^ 77 La Pactole. 

damask; hardy. 

Deesseflore. 

CRIMSON china; tender. 

Belle Emilie. 



Fabvier, 

Belle de Florence, 



HYBRID NOISETTE. 

Mad. Plantier. 



CLIMBING ROSES. 

(Those marked 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, II, 12 are of very rapid growth. 

2, 4, 6, 7, 10 are adapted for a shady wall or a northern aspect) 

boursault; hardy. 

1. Amadis, 

Elegans, 

Inermis, 



Drumroond's Thomless, 
2. Red. 



616 jmoL 

atxbhirb; coyer. 
8 Ran. 4. Qneen of the Belgians, 

Splendeiu, Dundee Rambler. 

Coontess of LeTen, 

STEBaRBBw; tender, but will liye if coyered. 

5. Pelidt^ Perpetaelle, Carea Spectabilis, 
Princess Louise, Leopoldine d*Orieans, 

6. BanksiflB Flora, Rampant, 
Carnea Grandiflora. Princess Marie. 

xultiflora; halfhardj. 

7. RusselliaoA, De la Grifferaie. 

8. Graulhie, 

hybrid; hardj, if coyered. 

9. Mme. d'Arblay, Garland. 

moisettb; tender. 

10. Grandiflora, Belle d'Esqnermes. 
Du Luxembourg, 

RUBIFOLIA. 

11. Beauty of the Prairie. 
XU8K ; moist climate, half hardy. 
12. Princess de Nassau, Eponine. 

ROSES FOR COVERING ROCKS AND ROUGH BANKS. 
These are, as I have said, only possible with careful treatment ; 
they may be covered with earth like Raspberries. 

ATRSHINB AND BTBROREEN. ^ 

Leopoldine d 'Orleans. Thoresbyana, 

Alice Gray, Rampante, 

Lovely Rambler, Countess of Leyen. 
Felicitd Perpetuelle. 

VERY SWEET SCENTED ROSES. 

Minerva, Gonbautt, 

Riego Aubemon, Louis Puget, 

Adam (tea-scented), Fuleoric, 

Hamon, " Rachel, 

Belle Allemande (tearscented). Gen. Dubois (a rather single, but very 

Belle Fabert, fragrant and valuable Bourbon). 
Clementine Seringe (H. P.), 

YELLOW ROSES. 

H0I8ETTB; tender. 

Clara Wendell, Pactolus. 

Solfaterre, 

AUSTRIAN; hardy. 
Harrisonii, Persian Yellow. 



FLOWER-OABDEN. 



617 



TBA-scBMTBB ; tender, but may be coyered. 
Kliza SanvAge, Vicomtesse de CazeA, 

Safrano, Princess Adelaide, 

Devoniensis, Pellonia. 

Diana Vernon, 

no8A 8ULPHURBA ; coTored in ifvinter, soil rather rich, and an open and dry 

exposure. 

ROSES WITH MOTTLED OR STRIPED FLOWERS; hardy ; summer 

bloomers. 



Perle des Panach^, 
Rosa Mundi, 
Village Maid, 
New French, 

Mad. Campan (rosa alba), 
Panache pleine (moss). 
Due d'Orleaiis (French), 
Donna Sol, " 

Aramis (French; hardy). 
Due de Bassano, " 
Comte de Maurinais (hardy), 
Omphale, " 

Superb Marbled, 



white, striped with rose, 
white and carnation. 

white, striped with rose and purple; pendulous, 
chocolate and slate, with red, spotted centre, 
vivid rose, mottled with dove, 
white, striped with rose, 
cherry rose, with white spots, 
purplish rose, spotted with white ; pendulous, 
white, stripped with rose, 
crimson and violet marbled, 
slate with blush, and chocolate spotted. 
rosj pink, and spotted with white, 
vivid crimson marbled with purple (Gen. Daner- 
moor.) 



The following is a select list of much esteemed varieties, ar- 
ranged alphabetically ; those marked P. are strong growers, and 
good for pyramids, poles, or pillars, and it includes most of the finest 
Roses in cultivation. 



Adam Paul, 



rose colored, 
white. 



P. Acidalie, 

Aim<^ Vibert, 

Aristobule, crimson, 

Antenor, rose, 

Alexandrine Bachme- bright red, 

teff, 
Angeline Granger, P^^^; 

Aaguste Mee, light pink, 

P.Au^nstine Monchelet 
Aramis, striped, 

Archiduc Charles, rose, 

Abricot^, apricot, 

Adam, blush, 

Adelaide d'Orleans, creamy. 

Beauts Lyonnaise, rose and white, 
Blanche Lafitte, white and flesh, 
P. BoquetdeFlore, light carmine, 
Blanche de Beau- white and rose. 



hardy, 

tender, 

hardy, 

<* 


Hyb. Perp. and 

Provence. 

Bourbon. 

Noisette. 

Moss. 

French. 

Hyb. Perp. 


hardy. 


II 


hardy, . 
tender. 


French. 

China. 

Tea-scented, 
fi 


hardy if covered. 


Everig:reen. 
Bourbon Perp^ 



hardy, 



Blanche de Porte- 

mer, 
Bernard, 



pale blush, 

salmon, 
62* 



Hyb. Perp. 



Damask Perp. 



618 



JUNE. 



BanksiiB Flora, 


white, 


tender. 


BanksU. 


Bernard Palisgy, 


deep rose striped 








with purple. 


hardy if covered, 


Hyb. Bourbon. 


Beauty of Billiard, 


vivid scarlet. 


hardy. 


Hyb. China. 


P. Blairii, 


bright rose tinged 








with lake. 


« 


<« 


P. Brennus, 


brilliant crimson, 


half hardy. 


<« 


Bizarre Marbree, 


marbled. 


hardy. 


French. 


Boalade Nanteuil, 


crimson purple, 


it 


•< 


Blanche flenr, 


white, 


«t 


Hyb. FroT. 
" Perp. 


Baron ne Heckeren, 


rosy pink, 


« 


Baronne Prevost, 


pale rose, 
lignt crimson. 


u 


« •< 


Beranger, 


$4 


« « 


Catherine de 








Wirtemberg, 


rose, 


tt 


lf08S. 


Celina, 


rich carmine, 


<( 


«< 


Comte Plater, 


creamy white. 


« 


Hybrid French. 


Comtesse de Segur, 


clear flesh. 


« 


•< <4 


Chtfn^ole, 


brilliant light car- 








mine, 


l( 


" Bourbon, 


Comteue Lacepide, 


violet purple. 


hardy if covered. 


Hybrid China. 


Charles Duval, 


bright rose. 


hardy. 


" Bourbon. 


P. Coupe d'H^b^, 


delicate bright rose, 


tt 


«■ << 


P. Grivelii, 


bright red. 


tender, 


Mulriflora. 


Crimson Superb, 


deep crimson, 


half hardy if coT'd, 


China. i 


Caroline de Sansal, 


blush, 


hardy. 


Hyb. Perpetoai. 


Charles Boissiere, 


crimson. 


hardy if covered. 


Bourbon, 


Chateaubriand, 


glossy pink. 


hardy. 


Hyb. Perpetual. i 


Cherean, 


cherry, 


« 


" 


Colonel Lorry, 


brilliant red, 


i( 


Damask Perpetual 


Cymedor, 


dark red, peculiar. 


«i 


Hyb. 


Comte de Nauteuil, 


deep cnmson. 




Bourbon. 


Comte Montalivet, 


dark violet, 


^ tt 


Hyb. Perpetual. 


Comtesse Duchatel 




hardy. 


^ tt'^ 


Comtesse Batthi- 








ani, 


flesh. 


It 


<« 


Ceres, 


glossy rose, 


hardy if covered. 


Bourbon. i 


Cerise ponrpre. 


purplish crimson. 


tender, 


Tea-scented. 


Cezanne Souchet, 


blush and rose. 


hardy if covered. 


Bourbon. 


Charles Souchet, 


crimson purple. 


^ « 


" 


Comte de Bobrin- 








isky. 


«< 


« 


Bourbon Dwarf. 


Comte de Paris, 


rose lilac. 


« 


Hyb. Perpetual. / 


Cloth of Gold, 


yellow, 


tender. 


Noisette. 


Devoniensis, 


straw and buff. 


«< 


Tea-scented. 


Dupetit Thouars, 
D'Assas, 


brilliant crimson, 


hardy if covered, 


Bourbon. 


dark violet spotted, 


hardy. 


French. 


Diodore, 


red to pink. 


(« 


Moss Perpetual 


Dr. Amal, 


bright rose. 


hardy if coTered, 


Hybrid 



Duchess de Mont- delicate rose, 

pensier, 

Duch. d 'Orleans, blush and pink, 

" of Sutherland, bright rose mottled. 

Due d'Aumale, rose, 

Dometille Becar, rosy blush. 

Due de Trevise, velvet crimson. 



" Hybrid Provencei 

" " Perpetual 

hardy if protected, Bourbon, 
hanly, Provence. 

French. 



FLOWBR-GABDEN. 



619 



P. Deri^^, 
T>e 1a GrifTerie, 
£ug^ne NapoI^OD, 
SblouUsante de la 

guerre, 
Sag^ne Sne, 
£dward Defosse, 
£nfant d'Ajaccio, 

£liza Sanvage, 

Engenie Desgaches, 

Earl Talbot, 

Fairr Queen, 

Ferdinand Deppe, 

P. Frederick U., 

Fulg^ns, 

Felicity Parmen* 
tier, 

Fringed Provence 
or Crested Moss, 

Gen. Foy, 
" Bertrand, 
" Changamier, 
" Bernard, 
** Jacqueminot, 
" Negrier, 
" Cavaignac, 
" Bedeaa, 
" Castellane, 
" Drouet, 

Gloire de France, 
** de Colmar, 
" de Coulines, 

Garabaldi, 

Gracilis, 

Geant de Bataille, 

Graziella, 

George Cuvier, 



pink blush, 

rose to blush, 

rosy crimson, 

dark velvety crim* 

son, 

red roie, 

fresh pink, 

bright cherry. 



hardy, 
tender, 
'hardy, 



Hybrid French. 

Multiflora. 

French. 



Hybrid Perpetual 
hardy if covered, Bourbon, 

tender or half hardy 

if covered, Indica. 

tender, Tea-scented. 



salmon yellow, 

bright rose, 

rose and lilac, hardy Hybrid Perpetual, 
glossv lilac " " 
rose 'color, " " " 
deep purple crim., hardy if protected. Hybrid Bourbon. 
' — •' " China. 



crimson velvet, 
rosy blush. 



hardy, 
hardy. 



Alba. 



Provence. 
French. 



rose pink, 

purple, / 

white striped lilac, 

violet purple, hardy if protected, Hybrid Perpetual. 

Kardv « PKfna 



dove centre, crim., 
deep purple, 
rosy blush, 
rosy pink, 
bright red, 
brilliant crimson, 
crimson and purple, 
deep rose, 
crimson, 
carmine, 
bright crimson, 
bright pink, 
crimson, 
brilliant pink, 
rosy cherry, 
Georges de France, salmon and yellow, 
George IV., deep velvety crim., 

Henry Lecoque, deep carmine, 

Herman Kegel, 

Harmonii, yellow, 

Hermosa, pale rose, 

Je me maintiendnd, rosy pink, 
Jupiter ponctne, bright velvety crim.. 



^ hardy. 



hardy. 



China. 
Perpetual. 



" China. 
French 



" Hybrid China, 

hardy if covered, " Bourbon, 
hardy, Boursault. 

" Hybrid Perpetual. 



Juno, 

Jannfttre, 
ft 

Inermis, 

Isocrate, 
Jacques Lafitte, 
James Veitch, 
Jeanne d'Arc, 
Joseph De Caisne, 



pale rose, 
primrose, 
fawn colored, 
deep rose, 
brignt red, 

rose, 
bright rose, 

rose, , 

pale blush, 

satin-like rose. 



hardy if protected, 
, tender 
hardy, 
hardy if protected^ 


, Bourbon. 
Tea. 
Hybrid China. 
, Bourbon. 


h«dy. 

• « 
« 


Austrian. 
Bourbon. 
French. 


•< 

tender, 
« 


Hybrid China. 

Banksia. 

Evergreen. 

Hybrid Perpetual. 

Boursault. 
Hybrid Perpetual, 



620 



JUNB. 



Julia, 

Laarii, 

La ville de Londres, 

La ville de Bmx- 

elles. 
Lucr^ce, 

La ville de Gand, 
Letitia, 
Lattrayaote, 
LasCasas, 
Laura Davonst, 
La Reine, 
Lady Stuart, 
Lion de Combat, 
LouiM Odier, 
Louine Peronne, 
Leonore d'Este, 
La favorite. 
La Sylphide, 
La Pactole, 
La Marque, 



cnmson, 

rosy crimson, 

rose, 

briffht rose, 

pale rose, 

bnlliant rose, 

deep rose, vemed, 

nankin, 

rose pink, 

rose, 

rose, 

delicate rose, 

crimson and purple, 

bright rose, 

bright silver pink, 

flesh, 

deep rose, 

blush, 

vellow, 

pale yellow. 



half hardy if cov'd, 
hardy, 



hardy if protected, 
tender, 
hardy, 



Melanie Willermoz, 
Mad. - 



Ogier, 
" D\ArbUy, 
" Sylvester, 
" Br^n, 
" Bosanqnet, 
" Angelina, 
" Souchet, 
" Tripet, 
" Campan, 
" Andry, 
" Fremion, 
" Hiliare, 
" P. Trudeaux, 
'• Legras, 
** Hardy. 
'* Zoutman, 
'* Lamorissi^re, 
'• Alboni, 
" P. Audot, 

Menoux, 

Matthew Mole, 

Mrs. Elliot, 

Mrs. Rivers, 

Marianne, 

Napoleon, 

Nephetos, 

Narcisse, 

Ohl, 

Oeilletparfatt, 



white, 
flesh. 



hardy if covered, 
(< 

hardy, 

hardy if covered, 

tender. 

very tender, 

tender unless well 

protected, 

hardy. 



Noisette. 

Moss. 

Hybrid PTOvcBee^ 

Damask. 

Alba. 

French. 

Hybrid ChinaL 

Hybrid Bonibon. 

Musk. 

Hybrid Perpetual 
<t it 

« (• 

Bourb. Perpetual. 
Hybrid PerpetoaL 

*. it 

Bourbon. 

Tea-scented. 

Noisette. 



tender, 

half hardy, 

hardy if protected, 



hardy, 



white,yellow centre, 

rose, 

flesh. 

white and fawn, 

rose carmine, 

dark roi«e. 

bright rose, spotted, 

dan rosy crimson. 

light carmine, 

rosy blush, 

bright rose, 

pure white, 

white, 

delicate flesh, 

light rose, 

blush, 

rosy lilac. 

crimson. 

rosy cnmson. 

bright " , 

rile flesh, 
bright rose, ^ ^ 

blush, mot. with pink, half hardy if cov'd. 



Hybrid Prorenoe. 
Hybrid Perpetoai 

Tea-scented. 

China. 

Bourbon. 



hardy if protected. 



hardy, 
I* 

hardy if protected. 



P. Princess 
laide, 



Ade- 



pure white, 

pale yellow, 

violet purple, 

varic^ted white, 

striped with crim., 

yellow, 



tendei 
« 

hardy, 



tender, 



Alba. 
Hybrid PerpetnaL 



Alba. 

Damaak. 

i( 

Hybrid PerpetnaL 

Moss. 

Bourbon. 

Hybrid Climb. 

French. 

Hybrid Perpetoai. 

Hybrid Provence. 

Bourbon. 

China. 

Tea-scented. 
(« 

Fkvnch. 



Tea-scented. 



PLOWEB-OABDEN. 



621 



Adelaide, 

Princess 
tine, 



Clemen- 



Princess Boyal, 
'* Lamballe, 
" Marie, 



pale glossy rose, 

flowers in clusters, Moss. 

deep rosy purple, hardy if protected, Bourbon, 

pure white, hardy, Provence. 



coppery white, 
De Nassau, yellowish straw, 



Alba. 
Tea-scented. 



hardy, 



hardy^ 



tender, 
hardy. 



pure white, " 

tender, 
tender unless 
well protected, 

Pierre Jaussens, scarlet, shaded with 
crimson, 

Perie des Pana- white, striped with 

ch^s, rose, " 

Paul Porras, brilliant rose, hardy if protected. Hybrid Bourbon 

Paul Ricaut, rosy crimson, " ** " 

P. President Mole, pale rose, 

Persian Yellow, yellow, 

P. Pius IX., purplish red, 

Paul Dupuy, bright velvety crimson. 

Prince I>eon Kots- 

choubay (extra), bright crimson, 

Reveil, cherry red, shaded 

with violet, 

Robin Hovel, brilliant, 

Rosine, clear rose, 

Reine des Fleurs, pale lilac, 

Reine blanche, 

Rose du Roi, 

Reine d*Angleterro, rosy blush, " 

Rose Aimable, rosy pink, " 

Semiramis, fawn in centre to pink, ** 

Sylvain, bright crimson, hardy if protected. 

Souvenir de la reine 
des Beiges, red and carmine, hardy. Hybrid Perpetual. 

Standard de Mar- 
engo, brilliant crimson, " " " 

Souvenir de Leve- 
son Gower, dark red to ruby, " " ** 

Salvator Rosa, very red, ** 

Souchet, deep crimson, hardy if protected, 

Souvenir de Mal- 
maison, white, " 

Souvenir de I'Ex- 
position, dark crimson, " 

Safrano, copper yellow. 

Souvenir d'un ami, salmon and rose, 

Solfaterre, cream white, 

Triurophe de bol- 
rollycr, cream, 

Triumphe du Lux- 
embourg, buff rose, 

Triumphe de Paris, dark velv. crimson, 
" de Jaus- 
sens, vivid rosy crimson, 



Musk. 
French. 



Austrian. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



Bourbon. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 

Musk. 
Hydrid Perpetual. 



French. 
« 

Damask. 
Bourbon. 



Bourbon. 



half hardy. 


Tearscented. 


tender. 


Noisette. 


half hardy, 
hardy. 


Tea-scented. 
Hybrid Perpetual. 



French. 



622 



JUNB. 



UDiqae Panache, white, striped with 








pink, 


htAj. 


Prormce. 


Unique de PiX)Tence, 
WilUam Jesse, 


pure white, 


a 


Mom. 


li^ht crimson, 


i< 


Hybrid PerpetnaL 


White Batb, 


pure white. 


«i 


Moaa. 


William Griffiths, 




« 




WilUam IV., 


UTdyred, 


« 


Frendi. 


Vesta, 


scariet, 


<« 


M 


Vi^illard, 


delicate rose, 


tt 


Moaa. 


Vicomte Cnssy, 


cherry. 


hardy if protected. 


Bourbon. 


Vicomtesse de 








Cazes, 


yellow rich. 




Tea-scented. 


P. Vivid (Panl's), 


Yivid crimson. 


<« 


Hybrid BoQiboiL 



It will be observed on comparing these lists, that the same name 
is often repeated, but it is always in different connections, and to il- 
lustrate different peculiarities in the Rose. The last list is general, 
and gives a very perfect collection. 

Many of those which are marked tender, it may be well to try 
out of doors, after you -have gained experience by the culture of 
those whose hardihood you are sure of, for sometimes a slight ad- 
vantage of exposure, a little careful protection will enable a ten- 
der Rose to thrive ; and by some care in getting varieties from 
seed, in budding, etc^ the constitution of the most tender may be 
hardened. 

The limits of the careful gardener's powers, have not yet been 
discovered, and the field of improvement extends farther, and 
promises more in Roses than in any other flower. 



CHAPTER LXVn. 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 



June ends all spring planting in the kitchen-garden. We no 
longer talk about early planting ; all seeds planted now are for suc- 
cession and late crops. 

After the first of this month, nature is in a hurry, and by the 
15th, whether the season has b^en early or late, things are in about 
the same state of advance, year after year. 

In the hotbeds there should be, by the second week, abundance 
of Cucumbers, and good-sized Melons ; the vines as they grow 
over the frames, should be pinched off, to check the sap ; hurry the 
fruit and keep the vines within bounds. Every kind of crop may 
be removed from the hotbeds. The Tomato plants will be very 
large, if the secondary frame was set over the first, as directed in 
the notice of hotbeds. 

Make beds of Cardoons, setting the plants 4 feet apart each 
way ; take the plants from the seedbeds and frames, With great 
care, and by no means nip off the end, or mutilate the leaves. 
Shade the plants when set out, with an inclined shingle, so as to 
break the sun's rays ; it is on its leaves that the plant is to depend 
for attaining full size. If its roots are well developed, and. it is 
well planted, shaded and watered, it will be able to maintain the 
leaves, and will thrive accordingly. 

AU the plants before enumerated, which were sown in the seedbeds, 
may be now transplanted for the last time. It will be well to shade all 
the large plants if possible, particularly Tomatoes, and also to water 
them in the evening for a few days; they will soon establish them- 
selves. 

Cabbages, Cauliflowers, and similar plants, should be set out be- 
fore a rain. 

The final transplanting of the young herbs will take place 

623 



624 JUNE. 

towards the last of the month. The more shnibbj variedes, like 
Sage, Lavender and others, may be used to make an edging to the 
walks, or division lines for the beds. Cuttings of the old plants 
can be struck in any shady, moist place. Some of the heii)s will 
be fit for cutting the last of the month. Cut just as they are in fall 
flower ; they are then richest. 

The early-planted Cabbages, Lettuces, Cauliflowers, etc^ most 
be hoed and hilled a little. Lettuce plants will head much belter 
for several transplantings, and also for hoeing ; so too, with Cab- 
bages. The earliest Cabbages will be fit to use next month ; Let^ 
tuce will be in fine condition for the table all this month. 

As soon as the Asparagus begins to get spindling and stringy, . 
cease to cut it. It is very poor economy to cut it too long, the 
pennanent yield is impaired by so doing. 

Hoe the Com as soon as it is well out of the ground. The first hoe- 
ing you may draw a very little earth round it, but never afterwards. 

All the vegetables are benefited by occasional hoeings, even when 
.the weeds do not demand it Breaking the surface of the earth 
lets in the air and rain, induces the earth to absorb gases freely, 
and promotes early and large condensations of dew. 

The eariiest Peas will soon be in blossom, and the latest should 
be sown. You will not get a large, yield from any Peas sown this 
month, as they do not get into blossom till the weather is too hot 
for them to thrive. 

About the third week in June, plant pickle crops of Cucumbers, 
Mangoes, etc The plants of Bed Pepper and Martinyia, should 
be transplanted from the hotbeds, the first of the month. Make in 
a good place, out of doors, a Mushroom bed. The weather will now 
. be warm enough to insure, with frequent waterings, large returns. 
Hoeing the Sweet Potatoes increases the crop very much. 

Hoe and clean the Irish Potatoes. Two or three times each 
week, examine the Melons, Cucumbers, and Squashes, for bugs. 
The troublesome ones are very small, striped black and yellow. 
They perceive the approach of a man long before he reaches them, 
by the jarring of the earth, and will either drop to the ground, or 
crawl under the leaf; turn the leaf and pick them off. When the 
vines are fairly freed, dust the plants with plaster of Paris ; renew 



KITCHEN-OARDEN. 625 

the examination and application as often as twice a week, until the 
vines are grown beyond danger of injuxy. The large squash-bugs 
oome later, and are to be removed in the same waj. 

Any work directed last month, and not completed, should be fin- 
ished as soon as possible. As jou use up small Salads, sow more. 

The early Radishes will be gone, and you will now draw those 
sown with the Carrots and Parsnips. As soon as the Carrots are 
well developed, thin to 6 inches, and Parsnips to 9 inches, Jong 
Blood Beets 9 inches. Turnip Beets 6 inches. As the Artichokes 
grow, remove all small side heads and suckers, that the principal 
heads may be more perfect. The perfection will be shown by the 
gradual opening of the scaler, and the heads should be picked 
before the flower shows in the centre. As soon as the principal 
heads are grown, cut the stems down to the earth. 

Sow Cabbage seed for the iato crops. Sow seeds of Drum- 
head, Savoy, and Red Cabbage. Spinach will be fit to gather dur- 
ing the month. 

Such plants as have been set out for seed, Radishes, Carrots, 
Onions, etc., will now have thrown up the seed stem, and are about 
ready to flower. Tie each stem to a stick, or set a stake at each 
end of the row, and connect the stakes with a rod, to which the 
heads can be tied. It is said that when .the young Onions do not 
swell, but grow too much to tops, they may be induced to swell by 
bending the tops down. 

Celery may be set out for the earliest crop. The latest must be 
set in July. By no means plant in trenches, but set it in rich, 
deep soil, flat, as you would a tree. Then let it, and all similar 
plants, grow freely without hilling, until it has long, well-developed 
leaves ; then hold the leaves up and hill it. This must be done in 
dry weather, after the dew is off^ or the Celery will rust! When 
set in trenches, the roots are too far below the sun in the autumn, 
and when hilled before the leaves are pretty large, they are choked, 
and, however long they grow, never get large, thick buts. 

As the Tomatoes advance, do not put straw under them, or tie 
them up to sticks, but let the branches extend out over the ground. 
As the plants grow large and commence to ripen, in August, it 

53 



626 jiTim. 

is very well to work straw in under the frail and abont tbe 
branches. 

Weeds are now a fertile source of discomfort; the earlier and 
younger you take them, the easier it is to destroy them, and the 
better for the plants. Every weed is a thief, who ought to be ap- 
prehended before his rascality is accomplished. 

If June is dry, all the young plants will be benefited bj oocar 
sional copious waterings, and particularly if the water is somewhat 
enriched with guano or other manure. 

As the Strawberries ripen, gather ; and do not be troubled if tiie 
robins get a few. 

The Cherries will ripen about the first of July. It is difficult 
to get thorough protection against birds, unless the trees are cov- 
ered with nets ; but some advantage may be gained by the ose of 
scarecrows. Those made of old clothes, etc, to represent men 
and women, are no protection against small birds ; they are quite 
useful in Com fields to drive away crows, who are over sagaeioiis 
and deceive themselves, but little birds do not mind them ; hot set 
light poles, inclined at a considerable angle, in the tree, and tie 
them firmly to a branch. They must be long enough to project 
well beyond the tree ; suspend to the loose end some strings, to 
which are tied pieces of tin, hung so that they may sometimes 
strike against each other. The noise frightens the birds, and still 
more, the light reflected from the dancing tin ; T>n bright days thb 
expedient is very effective ; in bad weather only the noise is of 
any service. 

Shooting does no good ; you may kill a few birds, each of whom 
would have eaten 10 or 15 pounds of worms before winter, but 
their places will be soon supplied by others. As I have said, the 
effective guard is a net. Common mosquito netting is rather 
fragile and troublesome ; a net made of packthread, which would 
entirely cover the tree, and could be drawn in tightly about the 
trunk, would admit light and air, and keep off the birds, and if 
well dried after using, and then laid away, the same net would last 
for many years. This is easily done with espaliered trees. 

Apricots should be thinned this month ; thin as directed in the 
grapery. 



KITCHEN-OARDEN. 627 

Watch the espaliered trees ; pinch off all bad shoots, such as 
have been already described, and disbud where buds are formed, 
which would be ill-placed next year. ' Tie down the shoots as they 
grow, that they may not get too rigid and stiff. 

Thin the Peaches and Nectarines ; they are not good for pies, 
as the Apricots are ; but the value, and indeed quantity of the 
crop, will be increased by wise thinning. 

Watch the Plum-trees narrowly. This is the month for the cur- 
culio. Mosquito netting will protect the fruit ; and all that which 
drops should be carefully removed. 

Thin the Pears ; all these fruits should be thinned from one-half 
to two-thirds of the fruit which sets, and the culls should be re- 
moved, not left on the ground to decay. 

The first of the month you will find a marked benefit if you 
surround all your fruit-trees from 3 to 4 inches deep, and as wide 
as the circle of the branches, with a mulch ; use old tan, wood 
chips, straw> or hay. 



CHAPTER LXVin. 

OBCHARD. 

The orchard is but little trouble in June. Thinning the Peacheci, 
Apricots, Nectarines, and Pears, should be carefuUj done; tha 
Cherry-trees must be watched, and the fruit gathered and mar- 
keted. 

The Apples would in many cases be benefited by thinning, but 
the size of the tree and the quantity of the crop prevent very 
careful thinning, as it would take more time and expense than the 
advantage to the fruit would warrant 

As soon as the fodder crop sown in the orchard is sufficiently 
advanced to admit of it, turn in the old sow and her litter of pigs 
to fatten. Previously, hints for mulching were given. 

If the orchard is under a fodder crop, you cannot mulch, but if 
uncultivated, mulch by all means. Cover the whole surface with 
hay or straw, if possible. Salt hay is the best ; rain washes the 
salt into the earth : the hay or straw packs closely over the earth, 
and shields it from the sun's rays ; evaporation can take place but 
slowly, and no matter how dry the season, land so protected wiU 
be cool and moist. 

A thick mulch of old chips and river waste was found by Mr. 
H. W. S. Cleveland, formerly a large Pear grower in New Jersey, 
a preventive against cracks in the fruit, to which it also imparted 
superior flavor, at the same time that it increased the smoothness 
of the bark. 

He found, too, that native Grapes, previously much injured by 
rot and mildew, were saved from such diseases by the mulch. It 
should be, when settled, 5 or 6 inches thick, and if it is, straw or 
hay must be put on at first double that thickness. In the fall it 
should be drawn back from the trunks of the trees, to prevent mice 
from harboring in the straw, and under its cover feeding on the 

628 



ORCHARD. 629 

trees in winter. I have known men who thought themselves good 
farmers, spread straw under the trees towards the time of the' 
ripening of the fruit, to prevent its getting bruised bj falling on 
the ground. If they had spread it in the spring, thej would have 
<lone better. 

If you cannot afford to mulch the whole area of the orchard, 
mulch around each tree, as far as the branches extend. If the 
orchard is set, where no orchard should be, in a wet, undrained 
place, a mulch would be injurious, as it would keep the earth too 
wet ; and in springy land, well drained, it would be less valuable, 
as the springs will give water enough, and the sun's rays are de- 
sirable, to warm the earth. 
5S* 



CHAPTER LXIX. 

THE FARM. 

Evert fanner is now in full tide of woi^. Those wbo grow 
sheep, in addition to their other work, must shear earlj in the 
month. The sheep must be driven home, taken to the washing 
place or trough, washed, assorted, sheared, clipped, marked, then 
turned out to their lambs. The wool is rolled up, weighed, packed 
and stored for market The whole process/uUj exercises the care 
and patience of the farmer and all his men, and it is to be the 
principal source of revenue for the jear. The careless fanner 
turns his sheep, when shorn, out to the lambs,»and then sends boCh 
off to pasture, where the poor creatures must take their chance of 
weather till the new wool has started sufficiently to protect. His 
sheep naturally take cold and contract diseases, which are the cause 
of loss to him sooner or later ; a danger which may be mostly 
avoided by housing them after shearing, and on the approach of 
storms, and rubbing their bodies with refuse lard. 

This interlude coming at the heel of planting hurries the fanner 
very much, and materially deranges his economies if the season 
has been late, but on this very account, it is only the better test of 
excellence in farming, and a proof of the smoothness with which 
the affairs of the good farmer run. 

We have no sheep to care for ; those which we had in the win- 
ter being sold as soon as they were fattened. Our only live stock 
which need constant attention, are the cows and calves. 

The summer cows have been calving through May, some of them 
in June even. Examine each calf as it arrives ; if a heifer, see 
how it is marked and formed. If your eye has been trained, yoa 
will not easily be deceived, even in a new-bom animal, at least yoa 
can decide on its merits before it is three days old. If you are not 
practised in judging of stock, buy 6uenon*s Treatise on the Maries 

690 



THE FARM. 681 

of Cattle. Tlioogh often sneered at bj '< practical men," and not in- 
fallible, it gives principles to guide your selection which are of great 
▼alue, and will prove correct in the vast majority of cases. Li ex- 
amining a great many cows, I have not found one exception to his 
rules. Flint's Dairy Book will also be an aid to the farmer in the 
selection and treatment of cattle. All our calves will be Devon 
(direct, or crossed with stock we like), and as we wish to increase 
our stock, and have served our cows carefully, we shall raise every 
promising calf. Any which do not promise well, we shall either fat 
for veal, or kill when 3 days old. At that time the skin is valuable, 
and each day's delay in killing those which are unprofitable to raise 
or convert into veal, is a dead loss. 

The male calves, if full blooded, are to be still more carefully 
examined ; indeed, we should not decide how to dispose of them 
till they are some weeks old. Meantime feed them as well as you 
can. If we, or any of our neighbors, will want a new bull next 
year, or the year after that, select the one which is the'best blooded 
in all respects, has the best ancestors (much depends on the milk- 
ing qualities of the female ancestry), and promises best for breed- 
ing. The rest are to be killed for veal when fat, or grown for 
beef and work, if fit for such purposes. You remember that I said 
when speaking of Devon beef, that it is the better for having done 
some work. 

Every farmer finds a difficulty in raising calves economically, 
and this arises, I think, from the general greediness for gain. The 
calves are grudged the milk which they take from sale of butter, 
and, consequently, all kinds of devices are resorted to to grow 
calves at a small cost Now one thing is settled: nothing for 
nothing ; a calf fed on weak, poor food, will make a coarse, poor 
animal, and the few cents saved in its infancy will cause a loss of 
many dollars in its maturity. 

If you want fine cows or oxen, feed them abundantly and well 
during their earliest months. This will strengthen their constitu- 
^ons, and they will afterwards thrive on poor pastures and less 
fbod. But stint them in their youth, and if they live, they will be 
BO better than Pharaoh's lean kine. 

In Scotland, and many parts of England, calves are raised as fol- 



632 JtTNB. 

lows : as soon as some cow selected for the purpose brings a calf, 
another calf of the same age is bought, and <me is tied on each 
side of the stall where the cow is, so that it can barely reach her 
bag. For a daj or two she shows dislike of the new comer, but 
soon becomes wonted. The two calves suck the cow dry in a sh<nt 
time,. and are then removed till time for tlie next meaL As they 
grow they are also fed on cut Potatoes, Hay, etc In 8 or 10 weekn 
these calves are removed, and two others take their place, and arp( 
treated in the same way. It depends on the time at which the oow 
calved, whether she can bring up more than two sets ; if she has 
still milk, though it be only enough for one calf, let her fatten it. 

In this way calves get great size and early maturity at a cost 
which is really small. The expense of the cow for the time is not 
more than $1 per week, and in 10 weeks, or for $10, she will have 
brought two calves into a fine, healthy condition, so that they can 
feed themselves. If you do not like to use your choice cows for the 
purpose, buy a more ordinary animal. 

C. F. Heard writes to the Country Gentleman, that he takes his 
calves away from the cow when three days old, and teaches them 
to drink by putting his fingers into their mouths, and then lowering 
his hand into the pail. Afler they have learned to drink, he gives 
them 4 quarts of milk, rooming and night ; new milk for 4 weeks ; ^ 
new, ^ skim, with a little meal, for the next 2 weeks ; then all 
skim and more meal, for some time longer. He gives Barley, Rye, 
or bolted Oatmeal, but not Indian, as. that makes them scour. At 
the end of about 8 weeks, he gives sour milk from the cheese-press, 
or chum, and continues this as long as he has it, with some Meal, 
some Hay, and what Grass they will eat. In the fall he houses 
them to keep them warm, gives sofl Hay, cut Turnips, wind-fall 
Apples, etc. ; during the winter he gives Hay and Turnips. His 
calves weigh 600 to 800 pounds the first year, and on good feed, 
900 to 1,000 pounds at 2 years old ; at S years old, 1,200 to 1,400 
pounds, and, when matured, 2,000 pounds and upwards. 

I think either of these methods will produce the desired resuh. 
The first gives the least trouble, although it will not succeed unless 
the calves are in the charge of a competent and careful man, and I 
do not doubt that is the cheapest 



THE FARM. 633 

Butter. — During this and the next two months, we must make 
our butter and cheese for the season. I do not mean that none is 
to be made at any other season, but the butter made off good, fresh 
feed, keeps better, and is higher flavored^han that of any other 
season. 

Our milkroom is near the farm-house, which stands near the 
farm barn (see the general plan). The building is small, at a 
little distance from the back of the farm-house, faces the north, is 
well ventilated and shaded ; its windows are covered with wire 
gauze to shut out flies. The shelves are of slate slabs, | of an 
inch thick and 18 inches wide ; of course they can easily be kept 
clean and sweet, which is very important. The floor is also made 
of slate slabs, and the rooms are in addition kept sweet and clean 
by whitewash* The temperature will range throughout the sumr 
mer between 60° and 65^. In the centre is a well of constant 
cold water. 

Morning and night, during summer, the milk is carried directfy 
to the milkroom or dairy, where it is strained into pans and at 
once set on the shelves, in charge of the dairy-woman. It is kept 
cool for at least 12 hours, and skimmed before it begins to sour; 
the cream put into jugs, till enough is collected to begin churning. 
No doubt sour curded cream will make butter, but the best butter 
comes from cream which is but slightly acid. 

The dairy- woman selects such a chum as suits her — one of the 
rotary kinds. 

^ The chum is not soaked over night ; but in the morning pat 
in a quart of boiling water, chum it 1 minute, then put in a pail- 
ful of 'cold water to remain in the chum 5 minutes, and the chum 
is ready for use. As soon as you have done with it, wash it well, 
dry it, and put it in a dry place. Churning should be done in the 
moming, while it is cool. Rapid churning is not the best ; but if 
the cream is acid and of the right temperature, it will require less 
than half an hour. The temperature of the cream to churn best 
should be 62^. If the cream is not acid, put it in a warm place 
for a short time to make it so. Never scald the milk or cream ; it 
gives a peculiar flavor, and is useless labor. I use tin pans to set 
my milk, because they are light to handle and are easily kept 



634 JUNB. 

sweet and clean. The first cream that rises is best both in flsiTor 
and color." 

^'The milk should not be set more than 24 hours, and it is 
better if skimmed ii^l2 hours, as what little might be lost in 
quantity would be gained in quality." 

^ The cream should be kept in stone or glass jars, or well-glazed 
or enammelled ware, as the acid corrodes common coarse glazing, 
and it imparts poison to the cream." 

"^ The cream should not be covered, except by a gauze which 
will not exclude air. I put an oi^nce of salt into a 3 gallon jar, 
when I begin to fill it with cream, and stir the cream well morn- 
ing and night. It should not be kept more than a week. 

^ As soon as the butter has come, I draw off the buttermilk, and 
remove the butter into a long wooden tray. Then I preds out the 
buttermilk with hard-wood clappers (it would be better to use the 
table and roller shown in Flint's Dairy Book), and mix in by 
weight 1^ ounces of salt to the pound. I then work it over thor- 
oughly (but not long enough to heat it or make it like a salve), 
and mix in 2 ounces of white sugar to 10 pounds of butter. If it 
is for present use, I make it into balls and stamp it. But if it is 
to be kept for winter, I put it down solid into stone jars, sprinkling 
a very little salt on the surface, and covering it with a thick, fine 
cloth, put on the lid, and place the jar in a dry, cool place. It » 
better to fill the jar with one churning ; but if not able to do so, 
pack in each churning solid, and exclude the air till you get the 
jar full. 

^ If it is to be kept a long time, or sent to sea, pour a little 
melted butter over the top of the jar before you put on the clotlu 

^ It is very important to have good salt to use, as some salt gives 
the butter an unpleasant taste, and prevents it from keeping well." 
*' I do not wash my butter, nor allow any water, hot or cold, to be 
put with the cream, to lower or raise the temperature when I chum, 
as it is very injurious to it. It washes out the flavor and sweet* 
ness from it, makes it insipid, and soon turns it rancid. The water 
which remains in it injures it more than buttermilL I do not be- 
lieve it is possible to keep butter for any length of time that has 
been washed. Some one should superintend the dairy to see that 



THE FARM. 635 

all is done as it should be." [Prize Essay, by Mrs. Winchester, 
of Brewer, Maine, read before the Maine State Agricultural So- 
eietj, at Bangor, 1857.] There are as many methods of making 
butter as people whe make it The method given wiU insure a 
good result The same is true of 

Cheese. — We shall make some cheese for our own use ; and 
were the process more common, no farmer need hut/ cheese in 
order to get the best quality. One method is as follows : *< Take a 
gallon and a half of water, and throw into it 1^ pints of common 
salt Boil and skim it, and add 3 or 4 ounces of Rose leaves. 
After it is sufficiently steeped, let it cool, and put in 1 ounce of 
saltpetre and 4 rennets (calves' stomachs, properly prepared). 

^ A great spoonful of this preparation is enough to turn 15 gal- 
lons of milk. When the curd is made, dip it out carefully and put 
it into a cloth that sets in a vessel with its bottom perforated with 
holes." 

^ Let a person on each side take hold of the comers, and ruse 
the curd carefully, and turn it from one side to the other of the 
doth, in order to the better draining off of the whey. Then lay 
it as before in a vessel perforated with holes, and thus turn it once 
in fifteen or twenty minutes, and in the interval place a follower 
upon it with a stone above (a * follower ' is a cover made to just fit 
into the vessel when lying on the curd, and which holds up a stone 
or heavy weight ; as the moisture presses out of the cheese or 
curd, and it shrinks, the board and weight follow the shrinkage), 
cutting the curd through each time." 

" When the whey is out, season it with salt to suit your palate, 
while cutting it up in small pieces with a knife ; then put it up for 
pressing. Let it stand under 30 or 40 pounds' weight for 24 hours, 
and then turn it and let it stand under the same for 24 hours more. 
A severe pressure, which is sometimes given, spoils a rich cheese 
entirely." A following weight, in this case, is better than a screw 
press. With a screw press, you may indeed tighten to any extent, 
but when the pressure has forced the whey out, and the cheese 
shrinks, the screw no longer exerts any pressure. 

** Set your cheeses in closets made for the purpose, in which flies 



636 JUNE. 

cannot enter, and turn them eyerj daj, Bj using the patent 
cheese shelf, jou can turn a large number at once." 

*^ The outside should be scraped clean, then be rubbed with a 
mixture of butter and Spanish Brown, which answers verjr weD ; 
but other mixtures answer equally well." 

** A small quantity of Anatto (which imparts a yellow color), 
say the size of a kernel of Rye, sewed up in a cloth, may be pat 
in each curd." 

** Never wash out your cheese-cloth in soap, bbt rinse it out in 
whey." 

The cheese-room may be in the dairy-house, but should be sepa- 
rated from the butter department, as the peculiar acids of the cheese 
tend to affect the sweetness and flavor of the butter. 

The careful making of butter and cheese is both important and 
profitable. Really choice butter commands a very high price. In 
the summer the prices which milkmen pay for milk are ruinoudy 
low, and it is much more profitable to work up your milk yourself* 
Buttermilk and whey are the very best food for young pigs, partic- 
nlarly when they are at Grass. 

The method of making cheese differs materially with each 
eounty, I might say Unon^ in the United States, and England. The 
method I have quoted may not be the best of all, but it will un- 
questionably produce a good article, and if your dairy-woman is 
good she will improve. 

Fowls. — By the last of May, or the first of June, all the fowls 
wiU have hatched, or be on the point of hatching. 

I mentioned in May that nests should be prepared. I will now 
briefly describe the proper management of fowls. 

All fowls show great eagerness to lay in bushes, tufb of Grass, 
etc., and cannot be relied on to furnish eggs unless regularly con- 
fined to their house. Undoubtedly fowls which are allowed to 
stroll and lay where they please, are more certain to'bring up broods 
of young, but their eggs are lost and they form bad habits. Kthdr 
house is warm, they will, afler once becoming habituated to it, lay 
and set there. The setting or hatching-house should be apart frote 
the laying-house, as all fowls, and particularly hens, are annoyed by 



THE FARM. 687 

Ihe presence of others during incubation. Eleven eggs are enough 
to put under any fowl, as many as she can well take care of; the 
size of the egg being proportioned to the size of the fowl Ducks 
set so badlj that it is best to hatch their eggs under hens. 

Make the nests in roomj boxes, or baskets, raised a little above 
the floor. For geese thej should be particularly low, as they find 
difBculty in climbing. Hay or Straw should be stuffed into the, 
comers to keep the eggs in place. There should be room enough 
tor the bird without its tail being bent up, or turned to one side, 
which pains the bird, and oflen interrupts her setting. 

Set hens 3 weeks, ducks 4 weeks, turkeys 4 weeks, geese a cal- 
endar month. The hen is the least reliable setter of the three, and 
is very fastidious. Select a large, well-feathered hen, of a mild 
and gentle disposition ; so soon as you find that she wishes to set, 
which may be known by her setting resolutely in a box or on the 
floor, remove her at night, just about roosting time, to the nest pre* 
pared, and put a couple of old eggs under her. She may dislike 
the place ; change her quarters till she is suited. If she is removed 
in the daytime and covered from the light, she will be frightened, 
and will desert her eggs and lose her desire to set. After she has 
covered the 2 eggs for a day, remove them at night and put in 
the 11 eggs which she is to hatch ; put near her plenty of water 
and food, and a box of ashes, in which she may roll when she 
comes off the nest to drive out lice, etc., and let her come off the 
nest to look for food when she pleases ; if she is well selected and 
a good mother, if the food and water are near, she will eat and 
return immediately ; and if she refuses to do so it is useless to try 
to force her ; either set another hen on the same eggs, try to hatch 
them in an oven, or abandon them. 

Never try to release the chicks when nearly hatched, by break- 
ing the shell or removing pieces ; the proceeding will hurt or kill 
them. After they are all out, set near them a plate with crumbled 
bread and meal, and some water, and give the hen food. J£ the day is 
fair, put the nest into a portable hutch, and remove hen and chicks 
and food, to some open gravelled space. The chicks will run about in 
the sun, and get food and strength ; if rain threatens, put them 
under cover. In a few days they will be strong enough to take care 

54 



638* JUNK. 

of themselves. Feed them every 3 hours for the first few daya, 
and afterwards 3 times a daj, if you wish them to graw iaa. 
Boiled Potatoes, Indian meal, crumbs of bread, etc., are fit food. 

If it is ducks that are hatched, keep them in the house lor a 
few days, away from the water, and feed on bread soaked in water. 
Barley meal porridge, boiled Potato, and other laxative food, and 
continue this fare afler they go out As soon as they are fit to ^ 
out, take them to a shallow pond in some retired place, where 
they will not get frightened or drowned by larger birds. In a we^ 
they will be strong and able to take care of themselves. 

Turkeys are rather shy and difficult to raise. Contrary to the 
law in all other fowls, a single impregnation fertilizes the whole 
contents of the ovarium. The turkey lays her egg, if possibly m 
secluded places. Keep her in the house every day till she has 
laid ; remove the egg at once to a dry place, and turn it carefolly 
every day. When she shows a desire to set, set her at nighL 
Once set she is very constant Place food near her and keep her 
nest cleared of dung and loose feathers ; when the poults are all 
out, be very careful of them for a few days. Some persons rec- 
ommend that a pepper-oom be thrust down their throats directly ; 
and as turkeys are fond of stimuhiting food, the pepper may wann 
theinstomachs and give an appetite. 

The old bird should be well fed with coarse meal, etc, bat the 
poults will eat nothing for 24 hours ; after that time their i4>petite 
oomes. 

The first danger is from a continued purging, which soon kills the 
young bird ; feed with finely chopped, boiled egg every 3 hours, for 
a fortnight After the young birds have eaten, remove the food 
they leave, out of the mother's way ; at the same time give water 
in a shallow vessel. 

After two days, if the weather is fine, set the turkey in a coop 
on the gravel 6r short grass, during the bright part of the day, 
feeding her with coarse porridge, boiled Potatoes, and water, and 
the poults with the cho{4>ed egg. Confine them to the house if 
foul weather threatens. A week of fine weather will make them 
strong enough to follow the mother, and she can then have her lib* 
erty ; the poults will begin to pick up insects, and will thrive and 



THB FABM. 639 

^row astonishingly. The turkej is a very careful protector of her 
young, and you need have no hesitation in trusting them to her as 
sK)on as they are able to run about 

The goose is more difficult to manage. Not only must she be 
impregnated for each egg, but impregnation can only be effected in 
the water ; and when she shows signs of laying, she must be caught 
erery. morning before she leaves the house, and felt, to learn if the 
^g is hard and ready to come away. If it is, confine her till she 
lays, then let her go ; remove the egg to a dry place and turn it 
carefully every day. When she is ready to set make a low nest 
for her, and manage like a hen or turkey. 

In all these cases, when the eggs are hatched, one side of the 
nest should be opened and sloped down, in order to allow the chicks 
easy passage to and fro. 

Let the goose go off when she pleases, but keep food near, dry 
boiled Potato, Barley porridge, and Oats, for she easily becomes 
constipated. If she run for the water when she comes off, do not 
be alarmed ; her feathers will not soak water, or chill the eggs, and 
wrapped up in the down with which she has surrounded them, the 
eggs will not cool, even though her absence be long. 

If there are ganders enough, one pairs with each goose ; and if 
there be but one gander, although he will serve each goose, he se* 
lects one for a mate, stays by her nest, and protects her against all 
intruders. 

So soon as the goslings are out of the shell, even before they are 
dry, if it is fair weather, take them in a basket, and the goose by 
the wings, and carry them to a warm, dry spot in a Grass field, and 
leave them there so long as it is clear and warm ; if rain threatens, 
remove at once, as the goslings must not get their backs wet for the 
first 2 or 3 days ; if this happens they wilL grow weak in the 
legs and die or become worthless. In wet weather, cut a good sod 
and put it near the nest ; they need to peck young Grass. Set near 
them a shallow plate of water, blocked up so that it cannot tip over 
on to the goslings, who will certainly walk into it. 

In a few days they grow strong, but for a week still need watch- 
ing, for if one of them fall into a rut in a cart track, or is caught 
in a tufl of Grass and turned upon its back, it cannot right itself, 



64(^ JUKE. 

and the mother marches off and leaves it to die. After three dajf 
of sannj weather the goslings may be allowed to go to the pond. 
At the week's end thej ^vill be oat of danger, and if well fed will 
grow rapidly. 

If these directions for rearing fowls are followed, they will give 
good broods. Hasty as they are, they must suffice. For acoounti 
of fancy breeds and their management, you must consult spedal 
treatises. 

Tlie early broods of chickens often hatch in April, and then the 
hen rears another brood in the fall. It is the earliest and lat^t 
broods which are most valuable ; of course they are also the loost 
troublesome. The very early chicks will often lay in the succeed- 
ing winter. 

The important things in a henhouse are warmth, good ventila^ 
tion, and light ; and without plenty of good care you cannot have 
plenty of eggs. The demand for poultry is enormous. Thousands 
of tons are consumed in our large cities every winter, and for thai 
which is well grown and well prepared for the market, very remu- 
nerative prices may be got 

But very few persons understand how to prepare poultry for 
market, and, as a consequence, it comes in a bruised and uninviting 
(condition, and commands but a low price. 

The proper method is to hang the fowl up by the legs, open a 
vein in the throat, and allow it to bleed to death. As soon as it is 
dead, plunge it in boiling water for a few minutes, long enough to 
heat the fat just under the skin, lay it under a thick covering to 
steam and loosen the feathers ; then withdraw, pick carefully, again 
plunge in hot water, immediately withdraw ; the skin will then 
have a rich oily appearance ; dry and cool. Never draw fowls ; 
they do not keep as well, or sell for as much as the undrawn. 

Pack in roomy boxes ; put under each layer a little soft Straw, 
or wrap each bird in paper, which is better ; fill the box tight with 
birds and paper ; then screw on the cover, and send to market. 
Tour poultry will command several cents per pound more than if 
put up in the common way. 

Summer Cultuke op Root Crops. — To return to the farm. 
Press forward the pknting as rapidly as possible. By the middle 



THE FARM. 



641 



of the month the Com^rill be fit for the first hoeing ; if it is very 
mreedy and heavy, send the horse-plough through the rows each way, 
turning the soil from the Com. Then, if the soil is not well pulver- 
ized, send the cultivator through in the same way, which will 
spread the earth out level again. If the land is in fair condition, 
and not stony, send the cultivator first, or better still, the horse-hoe. 
This is the best tool which -can be used in common land, not too 
stony. 



<??==*^ 




When the team comes out, let the men go in with hoes, and cut 
away all the weeds from about the Com. Cut out or pull up all 
but four stalks, and then draw up the loose earth about the young 
stalks. If the land is in good condition, this can be done rapidly 
and easily. 

Never hil^the Com. If the land is wet, and you think to drain 
it by hilling, you*will be disappointed ; the land must be drained. 
The only result of hilling will be to loosen the hold which the Cora 
has on the soiL Com sends out aerial rootlets as it grows. If it 
is hilled, these roots go into the loose earth of the hill and get no 
firm hold ; if there is no hill, they descend to the firm earth and 
strengthen the plant Some of the roots of Com spread near the 
surface ; if it is hilled, these go into the hill and get no hold. 

Treat Potatoes in the same way, only drawing earth enough 
about their roots to secure a covering for the tubers as they grow, 
for any that are exposed to the sun become worthless. But even 
Potatoes should not be hilled much. 
54* 



G42 JUNE. 

The only difference in managing other craps is, that for most oi 
them the hon»c-hoe and the cultivator should he used, instead of 
the plough.. These two tools will leave little to he done bj the 
hand-hoe, in land which has been well tilled ; the hoer need oolj 
go over tlie field, and clear away the few weeds which escaped the 
machines. The cost of cultivating by horse power is small, — 
$1.00 to $1.50 per acre. 

In cultivating the Root crop, the Radishes will mark the rows 
and guide the boy who leads the horse. As soon as the cultivator 
or horse-hoe has opened the rows, the men should follow with hoes, 
and thin the Roots to the proper distance : 8 inches for Carrots ; 
9 for Parsnips; 10 to 12 for Ruta Bagas; 12 to 14 for Mangold 
Wurzel. Leave wider gaps, rather than smaller than these. 

The ** singling " or thinning may be done rapidly and surely by 
hoes, with a little practice ; any man who can chop wood well, 
striking surely where he aims, can thin Boots. He must walk 
down the row sidewise, facing the row to be thinned. If his hoe 
is 4 inches wide, two blows will thin the plants to 8 inches, three 
blows to 12 inches. The remaining plants will fall over when de- 
prived of the accustomed support from their neighbors, but will 
soon revive if the hoe has not touched them. Another man should 
follow the singler, and cut away any weeds which remain, and 
draw with the hoe a very little earth about the plants that are to 
stand. By the next day all these will revive. 

The horse-hoe should go through the rows again as soon as the 
weeds show, and if many weeds have started among the plants 
they must be hoed by hand ; after which the roots will outgrow 
and smother all weeds, and cover the ground too closely to allow 
any new ones to start \ 

If there is any market for the Radishes, or if the stwSk will eat 
them, they may be drawn after the horse-hoe has marked the rows, 
and before the Roots are singled. If there is a market near. Rad- 
ishes will generally pay more than the expense of their seed, and 
the trouble of drawing, washing, and tying in bundles. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beets, may be sowed early in the month, 
Ruta Bagas and Mangold Wurzel from the 20th June to the 20tk 
July. 



THE FARM. 



648 



For Mangold Wurzel and Ruta Bagas, well-ploughed, inverted 
f^ will answer very well, particularlj if ploughed with the Mich- 
igan plough. Parsnips and Carrots thrive on a sod well turned 
with the Michigan plough, where the subsoil plough is also used. 
But for all these crops stubble land is best, as their roots penetrate 
veiy deep, and unless the sod is so placed as to rot rapidly, they 
yiU not thrive, and a deep soil, as shown by the cut, is a sine qua 
nan for successful Root culture. 




I do not recommend for any of these crops that the land be cul- 
tivated in ridges. It is a practice brought from England, where 
rains are frequent, and the water must be hastened in its flow 
from the surface ; we rarely have too much water, and wet land 
should not be devoted to this crop. 



644 JUNE. 

The rows of Carrots and Parsnips shoald be 20 inches i^iut, 
those of Ruta Bagas and Beets, 27 inches to 32 inches apart. 

As these crops are not to be sowed till late, the ground on whiek 
they are to grow, whether stubble or sod, should be ploaghed in 
the fall, or very early in the spring. Plough as early as possiUe^ 
and leave it in the furrow. In June, there will be a good crop of 
weeds ; cross plough and harrow thoroughly. Be sure that aff 
your rows are perfectly straight If you do not use a drill whidi 
will sow the seed and the artificial manure together, sow for Car- 
rots, Parsnips, and Mangold Wurzel, 200 pounds guano or super- 
phosphate to the acre ; for Ruta Bagas, and other Turnips, 400 
pounds bones, or 200 pounds guano or superphosphate, and then 
harrow. J£ the seed and manure are sown together horn a drill, 
harrow first When the manure is sowed broadcast, the seed 
should be sowed from a seed sower, which should he Met for iht 
kind of seed used. Secure a stick at right angles to the line of 
draught, and hang from its end a piece of heavy chain, which 
will mark on the soft earth a line parallel to the first row sowed 
by the sower or drill. Let the machine be drawn straight through 
the field in the line of the feering-poles, and return in the line 
marked by the chain. 

The seed of Mangold Wurzel, if good, need not be sowed nearer 
than 6 inches ; 4 inches is proper for good Ruta Baga. Carrot 
seed being generally poor, may be sowed 2 inches apart ; Parsnips 
the same. To sow an acre, you need 3^ pounds of Carrot seed, 
4 of Parsnips, 2^ to 3 of Ruta Bagas, 3 to 6 of Mangold WurzeL 
For the latter, sow 500 to 1,000 pounds salt, broadcast This cn^ 
has not been grown so extensively in this country as the others. 
The English plan of throwing the land into ridges, which has been 
found unnecessary for the other Roots, after trial, will undoubtedly 
be rejected in the case of Mangold, though it is rocommended for it 
now. 

The English farmers, whose Roots aro in drills, find it a good 
plan to go over the rows and draw the earth &om the roots, that it 
may not cramp them, as they^ get most of their size above the sui^ 
face. Should it be found that they aro thus cramped when sown 



THB FABM. 645 

flat, the plough could be run through the rows at the time of sec- 
ond hoeing, leaving the share close to the row, throwing the earth 
out a little into the middle ; but it is doubtful whether the gain 
would pay for the trouble. 

With sowing the Root crops the June planting ends, unless 
Millet is planted for fodder, which may be done as late as 1st 
July. 

The Grass of the lawn should be cut with the lawn mowing 
machine at least twice in June, and may be fed green to the cows, 
or made into Hay. Other Grass will not be cut till July, as in a 
well-managed rotation there is no June Grass. 

You may begin to cut Com fodder as soon as the Bye is gone, 
if the Corn is large enough ; if not, the lawn Grass will supply its 
place for awhile. 

J£ you have any leisure, draw muck and other waste material 
to the yard, for compost It would be a good plan never to return 
to the bam at noon or night without a load of some such material ; 
in this way a large accumulation may be made at no expense. 

Tie up the cows every night in the stable, and open all the win- 
dows and the upper half of the doors, for ventilation. The cows 
will be just as cool as if iii the yard, and the manure will be 
saved. 

Remember to keep the fowls dose, else they will do much mis- 
chief. 



CHAPTER LXX. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

I SHALL not enter into details with regard to making a proper plan 
for the improvement of your place, for as I have said, this is prop- 
erly the work of the landscape gardener. Justice cannot be done 
to the subject in the limits of this book, and were it to be written 
out with all possible minuteness, there would be left unsaid much 
that can only be learned from experience. 

Before making a plan, the landscape gardener will require a 
careful topographical survey of your place, which shall show ex- 
actly the boundaries, the situation of the buildings, of all prom* 
inent single trees, of all groups of trees, hills, valleys and the 
general changes of sur&oe, the water-courses, springs, and ponds; 
and which shall give the levels of so much of the land as it may 
be necessary to operate on. And before this is made, he should 
himself walk over the place with you, and say what he thinks it 
well to do ; and if lie does not make his own survey, should care- 
fully point out to the surveyor what he wants included in the 
survey. An accurate survey and a large amount of levelling are 
as important to the value of your plan, as for the plan of a railroad. 

If your house is standing on your place, your adviser should go in 
and acquaint himself with the views from the windows, in order to 
know what objects it is desirable to show and what to conceal. 

This preliminary survey will be expensive, but yet the cheapest 
thing for which you spend money in beautifying your place. On 
the plan, or a copy of it, Uie artist will lay down the improvements 
proposed ; the plan of improvements will be made to a scale, and 
when carried into effect, the plan will fit the grounds, and mean 
what it appears to mean on paper. 

The important features in your improvements are : — 

646 



ORNAMENTAL. 647 

Ist The point of entrance and the management of the ap- 
proach. 

2nd. The location and treatment of water, artificial or natural 
and the proper amount 6f drainage. 

3rd. The location of fiower-beds or flower-gardens. 

4th. The location of kitchen-garden. 

5th. The location of greenhouse, conservatory, grapery, and 
garden structures. 

6th. The drive or walk. 

By this name I designate a road or path which may carry one 
naturally and easily about the whole place in such a way as to dis- 
play its beauty and open that of the surrounding country. If 'the 
place is large enough I should always make this path at least 12 
feet wide, and 15 is better, to allow the passage of a large carriage. 
But if the limits do not allow of a carriage road, carry a footpath 
about so much of the place as it is desirable to visit, taking care 
not to cut up the surface more than is necessary, but to leave the 
land in as large masses as possible. Never curve or distort it 
merely to gain lengthy never curve it where it would he better 
siraiglU, and never make it straight where a curve would have more 
beauty, or would display the surface to better advantage. But I 
have already said enough about paths and avenues. 

The situations of the various comforts and ornaments mentioned 
will depend on circumstances, which cannot be readily foreseen. 
In our selection of sites we must be guided by the general princi- 
ples already laid down. 

Lawns. — In the fall I spoke of the necessity of thorough culti- 
vation to a good lawn ; but I do not consider that it is necessary to 
cultivate a lawn for a year or two in a hoed crop in order to reduce 
the soil to the fine condition best appreciated by grass. A beau- 
tiful and permanently satisfactory lawn may be made in a single 
season and economically, however rough the surface. 

If you wish for a lawn this summer it will be necessary to grub 
and trench the surface, carefully throwing out all roots and stones, 
and mixing the manure as described in September. I think it un- 
questionable tliat a lawn well made and manured from the rough 



648 JUKE. 

8od, from a bushy pasture or a forest, if well drained would be bet- 
ter than when first cultivated, for the crop we take off generally re- 
moves quite as much as it adds, if not more, whilst the after cul- 
ture is the same in both cases. 

Suppose a beginning to be made with a rough bush pasture, a 
piece of forest or a grass field. If you wish to kill the trees and 
bushes before you remove them, it is best to cut them in June or 
August, and bum them. Open a trench as before, and as you 
trench leave on the surface every rock and root By trenching 
deep you can get under.and around the roots, and take them oat 
more easily. Before this or at the same time, cut the proper drains. 
If you begin with a good force of men as soon as the frost is out 
of the ground, the work may be done by the middle of May. 

Cart the manure on to the field as the work goes on, and pile it, 
so that you can spread and dig it into the trenches. When the 
land is all ready, harrow or rake in a couple of hundred pounds of 
super-phosphate or guano and gypsum, with the Grass seed, and 
either three-fourths of a bushel of Spring Rye, a bushel of Oats, or 
three-fourths of a bushel of Barley to the acre. If the land is l%fat, 
roll it The Grain will be very thinly spread, and will germinate 
about the same time as the grass. When it is 2 inches high, as it 
will be in a fortnight, the whole lawn will be a rich green colot. In 
a month it will be a foot high, and the young Grass among it fiurly 
green. Send a mower over it, and cut the Grain rather high above 
the surface, say 2 to 3 inches. It will then start again, and although 
it will not grow so fast as before, in another month it will be fit to 
cut again. And though it is then July, the Grass will be strong 
and green, and in August or September the whole may be cut a 
third time. 

Or, instead of sowing Grass when you plant Grain, sow the Grain 
more thickly (2 to S bushels per acre), and let it grow till it is 2 to 
3 feet high ; then roll it down and plough it well under with a deep 
tiller plough. The ground will then have been green from within 
a week of the sowing till the time of ploughing under. In either 
case, after rolling, and before ploughing, spread 20 bushels of lime 
to the acre on argillaceous, loamy, or sandy land, which wiD both 
enrich the land and hasten the decay of the green crop ; harrow 



ORNAMENTAL. 649 

the land immediately, and either sow the Grass seed alone, or with 
Millet, 10 to 15 quarts to the acre ; the Millet will be up in a 
week, and make the field green again ; cut it for fodder as soon as 
it is high enough, or leave it for Haj. It will not cure properly 
unless cut by the middle of August or the very first of September, 
on account of its great succulence. Very few fodder crops give as 
good return as Millet It may be sowed as late as the middle of 
July, and will throw up a fodder crop in August or September, of 
3 or 4 tons of dry Hay. But remember that if you take this crop, 
you exhaust the land in proportion. 

In either of these ways you may have a green lawn during the 
whole season, with the exception of an interval of two or three 
weeks, and I think either of them better than the Com and Potato 
system. 

When land is poor, and good manure is scarce, a different system 
should prevaiL Dig and trench thoroughly as soon as the frost is 
gone, an4 sow Spring Grain of any kind very thickly. As soon as 
the Grain is in blossom, dig or plough it in together with lime (5 
to 150 bushels lime to the acre ; the larger amount if the land 
needs it, and has had none for years ; oyster-shell lime is best) ; 
BOW Grain again, Buckwheat, Oats, or Millet, and when that is 
well grown and presents a fair sward, plough it in ; and manure 
each time with 300 to 500 lbs. guano to the acre ; after the second 
time sow for a permanent lawn. 

These methods of making a lawn are more expensive than Corn 
and Potatoes, but quicker and thorough ; you are not laying down 
a Grass field ; and remember always that no permanent evergreen, 
summer, and satisfactory lawn can be made unless the work is 
done thoroughly and deeply, and with a liberal expenditure. Made 
in this complete manner, a lawn will defy all ordinary vicissitudes 
for 10 or 15 years. It should be top-dressed spring and fall, with 
well-rotted stable manure, guano, ground bones, super-phosphate, or 
wood ashes. 

Two divisions of the ornamental treatment of our place have 
been untouched, or barely referred to: Water and Plantations. 
They will be spoken of in the two months which yet remain. 
55 



650 JtNE. 

During June our grounds will need some attention. All the per- 
manent lawn should be mowed once or twice during the month. 
Tlie walks must be constantly examined, to free them from weeds, 
and repair the damages from storms. 

Watch the growth of the vines on the arbors and trellisea, and 
train every shoot before it gets the wrong direction, or is too long 
to be bent It is not too late to set out Madeira vines and Mauran- 
dja, which have been started in hotbeds, to cover naked spoti$. 
Much variety may be produced in prominent situations, by setting 
down wire baskets on to the turf, cutting out the sward inside the 
basket, and planting there greenhouse or bedding plants, Ro^es, etc. 
In the same way portable trellises of wire, of low dwarf, fantastic 
shapes, may be set about in appropriate spots, for Madeira, Mau- 
randia, Ipomea, and the other vines which have been started before. 

When the:«e vines are used in wire baskets they both screen and 
ornament them by twining in and out. 

June is the month for the purest delight in nature, and, busy as 
the farmer is, he may have ample time for enjoyment No month 
is so rich in Nature's bounties. The fields are so yellow with But- 
tercups, that they seem to reflect the sun, whilst the air is vocal 
with the song of birds ; now the days are at their longest, as 
though it were intended that there should be time for all men 
to do their fair share of work, and yet enjoy the beauty about 
them. Whoever is deaf to June, insensible to her promises 
and delights, is to be pitied, and it is in vain to appeal to him 
to become either the best farmer, or the best man. The generous 
promises and opportunities of tliis beautiful month aro more 
worthily expressed in the following lines, by James Russell 
Lowell, in the '* Vision of Sir Lanufal," than in any other words 
in verse or prose : — 

" There is no price set on the lavish summer, 
And June may be had b}' the poorest comer 

" And what is so rare as a day in June 1 
Then, if ever, come jierfcct days ; 
Then Heaven tries the earth if it be in tune, 
And over it softly, her warm ear lays ; 



ORNAMENTAL. 651 

Whether we look, or whether we listen, 
We hear life murmur, or see it glisten ; 
Erery clod feels a stir of might. 

An instinct within it, that reaches and towers. 
And, grasping hlindly ahove it for light, 

Climhs to a soul in grass and flowers ; 
The flush of life may well be seen 

Thrilling back over hills and valleys ; 
The Cowslip startles in meadows green, 

The Buttercup catches the sun in its chalice, 
And there's never a leaf or a blade too mean 

To be some happy creature's palace ; 
The little bird sits at his door in the sun, 

Atilt like a blossom among the leaves, 
And lets his illumined being o'errun 

With the deluge of summer it receives ; 
His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings, 
And the heart in her dumb breast, flatters and sings ; 
Ho sings to the wide world, and she to her nest, — 
In the nice ear of Nature, which song is the best ? 
Now is the high-tide of the year. 

And whatever of life hath ebbed away,* 
Comes flooding back, with a ripply cheer. 

Into every bara inlet, and creek, and bay ; 
Now the heart is so full that a drop overfills it, 
We are happy now, because God so wills it ; 
No matter how barren the past may have been, 
'Tis enough for us now that the leaves are green. 
We sit in the warm shade and feel right well ; 
How the sap creeps up, and the blossoms swell ; 
We may shut our eyes, but we cannot help knowing. 
That skies jire clear, and grass is growing ; 
The breeze comes whispering in our ear, 
That Dandelions are blossoming near, 

That maize has sprouted, that streams are flowing, 
That the river is bluer than the sky. 
That the robin is plastering his house hard by ; 
And if the breeze kept the good news back. 
For other couriers we should not lack ; 

We could guess it all by yon heifer's lowing, — 
And hark ! how clear bold chanticleer, 
Warmed with the new wind of the year. 

Tells all in his lusty crowing. 



652 JTDKB. 

" Joy comes, grief goes, we know not how ; 
Every thing is happy now, — 

Every thing is upward striving ; 
'Tis as easy now for the heart to be tme, 
As for grass to be green, or skies to be bine, - 

'Tis the natnral way of living." 




CHAPTER LXXl. 

GBEEXHOUSE, COKSERVATORY, ETC. 

ULY. — The cuttings, layers, etc, for the fall , 
stock of plants, must receiTC constant attention; 
some will be well rooted for repotting, others 
must continue in the frames and seedbeds. 

The sleep of the plants still continues, or 
rather, is now at its depth ; to pursue the nat- 
ural analogy, it is now midwinter for them. 
Pelargoniums are now out of blossom ; cut back, make cuttings, 
and repot as directed before. Towards the last of the month, be- 
gin to repot the plants which need it, and whose growth has recom- 
menced, and re-adjust plants, giving fresh earth when needed. 

Examine the buds on the Oranges and other budded plants, and 
when they have well taken, cut them down. 

Pot Roses and plunge them in the earth, or set in cold frames 
till fall. Make cuttings, and repot Neapolitan Violets ; make cut- 
tings of Azalea. 

Continue to give abundant water to the plants and bulbs in flower 
in the greenhouse and conservatory, and pay strict attention to fruit 
in the graperies. 

The retarding-house will be in its vigorous young growth now, 
and must not be neglected. Continue to propagate for the fall, 
sowing seeds of Mignonette, etc. 

The Polyanthus, Primrose, and other seeds which were sown 
last fall, are now to be potted off for fall flowers. 

Give occasional waterings when necessary, to layers of Pinks, 
etc Well-rooted Chrysanthemums will need potting ; sow seeds 
of Cineraria. 

55« 653 



CHAPTER LXXU. 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

Work and enjoyment share this month in the flower-garden* 

Remove all weeds as soon as visible ; take up the bulbs as soon 
as ripe enough ; pick off decaying leaves from Auriculas, Ranon- 
culuses, etc, as. they injure the plants if lefl ; assort, dry, and lay 
aside the seedling Ranunculuses and Anemones. 

The rosary will be in splendid condition the first of the mondi. 
As the plants go out of blossom, cut off the hips, and cut back Per- 
petuals for a new growth. 

Verbenas will have begun to run in the beds, and should be 
pinned so as to fill out any shapes you please. 

Geraniums will grow strong and rapidly. They must be fbl* 
lowed daily and trained gradually ; if carefully managed, they can 
be made to cover their beds entirely, and will be a mass of brilliant 
flowers in August. 

Heliotropes may be trained and pinned down, but do not need it 
as much as Geraniums; they make more pliable shoots, which 
naturally incline to weep and cover the earth. 

Salvias are easily trained so as to cover the beds. In July most 
of this work must be done, as the bending should begin with their 
growth and be concurrent with it For the smaller plants, old 
rusty or imperfect hair-pins are excellent for fastening the shoots to 
the earth ; they can be bought very cheap by the hundred. The 
stronger plants, like Salvia and Geranium, need long forked sticks, 
such as for layering. 

Many annuals, like Cacalia, Mignonette, and others, weep readily 
and cover the ground, but others must be trained. 

The reserve garden must be carefully cultivated in July, to give 
succession plants for August 

Carnations and Picotees will be in blossom now,and if there is a 

654 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 655 

good collection, they will give a brilliancy to their section of the 
garden, second only to that of the Roses. 

The variety of Carnations is very great, and as I have before 
said, the common kinds are beautiful and desirable, and by sowing 
the seeds, charming collections may be made, though only of com- 
mon kinds. The choice varieties, which are the result of long and 
careful culture, you can hardly expect to get once in a hundred 
times. They are increased in numbers from pipings and layers. 

" Carnations are divided into three classes : Flakes^ Bizarres, and 
Picatees. Flakes have but two colors, and the stripes are large, 
going quite through the petals. Bizarres are variegated in irreg- 
ular spots and stripes, and with not less than three colors. Pico- 
tees have a white ground, spotted or pounced with scarlet, red, 
purple, and other colors. These are again divided into Pink Flake, 
Purple Flake, etc.. Scarlet Bizarre, Crimson Bizarre, etc., Purple 
Picotee, Yellow Picotee, etc." 

These varieties are best grown from layers. Begin to layer the 
last of July or first of August, or when just in flower, that they 
may get well rooted before winter. Lay them in the ground, to 
be afterwards potted ; if lefl too long, the wood does not strike so 
readily. Before layering, water the plants well ; then take the 
shoot to be layered in hand ; cut off all the lower leaves, leaving 
a few on the upper part ; with a sharp knife cut into the stem be- 
low a convenient joint, and up through a joint ; then bend down 
and treat like other layers. It is well to cut off the tongue of the 
layer, back to the joint, as it has to decay before the joint will cal- 
lus or emit roots. The layers should be covered with about two 
inches of good compost. Do not water for a day or two, as the 
tongue should dry a little. 

If there is more grass (technical term for young shoots) than 
can be conveniently layered, make cuttings or pipings of them. 

Cuttings will take most certainly if set into a dungbed of mod- 
crate heat, and if any cuttings upon potting have callused and not 
rooted, if removed to a fresh hotbed, with a stronger heat, they 
will strike. 

The best soil for them is well-rotted turf from an old pasture. 
A soil recommended by Hogg, is, " Two barrows light loam, one 



666 JULY. 

of leaf mould, one of old frame dung, half a barrow of old cam 
dung, and a quarter of a barrow of river sand." 

When thej are to be blosaomed in pots, they are potted for the 
last time in March, in 11 inch pots. Let the soil be dry for a few 
days before shifting ; set them into a dry and somewhat shaded 
place, and water moderately at first through the rose of the water* 
mg-pot. Tie the flower shoots up neatly to small green rods;, or 
to stiff copper wire. 

As the buds appear, cut out some, to insure the perfect develop- 
ment of the remainder. As they approach blooming, care inus4 
be taken that they do not break the calyx irregularly. All Pinks 
are very apt to split one side of the calyx, when the petals burst 
through the opening, and this spoils the beauty of the flower. To 
prevent this, when the petals first show, tie a thread, or better, ^ip 
an India rubber band round the top of the calyx ; then with a 
sharp knife cut slightly the notches between its divisions. The 
edge of this notch is hard, and it is the difficulty of breaking it 
regularly that causes the fiower to split one side. If cut a little, 
there will be no trouble. 

Great care must be taken that wire worms do not get into the 
pots or around the young layers. If the plants aro of weak-grow- 
ing kinds, two may be potted for flowering into the same pot ; but 
only one of the stronger varieties should be allowed. 

Carnations and Picotees naturally blossom in June and July ; it 
is difficult to foroe them, though the ever-blooming or tree varieties 
may be forced for winter and spring. For this purpose, a yearns 
previous culture is necessary. Ailer layering, induce growth, and 
as the shoots lengthen, pinch them back occasionally to render the 
plants stocky, and pick off buds. Treat like other plants, shifting 
occasionally as they grow. They will begin the second winter full 
of sap and buds, and will blossom very profusely. They will 
blossom the winter and spring after layering, if not prevented. 

When Picotees are approaching maturity, if they are to be ex- 
hibited, the beau^ of the fiower is shown to advantage by cutting 
a broad ring of paper, and slipping it under the petals ; the con- 
trast brings out both color and form. When the petals do not lay 
over regularly, they may be drawn into place with delicate ivoiy 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 657 

pincers, all which will not reflex smoothly, being turned into the 
centre. 

« A perfect Camadon is round ; the outer or guard petak should 
rise perpendicularly inside the calyx, about ^ inch above it ; should 
then turn out at right angles and lie over it ; should be thick and 
aniform; from these the other petals should retreat in regular, 
symmetrical circles to the centre, which should be well filled with 
them. Each petal should be fiat, with only slight undulations in it, 
and its edge should be smooth, not fringed and rounded, without 
notch or indentation. This is th& most apparent distinction be- 
tween Carnations and other Pinks. The border of the Picotee 
petals, however, are minutely serrated. The colors should always 
be pure and clearly defined.** 

" When the layers are well rooted, they should be potted, if not 
layered into pots, and set aside in a cool place till winter, when 
they should be kept in a cold pit till towards spring (see March). 

The varieties of common Pinks are Grass Pinks, well known, 
and often used for borders, Pheasant Eyes, and Cob Pinks. The 
last are the largest, and are supposed to be a cross between the 
Grass Pink and the Carnation. The early Red Pinks are prob- 
ably a cross between these and the Dianthus Deltoides or Ar- 
meria. 

They may be propagated by pipings and layers, like Carna- 
tions ; layer rather late, (middle of August), that the plants may 
not get too strong. Set the new plants in a bed, if you wish to 
show a collection, raised 6 or 8 inches above the general surface of 
the garden ; make it of rich loamy soil 2 feet deep ; set the young 
plants one foot apart each way. As the winter comes on, cover 
with litter ; in May, open out. As they show fiower stalks, either 
set a stick to each, or set stout sticks round the edge of the bed, 
and connect them with wire, and tie the flower stems to the wire. 
When set among other plants, they must be covered with litter in 
the fall, and staked singly in the blossoming season. If not tied 
up they get top heavy, and often bend and break. The same care 
must* be taken with the calyx as with that of the Carnation. 

The Grass Pinks used for borders may be propagated most 




658 auLT. 

readily by slips or pipings, and if cut early in ihe season as Maj, 
and set out in the border, will strike and grow readily and blossom 
profusely the next year ; some few even the same year. It is nec- 
essary in making such cuttings to remove some of the lower leaves, 
but in no case, whether Carnation or Grass Pinks, cut (^ or mu- 
tilate the ends of the upper leaves of the cutting or pip. 

Towards the last of the month, repot the Auriculas which are to 
be repotted. During this process the roots may be divided to in- 
crease the stock. 

'^For full-sized plants in repptdng, use pots 6x7 inches; for 
smaller ones, seedlings and offsets, 3x5. In repotting, the ciowb 
of the roots should be carefully examined, any rotten parts cut out, 
and the wounds dressed with powdered wood charcoal When 
slips are taken, the cut portion of both parent and slip should be 
dressed with the charcoal.'' 

Some cultivators do not think it necessary to shake the earth 
out of the roots oftener than once in three years ; at other times 
they shave the ball down somewhat But as often as once in three 
years, the earth should be shaken out and the roots carefuUj ex- 
amined. 

Oyster shells mixed with the drainage improve the plants. When 
repotted, set into a cool place, and keep cool till toward spring, and 
give them plenty of fresh air, but do not let them freeze. In Feb- 
ruary remove an inch of the top soil and replace with rather rich 
compost ; bring near the light and heat ; by March, flower-buds 
will begin to show. 

Sow seeds in March for new varieties ; the old plants will ripen 
seeds in June and July ; as soon tL» the leaves decay, sort out the 
roots and lay them in a warm, light, and dry place, till well ripened 
and dried ; then keep till March. 

The following is an excellent compost for Auriculas : 

" Two barrows of cow dung at least two years old, a barrow of 
leaf inould, one of pure light loam from an old pasture ; mix 
thoroughly and add silver sand enough to keep the compost open 
and drainable. Before using it should be thoroughly frozen to kill 
vermin." 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 659 

Hogg gives for compost : " 1 barrow sound staple loam, 1 barrow 
dried night-soil, 2 barrows dung of sheep, cows, and poultry, one- 
fourth barrow sea sand. Leave for two years before using." 

During July the earliest forced Dahlias will come into blossom ; 
tie up to sticks carefully ; liquid manure liberally applied just as 
the flowers begin to form will improve them wonderfully. 

Remove all the buds which are inside the branches, and will not 
show to advantage, or from their position will be deprived of light. 
The other blossoms will fare all the better. 

Prepare early in the month, beds of Pansies for autumn bloom. 
The plants used are those which were struck from cuttings early 
in the season, or were grown from seed. With care, they will 
blossom till winter, and if covered with litter will begin again early 
in the spring. 

The natural enemies to the Pansy are the wire worm and grub, 
earwigs and slugs, which may be caught in traps of hollow stems 
of alder and artichoke, etc. 

Should you want a few extra fine blossoms for any particular 
purpose, pinch off all the blossoms before they expand, for several 
days ; the next will be the finer. 

The best soil for Pansies is one-half bushel leaf mould, one-half 
bushel cow dung, well rotted, 2 bushels decomposed turfy mould, 
well sifted together and freed from worms. If the mixture is stiff, 
h'ghten with river sand. Flowers may be cut to advantage as fast 
as they appear. Plants wliich are kept for flowers should always 
have their flowers cut off as soon as they fade ; otherwise they go 
to seed, and the strength of the plant is diverted. 

When healthy plants, in a well-managed garden, begin their 
bloom, it is wonderful to see what a quantity of flowers they pro- 
duce in a given time. A collection of Bengal or China Roses may 
have every blossom and half-opened bud cut at 4 p.m., and by the next 
morning at 8 there will be a large number of fresh buds. The same 
is true of all other flowers. Verbenas and Heliotropes planted in 
beds may be cut continually as long as any blossoms appear, and 
cutting only increases the tendency of the plant to flower. All our 
common plants blossom, as I have oAen said, from the new wood, 



660 JULT. 

and by cutting off the shoot which bears the flower we diiTe oat 
others at its base. 

I have said but little about the forms of beds in the flower-gazdea. 
It is a subject that has been so often treated, that it seems hardlj 
worth while to enter upon it. Flowers are in themselves so beauti- 
ful that thej always appear well ; yet some attention to the forms 
of beds will add to their effect. 

In small places the flowers, of various kinds and sizes, should be 
grouped together, for the sake of variety. There is not room 
enough to devote a large space to each kind, color, or size. In 
places where the flower-garden is extensive, the same desire for 
variety dictates that beds of particular colors and kinds should be 
contrasted with others of mixed character. 

The shape of the small beds should be simple, and that of the 
birger ones marked with distinct indentations and curves, that the 
plants may readily fill them out To cover acute angles with plants^ 
and exclude Grass, is a very difficult matter. 

The simpler the forms of the beds, the easier it is to give char- 
acter and distinctness to the colors. I have already recommended 
the circle, either of a single color or of concentric rings. If the 
centre is large, and filled with a light colored or white flower, with 
a narrow ring of darker flowers outside, the bed will seem to rise 
out of the ground from the edge to the centre, while the opposite 
arrangement, that is making the outer ring the widest and lightest, 
will make the bed seem hollow. 

It is a poor plan to put too many flowers together in a bed. A 
few, if properly managed, may be trusted to cover the ground well ; 
and if many are planted, they are sure, as they grow, to crowd each 
other and spindle up and lose their natural proportion and sym- 
metry. 

For Fansies especially, simple beds should be made, as it is de- 
sirable to see the character of the flowers, and their being varie- 
gated forbids any clear effects of color. Verbenas being dear 
colored, may be placed in a bed of intricate shape, as the purity 
of their color will preserve and define its limits. 

Scarlet Geraniums give color to any shape as soon as they are 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 661 

well grown. Heliotropes have a particularly good effect in large 
masses. It is hardly an effect of color, but rather of coolness. 
Their blue is very cool, and has a delightful effect to the eye, even 
in a hot summer's day. 

Salvias are generally too large to be used for color alone. They 
ahoold be set in mixed beds, where size is an aid to color, and yet 
their intense brilliancy mdkes them very effective, and in a large 
bed, with well rounded and decided indentations, a group of them 
is very fine. So, too, set at the point or edge of any group of 
shrubbery to which we wish to give character, they are superior to 
any other plant The difficulty with Salvias (particularly with the 
Mexican Sage, the best one for out-of-door culture), is the lateness 
of the period at which they begin to blossom, generally not before 
the middle or last of August, and they do not attain full perfection 
before the danger of frost. In towns and cities, or in any place 
well protected from frost, the Salvia is a sine qua non. Its color 
grows more brilliant as the cold weather comes on, and when Octo- 
ber is in its glory, the Salvia rivals the trees. 

The difference of temperature between towns or cities and the 
country is very decided, and hardly credible, even when we make 
allowance for the increase of heat caused by the collection of men 
and animals, and by the fire heat from house chimneys and manu- 
factories. Most of the tender pillar Roses could be grown to per- 
fection in the sunny court-yards of city houses, while they would 
never grow to be more than shrubs in out-of-town gardens, and I 
have oflen seen groups of tender exotics, in the front areas in cities, 
in November, in full bloom, when in the country they have been 
gone for a month. 

The Heliotrope is as susceptible to frosts as the Salvia, but it 
blossoms so much earlier that they do not interfere with it ma- 
terially. 

A very beautiful annual bedding plant is the Gilia-tricolor. 
Plant the seeds in May, and it will grow with rapidity, blossoming 
but little until the last of August; it will then flower profusely, and 
the colder the weather, until the ground freezes up, the larger and 
more fragrant the flowers ; whilst a bunch of Gilia in November 
56 



662 JULY. 

will fill a room with its delicate and spicy odor. During 
weather the fragrance is hardly perceptible. 

The Lobelia is a very pretty bedding plant. I mean the blue 
and purple kinds. The L. Cardinalls is a tall growing, splendid 
crimson fiower, and should be planted among other flowery but the 
other Lobelias may be set to fill beds by themselves, or be used to 
fringe taller plants. They are sufficiently difierent in color from 
the Heliotrope to contrast well with it, and they, too, last till veij 
cold weather. 

Nemophila is well known and much praised as an annual bed- 
ding phuit. It needs a moist, rich soil, and must be carefully 
nursed to yield a large supply of fiowers. It is better as a pot 
than a garden plant 

Nierembergia is i^oommended for bedding oat. I do not like it 
for that purpose, but find it capital to phuit among stones and rodcs 
and to use as a hanging plant 

Candytuft may be used for bedding out in a succession^bed yerj 
well. The yellow grows tall, and has a curious, orange bloaaom, 
larger than that of any of the others. The white, purple, and 
crimson, planted in cx>ncentric circles produce a very rich efiect 
The plants must not be crowded, but set from 4 to 6 inches apart 
each way. The seed vessels must be cut off before they grow. 
A Candytuft bed does not remain in full bloom more than three 
weeks. It is a good plant to set in a bed as the bulbs are pass- 
ing away, where the bulbs are to be reset in September, when the 
glory of the Candytuft is gone. 

Do not neglect Petunias. They are such strong and coarse grow- 
ing plants that we might at first doubt the possibility of getting 
much color from them, but they may be relied upon for that por- 
poise, and for a long time. Do not get mixed seed, except for 
planting in a mixed bed. They are not good for small beds, and 
attain their full beauty only in the mixed bed, where they may be 
allowed to fringe some plants, and hang their blossoms over the 
edging, on the grass. They gain fragrance as the weather grows 
cold, particularly the white, and ^ve it off freely on the cool 
nights of September, when they may be perceived at a great distance. 

Calceolarias are very good bedding phuits for the mixed bed, as 



FLOWERS-GARDEN. 668 

they are inclined to be tall, but few of them wiy bear the heat of 
our suns and the dry summers ; the common yellow is a very good 
variety ; the flowers are small, but have a fine color. 

Ageratum may be planted from seed each year, or started in the 
greenhouse and hotbed ; it may be pinned down in a separate bed, 
or be grown in the mixed bed, where it properly belong.-'. It is in 
full blossom towards the last of the season, and continues so till 
hard frost. 

Anagallis is a pretty flower and may be used like Lobelia ; get 
it from seed in the hotbed. 

Cuphea is much used for bedding ; more for the color of its 
leaves, which are a dark, reddish green, than for its flowers, which 
though red, are insignificant. 

Cinerarias are not as good for the garden as for the greenhouse, 
but they may be used in beds by themselves, and allowed to grow 
as high as 18 inches. Their shape and colors would allow of very 
brilliant effects. They are however averse to the dry heat of our 
summers and require a great deal of nursing. 
. Lantanas are excellent bedding plants. L. Sellowii is light pink, 
low growing and excellent for covering the ground with flowers. 
The orange, pink, and yellow Lantana is a large and coarser 
growing plant, and unless carefully pinned down should be set in 
the mixed bed. 

The Maurandyas, purple and white, are vines, and very grace- 
ful over low wire trellises and screens. The flowers and foliage 
are both fine, and they begin to blossom as soon as they grow. 

Several varieties of Mimulus are excellent for the mixed beds 
and for separate beds, when allowed to grow up 18 inches. M. 
atroroseus, dark rose ; M. lanigii, salmon rose ; M. lateritus, buff 
orange ; M. pictus, rich crimson. If well managed they remain 
in blossom for a long time. 

The varieties of Nasturtium hardly need to be described ; their 
colors range from light yellow to deep crimson. The Tropeolum is 
of this family, its flowers are small and abundant. 

Antirrhinums are not enough known or appreciated ; they grow 
from 18 inches to 2 feet high, are hardy, and seed should be planted 
in August for the next year. Cover for the winter. Their colors 



664 JULY. 

are varied, some pore, some mottled and striped. Planted in 
masses they look well. The best vaiieties are propagated bj cut- 
tings as well as seeds, and it is aaly in this way that we can be 
sure of their color. They should be potted before winter sets in, 
and kept over in cold pits ; give light and air in spring, and start a 
moderate growth under the sashes before setting oat. They con- 
tinue in blossom for a long time ; there are catalogues containing 
the names of a great number of varieties valuable for fbnn or 
color. 

An admirable mode of planting these flowers is in a round bed 
set about 1 foot apart in alternate rows, in concentric circles, either 
darkest in the centre and shading to a white edge, or the reverse, 
producing the effect I have before mentioned. The illusion could be 
increased by having the darkest phuits the lowest, and gradually 
increasing the height through the different shades. When in flower 
the green leaves are below, and the bright colors of the blossoms 
alone show on the surface. 

In selecting Geraniums, be careful to get those which are sun- 
hardy. All the Tom Thumbs and Horseshoes will bear the son, 
also the Rose Geranium ; one or two of the variegated-leaved spe- 
cies are hardy, but their value is not in the bed, but as shrubs or 
among shrubbery where their green and white leaves are relieved 
against other foliage. The lemon-scented Geranium is of value as 
a green, for its fragrance. The oak-leaved, sage, and nutmeg, and 
others with fragrant leaves endure the sun very well, but all the 
choice fancy kinds are too tender. 

The question may be asked what difference in planting there 
should be between the single and the miaeed beds. 

In the single beds all the plants should be of the same height 
and shade of color. When a house is elevated on a broad esplar 
nade, which gives room for flower-beds, they should be of this char- 
acter. Directions for making them in the lawn or garden have 
already been given. 

The mixed bed demands a mixture of colors and a variety of 
sizes, and permits the mingling of different phuits of the same 
color or size, in the same mass. Thus to get a mass or band <^ 
crimson or red, we may mix together, Geranium, Antirrhinum, 



FLOWSB-OARDEN. 665 

Salvia, Candjtaft, Lobelia cardinalis, etc For blue or purple, 
Heliotrope, Candytuft, Lobelia, Antirrhinum, Ageratum, etc. For 
orange, Candytuft ; for yellow. Antirrhinum, Calceolaria, Yellow 
Flax; for white. Candy tu6, Petunia, Sweet Alyssum, Antir- 
rhinum. 

Mixed beds are generally more desirable than single (»ies, as the 
latter are difficult to keep in perfection for any length of time, and 
in our flower-garden I have therefore made use of them. 

It is not unusual for those laying out flower-gardens to copy de« 
signs from books, forgetting that such designs, if ever good for any 
thing, were intended originally to suit certain peculiar localities, and 
that they cannot properly be transferred to different ones. Unless 
you not only make your bed the same shape with the original one, 
and plant it with exactly the same plants, but also make its surface 
and surroundings the same, and the point of view from which it is 
seen, you cannot expect to attain the intended result 

Sometimes designs are made up with directions for staking, 
planting, etc At one time a man made a large sale about Boston 
of separate patterns of this kind. Such plans are nearly worthless, 
not only for the reasons above stated, but because they are gener- 
ally too intricate to be used to any advantage in ordinary gardens. 
They are copied from the geometrical plans of European gardens, 
which were made up without regard to cost, and very probably, 
also, with little regard to taste, intended merely as accessories to 
some extensive place, and wholly subordinate to some grand archi- 
tectural design. Probably much of the plan was worked out with 
colored stones and gravel. Then, too, such elaborate designs re- 
quire perfectly level ground, while generally the beauty of a 
flower-garden is much increased by unevenness and irregular- 
ities of surface. 

So that a design which looks very pretty on paper, and may 
have been well enough and harmonious in its original position, will 
be often stiff, awkward, and bad when transferred to another, and 
would be condemned even by its designer. 

It seems a simple thing to design a group of beds, and so perhaps 
it is, but it is not so easy to adapt such a group to any particular 
spot 

56* 



6(6 



JULT. 



Designs for Rose-gardens, or rosariums, stand in rather a differ- 
ent position from those for other flower-beds, and I shall give some, 
as I promised in June. In these the exhibition of the single plants 
with their peculiarities, and of the full beautj of their blossoms^ ia 
the great object ; accordingly the general effects of form and color 
in the mass, are of secondary importance. Roses in themselves 
are eminently graceful, even when elevated on standards, yet 
of)en the most formal groupings are necessary to show them to 
the best advantage ; the combination or group varying with the 
especial effect to be produced. 




No. 1. 



In a general collection of shrubs we seek for a tout ensemble to 
which color, form, variety of foliage all conduce ; but in a col- 
lection of Roses intended to do justice to individuals particular 
care must be taken to bring together only those plants which are 
especially able by color or habit of growth to develop the pecul- 
iar excellencies of the other members of the group. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



667 



The most remarkable Rose-garden in the world, considering its 
Bize and publicitj, and tbe number of specimens, is the Jardin du 
Liixembourgj at Parts. It is depressed below the public promenade, 
80 that it lies beneath the eye of the visitor, and the flowers are 
massed with a view to this fact. The Roses are planted in long 
parallel beds, edged with Box, 7 feet wide, containing two rows of 
plants, dwarfs and standards alternating/- and the dwarf of one row 




No. 2. 



668 



JULT. 



corresponding in position to the standard of the other. In this gar- 
den there are 1,800 specimens. 

The ground plan, No. 1, taken from Paul's " Rose Garden," 
shows one of the Luxembourg gardens. 

Na 2 is a design made for W. Paul by two distinguished ikig- 
lish landscape gardeners. 

Na 3 is another, made ij the same persons, for Mr. PauL 




No. 8. 



•F««t. 



They say : " In the designs for rosariums we have arranged the 
whole of the beds and standard Roses as near each other as they 
should be placed, even in the most limited situations ; but in situa- 
^ons where a little more space of lawn can be allowed, it will be 
better to keep them more apart" 

^ The arcades a 6, in No. 2, a a, in No. 3, are for the purpose of 
exhibiting climbing Roses, which, we need not say, will produce a 
very imposing eflTect." ft, in No. 3, an aviary ; c c, covered seats ; 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



669 



d d d dj Weeping Roses, the outside of both surrounded with 
shrubs. '^ In order to make the rosarium as interesting as possible, 
the beds might be planted with bulbs to precede, and annuals to 
succeed, the Roses." 

Nos. 4 and 5 are ground plan and elevation of a Rose-garden of 
John Warner, Esq., at Hoddesdon. 

**The earth in the four 
beds which compose the 
inner circle is raised about 
4 feet above the level of 
that which surrounds it, and 
upon this is built a tem- 
ple, the frame-work being 
formed with iron rods. It 
is covered with Climbing 
Roses of various kinds. 
There are eight plants in 
each bed. The temple *is 
shown when the Roses 
have been pruned, but is 
quite covered with them in summer. The diameter of the first 
circle is 26 feet, of the whole 48 feet A hedge of Scotch Roses 





surrounds the whole, over which we look upon an extensive lawn, 
with various plants showing in the distance." 

This is not a large garden, the whole number of Roses not ex- 
ceeding 300, though I should think this number would hardly do jus- 
tice to all the families. Our amateurs, who think of the prices they 



670 joi-T. 

have to pay at nurseries for plants, may at first be disoouraged by 
thb number, but by ordering such plants as they want from £jig- 
lish or French nurseries, they may reduce the cost very mudb. 
$20 a hundred would cover the whole expense. 

I cannot say that either of the designs I have selected from Mr. 
Paul's book suits me, or would, in my opinion, answer for our lim- 
ited gardens. The two designs I give are very different in char- 
acter. A, represents part of a plan of se vei^U acres, two of which are 
devoted to house, shrubbery, rosary, and fiower-garden ; the latter 
is formal, and in its centre is a fountain. The flower-garden is 
about 3 feet lower than the house ; the walk leading to it is covered 
with a wire trellis, to form an arcade, and is covered with Running 
Rosea. On either side of the garden the walk is guarded by posts and 
chains for Weeping Roses ; the index shows how. the other Roses are 
managed. Some, as shown in the single specimen?, are planted for 
general effect, without regard to families ; others are arranged in 
families, which are grouped together somewhat according to their 
general character and resemblances. Outside the Roses are groups 
of shrubs and trees. B represents a small place, whose whole area 
is but one acre ; it is managed upon much the same principle with 
the last, and the index shows how it is phuited. 

The treatment of the rosary has already been extended beyond 
its proper length, in justice to other subjects, but I cannot yet leave 
it No class of plants deserves and demands more attention. 

Each year new Roses are offered for sale of various degrees of 
excellence ; most of them originated by French growers. The 
English do something in this way, but not so much, and Americans 
still less. Amateurs, accordingly, may find exercise for their time 
and energy in thb direction. Our nurserymen are too much occu- 
pied in forming a general collection to devote the requisite time to 
improving the Rose. It is a long process ; often several years from 
the sowing of the seed to the attainment of the perfect flowers, and 
during all the time constant care and attention is necessary. 

The most promising field for effort is the production of Perpet- 
uals. The list of these is large, but many of the specimens are of 
but little value ; and we are especially poor in choice wall and pillar 
Roses. 



FLOWEB-OARDEN. 



671 




\^i^^ Ornamental Trees. 


-ftrit-lt Roses in Chains. 


.^***..,**^ Roses on House. 


WWWV^ Roses in Arcade. 


o o o o Roses in Combination. 


fy|g|g|f Roses in Families. 


A Provence Rose. 


B French Rose. 


C Moss Rose. 


D ^tch Rose, and Aos- 



E Hybrid Perpetual. 

F Tea Scented. 

G China. 

ITBoarbon. 

I Hybrid Bourbon. 

A" Hybrid China. 

L Damask. 

Af Alba. 

JV Evergreen. 

Noisette. 

P Ayrshire. 



tnan. 



672 



JULY. 




or^ 



Ornamental Trees. 



-ft-fb-ft Roses in Chiuns. 


^s.^sM^ — Roses on House. 
WNAfVW Roses in Arcade. 
o o o o Roses in Combination. 
^IfHHI Roses in Families. 


P 


-" 


Espaliers. 
-Pears. 


P- 


^..-. 


Peaches. 


e 



JC 


Carrants. 

: Raspberries. 
^ Strawberries. 


^ 


^r^^rr: 



A Prorence Rose. 

B French Rose. 

CMoss Rose. 

D Scotch Rose, and Austriaa. 

E Hybrid Perpetual. 

F Tea Scented. 

G China. 

H Bourbon. 

I Hybrid Bourbon. 

JT Hybrid China. 

L Damask. 

If Alba. 

iVEyei^green. 

O Noisette. 

P Ayrshire. 



FL0WBB-6ABDEN. 



678 



Before beginning the work of producing new varieties, the ama- 
teur must have clearly before him the object he wishes to •attain. 
I will quote again from Mr. Paul, what are the points of excellence 
to be sought 

" Habit of the trees. Form of the flowers ; color, scent Free- 
dom, constancy, and duration of flowering. 

^ Habit The growth of a tree should be free. It is immaterial 
whether pendulous, branching or erect, as all are desirable ; hand- 
some foliage is important The offspring of tender Roses may be 
rendered more hardy by intermixture with hardier sorts. 

" Form. A Rose may be equally good whether cupped (1), glob- 
ular (2), compact (3), or expanded (4). But of whichever form 
it may be, the petals should be thick and smooth, and the outline 
circular. 






" Color. This, of whatever shade or color, should be clear and 
full. The thick petalled Roses usually 
present us with the richest tints; such are fi 
therefore desirable for this reason, as well as 1 
on account of holding their flowers perfect 
a longer time than others. Vary the col- 
ors as much as possible. "^K^i^pe^^i^' 4 

^^ Scent All Roses should be sweet; there 
are indeed but few kinds that are scentless, though the degree 
of fragrance varies much. 

^* Freedom, constancy, and duration of flowering. Some Roses 
are most profuse bloomers, presenting a splendid effect on the 
tree, but separate are poor and flimsy. Others produce a less quan- 
tity of flowers at one time, but a regular succession from which a 
57 




674 JULT. 

good Rose may be gathered at almost any time during the season 
rf flowering." 

• Then the flowers of some are very transient, lasting but a dmj, 
others will retain their form and color for a week. These proper- 
ties are inherent, for all kinds are not influenced alike by the state 
of the weather. 

We should seek to combine the varieties which possess the 
above named qualities in an eminent degree. 

The next question which arises is ; do certain properties proceed 
more from one parent than another ? if so, which, and what are 
they ? It is the opinion of some vegetable physiologists that the 
offspring assumes the habit and foliage of the male, while the flow- 
ers are influenced more by the female parent. 

This, however, is not proved, and all such questions are to be 
met and settled by each person for himself. One thing is certain, 
that some varieties produce seed more freely and certainly than 
others, and therefore in beginning to improve you must plant in 
light, deep, well-drained soil, in separate localities, the plants of 
different varieties most inclined to produce seed. These do not re- 
quire the same amount of cultivation as those which we grow for flow- 
ers ; indeed they incline more to seed if not vigorously pruned. 
As flower buds show, remove most of them, so as to give those 
that remain a larger supply of sap, in order to ensure more per> 
fectly developed seeds. When the bud expands, hybridize as pre- 
viously directed. Afler this operation shelter the impregnated 
Rose from the wind and rain for a few hours ; the pistil being fer- 
tilized, the Rose will soon lose its petals, and the seed vessel will 
continue to grow. Give it all the care it needs for the rest of the 
season, watering if there should be a dix>ught When the hips are 
ripe, and have turned from red to black, cut them off, put them into 
a glass vessel, and set it in the sun, or hang them up in paper bags 
in a dry place, till they are perfectly dry. Keep dry till used. 
The best way is to start the seeds in frames, but if we do not have 
room to spare, the hardy varieties should be sown in the autumn, 
that the hard shelJ may be affected by the frost ; the rest should be 
saved till the last of April. Then select a place warm and shel- 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 675 

tered, bat open, well drained and airy ; prepare a seed bed by 
thorough spading ; lay the earth into nanx>w beds that the middle 
may be easily reached from either side. Sow the seed in drills 1 
foot apart, and cover with about an inch of soil. Beat the earth 
compact, and water the bed a little ; strew over the bed lime or 
soot to keep away slugs. Rose seeds germinate with difficulty, 
some not appearing till the second year. Their germination may 
be hastened by soaking in hot water, or by exposure to frost in the 
bed. I should have mentioned that before sowing, the seeds must 
be taken from the hips, which are oflen very hard and hold the 
seed tenaciously, and must be broken in pieces by hand, or soaked 
till they are sofl enough to allow the seed to be taken out. When 
the plants get above the surface, protect against birds and worms. 
Watch the bed carefully, weed the rows, loosen the earth about 
the young plants with a sharp, fine pointed stick, being careful not 
to start the hold of their roots. Forward the growth of the seed- 
lings in every possible way, by weeding, hoeing, and liquid ma- 
nure. They will soon grow rapidly, and the foliage of each will 
assume its peculiar shape, which will enable you to decide to some 
extent to what family it belongs, though the flower may sometimes 
contradict the leaf. 

As they grow through the season, the Remontants will be very 
likely to throw out flower buds. If the plant is strong, and it is 
not too early in the season, let the bud develop ; it will show the 
color and character of the flower, though not its perfection, which 
can only come after culture. But if the plant is weakly, or the 
season late, pinch off the bud. The summer Roses will not show 
buds for a year or two. 

When the plants are well grown, by the last of summer, care- 
fully transplant into new beds, still keeping the different varieties 
separate. Transplant with care, in order not to disturb such seeds 
as have not germinated. On the approach of winter, cover the 
seedlings with leaves or straw, not too thickly, but enough to pro- 
tect them from the sun and frost 

The next year prune somewhat, guided by the growth of the pre- 
ceding year. The Remontants will be likely to blossom in June. 
If so, mark those which show most promise, and when their buds 



676 



JULY. 



are well established, bud into strong stocks, as the Dog Rose, or 
Sweetbrier. This will bring the Rose to perfection mach soooer 
than the parent plant 

You see this will be a work of several years, and after aU, joa 
may not get any improved kinds. But you must not decide agamU 
the seedlings until the most promising have been well manured and 
cultivated for as man^ years as those which have been named, and 
have taken high rank, as the after culture of seedlings often pro- 
duces marked changes in their character. 

To succeed well, the cultivator should each year plant some seed, 
that there may be something coming on each year, and that there 
need be no awkward gaps. Should you succeed and get a first-rate 
new Rose, you not only will have the satisfaction of success, but 
you may have the profit of a large pecuniary reward, for they 
command high prices. 

Remember always that you cannot have perfect Roses without 
great care and attention. You must study varieties, and cultivate 
and prune accordingly. One kind will be killed by the very treat- 
ment that will perfect another. One Rose may be forced into blos- 
som by vigorous pruning ; another would be driven by the same, 
from fiowers to leaves. In my first analysis of Roses, I gave some 

directions for pruning the dif- 
ferent families; I will now 
show you how Mr. Paul 
prunes, premising that I have 
no room to specify the vari^ 
eties to which the different 
kinds of pruning are best 
adapted; that must be de- 
cided by each person when 
he has his Rose before him. 

If you buy a Rose, give it 
a good situation and good cul- 
ture, and when it makes its 
growtli you can see how to 
treat it 

Weeping Roses, like the 




FLOWER-OABDRN. 



677 



aocompanying cat, are so beautiful that it is hard to decide be- 
tween their claims and those of the Pillar Roses, of which we had 
a specimen in June ; and we turn from them to such standards as 
oar next cut presents, bewildered at the sight of this new compet- 
itor for the palm ; and for mj own part, I give the preference to the 
dwarf over the standard at least, and I especially wish to see nat- 
uralized the £vergreen and the Trailing Roses, which trail over 
rocks and creep up tree stems as freely as Woodbine, or Celastrus 
scandens. Why should they not be grown here as well as in Eng- 
land? 





The Wall Roses which we ordinarily cultivate, the Prairies and 
Boursaults, are not equal to Noisette, 
Ayrshire, Multiflora, and Evergreen, for 
beauty and variety. 

The following directions for pruning, 
and plates are chiefly taken from Paul's 
"Rose Garden." 

Long pruning is the treatment mostly ^ 
applied to the Hybrid Chinese, and the ( 
vigorous varieties among the Moss, Dam- ^^^-5 
ask. Noisette, and Perpetuals, which form large heads of rather 
loose, but not ungraceful, growth. 

Suppose that we have a standard Rose with two buds, and it is 

in the spring, after the buds have made their first growth. " We 

shorten the shoots that remain at the termination of the dark shadow- 
57* 




678 



JULT. 




ing, a, Na 1. Seven shoots is the greatest number that ^ioM be 
saffered to remain on the joung plant, and 
generally even a smaller number is preSeg- 
able. One or two should rise perpendioa- 
larl/ from the tree, and around this or 
these, all others should be regularly dis- 
posed, and the more equal and greater 
distance that can be contrived &om shoot 
^^^ 1.1 ^^ shoot, the better. The shoots, whenever 

thej arise, should have a tendency to grow 
from the centre, for if they grow towards 
it, they will eventually cross each other, 
forming a confused and crowded head, No. 1." 

^ When shortening in, the lowest shoots should, where praeCi- 
cable, be left the longest, and others may be shortened in closer 
and closer, as we rise towards the summit of the tree. The 
centre branch will, from its position^ command a fine supply of 
sap ; it is likely that it will maintain its ascendency. Now the 
shoots shortened closest will (other things being equal) produce 
the strongest growth, with the greatest tendency to arise perpen- 
dicularly, and thus the head is formed as desired. In shortening 
the shoot, we should insert the knife at 6, on the opposite side <^ 
the shoot to that on which the bud next below is placed, and we 
should cut In a direction slanting upward, about one-eighth of an 
inch above the bud." 

'^No. 2 represents the tree after its 
second summer's growth. To prune 
properly, you must not only look cU the 
tree, but through it, and from many 
points." 

<' It will be observed that the shoots 
aro left of greater length than the pre- 
vious year's pruning. Ist, the plant be- 
ing established, will have a greater com- 
mand of food from the soil. 2d, having 
been put in the right course for formar 
tion last year, in this pruning we have an eye lor flowers. The 




FLOWBB-OABDBN. 



679 



centre shoot, left last jear, is shortened, 
in order to keep the head compact No. 
8 is a fair illustration of a full-grown tree 
to which long pruning has been applied. 

*^ The Damask Perpetual, the Chinese, 
the Tea-«cented, the moderate-growing 
French and Bourbon Roses, are to be 
dose pruned. No. 4 represents a plant 
of this description. 

^ Here we have a crowded head the first 
year. The shoots are of less length than 
before, but more numerous. Thin as before, but less severely. The 
shoots may stand closer to each other here, because those they give 
birth to will be less robust, and will produce 






smaller foliage. The shoots left after thinning, are shortened in 

closer than in No. 2. If a summer 

Rase, it will not bloom the first year, 

but if an autumnal, it will assuredly 

bloom the first autumn, and probably 

during the summer. No. 5 represents 

this tree taken from another point of 

view, as it appears the next year. We 

thin out in autumn, the shoots shown by 

the single lines, and shorten where shaded, 

in spring, as before. This we do, on the 

supposition that it is an excitable kind ; if 

not, we complete the operation at once, by 




JULT. 



shortening in the autumn." *^ Most persons prefer plants budded 
in two places ; we have therefore giyen examples of such ; for mj 
own part, I like a plant with a single bud best. It is enou^ for 
CTery purpose, and the head is more easilj fashioned." 

" No. 6 represents a perfect tree, which has been doge pnmed 
for several years." It would seem that a modification of long and 
close pruning would be necessary for some varieties, and so it is ; 
but practice alone can injfbrm us correctly which they are. Hie 
plan of pruning must be regulated in some measure by the object 
sought There are particular forms which Roses are capable of 
taking, and they can be led into these by prun- 
ing and training. Na 7 is a piUar Rose, with 
five shoots. It had only three when planted, 
and these were soon cut close to the ground, 
to induce a vigorous growth. We now cut 
the three shoots shown by the single lines, and 
shorten the others ioffBs indicated by the shadow- 
ing. Afler pruning, the branches should lie 
at full length on the ground, and be fastened 
down with little pegs, to prevent them from blow- 
ing about Owing to the recumbent position, the 
buds will break regularly the whole length, and 
by the end of April they may be tied up to the 
pole, either in an erect position, or twined about 
it A good stake answers every purpose for the 
first two or three years, when the pole may be 
set (Red Cedar), with the branches cut off at irregular distances 
from the stem." 

'< No. 8 shows the same plant the next year. We begin to 
prune at the bottom of the pillar, by thinning out the vigorous 
shoots. This must be our aim, for it is easy enough at any time 
to extend the growth, and thus increase the height. We hscend 
the pillar, thinning more thoroughly as we approach the top. 
There we select one or two of the best shoots, to continue the as- 
cent, and tie them up. The small laterals are now cut back to 3 
or 4 eyes. If any spot is thin, we cut back to 1 or 2 eyes, and thus 
get strong shoots to fill the vacancy the next season. By the 




FLOWER-GARDEN. 



681 




third spring we find them of considerable height, and in every con- 
dition to produce an abundant bloom." 

^ We continue this treatment till the pillar is 
covered ; it should not be more than 12 feet 
high. Pillar Roses send up strong shoots from 
their roots each autumn ; these 
should be cut out ; but one or 
two maj be left to replace old 
^ItV shoots, now losing their vigor. 

^ r The old branches wiU not main- 

tain their vigor for manj years, 
and must be replaced. Keep 
the poles sound. No. 9 repre- 
sents a perfect pillar Rose ; its 
main branches have not been 
twined about the pole, but the 
practice is a good one." 

Climbing Roses require 

about the same treatment as the pillar Roses, 

with rather less pruning. Close pruning is not 

desirable for either kind, after the plants are well 

established, if we want masses of bloom. 

No. 10 gives a fair specimen of a Weeping Rose one year after 

budding. Cut the shoots in close the first time, to induce vigor ; we 

remove the upper bud entirely cutting the stem across at a. Having 

removed the upper bud, we thin out the two 

shoots marked by single lines, and shorten the 

others to the dark shading. The new shoots* 

will push from them vigorously, and soon 

reach the ground. No. 11 represents the tree 

the second year. Continue the operation as 

before, but shorten less. Single flowers will 

be occasionally produced, and the following 

year these short, bloom-bearing branches may 

be spurred to about two eyes. After this there 

is little difficulty in bringing he tree to per- 
fection. About the second or third year it is necessary to attach a 



No. 9. 




682 



JCLT. 




hoop to the head of the Weeping Rose, 
to keep the branches from injarj by the 
action of the wind, and to assist in auof 
aging them properly." No. 12. . 

^AHer a Rose-tree of anj kind is trained 
to the 8hi4>e desired, if it is healthj and 
vigorous we prune, so as to increase the 
size each year. This must be done with 
vigorous kinds, or they are over-^runed^ 
It should be done with the moderate 
growers, for as the roots extend their 
growth, and the stem increases in size, the plant is capable of sop- 
porting a larger head, and perfecting a 
greater number of flowers. This increase 
of size must be accomplished by thinning ; 
thin out well, leaving shoots at the farthest 
limit of the plant, that is consistent with 
its being well filed from base to summdL 
In pruning Roses that have attained sooie 
age, it may be necessary to remove a 
branch or two occasionally, to keep the 
head from becoming straggling and mis- 
shapen. A saw, sharp, fine-pointed, and 
close set, will be found useful here, as well as in removing small 
shoots, which from this position it may be difficult to remove with 
the pruning-knife, and also for cutting away dead branches. After 
using the saw, dress the wound smoothly with 
a knife." 

'^ Na 13 shows an old plant whose head 
is dying. To recover such plants, cut back 
as shown. To remodel the tree, the main 
lower branches must be cut well back ; the 
lower part of the branches will show no op- 
parent buds, but they exist latent, and by 
cutting back they will be forced into activity." 
Trees that have become weakly, are much 
improved by close pruning; so are those 





FLOWER-GARDEN. 



small growing kinds, which flower so constantly that it is rare to 
see a shoot that is not terminated with flowers. 

To do justice to autumnal Roses, they should be pruned a second 
time in summer, just after flowering ; or, if the summer flowers are 
not much valued, just before flowering ; by this practice their vigor 
and beauty will be much increased. 

But while thinning and shortening are all important, disbudding 
is a yet more effective agent for producing flowers in the finest 
possible condition, for keeping the plant in full health and vigor, 
and for bringing it to its highest point. It is evident that the more 
vigorous in habit a plant is, the greater the space to be left clear 
from bud to bud, to allow shoots room to develop. ' 

Young plants, judiciously disbudded, become more finely formed 
than by thinning and shortening alone. 

No. 14 shows a variety of Rose which 
is very thickly furnished with buds. It is 
apparent that all these buds cannot be de- 
veloped. To decide which to remove, re- 
member that the tendency of cill buds should 
he outward; and the farther apart they 
are, with in just limits, the better. Should 
two buds threaten to cross or crown 
each other, the one taking the least fa- 
vorable course of growth should be re- 
moved. 

*^ The summer kinds, disbudded or thinned in summer, usually 
continue to elongate from the ends of their shoots ; the autumn 
push forth the entire length of the shoots when the second flower- 
ing is complete ; the trees are improved in both cases, for the shoots 
grown at this season of the year will produce the finest flowers the 
next year." 




CHAPTER LXXm. 

KITCHEN-OARDBK. 

Hoe the advancing crops, to kill the weeds acd stir the soil. 
Watch weeds narrowly, for each day one grows jour land is so 
much the poorer. 

Plant out the, last Celery, and if the first planted i& well grown, 
hoe it a little. 

Gather the Peas and Beans as they are fit for table. String 
Beans will be fit for the table by the middle of the month. Ae- 
the early Lettuce goes out, other Salads will gradually take its 
place. 

Thin the Gooseberries the first of the month, and use the berries 
you remove for cooking. Those that are left will grow the* better. 
If you wish to increase the size of any particular Currants, pinch 
off* the end of the shoots an inch or two beyond the berries ; this 
will throw the sap more abundantly into the fruit, and increase it 
very much. The Currants will be red and nearly ripe by the mid- 
dle of the month, but very sour ; the longer they hang on the bushes 
the sweeter they become. The white varieties will be fi>und 
sweeter than the red, at the same stage of maturity. 

As soon as the Strawberries are entirely gone, weed the bed 
thoroughly, and you can have a new bed with but little trouble. 
If the bed is large, mark out through its length by the garden line, 
sections from 2 to 3 feet wide, and 18 inches apart. On these sec- 
tions wheel a little old manure, lime, and ashes ; dig the whole in. 
vines and all, very deeply ; trenching will pay. The phmts lefl in 
the rows will immediately throw out suckers into the new earth 
from both sides, and will before autumn entirely fill it. When It is 
full, that part of the bed that was at first left, may be dug up and 
kept open for the next two years. 

Covering the bed with a mulch of tan in the autunm or early 
- 684 



KITCHBN-OARDBK. 685 

spring, is thought to conduce to the welfare of vines and fruit ; it 
will be dug in at the present time, if a new bed is made as di- 
rected. 

The Raspberries have been growing with rapidity ; it is the new 
wood, or the spurs which have branched out from last year's canes, 
which will bear fruit, but it is the new canes which have grown 
this year which will bear fruit next These canes should be tied 
up as they grow, and before laying down in the fall all that are not 
wanted for next yeai^ must be taken up. Those taken up can be 
planted in trenches in the cellar, or buried in the open ground, to 
be planted out anew in the spring. As soon as out of bearing, cut 
out the old wood which bore the fruit 

Thimbleberries will ripen a little later than Raspberries. They 
send up new canes for next year's growth, early in the summer. 
But unlike those of the Raspberry, these canes continue to grow till 
they reach over to the ground. The extremities will then, if al- 
lowed, send out roots, and thus make new plants, and this is the 
natural mode of increase. If we prevent this by tying up the 
tong shoots to espaliers, we only injure ourselves. 

Cultivated Blackberries will ripen the very last of the month. 
The long shoots should be trained as they grow, horizontally to 
trellises, and after a good growth has been made, the extreme end 
may be pinched. It will bear fruit from new spurs, which will 
start next year from the canes of this, and by training the shoots 
down this year the sap is made to settle more into the eyes, and 
makes fruit buds of them. This berry is very much inclined to 
mn to wood, unless checked by this kind of training. 

Sow Peas the last of this month, if you wish to have them in 
the autumn, but you must not expect a large crop. The earlier 
varieties are the proper kinds to plant 

The general crops heretofore mentioned must be carefully 

watched and hoed. Vines of all kinds arc benefited by hoeing, 

but care must be taken not to bruise them in the process. 

Pickle crops may still be planted early in the month. 

Artichokes will be getting fit for eating now, and must be used 

at once. Some Okra will be fit to use the very last of the month. 

Early Potatoes, planted in the open ground, will be ready to dig 

58 



686 JULY. 

the third week in Julj, if not earlier, and after that joa maj rely 
on them for the table. 

Summer Squashes should be used as soon as they are as large as 
your two fists. They must be taken young to be delicate, and if 
left till old are not acceptable even to hogs. 

The latest Cauliflowers, those which are to be taken into the 
house for winter, must be set out now, before the end of the month. 

The early Onions, both Uiose planted from pips, and those in 
beds carried through the winter, will be fit to pull the middle and 
last of the month. 

Early Cabbages should not be pulled up, but cut off the stump, 
which, if left, will give new growth for greens till late in the automn. 

Sow some Spinach for autumn use. Transplant Endive, and 
sow small Salads from time to time ; the last of the month sow 
Endive for winter. 

Hoe Sweet Potatoes when they want it; weed and hoe the 
Boot crops for the last time ; afler this they will cover the ground 
and kill all the weeds themselves. 

Attend carefully to the espaliered fruit During the month the 
Cherries, both standard and espaliered, will be ripe and gathered, 
and the other fruit on the espaliers will mature rapidly. Thin as 
necessary from time to time, and disbud. Remember that disbud- 
ding and pinching off will save much other pruning. 

The Pears, etc., in the orchard, both standards and dwarfs, must 
be watched with care ; thin much and ofVen. You may rely on 
gathering from one to six dozen from each tree, and some large 
standards may bear several bushels. But you should leave only 
fruit buds enough to produce fine fruit 

July is a month for doing odd jobs about the kitchen-garden, 
and care should be taken to keep it all neat and tidy. 

Next month will be time enough to plant seeds for autumn and 
winter vegetables. In July, if the bark will slip freely from the 
wood, Cherries, and other stone fruits, as well as Pears and Apples, 
may be budded, but August is likely to be a better time. I will 
then give directions in detail. 

. I have deferred till now, a description of the growth, propaga- 
tion, and pruning of the Currant and Gooseberry. This is not a 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 687 

difficult or intricate business ; but upon its being well done, depends 
in a great measure the success of these plants. 

Figs can never be cultivated in this latitude upon a large scale, 
for our winters are too severe, but as curiosities they are desirable, 
and in a good location, with great care, a few specimens may be 
made to thrive and to ripen fruit 

Grooseberries are not so often cultivated as they ought to be. 

The difficulties in the culture of the Gooseberry are mildew and 
uncertainty of crop. 

The mildew, which seems almost enough to condemn them, is 
peculiar to some varieties ; others are nearly exempt, but all are 
liable to it when in too wet or too shaded places, and when not well 
pruned. 

The want of sufficient pruning is also the cause of the uncer- 
tainty of the fruit 

Most of the choice varieties come from Yorkshire, England, 
which is famous for Gooseberries. By buying the best Yorkshire 
varieties, which are said to be exempt from mildew, and planting 
in well-drained, deep, rich soil in an open, airy situation, and prun- 
ing well, you secure a good crop. 

They must be pruned once or twice in the fall, winter or very 
early spring, and in summer. At the first pruning cut out at least 
one-half the bush, removing old wood rather than new when you 
can. By pinching back and thinning out in June, the size and 
flavor of the fruit is increased. To secure the finest desert fruit, 
the berries should be well thinned when about half grown ; these 
^ thinnings " are excellent for sauce and pies. It is a peculiarity 
of this berry that the same bush rarely produces the largest fruit 
two years in succession. Do not expect fine fruit unless you give 
plenty of manure. 

If it were better known it would be a favorite ; and undoubtedly, 
by hybridizing the English with our native varieties, some might 
be produced which would bear abundantly and be free from mil- 
dew. We have two native Grooseberries which are very palatable ; 
one, Ribes' hirtellum, is small, berries not more than half an inch in 
diameter, very sweet, of a dark red color, and each bush bears 
enormously ; I have gathered two quarts from one wild bush in a 



688 JULY. 

hedgerow; the other, Ribes* CTnosbati, is a mueh stranger azid 
coarser varietj, berries ^ to } inch in diameter, covered With ion^ 
strong prickles, a good flavor, rather lighter red than Hirtellnm, 
excellent for sauce, etc, and the bush large-growing. 

The Gooseberry may be increased by seeds, cuttings, and sob- 
ers, but the latter never make good plants, while the first mstare 
glower and often differ from the parent. 

Cuttings should be taken from the wood of the current year with 
a heel of older wood in October or March ; if in October, ke^ 
them till spring in a cool place not too dry ; then plant in a border, 
moderately shaded, light, deep, and rich ; but first cut off all bads 
which will be below the surface after the cutting is in place, other- 
wise they will come up as suckers some time or other. The me- 
dium-sized fruits are generally higher flavored than the larger. 

In short, if you want good Gooseberries you must make yet an- 
other draft on your patience, and probably by this time you agree 
with me, that this same patience is an essential quality in a gar- 
dener. 

Currants. — The Currant needs less care than the Gooseberry, 
and yet it demands great care and attention to bring its ftnit to 
perfection. It is always unwise to plant the suckers of Currants, 
as they continue to sucker and bear but little and poor fruit The 
argument in favor of using suckers ; viz., that they are the plants' 
natural means of increase, is of no weight, as Currants can be prop- 
agated about as easily as Potatoes. Make cuttings of the last 
year's wood in the spring, or of the current year in October or No- 
vember. Make the cuttings 4 to 8 inches long ; cut off" all buds 
which would come below the surface when the cutting is set, and 
set them 2 or 3 inches deep in a garden border, moderately shaded, 
light, deep, and rich. They will be well-rooted plants in the fall, 
and may be permanently planted out then, or in the next spring. 

Currants are much benefited by thorough, but not severe pruning. 
Cut out about one-third of the old wood each year, and in June or 
July pinch back the new shoots a little ; this increases the size and 
flavor of the fruit. The old Dutch Currant was formerly the favo- 
rite, but is now gradually giving way to new varieties ; one of 



KITCHEK-OARDEN. 689 

which, which promises to supplant all others, is the Cherry Car- 
rant, whose fruit is as large as a Mazzard Cheny and yields enor- 
mously. 

No more profitable fruit can can be grown than improved Cui^ 
rants. As a table fruit they always sell well, and the demand for 
Currant jelly would be great could it be sold low enough to come 
within the reach of people of moderate . means. I know that the 
fruit is not the most costly ingredient in the jelly, but its price must 
be counted as an important addition in the cost of the whole. 

It is never wise to continue to cultivate the same bushes more 
than 8 or 10 years ; more fruit can be got from younger plants. 
Mulching improves the fruit and enables the bushes to hold their 
leaves later in the fall. They are very grateful for generous dress- 
ing of manure well dug in. 
58* 



CHAPTER LXXIV. 



THB FARM. 



Hot weather has come, and with it the hurry and chief harvest of 
the year, on all farms which have a large acreage of Grass or Graixu 

Haying has more admirers, and is more dreaded than any other 
farm work. Some persons enjoy it, others detest it I do not 
think it very hard work, on the whole. Coming in hot weather, it 
does, indeed, demand much endurance, and hand mowing is very 
tiresome except to those who are really adepts in it ; in fact it is an 
art which can only be learned in youth ; it requires a peculiar and 
elastic motion, best acquired by growing boys, and it rarely happens 
that one who makes his first attempt in his manhood gains any 
skill in mowing. But it is to be hoped that the days of hand mow- 
ing are on the wane, though the time can never come when it will be 
quite abandoned. The bulk of the work, however, can and should 
be done by machines. 

But there is much other work to be done before we come to 
mowing, and while we are about it, and we will consider this first. 

All the crops should be hoed a second time before haying is 
begun. 

Com is high enough to cover and shade the ground, and the 
Root crops have advanced to the third leaf, unless it be the later 
sown kinds, like Ruta Bagas. The Roots sown early this month, 
or late in June, should now be cleaned and thinned. If guano was 
sown with the young Turnips, the plants will soon hurry by the 
danger of the fly, and get their rough leaves. 

It is because the Root crop demands care during haying, that 
New England farmers are so much prejudiced against it The 
practice of good farmers has been to finish all their other work be- 
fore they began haying, that there might be no interruption in get- 
ting that important crop ; any work which cannot be so disposed 

690 



THB FARM. 691 

of is very annoying to them, and they are not willing to entertain 
the idea of a crop, the moit difficult work of which comes just in 
the heat of haying. 

It is the custom to hoe the weedy crops on dark days, bad hay 
days, but it is a gain only in appe^utuice, for weeds cut in such 
weather are sure to start again. 

Haying should be over by the end of the first fortnight in July, 
the time for cutting varying a little with the variety of Grass. 
The bulk of experiments unite in setting the flowering season as 
the best time for cutting, as the Grass then contains the largest 
amount of untransformed sugar, starch, and gluten, and makes tlie 
mo6t succulent and nutritious Hay. The weight, however, after 
drying, is less in comparison with the bulk, than when it is cut after 
the seed is nearly or quite mature. 

We do not cultivate the Grasses for seed, but for straw, and 
should try to get the forage in its best condition for feeding ouU 
Were we cutting the Hay to sell, on the rule " caveat emptor," it 
would be wise to let it ripen before cutting, as it would then be 
heavier and more profitable. It is a question whether farmers are 
bound to sacrifice their own interest to the supposed interest of 
others. If the over-scrupulous farmer were to carry to market a 
load of Hay cut at what he knows to be the best period, and con- 
sequently of light weight compared with its bulk, the purchaser 
would pay no more per ton than for Hay cut when the seed was ripe, 
and consequently weighing more than the other, and he would laugh 
at the farmer if he asked more than the market price of the latter 
for his superior Hay. It is much to be regretted that some standard 
cannot be fixed to regulate the sale of Hay, and enable both buyer 
and seller to get their dues. 

The application of my remark that haying should be over in a 
fortnight, depends a little on the weather ; but, with modem im- 
provements, a very little. To begin with. Hay should be cut with 
a mowing-machine. These machines have been brought to such 
perfection that it is easy, with a pair of horses, to cut at least an 
acre per hour ; some teams do much more. Therefore the farmer 
need not begin his hay-day blindly; he can afford to wait till 



692 JULY. 

the sun has fairlj risen, dispelled clouds and fogs, and dried the 
dew. The dew being thoroughly dried off expedites the making 
of Haj very much. When a swarth is cut wet and laid in the 
sun, the upper side dries, but the lower remains wet, and must be 
turned before it can feel the sun ; and until it is dry the other side 
cures but slowly, the evaporation of its juices being prevented by 
the steam which rises from the under side. But when the dew is 
off and the ground dry, the swarth laid over begins to evaporate 
its juices at once. Do not suppose that standing grass is aa long 
in drying as mowed grass, fi)r it admits air freely among its stalks. 

Many days in haying-time begin with clouds and fogs, which 
puzzle the most weather-wise farmer; it is impossible to know 
whether they will break up or thicken. Now the scythe cannot be 
withheld till this is decided ; its work must begin at 4 a.m. 

The mowing-machine, however, cannot be used everywhere. 
Many mowing fields are too rough for it ; but this is the fault of 
bad fiirming, — slovenly, ordinary New England farming, which 
neglects to drain and clear, and is careless about manuring. The 
fiurmer who condemns a mowing-machine because it fails in his has- 
socky, rough, stony field, condemns himself and his farming ; and 
were he candid he would confess it A field so cultivated as to 
admit of the use of a machine, pays for the extra labor by the in- 
creased crop, at least one-half ton per acre. Had I lime I could 
prove that the space occupied in a rough field of loose surface 
stones, pieces of wood, and hassocks, is more than enough to shut 
out this amount of grass. 

But supposing our land prepared for the machine ; we send it 
into the field a^O a.m. We have no enormous gang of haymak- 
ers to be fed, treated, lunched, coaxed, and driven. One man or 
boy drives the machine, which cuts and spreads the grass evenly. 
Two others are removing the hay-covers from the hay cut yester- 
day. By the time an acre is cut, one or two other men begin to 
open the hay that has been uncovered. In two or three hours the 
machine cuts as much as we can manage to-morrow. If we have 
a hay-tedder or spreader, we put one or two horses into it, and 
drive over the field, turning the hay ten times as fast and well as if 



THE FARM. 698 

done by hand, and at one-tenth the cost. It can be easily turned 
before dinner. The men who turned the hay may load some that 
is well dried, or may be employed in weeding. 

Afler dinner the horse-rakes go to work, one or more, according 
to the amount of hay down. They first rake the dry gi*ass into 
winnows, while the tedder is turning the grass cut in the morning. 
As soon as this is done, the horses are put into the hay wagons, and 
we load them with the winnowed hay which was perhaps cut yes- 
terday, and at farthest the day before. 

By 3 P.M., the horse-rake is again at work on the morning's 
cutting, while it is still hot There are many varieties of horse- 
rake ; which is best must be decided by the purchaser. On a clean 
farm the spring-toothed is most convenient, and costs no more than 
the others, but it needs two persons to manage it ; Delano's *' inde- 
pendent-toothed ** is a good rake, and one man can manage it ; but 
I prefer the " improved spring-toothed," also managed by one man, 
who rides, and elevates the teeth with a lever. 

When the hay is raked, cock it and cover with hay-caps. The 
great gain made by using them is not half understood. Everybody 
knows that hay heats somewhat when cocked up, and would cure 
were it not that the night air and dew cool it« When covered it is 
neither cooled nor damped, yet its own steam or vapor passes off 
rapidly ; consequently it makes nearly as fast by night as by day 
and is not injured by showers. Many reliable instances are given 
where Hay, cut and covered as here described, was left out in 
two or three days' severe rain, and found perfectly cured in the 
cock when the storm was over. 

In all cases it is well to invert the cock in the sun for an hour 
or two before getting it in, that the bottom Hay may have a chance 
to evaporate any moisture it may have taken from the ground ; but 
repeated and careful trials show that Hay put in cocks which would 
make 50 pounds of dry Hay the same day on which it was cut, cov- 
ered and left to dry without being opened for two or more days, 
will cure into the best quality of Hay, — better in all respects than . 
that made in the ordinary way. . For the bleaching and scorching 
of the sun removes many of the essential oils which give the Hay 
its peculiar fragrance and sweetness; while repeated turning 



694 JULY. 

breaks off all the delicate leaves and flowers, leaving only the 
coarser and harder parU, which are not easily broken and are 
mach less nutritious. Rain, too, injures Hay that is not covered, 
very much ; it changes its color,, washes away the wax, which is 
very valuable, dissolves much of its essential oil, sugar and starch. 
The injury is in proportion to the extent of wetUng. 

Obviously, the process of making Hay is hastened if there is no 
dew to be dried off it ; and if it is cocked up when heated by tiie 
sun, and covered so that it cannot cool fast, evaporation must con- 
tinue, and when it is re-opened to the sun its drying does not beyiny 
but is hastened. 

Clover hay is most injured by repeated turning, its leaves and 
flower being so tender as to be broken by the least movement. 

Hay made in the cock is nearly as green when fed out in winter 
as Rowen, or even as when cut ; and Clover made in the cock does 
not lose the color of its blossom. In midwinter I have seen 
Clover-heads in Hay thus made, which at first sight seemed just 
picked from the field. 

Those old-fashioned farmers who were accustomed to spend just 
so many days in making their Hay, who left it two days at least 
after cutting, and expected it to " look dry " when carted to the 
bam, would be frightened at the appearance of a bamful of well* 
made Hay. It would be so green that they would think it must 
have heated. 

Well-dried Hay does not need much salt . 2 quarts to the load, 
or 4 to the ton is plenty ; some salt is desirable to increase its relish, 
but it is very easy to put in too much. Hay should never go to 
the mow till it is dry enough to keep well without the help of salt 
If it must be got in green, pains should be taken to ventilate it; 
and in large, deep mows and bays it is an excellent^ plan to build a 
chimney of Straw or other material in the middle, as in our plan 
of the bam. 

To do this, bore through the floor in the middle of the space for 
the bay or mow many 3 inch augur holes within a circle of 3 feet 
diameter ; set several bundles of Straw on their buts over these 
holes ; pack Hay closely round these bundles, and when it is level 
with their tops set other bundles above them, but down ; or you may 



THE FARM. 695 

draw up the first bundles a little after the Hay has been filled in 
hard around them, continuing the process till the mow is full, 
when the Straw maj be left at the top or removed. The hole may 
be gradually narrowed as the mow rises. The cool air of the cellar 
will rise though the holes in the floor, as the escape of heated air 
from the Hay makes a draught through the chimney, and will ven- 
tilate and cool the mow. Do the same when you make a stack. 
After some months a cover may be put under the holes in the floor 
to exclude air. 

A better way is to hoop a headless barrel on its inside, remove the 
outer hoops with the exception of those at the top and bottom, se- 
cure to the inside some ropes or straps, by which to haul the barrel 
up as the stack or mow rises, and use it as you would the straw 
bundles, it will last for years. A make-shift way is to set several 
poles on end in the middle of the stack, fastening their tops and 
spreading their lower ends. In our bam a permanent lattice-work 
chimney is built from floor to roof. 

It does not hurt Hay to heat a little just enough to warm the 
mass, but if it becomes smoky it loses both in value and weight 
though some fanners say that smoky Hay is just as good to feed 
out, though it does not sell well ; they tell too much for their own 
argument ; if smoky Hay wont sell, it is because it is not so good. 
Milch cows seem to yield as much milk when fed on it, but it does 
not fatten cattle, and it hurts the wind of horses. 

There are many kinds of hay-covers ; some of plaited rushes 
(imported from China), some of tarpaulin, some of duck, some of 
cotton cloth soaked in oil and beeswax. The best are the cheap- 
est, and are made at some cotton mills for the purpose. They are 
of strong, closely woven, unbleached cotton ; about 4 feet 6 inches 
square is the medium size. The largest covers are best — large 
enough to cover a 50 pound cock of dry Hay. The clotb should 
be chemically prepared to prevent its mildewing, and is then better 
than if oiled, for oil tends to decay the fibres. Into each comer tie 
a stout piece of tarred twine, in the loose end of which put a loop. 

The easiest way to fasten the twine is to take the comer in the 
left-hand so that a few inches of it project over the cloth by the 
string ;* now double the end back into the hand over the string; 



696 JULY. 

take the looped end of the string and tie it round the doubled end 
of the cover, in a noose or slip knot, and draw it tight. It will 
hold the comer more securely than any string jou can sew on, and 
is quite as good as eyelets set into the comer (into which a string 
must be fastened afterward), and much cheaper. ELave readj some 
stout, well-seasoned forked sticks of hard wood at least 6 inches 
long ; hook the stick into the loop and drive the sharp end into the 
ground, when the cover is to be pinned to the ground. Iron piiu 
permanently fastened to the loop are better but more costly. The 
wooden pins may be permanently fastened also. When yon are 
about to use the covers, remember that a little care saves much 
trouble, and have ready a pile of them in the bam-floor. Thej 
may be bought fitted for use at 75 cents and needing onlj the 
strings and pegs for from 40 to 60 cents apiece according to qoal* 
ity. When ready for use they should be folded compactly. Whoi 
wanted in the field pile them evenly into a wagon, hand-cart, or 
wheelbarrow and leave one to each cock ; as the Hay is cocked up, 
some one should go over the field, spread the cover over the cod^s, 

and pin the comers firmly to 
the ground. If this is well 
done they will, as I have said, 
X, bear a three days' rain ; they 
shrink under rain and shed it 
like a roof. When the cock 
is uncovered, a man or boy should go round and refold the covers, 
a work which will not take one-half a minute for each. If this is 
done the pins are all secure, and the covers in a portable form. If 
a shower comes up it is a short job to send a horse and cart or 
men with a hand barrow round to ooUect and take them quickly 
where they are needed, and when unfolded there is no oonfusiom 
entangling of strings, or loss of pegs to prevent putting them on 
rapidly. If not well pinned down they are liable to be blown off, 
or cannot be drawn out tight enough to turn rain well. 

Their use is not confined to the hayfield ; for Rowen, stooks of 
Grain, shocks of Peas and Beans, Com stover, piles of Apples, 
they are equally good, and when once introduced on a farm they 
are in as frequent demand as the shovel or wheelbarrow, and could 




THE FARM. 697 

be as ill dispensed with. I think they more than save their cost in 
a single season. If you cannot afford to buy a hundred, get a few 
at a time, and as you learn their value you will buy more. In 
winter dry them well, fold and store in a dry place. 

With the aid of mowing machines, hay-tedders, horse-rakes and 
hay-covers, the uncertainty and difficulty of the Hay harvest is 
removed, and it may be undertaken and carried forward with speed 
and security. 

No good haymaking or "tedding" machine of American in- 
vention has yet been offered for sale ; the English machine although 
efficient is costly and very heavy. It is the only apparatus con- 
nected with haymaking that remains to be highly improved. The 
time spent in turning Hay, shaking out swarths, etc., is a very con- 
siderable draught on the busy hours of haying. 

A large fork, much like a dirt-scoop, has been invented, ^wlilch 
can be shoved into and under the load, and then attached to a rope 
and pulley, so that the whole load is taken up and placed on the 
lofl at one movement Such an apparatus can hardly come into 
general use on small farms, as it involves considerable prepara- 
tion; but some arrangement of grapnels might be devised for 
raising large masses of Hay at once. 

With us the practice of securing Hay in stacks is not at all 
common where barns are available, — not so common as it might 
be, with advantage, I think. Tliey are quickly and easily made, 
and Hay well secured in them keeps sweet and fragrant till spring. 

As a preparation for the stack, stcUheh (short piles) should be 
driven into the ground, or a low trestlework erected, strong enough 
to bear the weight, and high enough to protect the bottom of the 
stack from wet. When you determine to make 
a stack, endeavor to have ready the amount of 
Hay which will make it, or else be provided 
with a tarpaulin or sailcloth large enough tx> 
cover the stack, when suspended above it. Pitch 
the Hay from the loads to a man standing on 
the stathels or stack buts. With a fork he lays 
it round regularly, if the stack is to be round, 
along, if it is not, treading it well as he lays it, spreading it a little 
59 




698 



JULT. 




as it rises, so as to make a round stack, egg shaped, a long stiusk 
something like the bottom of a ship, or the sides of a good home- 
made loaf, and contracting it again with an opposite slope for a top 
or roof to shed rain. 

When the stack is finished, 
leave it for a few days to set- 
tle and shrink; then trim it 
well, and if straw can be had, 
'^ thatch it ; if not, take Ferns, 
Rushes, meadow Hay, or anj 
long Hay, and be^nning at the 
eaves, lay it quite round the stack in parcels, like shingles, rising 
tier by tier, and binding each tier as you go. Crown it with long 
straw doubled over the ridge. This, if well hid and secored, will 
shed rain. 

To secure the whole, make a Hay rope, which is done by twist- 
ing long Hay together, one handful into and over another, twisting 
thoroughly. This method is very rude, and a rope much stronger 
may be made by the aid of throw crooks. Various forms of these 
are in common use. '' A is a home-made crook of stout ash wood, 

3^ feet long, the bent part of 
which is thinned off till able 
to be bent to a curve, and is 
there retained by the iroo 
stay a, the part b being left 
beyond the stay as a point of attachment for the 
rope. The end c, is furnished with a ferule and 
swivel ring, by which it is either attached to the 
person by a cord round the waist, or held in the 
hand. B is a better form of the crook, where the 
strain of the straw rope is in a straight line from 
the hook a along the spindle e to the handle 
d: the lefl hand holds the swivel ring c, and 
the right hand causes the part e h d to revolve 
round the line a e d hj means of the handle &, 
which is covered with a loose hollow cylinder of 
wood, the rest of the instrument being made of iron." 




ioQ 




THE FARM. 



699 



When the rope is made, drive a pin firmly into some sheltered 
part of the stack, to fasten the rope to, and finally bind and tie the 
whole together. 

The cuts show different methods of roping the roof of a stack. 

When you wish to use the 
Hay, begin on one side, and with 
a Hay knife cut off large slices 
at once, and haul them into the 
bam. By cutting large slices 
quite down to the ground, you 
will prevent the rain getting 
in, and will preserve the 
soundness of the stack. 

The important points to be 
remembered in stack-making 
are to tramp and lay the Hay 
well Salt as for Hay in the 
bam. 

I think it would of^en be 
better economy to stack Hay than to enlarge our bams, 
you stack, remember to cut 
off the Hay and carry it into 
the bam, and not turn the cat- 
tle out to feed and shiver in 
the cold stackyard. 

Some European farmers 
dig large pits and pack Grass 
into them as compactly as pos- 
sible, salting freely, and cov- 
ering over so as to shut out 
air when filled. The Grass 
keeps greener, and they think 
sweeter than under the com- ^^ 
mon methods ; but the amount 
of salt must be injurious. Hay 
or fodder too much salted acts bomm, ratbiu, or mmis, roa muK staoks. 




But if 




700 



JULY. 



on animals as a cathartic, purging them violently, and awakening 
an inordinate and unwholesome thirst. 

Grain may be stacked like Hay, but greater care is necessary in 
laying it in order, to secure it from rain. Hay may be packed uni- 
fi>rmly, but there is danger that open,spaces will be left between the 
bundles of Grain. ^ The stack should be built in this way : set up 
a couple of sheaves against each other in the centre of the stathel, and 
another couple against their sides. Pile other sheaves against these 
in rows around the centre, with a slope downwards, towards the cii^ 
cumference of the stathel, each row being placed half the length of 
the sheaf beyond the inner one, till the circumference is completed, 
when it should be examined, and where any sheaf presses too hard 
upon another, it should be relieved, and where a slackness is found 
a sheaf should be introduced. Continue the stack around, lajring 

each sheaf over the inter> 
stices of the two bek>w close 
to the last one, pres^g it in 
with the knees, as is repre- 
sented at h. When the out- 
si ie row is thus laid, an in- 
side one ismade with sheaves, 
whose but ends rest on the 
bands of the outside row, 
thereby securing the outside 
sheaves in their places, and 
; at the same time filling up 
f the body of the stack firm- 
ly with sheaves, A few 
more sheaves may be re- 
quired as an inmost row, 
to make the heart of the stack the highest part It is an immense 
benefit to a stack to have its centre well filled with sheaves, as it is 
the heart sheaves which retain the outside ones in their places in 
the circle, with an inclination downward from the centre to the dr- 
cimiference, and it is this inclined position of the outside sheares 
that presents the rain finding a passage along the straw to the 
very heart of the stack, where it would soon spoil the grain." " As 




THE FARM. 



701 



the stack goes up the pitcher should preserve its shape, by shoving 
in the but of anj sheaf which projects too far, or by pulling out 
any which are too far in." " The eave of the stack is formed ac- 
cording to the mode in which it is thatched. If the ropes are to 
be placed lozenge-shaped, as shown, the eave-row of sheaves is 
placed just within the topmost row. If the thatching-ropes are to 
run from the crown of the stack to the eaves, the eave-sheaves are 
made to project two or three inches beyond the topmost row of 
sheaves." 

To fasten a rope, draw out a handful of straw from a sheaf, and 
wind the rope around it, and then push the end of the rope between 
it and the stack, or make a tie to the rope itself. Should a stack 
lean, prop it with stout stakes. 

In commending mowing-machines, I said some hand mowing 
must be done ; there will be comers out of the reach of the ma- 
chine, headlands, etc., which must be cut by the scythe, so that it la 
necessary to hire at least one good mower. 




HOVrtHI} MACBTifl. 



59* 



i 



702 JULT. 

If a farmer cannot afford to buj a mowing-machiney he can < 
bine with several others to do sa The same machine, horsea, joii 
driver can easilj cut the grass of three or four farmers, bj a litde 
management. I know an instance of three farmen, living nearlj 
two miles apart, owning a machine together, with which they fasve 
done all their mowing during the past three years, with tpced^ 
economy, and comfort ; and between them they saved nearij iii 
cost the first year. Such a partnership between obliging, neighr 
borly people may often supply the want of individual capitaL 

As soon as the Hay is out of the fields, turn the water of irr^a- 
tion on to them, and allow it to stand for a few days at a time » its 
use now will give a second crop nearly as large as the first. 

The management of irrigation must be decided by experieiio& 
Some persons recommend letting on the water as soon as the Hay 
is off; others advise leaving the grass to make a start. I should 
use it as soon as a field was cut, first dressing with one or two fami- 
dred weight of guano or super-phosphate of lime. 

If you have liquid manure carry it out on to the grass, and yoa 
will receive an enormous return. 

Farmers who have tried a liberal top-dressing of compost just 
after cutting their grass, affirm that they get better retams from 
it then than at any other time. I confess I do not see how this is 
possible, for it seems to me the dry, hot weather must reduce the 
value of the manure to that of so much mulching. 

So soon as the grass is gone, and even before, you must b^;in 
on the grain. Do not leave it till ftilly ripe ; the straw should be 
yellow at the bottom, but not all along the stem. Try the grain ; 
squeeze a kernel between the thumb and finger ; if its contents 
squeeze out in a dry and mealy condition, it is fit to cut ; if quite 
milky, it should stand longer. There is a great loss in leaving it 
till fully ripe, from birds, and from the amount which shakes out 
of the ear while harvesting. And besides, careftil experiments are 
detailed in Stevens' Book of the Farm, and elsewhere, which show 
that grain cut from 5 to 10 days before it was fully ripe, proved 
of much better quality than a portion of the same crop, in the same 
field, which was left till fully ripe ; so that even if the whole of a 



THE FARM. 703 

^ dead ripe" grain crop could be saved, ita greater bulk would not 
atone for the loss in quantity and quality of the flour and meal 
made from it 

The winter-sown grain is the first to ripen ; the earliest summer- 
flown is next. 

Barley and Oats may be allowed to stand later than Wheat and 
Rye, because they ripen more slowly and are less valuable. But 
Oats cut a week or two before they are ripe, dried as Hay, and fed 
out in the Straw in winter, are often found to make superior Hay 
and Grain for horses. 

Grain should never be reaped where it is possible to use a cradle 
or scythe, and large fields should be harvested with* a reaping-mar 
chine. It is said that reaping, saves more of the straw, but it does 
so at a cost generally of double or treble its value in labor. When 
grain is badly lodged it must be reaped, for neither the cradle nor 
scythe can go through it ; but all grain in good oxidition can be 
mowed evenly, and laid ready for binding, with the common 
scythe, and, after a little practice, at much less cost than with any 
other hand implement. Mowers, cradlers, and reapers follow the 
same method ; viz., cut the grain and leave it, the two former in 
regular swathes, the latter in bunches or bundles. Leave it thus 
till noon ; then turn it, and leave again till 3 p.m., when all hands 
should be sent in to bind it into sheaves. 

To do this rapidly, let one or more men precede the binders, and 
with hay-rakes draw together enough gndn to form a good-sized 
sheaf (the size must be determined by the length of the straw 
which is to bind it). The binder takes in his right liand a handful 
of the larger straw, then gathering up the grain into his arms he 
passes the straw round behind it, and brings the ends together in 
fix>nt, where he crosses them upon the grain with some pressure. 
Then laying the bundle upon the ground, he presses it close with 
his knee, and tightly twisting the ends of the binding strand i*ound 
once or twice, he finishes by tucking them under the band. If 
tightly held and twisted the band will hold well ; and by it the 
^eaf is now to be managed. 

Other men should follow the binders, and gather the sheaves into 



704 JULT. 

stocks. The stook is made by leaning several sheaves against eadi 
other, and others against them ; over their tops laj 2 or 3 sheave; lay 
them firmly and well balanced, so that they will shed rain. Anoth^ 
way of protecting the stook (which must then be made ratl^r 
small), is to set over it a large sheaf, head downward, and opened 
out so that it will embrace the whole top of the stook. Or they 
may be protected with Hay-covers, which is the best plan. Leave 
them to dry thoroughly for a day or two in fine weather, longer if 
necessary ; but the longer they stand the more liability to injiny 
by rain, and to loss from plundering birds, and from loosened and 
fallen kernels. The grain may be removed at once to the bam, if 
you have a place there for it where there is free air. The best 
place is above the bam floor overhead ; lay poles or timbers across 
the beams, with such an interval between as will just support the 
sheaves. Thus stored, the grain is sure to be well aired and dried 
and the method is therefoi*e good for grain too green to be mowed 
or stacked. 

All grain — even Oats — should be thus carefully harvested ; 
it then brings a price high enough to more than pay for extra 
labor ; the straw is not soiled or broken, and both spends and sells 
better. 

When the hurry of harvest is over, thresh; the sooner the 
better. To thresh by hand, sweep out the threshing-floor dean, 
pitch down into it as many bundles as its width will accommodate ; 
lay them in two rows, buts out. The best place is the floor of the 
Hay bam, where large doors can be opened at each end and allow 
a free circulation of air to remove dust and cool the workmen. 
Lay the sheaves with the knots uppermost, as there are heads in 
them which must be threshed. When the grain has been well 
threshed, the bundles should be untied, and tumed over so that the 
flail may do thorough work. This over, tie the bundles up again, 
and fork them away into the lofi to be sold or used ; sweep the 
Grain to one side, and clear the floor. If let out, it should be by 
the bushel, and the straw be well inspected afterwards to insure 
thoroughness. 

I need not describe the winnowing machine. There are thresh- 
ing machines worked by horse and steam, which can be used to 



TH£ FARM. 705 

immense advantage on large jobs, and farmers may find it well to 
have one in partnership. 

Grass for seed is to be treated like that for Haj, till nearly ripe, 
when it should be cradled or mowed, and otherwise treated like 
grain. 

No grass should be cut for seed unless free from all weeds 
and bad grasses. You have had an instance of the number of 
weed seeds in two pints of Dutch clover, the seed of which 
is pretty large, — 25,560 and 70,400 to the pint, or an aver- 
age of 50,000. In Herds grass there is undoubtedly as large 
a proportion of weed seeds as the Dutch clover ; and therefore, 
when we sow one-half bushel (32 pints) of Herds grass (to an 
acre), we sow the seeds of about 1,000,000 weeds. In (a bushel 
of) Redtop my experience would show a still larger proportion, 
and I do not doubt that in general we sow 4,000,000 weed seeds to 
the acre. What wonder that we have trouble with weeds in afier 
fallows. 

Any land which you wish to sow with Millet may be sown as 
late as the middle of this month, with the certainty of a good crop 
of fodder grain of 3 to 5 tons per acre, in September. Grass 
seed sown at this season with Millet, does well. Sow with them 
1^ pounds common purple topped or flat Turnips to the acre. 
They will make their growth in the young grass after the Millet 
is removed, and will yield 200 to 400 bushels to the acre, not, 
however, without drawing their support from the land ; every crop 
we grow reduces the fertility of the soil, but I assume that we cul- 
tivate so well that we wish to get all the crops we can, and that 
the Turnips are manured for, and will make manure in return. 
If we get a poor crop of grass, it will be because we have not 
manured well, or because the land is in bad heart, — which is our 
fiiult and bad farming. 

During the dry weather that follows haying, there is time to re- 
pair ditches and to begin or continue underdraining. On most 
farms there is a lull of work at that time, the breathing space be- 
tween two harvests. 



CHAPTER LXXV. 

ORNAMENTAL GBOUND8. 

The care of finished groands during summer is light woik. 
Our time is occupied either in devising new improvements or in 
enjoying the results of our labors. 

Although I have at different times referred to nurseries, seed- 
beds, varieties of trees and groups, only general principles and 
hints have been given, and there is need of more detailed direc- 
tions before we close our year. 

Seed-beds and nurseries are of course to be made in the fall and 
spring, — in the fall, for all plants having a hardy bony seed. It 
is not well to plant at first in the place where they are to stand fin- 
several years, for most plants incline to a few long roots, often to a 
single taproot ; those with hairy or fibrous roots are the excep- 
tions. All the skill of the nurseryman is to be directed to check- 
ing this tendency, and inducing the plant to make fibrous roots. 

Evidently a plant with but few roots, and those not fibrous, is 
not likely to flourish when transplanted. Some of its roots are 
broken, and in its new quarters, however much food there may be, 
it has but few mouths to eat with. 

Walnut:*, many kinds of Oak, Beeches, Chestnuts ; among fruit- 
trees, Pears and Cherries have hard-shelled seed, and few, or tap- 
roots. 

A germinating seed sends a little root, the radicle, into the earth, 
and a little stem, the pumule, into the air. The root like the stem 
grows from the end ; but not by successive buds formed one year 
to be expanded the next, but by successive elongations. This 
elongation takes place only in obedience to the demands of the 
plant for food, and the natural tendency is to go straight down like 
a carrot, when there is food enough ; side roots are sent abroad 
only when the taproot meets with a check or scarcity of food. 

706 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 707 

Consequently when we try to remove such a tree, we find the 
central root running down, sometimes 5 feet into the earth with 
scarcely a side root. To transplant the tree is plainly an impossi- 
bility. We cannot dig up the deep roots, and if we could, we 
could not plant them again properly. 

This is the main cause of the general failure in transplanting 
such trees from the forests or fields where they have grown from 
infancy. The thing is nearly impossible, no matter how much 
care is taken. This being the natural growth of the tree, it ha^ 
been reasoned that any attempt to prevent its forming a taproot 
would result in checking its growth, it being a plain violation of 
nature's law. It is true that if we change the habit of the tree's 
roots we injure the tree, unless we so conform other circumstances 
to it as to make good what we take away. For instance, a tree 
whose roots go down 5 feet into the soil, only throwing out a few 
fibrous side roots, draws all its support from the soil contained in the 
inverted cone covered by its branches, through which the roots 
choose to extend, multiplied by 5 feet. Suppose its branches to ex- 
tend 50 feet in diameter ; the superficial area is about 1,900 which 
multiplied by 5 gives 9,500 cubic feet But this is the amount of 
earth contained in the solid entire cube, and which abstractly con- 
sidered it is necessary to allow to support it in full vigor. If now 
you divert the taproot, cut it off or bend it so that surface i-oots 
8hall take its place, which do not dip more than 2 feet down, the 
diameter through or over which they can be allowed to range must 
be increased ; a circle with a diameter of 50 feet will no longer 
unquestionably feed the tree ; it must be enlarged three-fiflhs. Or 
to change the form of statement the trees could be within 25 feet 
of each other while they had taproots, but afler the change the 
distance between them must be at least 40 feet to insure the same 
amount of food. I do not give these as the proper distances, but 
as illustrative of the relative needs of taprooted and fibrous rooted 
trees. And I do not mean to say that no trees should be planted 
nearer than they will bear to be when well grown, nor in the first 
case will the roots ramify through the 9,500 cubic feet ; there may 
be as good reasons for planting close as for planting wide. But 
this may be stated without modification ; viz., if a given number of 



708 JTTLT. 

f^t of good soil are necessary to the perfection of an arenge 
specimen of an j class of trees, all other trees of the same species 
to attain perfection need the same amount of the same qnalitj of 
soil, — or more if it be poorer, less if it be richer. For the sake 
of shade, fine groups, timber, or screens, we may plant closer, and 
in that case manure will do much to supply the want of room. 

To return now to the seed-beds. Make them for all kinds of trees, 
so that you may have an abundance of such as you wish after all 
the losses of growing, etc Make the beds from 3 to 5 feet wide 
and as long as you please ; dig them deep and manure well ; rake 
fine. With a dibber make holes for all largish nuts, aooms, 
etc, one inch deep and as many inches apart as their size indicates ; 
drop one nut or seed into each hole and cover with earth. Make 
the rows across the bed. Smaller seeds may be sown in drills and 
covered from one-half to one inch 'deep, according to size. All 
berries enclosing seeds, like Haws, Black alders. Barberries, etc, 
may be put to soak for some hours or days in lukewarm water in 
a warm place, and as soon as they are softened to a sort of palp or 
pounce, they should be mashed and strained through one of the 
coarser kinds of fine sieves, then washed several times tiU clean, 
and afterwards rolled in ashes or plaster to dry and separate them. 
Or you may drop one berry in each dibber-hole, the holes being 
3 to 4 inches apart, from each berry ; three or more plants will 
probably start and may afterwards be transplanted. 

In the same way treat other seeds. Allow the bed to freeze 
and thaw, as the alternations break the shells of the seeds and free 
the germs. Early in the spring loosen the earth between the rows 
with a handfork. When the plants appear, keep the bed free finom 
weeds, and tbe earth light, loose, and well watered. 

The next spring transplant to another bed and put them 6 to 9 
inches apart, rows 2 feet apart and still running north and south. 
Mulch in summer, and cultivate them in this bed, till they grow 
crowded, when they should be removed to their final position. 

When this is done they should be examined again, and any tap- 
roots which have formed should be pinched off. 

Some trees like Hemlocks, no matter at what age, when taken 
from fields or pastures, have only a few finger-like roots ; those 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 709 

which live afler being removed to a good soil and cultivated there 
for a year or two, will make an enormous quantity of fine, hairy 
roots, and may be transplanted anywhere with safety. 

A few seeds thus planted and cared for will save hundreds of 
dollars to a person planting largely. 

A more rapid way is to buy seedlings of a propagator who will 
sell them for a trifle per hundred. Set them out in the second 
year from seed. But banish from your mind the notion — which 
has been known to creep in — that after doing this and using what 
you want, you can sell the rest for enough to reimburse the outlay. 
Such a practice is detestable and fills one with care and worry. 
When he looks at his young plants he thinks — not of their beauty 
— but of the money they will bring ; instead of using the best, he 
acts like poor country fiirmers, who feed their family on the refuse 
of stall and field and sell the best If you would get real enjoy* 
ment from your young plantations, propose to yourself to use what 
you want and give away the rest. There is no gifl more appro- 
priate or beautiful to a neighbor than a few choice trees, shrubs or 
fiowers, which he may be too poor to buy. If you make a specula- 
tion of it, the cost of the plants which you use may be small in 
money, but it will be great in trouble and aggravation. 

In forming your collection you should be influenced very much 
by the consideration of the soil you have to deal with, the charac- 
ter and species of the trees and shrubs already growing round you, 
and the requirements of the climate. If your place is to be your 
home in winter as well as summer, the plantations must be made 
with a view to their effect in the one season as well as in the other. 

It is common to set more value on strange trees than on the 
native trees and shrubs about us. In some cases the preference is 
well founded ; as for instance, in a region like the most of Plymouth 
County, Mass., where the principal growth is White and Yellow 
Pine, and Birch ; here the eye naturally tires of the monotony and 
longs for variety. A judicious intermingling of strangers enlivens 
the landscape and increases our love for it ; giving us not only the 
imported beauty, but by contrast, an increased enjoyment of the 
beauty of the native varieties. 

This reference to the woods of Pljrmouth County is not by way 

60 



710 JULT. 

t^ sneer or depreciation, £br few trees are so beautiful to me as the 
American Pines. The White Pine is the organ of the forest ; its 
cool, sliady depths and gentle music in summer, when plajedonbjr 
the zephyr, ai*e most inviting, while its sublimity when snow-laden, 
and resonant with deep, bass vibrations, giving utterance to mighty 
hymns of praise under the heavy hand of the storm-wind, impresses 
the most insensible mind. Considering its adaptedness to all situa- 
tions, its shade and coolness in summer, its shelter in winter, the 
enlivenment it lends the wintry landscape, its grace, dignity, and va- 
riety, I think it cannot be much surpassed. I cannotcall it the king 
of evergreens, for to me that place is the right of the perfectly de- 
veloped Hemlock, but it is second only to the Hemlock, and in 
music and voice is its superior. 

The size of your place must also have much to do in deciding 
your selection of trees and shrubs ; if it is large, trees should pre- 
dominate over shrubs ; if small, shrubs must be the leading feature, 
trees being used only for relief and shade. Upon the size, too, 
must depend the influence which is exerted by the natural wish to 
collect many specimens as a sort of arboretum, for purposes of 
pleasure, instruction, and curiosity. This is out of the question in 
a small place, and should only be indulged in on a place of several 
acres. 

What then do I call a small place ? It is difficult to answer, ao 
much do standards vary. Ours is a large place. Half an acre, an 
acre, two or even more acres are small under certain arrangements ; 
if the larger part of a place of a few acres is devoted to vegeta- 
bles, crops or flowers, then the place is small. 

It is already pUin, that in my estimation the useful is somewhat 
subservient to the beautiful. I would have grounds so arranged 
that the surface devoted to culture of any kind should be much less 
than that devoted to permatient beauty ; meaning by permanent 
beauty that which comes from well-arranged and established lawns, 
plantations, and shubberies, in contradistinction to the more fleeting 
attractions of flowers, orchards, and general culture. 

In the " village-garden " I endeavored to state my views about 
selecting and grouping trees and shrubs. I have no space to men- 
tion all their varieties, much less to enter into particulars on their 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



711 



merits, and the peculiarities of the groups which can be formed from 
them. The best way to master the subject is to study nature, and 
upon this I insist as the indispensable basis of good planting. Who- 
ever sneers at the woodland and meadow that surround his home^ 
and seeks new varieties of trees, unless he have real genius or great 
familiarity with the imported varieties in their natural habitat, 
where they have attained all the luxuriant beauty of our best na- 
tives in wood and hedge, will surely produce awkward and artificial 
results. 

However liberally you introduce foreign trees, retain a large 
number of the native and common kinds, that they may connect 
the home-place with the general landscape, and let the strangers be 
subordinates to enrich and diversify, rather than to predominate. 

The following trees have been widely introduced and profitably 
grown by nursery-men to the exclusion of much finer native varies 
ties. The opposite list contains American trees and shrubs quite 
as good, often vastly better : — 



Foreign. 

Ailanthas, bad as possible. 

English Ash, good. 
•* Elm. " 

European Elm, " 

Abele or Silver-leaved Poplar, bad ; 
leaves out late, and loses its foliage. 

Scotch Larch, very good. 

European Linden, very inferior; 
loses its leaves early,, much at- 
tacked by worms, etc. 

Norway Maple, good, 

European Mt. Ash, ordinary. 

English Oak, very good, but of slow 
growth. 

European Sycamore, tender, not very 



NatiTe. 



good.. 



Sleeping Willow, firstrate as an oc- 
casional tree. 

Scotch Pine, very good. 

Austrian Pine, *' 

Norway Spruce, firstrate. 

Of the'se trees, particularly of the 
poorer kinds, thousands of dol- 
lars' worth have been sold ; of the 
best American kinds comparatively 
few. 



American White Ash, 
Red Ash, 
Black Ash, 
Poplars of several kinds, all good for 

quick growth. 
American Linden, poor. 
American Larch, not firstrate, but of 

quick growth. 
Maple Red, ) 

" Sugar, > firstrate. 

** Silver-leaved, ) 
Oak Red, 

" Black, 

" White, 

" Scarlet, 

" Pin, 

" Rock, 
Hickory, 3 varieties, firstrate, 
Button wood, once good, now poor. 
Willow Water, go^ and not special in 

character as the Weeping, aamitting 

of more general use. 
Willow Osier. 

" Golden, and many other good 

varieties. 



very fine. 



All of the following are native : — 



712 JULY. 

Hone Ckestnat, indifforeDt to bad. ViigUui eated, fair. 
American Mt. Ash, very good. American £lm, firstrate ; other Tan- 
Pine, White and Ued, firstrate. eties good. 

" Yellow, good. American CvpreMjjood. 

Balsam Fir, very bad. Kentucky Coffee Tree, much like the 

Spmce, Doable White, good. Ailanthos, bal not so Tile, rather 

Tupelo, peculiar and very fine. tender. 

Liquid Amber, very fine. Beech, firstrate. 

Red Cedar, firstrate. Birches, " 
Arbor Vit8», fair, occasional tree, ex- Sassafras, rather hard to grow, bvt 

cellent hedge. peculiar and desirable ; its autnm- 

White Fringe Tree, fintnte. nal coloring Tery fine. 

Judas Tree, good. Butterant, not Tory good as an omar 

Tulip Tree, [ ^^ mental tree. 

Magnolias, ( »^'^* Cbastnuti, very good. 

and many others 

Of our American trees the Bakam Fir and Arbor Vits, Ameri* 
can Elm, Sugar and Silver-leaved Maples, have been largelj sold; 
but the others in the native list are comparatively unknown. 

We generally depend on the taste of the nurseiy^man, who pie* 
fers to sell the trees he can grow most easily, and thus a deal of 
rubbish has been foisted upon the public 

I have already said how beautiful I consider the American Elm. 
The maples are resplendent in the fall, but the Bed Mi4>le is the 
most beautiful of them, and well fitted for wet places ; the Sugar 
Maple is very fine, but is too regular and with too little variety to 
be firstrate ; the Silver-leaved makes a large, but loose and strag* 
g^ng tree ; it is good for wet places. The American Oaks are pai^ 
ticularly fine as a fiunily, and as individuals. When properly man- 
aged in the nursery, they are easily grown, and quickly, notwith- 
standing the general opinion to the contrary. I hope to see the 
time when they shall be largely used as a roadside tree in our 
country towns ; by any such roadside they would thrive, though 
they never will do well in cities. They are all hardy, and many 
individuals might be mentioned which have stood by our village 
roads since the settlement of the country, and are still full of vigor. 

The Hickories come next for beauty. They vary much ia 
character, but are generally most graceful; their branches droop- 
ing from top to bottom often remind one of the rippling leap of a 
wateifall ; although the • toughest of trees, and the very type of 
strength, they are never awkward or stiff; no branch is straight 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 713 

the curves blend together from little twigs and branches and stems, 
like harmonious music ; their rich yellows in fall are the clearest 
and most reliable of autumnal colors. 

Beeches are very fine, and if well treated when young, are 
easily managed and of reasonably quick growth ; the branches and 
spray are very light and broken. The tree is said to be destitute 
of dignity, and to have no effect either grouped or single, but I 
cannot agree to this. However true it may be of the English 
tree, it is not so of our own, and it is on the dictum of English 
writers, and their indiscriminating disciples here, that the tree has 
been condemned. Its white bark broken with lichens, and the 
dark lines and scars of age and storms, is very attractive, and 
must charm the appreciative eye when seen gleaming through the 
leaves ; it is always picturesque and full of variety. The ease 
with which characters may be carved on its bark, has given it the 
name of the ^ pictured tree." The Copper and Purple Beeches 
may occasionally be introduced with good effect ; masses of them 
well blended with other trees would be fine. 

The Birches are very fine; the common Gray Birch not so 
good, — but the Canoe, Paper, and Yellow Birches, are entitled to 
a fiist rank among our trees. I would rather use them singly than 
in masses. They are particularly charming along the banks of 
brooks or ponds, which return a beautiful reflection of the singular 
and pleasantly colored bark and the unusually graceful branches. 
They all do well in low lands. The Scotch Birch is an acquisi- 
tion. ' 

The Chestnut, fine, whether alone or in masses. The nobly 
rounded outlines and massed branches of a Chestnut wood, are 
always among the finest sights in a landscape ; the foliage is as 
dear and vivid in summer as that of the Beech, and is a particular 
excellence in both, whilst in the fall they are the most conspicuous 
of trees. The Chestnut and Oak mass together in wood very 
well, and I know no better trees for this purpose in land that is 
rather level or rolling. 

The Beech is seen to the best advantage along rocky ledges, or 
along hill-sides ; Hickories either in level or rolling land. The 
Birch is finest in lowlands or on hill-sides, and when in groups 
60* 



714 JULY. 

Bhould always be massed with Evergreens, for the sake of the oon- 
trast in winter between their white and yellow stems and the virid 
color of the Evergreen, through which they gleam like a lamp 
from a window at night Elms never mass well together ; they 
are best as single trees, in groups of from 3 to 6, or to skirt a 
plantation. Tupelo and Liquid Amber belong to one familj, and 
their autumnal color is very brilliant. The deep crimson of the 
Tupelo gives it a conspicuous place in the autumnal landscape, its 
abundant berries make it a haunt for birds, whilst in branches and 
spray it is the most weird and picturesque of trees. Its contor- 
tions remind one of the Laocodn, particuhirly when festooned, as 
it so often is, with Ivy or Woodbine. The Liquid Amber masses 
well with round-topped trees,, while the Tupelo should be alone or 
on the outer edge of groups. 

The Judas tree, which is rather low growing, and of no particu- 
lar presence, is, however, recommended by its abundance of red 
flowers long before it gets into leaf. So, too, the Fringe-tree and 
Yirgilia ; their blossoms recommend them ; the former is rather 
a large shrub than a tree. 

The Tulip-tree grows very large, and is fine in masses or single. 
Its curious flowers are its attraction to the mass, but its real merit 
lies in its architectural leaves, their clean and vivid appearance, 
and in its massive character. 

The Magnolia never gets much size with us ; the ^ Glauca " has 
beautiful flowers ; Acuminata has pretty flowers and fine foliage, 
and is good in groups of rouhd-topped trees. 

The Tripetalaor Umbrella, and the Macrophylla, are valued 
for immense leaves and flowers. There are several other varie- 
ties, all beautiful and conspicuous. Soulangeana and Conspicua 
are full of early flowers. 

The American Mountain Ash, like the European, is valuable 
for its blossoms and bright berries. Rarely use it single, but plant 
it among Evergreens, where it may thrust its white blossoms and 
scarlet berries through their branches ; the color of both is height- 
ened and the effect always beautiful. 

Our Willows have great variety of form, size, and oolor^ and 
are valuable in plantations about water. The usual mistake is to 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 715 

suppose that they are the trees for water, and should always pre- 
dominate in plantations in its neighborhood ; no pond as large as a 
wash-tub but is wept over by Weeping Willows. The practice is 
disgusting. The Weeping Willow is really a fine tree, and occa- 
sionally looks well near a pond, over which it may lean, and where 
it may be mirrored ; it likes plenty of moisture about its roots. 
But when this is said, all is said. It thrives perfectly in a deep, 
good, upland soil. On account of its marked character it should 
be introduced but rarely. Peculiar trees tire the eye unless they 
have a deal of variety, and when often introduced, ahhough they 
bear a small proportion to the whole number of trees on the place, 
they control the general eflPect, and leave their own impression pre- 
dominant in the mind. If you must use many weeping trees, vary 
them as much as possible. The Black Birch is a very graceful 
tree of this class, and is redeemed from being miserably lachry- 
mose by its generally sprightly character and its little tassels of 
blossoms and seeds. The Weeping Beech is considered tearful, 
but its contortions never allow it to become sombre, and the same 
is true of almost all trees which have been made violently weeping 
by horticultural devices, such as the Weeping Ash. 

The Golden Willow should have a place in every plantation of 
size, for the sake of its splendidly colored wood in the early spring. 
A group of these Willows, after they have felt the quickening of 
the early spring sun, and their sap has begun to creep, is perfectly 
resplendent, and in a violent rain storm beguiles us into the belief 
that over them the sun is shining. 

The Black, Bay-leaved, Water, and many other Willows, are 
all good in their place. Some of them do as well in a sand bank, 
or better, than in low ground. 

The Buttonwood is most often indigenous in wet lands, and al- 
though not so fine a tree as it was a few years ago, is still an ac- 
quisition, and we may reasonably hope that it will recover its health 
and re-assume a leading place among round-topped trees. Its scaly 
bark and white wood make it both curious and attractive. It, too, 
should be in the company of Evergreens, to bring it out in better 
relief. One objection to it is that its leaves oome out late. 

The European Sycamore is a Maple, and pretty ; its dark green 



716 JULT. 

foliage and yellow blossoms recommend it, but I do not think either 
it or the Norway Maple equal to our own Maples, and neither nsM 
hardy in this dimate. 

The American Cypress and Larch are two semi^Evergreens, as 
though nature had stopped with her intention bat half fulfilled in 
their case, or the material had fallen short. The Cypress we need 
hardly consider ; it thrives only in a more southern latitude ; widi 
us it lives and grows, that is alL But the American Larch or 
Hackmatack is too little known. It is as wild and unmanageable 
as an Lidian girl ; its luxurious picturesqueness of branch and top^ 
when it has room to grow, are wonderful, and to me it is the most 
picturesque of American trees. If planted from seed, it will grow 
anywhere, and would often very much heighten the effect of glens, 
brooksides, or even groups of formal trees. When planted as a 
specimen tree, it should be in a spot to which it can give its own 
character ; where the irregular surface needs, and is grateful for, the 
addition of the Larch. In groups, it should be planted in the mid- 
dle, to draw up and give character to the whole. 

The Scotch Larch, though picturesque and of quick growth, has 
never in this country acquired so fantastic and striking a growth as 
our own tree. Yet it is invaluable, and may be used to advantage 
alone, in groups with other trees, or in masses by itself Both these 
Larches should be introduced where Evergreens and deddnoos 
trees are mixed as a connecting link. 

I had nearly forgotten to mention the Acacias and Loeost^ 
Alone, or to fringe plantations, to impart wildness to a glen, the 
three-thomed Acacia is of great value, and it also has considerable 
dignity. No tree is like it ; armed with terrible thorns, each bunch 
of which threatens blood and wounds to the intruder ; in them some 
fanciful persons have seen nature's weapons, to prevent bears climb- 
ing to suck the honey of the blossoms, and to eat the nuts. It owes 
much of its beauty to its long white clusters of fragrant blossoms. It 
is desirable wherever it will grow, which it does best in light, deep 
soil, though it will grow in sandy places. The Locusts are so mnoh 
attacked by borers that they often die in spite of the care oi the cul- 
tivator. As timber it is of great value, being almost imperishable, 
and it is a good quality in it that it will grow in grass or pasture 



ORNAIIENTAL GROUNDS. 717 

fields without injaring the grass ; beneath its shade pasture always 
improves. 

No doubt I have neglected to mention many excellent deciduous 
trees, but it would take so much time and space to enumerate all, that 
I should not think it desirable even if it were possible. The best of 
our deciduous trees I have mentioned, and even if jou use no others 
you cannot fail to get satisfaction from plantations made of these. 

But the Evergreens must not go unnoticed. The White Pine 
has already been described, but chief of Pines though it is, it is so 
non lango irUervallo ; the Red Pine (P. resinosa) comes close to it 
This tree is but little known here, but it is very common in the 
northern part of the United States, in the forests of Maine, Ver- 
mont, and New Hampshire, and up the mountain sides of the whole 
northern continent Its tufled foliage is like that of the White 
Pine, though longer, thicker, darker, in spite of there being but two 
leaves in a sheath ; its wood is rough, scaly-barked, and reddish, and in 
the forest its stem runs up tall and stately like gigantic columns. 
It is fully equal to the Austrian Pine in foliage and color, and 
should be in every collection ; and I hope it may yet be as com- 
mon as the Balsam Fir is now, which is of all trees the meanest, 
least expressive, stifTest, most worthless. When young it is often 
handsome, and that it may be beautiful when old, witness the tree 
now standing on the old Grore Place, Waltham, Mass. ; but for one 
such specimen there are ten thousand mean trees. No sight is 
more common in our New England villages than a little cottage 
dose to the street, with two or more tall Balsam Firs tyranizing 
over it, giving no shade in summer, no music in winter, no 
beauty at any time ; with their lower branches cut away to allow 
the inhabitants of the house to see out, they are like monstrous 
pompons in a soldier's cap. 

Never cut the lower branches of an Evergreen if you set any 
value on its peculiar beauty I The habit of the whole class is to 
lay the lower branches on the grass, and present a succession of 
green, unbroken, to the very top. The Pines, as they grow old, 
acquire a new character. Their stems and branches become dig- 
nified and beautiful, often very picturesque, and a little judicious 
thinning may sometimes show this to better advantage. But never 



718 JULY. 

touch a branch of an Evergreen without first preparing joorself bj 
careful and long thought and study and famillaritj with the best 
specimens, for jou can never replace the limb removed. 

The Yellow Pine is inferior to the others, but about equal to the 
Scotch Pine. One superiority it has; it is most deliciouslj fragrant 
when shedding its leaves in autumn ; then the air of a Yellow ^ne 
wood is more delicious, fragrant, and balsamic than that of anj 
flower-garden or greenhouse, even in their perfection. 

The Arbor Vitae may be planted along brooks and in rocky 
places, occasionally introduced into a group, used as a hedge ; but 
when employed without discrimination it is bad. 

The Norway Spruce is an unusually fine tree, and too much can 
scarcely be said in its praise, whether single, massed, or in mixed 
groups ; it is eminently a picturesque tree. The White and double 
Black Spruce are nearly as valuable. 

The Hemlock is the King of Evergreens. As a hedge nothing 
is more beautiful, particularly when it is gemmed with drops of 
rain or dew ; when young its spray and color — especially the 
color of the new growth — are bewitching ; it may be used as a 
shrub, a tuft, or a screen. In middle age it rivals the Norway 
Spruce in luxuriant picturesquenesis in variety and grace. But its 
triumph is in its old age ; a solitary old Hemlock stands like a 
king; its stately stem, powerful branches, nigged, sturdy habit, 
claim notice and praise. Standing alone it is peerless and magnifi- 
cent; and a Hemlock forest is all this, and in addition, guJbUme. 
Whoever has ridden along our northern* mountains, and looked 
down even on a still day on a valley full of Hemlocks, fringing 
the meadows and creeping up the mountain sides must have seemed 
to himself to see a glorious green ocean ; the variety of branch and 
top, the broken outlines, all recall the dancing waves of the sea. 
But let the storm-wind strike it, watch the trees bend, sway, and 
roll, as the blast pours its fury upon them, and you will feel that 
the sea has swept up over the solid land. Yon need not then ven- 
ture upon the treacherous deep to see the wild magnificence of a 
storm. As the tempest dies away and quiet returns, and the glad 
waves of branches dance and toss in the sunlight, you will feel the 
wonder, and power, and beauty of nature. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 719 

I have mentioned the Red Cedar or Savin, as a firstrate tree* 
It is so. It should be planted oftener in our ornamental grounds. 
We pass it bj with the commendation that it makes good posts 
and feeds the birds with berries ; but few know the tree. It is a 
singular combination of grace, variety, and picturesqueness, with 
stiffness and formalitj. , Its power over the eye is the less from its 
foliage being so minutely subdivided, and it might be said to lack 
beauty or individuality of foliage; but its masses of foliage are fine $ 
scores of little twigs and branchlets combine to form one branch 
or mass of green on the tree, and the disposition of the main 
branches — often weird, always picturesque — gives its foliage a 
really marked character. The color of the leaf is more varied 
than that of any other tree ; it would be easy any day in winter or 
spring to make a bouquet of cedar branches, which in sober rich- 
ness and variety of color would bear comparison with a garden 
bouquet During the summer it loads itself with berries, which 
are to be the food and mainstay of many birds through the winter, 
and meantime, their rich blue bloom gives the tree the appearance 
of being in blossom for months together. . Its thick foliage makes 
it a favorite resort for birds in summer ; — resting on its spiry, 
swaying tip, the Red Mavis swings and pours over field and wood 
his rich, abundant song ; — while in winter it is the warm home and 
house of refuge for shelterless birds. It is excellent, too, as a screen 
to houses or bams. But it shows us something of its glories in the 
fall Wild vines incline to cling to and grow up through it ; the 
Sweetbrier will push its flowers and berries up into it ; the Wood- 
bine and Ivy twine round the stem, and burst out in masses over 
the branches ; they climb up to the very tip of the slender top, and 
taking a firm hold they fling long festoons of branches and leaves 
abA)ad in the air. There they sway and dance in the wind all 
summer long ; but when autumn comes, and the ^* wine of the 
year" is fermenting in their sap vessels, and the leaves have grown 
ripe for the harvest, there comes over the Ivy a rich yellow, and 
over the Woodbine a deep crimson glory, that first appears in the 
edge of a leaf, but which creeps up the midrib, spreads through 
the sap vessels, and at length some glorious autumn morning fills 
and illumines every fibre and tissue. The dear old Cedar is ablaze 



720 JULT. 

with crimsoa and gold ; his modesty and sober colors can no longer 
veil and hide him from public esteem; he is crowned with fire ; no 
one can pass without an admiring pause. The russet and brown^ 
the blue berries, all combine to make a wonder and a gloiy. 

But beautiful as the tree is, enthusiasticallj as we shoald like to 
praise it, let us hush, for its real triumph is* to come. The added 
glories of the fiill do not develop its peculiar personal channs. 
But look at it after a snow-storm ! The minute subdivisions of 
leaf and twig offer thousands of footholds to the tired snowflakes; 
it is full of puritj and whiteness ; it bends beneath its load, but 
never tries to lose or shake it off; the long, pliant, irr^alar 
branches are now more weird and fantastic than ever ; the tree- 
tops bend in every direction, and the branches are pinned to the 
ground ; they form arches and pillars, towers and minarets, laby* 
rinths of beautiful shapes. The winter king claims the Cedar for 
his own. Pines and Hemlocks too are most beautiful in wmter, 
but their long fascicles of leaves do not offer the many restiiig 
places which the little feet of the snowfiakes find in the Savin ; 
they close up as the storm-wind blows, they bend down to avoid 
the blast, and at the least breeze shake off the load which thej 
have taken up in still weather ; — not so the Cedar ! it sfH^eads wide 
its arms as there is more to receive, and folds them about the wel- 
comed strangers, till fiercely shaken by the pursuing winds. 

If you would have your country house most beautifully sur- 
rounded in winter, build it among Cedars. Pass one winter theie, 
and when the snow has come you will see, what you perhaps never 
before suspected, that winter in the country is fiur from cheeriess 
and may well compare with the summer. 

In characterizing our trees I have oflen spoken of their voice as a 
quality too important to be disregarded. In the Pine and Hem- 
lock it is the sweetest and most impressive music, responding to the 
most delicate touch of the zephyr, obedient to the might of the 
tempest ; whilst there are other trees which have no voice for the 
light winds and only shriek or roar under the blast The musical 
ear may be fed daily, charmed or annoyed by the voices of the 
trees as they join in the morning or evening hymn around the 
homestead. 



OBNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 721 

' The wind, when first he rose and went abroad 
Through the waste region, felt himself at fault, 
Wanting a voice, and suddenly to earth 
Descended, with a wafture and a swoop, — 
Where, wandering volatile from kind to kind, 
He wooed the several trees to give him one. 
First, he besought the Ash ; the voice she lent 
Fitfully, with a free lashing change. 
Flung here and there its sad uncertainties. 
The Aspen next ; a fluttered, frivolous twitter. 
Was her sole tribute ; from the Willow came. 
So long as dainty summer drest her out, 
A whispering sweetness ; but her winter note 
Was hissing, dry, and reedy. Lastly, the Pino 
Did he solicit ; and from her he drew 
A voice so constant, soft and lowly deep. 
That there he rested, welcoming in her 
A mild memorial of the ocean cave, 
Where he was bom." 
61 




CHAPTER LXXVL 

GREENHOUSE, ETC. 

f PGUST brings us to the end of our year. Be- 
hind us, is all the work done ; before us, much 
of the expected reward. Many things have 
been lefl undone, and manj partialij or pooriy 
' xecuted ; but all has been attempted, and the 
whole work has been carried forward in the 
best spirit, and with an earnest desire to do our 
best. The failures and disappointments which 
have tried us, or which are still before us, are small compared with 
the pleasure we have enjojed and the success which is promised ; 
and we have little to complain of, for who can expect unmingled 
satisfaction ? 

The greenhouse in August begins to re-assert its claims, and we 
begin, slowly and reluctantly, to repair, renew, and refresh, assured 
by reason of what seems impossible to our external senses, that 
the present luxuriant vegetation and rich beauty around us can so 
soon and so easily fall before the destroying touch of coming 
winter. 

Clean all the wood-work, mend pipes and glass, stop leaks, pot 
and shift cuttings, overhaul the old plants, and give them new earth 
and new pots ; put every thing in the best condition for growth. Give 
copious waterings of liquid manure from time to time, and lay in 
a good stock for winter use. 

The graperies demand no time or care beyond that given the 
last month ; they all contain fruit in some state of forwardness, and 
are to be enjoyed rather than worked over. 

The long shoots are to be pinched back, to mature wood, and 
where there are other plants, leaves should be removed to achnit light 
Be careful that the houses do not get chilled by easterly winds. 

722 



GREENHOUSE. 723 

The grapes in the cold grapery will be coloring and ripening daring 
the month. 

If you have not had as much or as fine fruit as you hoped, let 
this year's failure help you to insure next year's success. 

In the conservatory the work is the same, and there is rather 
more of it, as more of the plants are stock, and are seldom ex- 
changed for others. 

Bepot and stimulate Pelargoniums which have been cut down. 
If the Chrysanthemums, Cinerarias, and Roses seem to crowd their 
pots, shift. Pot Achimenes, and lay aside such Gloxinias and 
Fuchsias as are out of bloom. Pinch Ericas and Epacris back a 
little; it will both strengthen them and increase their bloom. 
Bepot Callas, if not done last month. 

In beginning the work for winter, look over all that has been said 
in the previous months about the treatment, culture, and propaga- 
tion of plants, that you may be sure to start fairly. 

Now is the time to plan and start new cold or conservative pits, 
or refresh old ones, and, in general, to furbish up all the parapher- 
nalia of winter war. 

Those beds in the conservatory in which there are no plants 
should be enriched, and renewed,' and well dug over, while those 
ocmtaining plants should havQ three or four inches of earth re- 
moved from their top.«, to be replaced by rich virgin loam. 



CHAPTER LXXVn. 



FLOWSB-GARDEM. 



If 70U would have the full midsummer glorj in jonr flower-gar- 
den, be constant and careful in jour attendence upon it ; the bed- 
ding plants are now at their highest point, and will continue to 
grow and blossom. 

Annuals, too, are in their prime, and the place of those just out 
of bloom should be filled from the reserve-garden. All annuals 
going to seed should be cut down or pulled up. Man j, like Can^- 
tuft, may be kept much longer in blossom if prevented from ripen- 
ing their seeds. 

Most of the perennials are gone, but those which remain are so 
brilliant in color, and large in size, as to allow the loss to be scarcelj 
felt. 

Transplant from the seed-beds the seedlings of all perennials or 
bienniab sowed in the spring, to 'the places where thej are tobk»> 
som next jear, or if no place has b^^ selected, prick them oat in 
rows in the nursery, that they may get well grown before the next 
year. You may at this time sow the seeds of Sweet Williams, 
Foxglove, Canterbury Bell, Pansies, and other biennials, from the 
seed ripened this year. Such seed will germinate much more rap* 
idly than when dried over winter. This, indeed, is true of all 
seeds ; they are in a better state to germinate and develop, if sown 
as soon as ripe ; examples of which are the Acorn, self-sowed from 
the Oak ; Peas and Beans, dropped from the vines while harvesting. 
Only such seeds as would be winter-killed should be kept till spring. 

Biennials hardy enough to stand the winter, gain a year in flow- 
ering if planted in August Pot out of the garden such annuals 
as you would like for the winter, which were sowed late and an 
not yet much developed. Take off slips, sucken, and cattiiigi 
from perennials. 

7U 



FLOWBR-OARDEN. 725 

Remember that tlie Chinese Hollyhock, Double Scarlet Lychnis, 
and similar plants, may be propagated by cuttings of the flowering 
stems and other parts. 

Clip Box edgings, that they may make a new growth before winter. 

Plant out such bulbs as are injured by too long drying, as Snow- 
drops, Lilies, etc. Also if there are ftill any autumnal flowering 
bulbs not planted, Colchicum, Autumnal Crocus, etc., set them out. 

Make layers of Carnations and the other plants already men- 
tioned ; cut off such layers as have been before made, and are now 
well rooted. 

Pot cuttings which have struck roots. Pot seedlings that are 
well advanced, and shift into larger pots those seedlings, cuttings, 
etc, before potted or sowed In small pots. 

Every thing which is to go into the house in the winter, should 
be arranged and assorted now, and many plants potted. After 
potting, remove to the shade of a north wall or a shed ; keep cool 
and moderately watered. 

Auriculas and choice Polyanthuses, whether seedlings, cuttings, 
or old plants, should be often worked over and cleaned ; keep them 
growing. 

Make ready your bulbs for planting in September and October. 

Give the flower-beds occasional waterings with liquid manure ; 
but remember that no slight watering should be given to plants in 
the open border ; they should be watered freely, if at all. For 
they ought to be accustomed to supporting themselves, and if the 
soil is deep, they will thrust their roots down to the water table, 
while if watered slightly from time to time, the roots will turn 
towards the surface, and thus not only the plant gets less hold upon 
the earth and less food, but it grows weaker, and if the watering 
is omitted for any length of time, will dry up speedily, when other 
plants, accustomed to rely on themselves, are thriving. 

Once a month, throw a little salt over the walks ; it kills weeds, 
and binds the gravel more firmly together. 

During the month, begin to bud Roses. The earliest budded 
will sometimes start and gix)w very much before winter ; but those 
budded later are safer. On the next. page will be found a descrip- 
tion of the flower-garden referred to on a previous page. 

61* 



7f6 



AuorsT. 



FLOWER^ARDEN. 

HOW PL^NTBO WITH BULBS, PBBBKHIALB, AHD SHBUB8. 

• againit a letter meau that the bed is fall of the bnlbi. ? only partially 
flUed. 
Beds planted as foUowi : — 

*a, Snowdrop, Crocus, Hjacmth. 
*b, " " " Narcissus, Tulips, 

•c, 

•rf, " " " ** " Daffodils, Paosies, 

Peonies, Day Lilj, Tiger Flower, Gladiolus, Fall Crocus, Tuberoses. 

U, Daffodils, Pansies, Poljranthos. 

*/*, Snowdrop, Hyacinth, Tulips, Pansies. 

g «« « « (« 

%, Perennials. 

I, Bedding plants and Annuals. 

«M " <• « 

o, Iris, Jonquills, " Daffodils, " 

p, Crocus, ** Hyacinth, Gladiolus, Squill, Tulips, Dielytra, 

Pansies, Dwarf Peony, Polyanthus, Lilies, Amaryllis, Tuberose. 

q, Perennials and bedding plants, 
r, 

s, Baskets of flowers. 

t, Fountain. 



LIST QF TREES AND SHRUBS. 



1. Norway Spruce. 

2. Larch. 

3. Hemlock. 

4. Copper Beech. 

5. Tupelo. 

6. Red Maple. 

7. Cockspnr Thorn. 

8. Cydonia. 

9. Smoke. 

10. Spirea. 

11. Wigelea. 

12. Baroerry. 
IS. Oaks. 

14. White Pine. 



15. Red Pine 

16. Rhododendrons. 

17. Sugar Maple. 

18. Fringe-tree. 

19. Roses. 

20. Magnolia soulan* 

geana. 

21. Magnolia glanca. 

22. Kalmia. 

23. Azalea riseosa. 

24. Forsytliia viridi- 

ssi'ma. 

25. Austrian Pine. 

26. Red 



27. Azalea Pontica. 

28. Spirea pninifolia. 

29. '* hypericifblia. 

30. Hawthorn. 

31. Snowball. 

32. White Lilac. 

33. American Elm. 

34. English 

35. " Oak. 

36. Nettle-tree. 

37. American White Ash. 

38. Fastieiate Oak. 

39. Bladderwort. 

40. Black Alder. 



Bed a is described on pages 30, 31, 544. 

" 6 '• " 31,544. 

" c " " 31,544. 

" d *' " 468. 

" € " " 537, 544. 

" f •' " 31,544. 

" 'a " •' 537, 544. 

*♦ k " " 184, 185. 

*' a •• . •' 544. 

" p - " 467. 

" r. •• '• 183. 



FLOWER-GARDEN. 



727 




728 AUGUST. 

I will give fttU directions for budding, which are applicable not 
only to Roses, but to all other plants and trees. I have taken the 
illustrations from Field's new book upon Pears, a very valuable 
work, and a great assistance to the cultivator. 

Make cuttings or layers of the China, Bengal, Tea-scented, and 
other Roses, fbr the winter and spring. Those made at this sea- 
son will blossom next spring and summer. Make cuttings also of 
Heliotropes, Salvias, Lantanas, Verbenas, etc. 

Read over the previous directions for the flower-garden. 

Budding is to be performed when the plant is ready, rather than 
at any particular season. 

Budding is, in fact^ the same thing as grafting but in pracdoe it 
has some advantages over that method. In the graft there are 
i^everal budi^, but only a small portion of stock and graft can be 
united, and the junction must be effected between like and like; 
the albumen and young bark of the graft must grow upon the 
albumen and young bark of the stock. 

In budding, a larger amount of these substances can be brou^t 
in contact. 

The condition of the stock when to be budded, must be as fol- 
lows : When a small slit is made lengthwise in the bark, and a 
smooth, hard, and thin instrument is introduced between the bark 
and the wood, the bark must leave the wood freely and smoothly, 
as that of the Willow separates when you make a boy's whistle. 
The stock must be tested several times to ascertain the condition 
of the bark. Most trees are in the best state in the spring, and if 
the bud were equally ready, budding could be done then as well as 
in the summer. 

The usual time to begin budding is late July, August, and Sep- 
tember ; if done later than this, there is scarcely time enough for 
the bud to get securely attached to the wood before winter. The 
condition of the bud should be like that of the stock. The buds 
must be all well formed and fully ripe. I have said before, that 
the lower buds on a branch are generally too old and not well de- 
veloped ; the branch grew so rapidly that the lower buds were 
passed by, while the upper are not well matured and ripened ; the 
middle buds will be ripe and well formed, and may be reasonably 
expected to thrive best when removed. 



FLOWSR-OABDEN. 



729 




A shows a stick of such buds ; the upper 
and lower ends of the shoot having been 
cut off; those that remain lie close to the 
stem, are well filled out, and the stick is 
straight and regular. 

B shows buds which are too high on the 
stem, and too much elevated above the 
wood. 

The bud must be cut smoothly and ap* 
plied smoothly to the stock, every part of 
the bud, and particularly the base of the 
eye, coming in close contact with the mu- 
cous surface of the stock. Should a bud 
be cut from B, you see at once that it could not be laid smoothly 
on the wood ; there would be a cavity full of air directly under 
the eye. 

I said that buds might be set in the spring, if they were in a fit 
condition ; one leading objection is the absence of leaves, and con- 
sequently the loss of the assistance which the footstalk under the 
bud offers as a handle during the process of setting. 

A shows the buds with footstalks. B gives their appearance in 
the spring. 

Having selected the stick of buds, the next thing to be done, is 
to remove them properly. 

Let a (Fig. C) be the bud you are to 
remove ; hold the stem in your led hand, 
and cut the bud out, beginning as far be- 
low the bud as you mean to come out 
above it, as is designated by the shaded 
lines. The woody side of the bud, when 
held towards you, will look like the centime 
lines, being the woody centre of the bud. 
Of course a bud so cut out will have on it 
a small shield-shaped piece of the wood of 
the branch from which it was cut. Many 
operators insert the bud, wood and all, into 
the stock, and very oflen the budding is 




780 



▲UOU8T. 



quite as sacoessfiil aa when it is removed. Still, if this wood 
comes in contact with the mucous surface of the stock, it prerents 
the junction from being immediatelj perfect. 

The removal of this wood is a nice but simple process. If the 
bud is not fuUj ripe, the operation will destroy the centre and life 
of the bud, its eye, as at by and no growth can possiblj occur. 

When properly removed, it is as at e, 
where you see the rough knotted root or 
bottom of the bud. 

To remove the wood, the pointed end of 
the budding-knife is used, or a blunt-poinled 
quill pen. The bud is held in the lefi hand 
by its footstalk, and the point of the quill 
introduced under the lower end o€ the 
woody shield, when a slight upward mo- 
tion will throw th^ wood out 

The operation must be executed with 
rapidity, and as soon as the bud is ready, 
before it has been exposed to the air, it 
should be inserted into the proper place in the stock. The air 
nu&kes the bud oxydize, and causes decay, and of course endangers 
the success of the operation. Indeed, so necessary is rapityty in 
this matter, that it is best to prepare the stock before the bud is 
cut off. 

The budding-knife is essential to the success of the operate'. 
These knives are of various patterns, but all have at one end a 
piece of ivory, elongated, thin, and rather broad, which, when the 
bark is cut, may be inserted under it, to raise it from* the wood. 
The ivory may be used separate from the knife, but is less con- 
venient 

Suppose you were about to bud a Rose. Ejiife in hand, first 
cut off a large number of the leaves of the stock plant, and rub 
off all the thorns near the phice of operation, which must be care- 
fully fixed upon. It should be as near as possible to a bud, as this 
bud will draw the sap, and so aid the growth of the new bod. 
Some cultivators recommend that the bud on the stock should be 
cut off, and the new bud set directly over its seat ; but this b a 



FLOWBB-OARDEN. 



781 



^ 




Before pat- 



duinsj and blundering method. At the 
appointed place, make a light but smooth 
cut transversely across the stock, as at a 
(Fig. D) ; then another, parallel with the 
course of the stem, and at right angles 
with ^e first, as at &. c represents the 
bud, all readj for insertion, as it is pre- 
pared at this stage of the proceeding. 
When ready, put it into your mouth to 
keep it from drying, but do not wet it more 
than is absolutely necessary. 

The stock cut, insert your piece of ivory, 
wood, or bone, under the two comers of the 
rectangular cut, and gently raise or slip up the bark, 
ting the bud into the opening, hold the top of it on the thumb nail, 
and cut it straight across, that this end may be fitted evenly against 
the transverse cut in the stock. Now insert the pointed end of the 
bud into the opening of the rolled sides of the cut, and press it 
into the aperture till the squared end of the bud is just opposite to 
the transverse cut on the bark ; when bring the two lines parallel, 
and press the edges close together ; the appearance will now be like 
E. When set, take a narrow piece of bass 
matting or tape, and beginning at the botr 
tom, tie the side of the cut firmly over the 
inserted bud ; fasten the lower end by 
winding up over it, and the upper in a 
noose. Wind some distance both above 
and below the insertion and cuts, to insure 
that the air is kept out. The cut F shows 
the completed work. 

I said, in first describing buds, that the 
footstalk has a double value: first as a 
handle to the bud, in which light we have 
already considered it; the second value 
now becomes apparent. In about a fortnight after it is set, the 
bud will have formed a junction with the stock. As soon as 
it begins to swell with the sap supplied, the connection between 




782 AUODST. * 

the bud and the old footstalk ceases to be of Taltie to the bod, and 
as the new development continues, it loses its hold and will drop 
off if touched. This, then, is a test of a junction between bod 
and stock, and when it is proyed, the bandage should be k)oseoed, 
but not whollj removed for at least a month. 

Plants budded early in the summer will, if cut down to the bod, 
develop it during the late summer and the falL If thej gxvw 
enougli to make a well-ripened and hardy wood of even two buds, 
it is a good thing, as this wood will stand the winter well^ and be 
more forward the next spring ; but if the bud breaks without being 
well ripened, the whole will die in the winter, and the operatifB 
will have been in vain. Therefore it is generally safer that the 
bud should not break till spring, when, after the &osts are ovei; 
and before vegetation really begins, the stock should be cut down 
to the bud, which will grow rapidly. I have seen a Cherry bud 
which grew 5 feet in one^ season. Pillar and wall Roses also make 
very rapid progress. 

Roses may be budded in July, August, and September. Those 
done in July and August will make good growth, if cut down. 
Cherries, Pears, Peaches, etc, should be begun in August and fin> 
ished in September. 

This is an easy way of adding to our stock of Running Roses, 
and increasing their beauty ; upon the strong canes of the Prairie 
or Boursault, we may work the Noisette, the Musk, and the Per- 
petuals, and the same plant will thus, in another year, show a won- 
derful succession, combination, and contrast of blossoms. 

But remember that you cannot produce any results by putting 
together different species or families ; like must grow upon like. 
The theory some persons have maintained, that a Rose budded on 
a Barberry will produce yellow Roses, is the wildest kind of non- 
sense. If the bud would take at all, the yellow Rose would jm- 
doubtedly follow, but it will not 

Not only must budding and grafting be confined to the same 
family, but generally to the same species, if real and pennanent 
success is to be expected. 

Our floral year has revolved, and we are now upon the threshold 
of another ; we are looking forward to the preparations for the 



FLOWEH-OARDEN. 798 

next jear, while jet we are in the midst of the perfection and en* 
jojment of this. 

I think no one can have followed this jear through practicallj, 
without imhihing a deep and earnest love for flowers and their cul- 
ture, and forming a determination never to be without some such 
interest in future. 

I hope I have made it plain why I would have every one culti- 
vate something of a garden ; and have proved that it is not the 
size of the garden which gives it its power to bestow pleasure, but 
the perfection of its arrangements, the flourishing condition of its 
flowers, and the care devoted to it. 

And I need not repeat here what has been so oflen expressed 
and implied throughout these pages, that to obtain the purest and 
best enjoyment from a garden, it must be our own work ; the re- 
sult, more or less successful, of our own planning, and care, and 
labor, of early and kte attention, of personal devotion and love ; 
for lave it is, after all, that makes the flowers grow, as it does every 
thing else that is beautiful. And this love, like all other love, 
grows with exercise, so that to any one who has watched over a 
flower-garden for a few seasons, such a charge becomes almost 
indispensable. Try it, and see for yourselves. 



CHAPTER LXXVnL 



KITCHBK-OARDEN. 



It seems absurd to speak of this month as the end of oar year 
in the kitchen-garden, for we are hardlj more than beginning to 
enjoy the results of our labor. 

Set i>ut during the month plants of Savoy and Red Cabbage ; 
they will head before winter. Plant White Turnips for winter 
use. Sow Lettuce to head in October and November ; transplant 
and tie up Endive. Sow seeds of some sort of Radishes, such as 
black and white Spanish, Salmon and Turnip-rooted, for October 
and November. Sow seeds of Cabbage and Lettuce for winter 
frames, and for setting out in the spring. 

Some kinds of Peas may be planted now ; the earliest varieties 
may be relied upon for a fair crop in October or November. Sow 
abundantly of small salads. Spinach sowed the first and second 
week, will be good for greens before winter ; the prickly seeded 
varieties are to be sown for spring in beds. 

Plant beds of Onions for pips, and for leaving out in beds over 
winter. Make the beds carefully, 5 feet wide ; rake the earth fine, 
sow in rows 1 foot apart and keep clean. Covered with pine 
branches they will go through the winter well, and begin to grow 
very early in the spring. 

Artichokes must be attended to. The heads will be constantlj 
getting fit to be eaten. If they are cut down for chard, earth up 
once a fortnight, like Cardoons and Celery, but never do it in wet 
weather, or when the plants are wet with dew, lest they should 
rust. 

Keep the Asparagus beds clean, and when the seed is perfectly 
ripe, collect and separate from the pulp, and either sow it now or 
wait till Spring. Mustard and other small salads should be 
sowed weekly as before. Plant beds of Winter Cress ; the plants 

734 



KITCHEN-GARDEN. 735 

^vill be well grown before winter and be early in growing in the 
spring. 

Melons and Cucumbers are now in fruit ; Melons maj be has- 
tened in ripening and improved in flavor, if a clean shingle is laid 
under each, which keeps it warm and prevents its being flavored 
with the earth. Gather Cucumbers for pickles. 

Cut off the ends of the Lima Beans, as the fruit on them will 
not ripen and removing them will aid the development of the pods 
already set 

Hoe and clear the weeds from beds and paths. 

.Gather Okra for soup, and all fruits and vegetables as they come 
into condition. 

Such herbs as are ready should be gathered in season, either 
for drying or distillation, and all dead flower stems must be cut off, 
as they are unsightly. 

Collect all the materials you can for the* compost heap, and do 
not let weeds grow upon it, as they not only sap its value and 
strength, but fill it with bad seeds. Manure-heaps of fermenting 
materials are but little injured by such seeds which are killed by 
the after fermentation, but never mix them into old and already 
fermented manure. 

Gather the fruit on the espaliers as it ripens ; remove all wormy 
and decayed fruit and leaves. I have already described the treat- 
ment of such fruit ; it will be abundant through the month. 

Read over the ^' kitchen-garden," of other months, as directions 
have sometmes referred to the work of August 

Particularly, dean, repair, and renew the hotbeds, and cold frames. 

Many persons think this the best month for making Strawberry 
beds. But it is not When cultivated on a large scale, the best 
plan is to treat them as an annual crop. Plant early in the spring, 
in rows ; cultivate between the rows, gather the fruit next year, 
then plough them in and take a late crop of vegetables from the 
same land. In this way you will have a new bed each year, and 
no weeds. 

Continue to summer prune fruit trees, and thin the fruit Look 
out for insects, particularly for nests of autumn caterpillars ; they 
do little harm but are very unsightly. 



CHAPTER LXXTX. 

ORCHARD. 

The orchard in August makes no demand upon the labor of the 
farmer, beyond that of gathering the fruit as it ripens. 

The earliest Apples and Pears are now ripe, and should be eaten 
or sold as soon as possible. 

The fodder in the orchards is now very forward, and affords 
constant and ample supply for the cows. The orchard enclosed 
and sown for the pigs, is verifying what was predicted with regard 
to good food and rapid fattening. Give the pigs also an abundance 
of skim, sour, and buttermilk, as nothing makes young pigs thrive 
better. 

It is not, as I have before said, very good for the orchard to be 
highly cultivated, but it is allowable in the management of a &rm 
to sacrifice one part to another, if we keep the general balance 
even, and if our fodder crops are profitable as they should be, they 
will more than compensate for some loss on the trees 

One fact will, I think, be admitted by all Apple growers, that 
those Apples which keep the best, are the fruit of trees in old 
pastures where, although pruned, they receive little other cultiva- 
tion. And another fact is equally established ; that the more hi^y 
an orchard is cultivated the more rapidly the trees grow and the 
later in the season ; consequently their wood is not so well ripened, 
and is much more liable to sap and frost blight, and to be nipped 
by early spring frosts. The more tender the bark the more sensi- 
tive to all changes of climate. 

But do not on this account fail in care and attention to the trees; 
do not allow them to overgrow or overbear ; as soon as they have 
too much wood, not only is the fruit impaired, both in quality and 
quantity, but the tree contracts disease. 

As you review the directions for the orchard given through the 

736 



ORCHARD. 737 

year, you will see clearly that I would have you take great care 
before planting your trees, to select the most approved kinds, and 
then to spare no pains in planting and cultivating. If you do this 
your orchards when in bearing, even of Apples, will give you an 
average profit of $50 an acre per year. 

The Apples which ripen in August are Early Harvest, Red 
Astrachan, Summer Queen, Williams, Sops of Wine, Early Straw- 
berry. 

Pears ; Blood-good, Bartlett, Dearbon's Seedling, Jargonelle. 

Look out for insects and caterpillars. 
62« « 



CHAPTER LXXX. 

THB FABM . 

The farm work for this month is a continnation of that for July, 
with little change. 

On those farms which have n^yidow lands, either salt or fresh, 
their Hay is generally to he made now. It is rarely made earlier. 

Reclaiming Meadows. — Fresh meadow grasses, if cut when 
growing, and still young, make quite nutritious and succulent Hay, 
on which, with some Roots, dry cows and store cattle live and gain ; 
hut if lefl till grown and nearly ripe, it is dry, chippy, and worth- 
less, and is no better for animals than so much brush. 

It is to be regretted that farmers take so little pains to inquire 
into the value of Hay, as differing with times of cutting and meth- 
ods of making. They are guided by prejudice rather than hy the 
well-established principles founded on experiments, and conse- 
quently they annually suffer a loss of from 25 to 75 per cent on 
the value of their crop. 

Salt Hay, also, should be cut ^oung. Some kinds, as Black 
grass, and others, are as much injured by standing as the best 
quality of English Hay. 

Want of space forbids my discussing the varieties of these grasses 
in detail, and the methods of improving them. It is enough to 
know that drainage of both kinds of land is extremely valuable. 
Salt meadows which, undrained, yield only coarse rushes and bed- 
ding, will, when drained, soon give a large burden of Black and 
Goose grass, and other kinds valuable for food. Fresh meadows, 
reclaimed, as I have already shown, become most valuable land. 
And if too wet for thorough reclamation, they may be so far drained 
and cleared as to permit many improved kinds of natural Grasses 
to come up and replace the worthless. 

738 



THB FARIC. 739 

Foul-meadow is a grass which makes a hay nearly as good as 
English, and may be induced to grow luxuriantly in such meadows 
with a little care. 

I think, in most cases, such meadows, with some little expendi- 
ture of capital, could be more profitably cultivated in Cranberries 
than in grass, and they can generally be flowed during frosty 
weather, and even if they cannot, Cranberries may oflen be grown 
with certainty and much profit. Whether for grass or Cranber- 
ries, the first treatment is about the same. 

First cut down all bushes and trees, and dig out their stumps and 
roots ; next make a drain round the edge of the meadow, which 
will cut off the water that runs from the adjoining high land. Con- 
duct this drain to some outlet, either natural or artificial ; cut a 
main drain through the middle of the meadow to some outlet, and 
into this main carry enough side drains to remove the water rapid- 
ly. I am supposing the case of a bog, where covered drains could 
not discharge the water ; such cases are few, as although a bog 
may seem to be like a sponge, laying in -& perennial supply of water 
(only that it cannot like a sponge be taken up and squeezed out), 
yet in all but the most desperate cases it will be found possible, by 
lowering the outlet enough, to draw off the water by underdrains. 
So your sponge will be gradually squeezed, but, unlike its proto- 
type, it will, instead of expanding with its freedom, shrink up. 

But drainage alone will not thoroughly reclaim a bog without 
some mechanical change in its texture, for its matted fibres and 
vegetable matter will still hold water to an injurious extent ^As 
soon as the drains are made, and bridged, if open, gravel must be 
carted on to the bog, to the depth of at least two inches. This will 
cost, probably, about $30 an acre. The gravel can be best carted 
in when the ground is frozen. Before spring spread it. If you 
choose not to plough immediately, leave it, and it will gradually 
work into the bog, its stones and sand opening the vegetable matter, 
thus draining it still more, and admitting the sweetening air. And, 
on the other hand, the carbonic acid, which is in excess in the peat, 
will seize upon the stones, and dissolve out of them lime, potash, 
etc. 



740 AUGUST. 

Grass seed may be sown over the graveL Fowl-meadow, Bed 
T<^, and other grasses, which, rooting in the gravel, will soon 
choke out the wild grass. In a year or two the meadow will be 
so far drained and settled as to receive the plough. Plough as 
deep as possible. 

If it is sofl the horses should hare meadow-shoes, caUed radLets, 
to keep them from sinking in. These shoes are at first troublesome 
to the horses, but are indispensable in the culture of all reclaimed 
meadows, even when well drained. 

As jou plough give more gravel or sand, if you can, and spread 
from 50 to 300 bushels of lime to the acre, or 5 to 25 bushels of 
common salt, or 5 to 50 bushels of ashes. 50 bushels of leached 
ashes would be a large dose ; but of unleached a small one. 

When you have well ploughed, sow liberally the best Grasses, 
or cultivate the hoed crops for a few years, or introduce a regular 
rotation, the best plan of alL When this is done, give dressings 
of guano, urine, night soil, or other highly ammoniated manure, and 
barn-yard manure, if you have it in abundance ; but it is the poorest 
for such soils. 

Were you to plant Cranberries upon this land at the time of 
gravelling, several different methods might be pursued. Sods of 
Cranberries may be cut and set in rows, more than 3 feet apart 
each way, and kept hoed and clean for a year or two, till they cover 
the soil. Or vines may be taken and cut in a hay-cutter, and then 
be sowed broadcast and harrowed into the ground. Or seed may 
be %3wed. 

Whatever crop is grown upon a meadow, it should be frequently 
rolled, especially grass. 

The reclamation of salt meadows is a different matter. By 
means of dykes and gates they may be reclaimed for general cul- 
ture, as thoroughly as the fresh, and more easily, but usually noth- 
ing more is done than to cut narrow, open drains through the soil, 
to facilitate the discharge of water as the tide runs- out These 
drains are cut straight from the shore, or some side drain, to the 
main, with a common peat or turf knife, and not more than 6 inches 
wide, and generally only the width' of the turf-cutter. Some per- 



THB FABH. 741 

sons cut two spits or lengths of the cutter deep ; the upper as wide 
as two cuts of the knife ; the lower, one. Such drains are rapidly 
and easily cut 

The peat removed from a salt meadow, and the mud of salt 
marshes, although not often used in the compost heap, is of very 
great value, and much more active in compost than the mud 
of fresh meadows. The mud of salt meadows is almost always 
rich with shells of shell fish, which give it its value as manure. 

August is the month in which farmers generally undertake the 
reclamation of meadows ; and it is hest to continue the work through 
all the unoccupied time that intervenes before winter. * 

Grain Crops. — In the course of this month the Grain crops 
will be harvested, and land laid down both to Grass and Grain. 
We cannot on our place sow Grain before September, as we have 
Potatoes in No. 3, and the rest of the field is in Roots, which will 
postpone planting grain till spring. 

Dig the Potatoes as soon 
as ready, and when they 
are well removed from the 
field plough with the deep 
tiller plough as deeply as 
possible, following with the 
subsoil plough. The land 
is smooth and in good order, and should be ploughed in ridges by 
the poles, as described, and immediately harrowed lightly. Or, 
better still, follow the plough with the cultivator. 

Harrowing of some kind seems to be a necessary evil ; we must 
reduoe the surface to considerable smoothness to secure a good 
spread of seed and braird, or even start and growth of grain. But 
the action of the harrow is just that which is most undesirable in 
culture. Those who pack snuff in bladders, have a method of 
stuffing the bladder fuller, af^er it seems to be as full as possible ; 
they ram into it a pointed iron, which being withdrawn leaves a 
hole in the compacted snuff; this hole filled, another is made and 
filled likewise, and so on until the iron can no longer enter. The 
harrow acts in just this way upon the soil 




742 AUGUST. 

Our soil is a fair grayelly loam and will fall down closelj enough 
under the harrow, and during the winter will become as compact 
as even Wheat can desire. If it were clayey, it should be rolled 
with a clod crusher after ploughing to break up the lumps wfaidi 
the plough would leave. If sandy, it should be harrowed several 
times. 

We are now ready to sow the Wheat. The ordinary amoont 
of seed per acre, is 1^ to 2 bushels if sowed broadcast, and 1 
bushel if drilled. Less than one in drills, will answer. 

It is not necessary to quote the numerous experiments which 
have been tried with Grains, but the majority prove conclosively 
that the yield is generally larger with thin than with thick seeing, 
particularly when the sowing is in August and September, and 
there is time for it to cover the ground well before winter. 

Three pecks of seed per acre has given in many cases more 
Grain than 2 bushels, and at no greater cost. Any Grain when 
drilled may be weeded and cultivated if we choose, with a horse- 
hoe and cultivator, with a return enough larger to pay an ample 
profit on the labor, and with a saving of from $2 to $3 per acre 
for seed. 

In our Western States the sowing of winter Wheat is rapidly 
falling into disuse, owing to the ravages of insects in summer. But 
this pest seems to be travelling westward, and it has been found 
that in parts of the country for many years valueless for winter 
Wheat, it may now be sowed without danger. 

Careful experiments upon the depth at which seeds will germi- 
nate, have shown that it varies with different seeds ; the proper 
depth for winter Wheat is If or 2 inches. 

Observe that sowing in the drill saves the cost of harrowing. 
Follow the Grain with Grass and flat Turnip seed ; sow seed in 
proportions already given. An English receipt is 9 lbs. Foxtail ; 
2^ lbs. Cock's foot; 3^ lbs. Meadow Fescue; 4^ lbs. Hard Fes- 
cue ; 4J lbs. Italian Rye Grass (this will do with us only when sown 
in the spring) ; 3 lbs. Red Clover ; 4 lbs. Yellow Clover ; 4 lbs. 
White Clover ; 8 lbs. Timothy ; 2 lbs. Orchard Grass : 1 lb. Yar- 
row. (Omit all the Clover till spring). This great variety is recom- 
mended as making better and more permanent pasturage, and an- 



TH£ FARM. . 743 

imals will fatten upon it with more certaintj. In laying down land 
to be kept in grass for several years, I should decidedly recom- 
mend the use of a large variety. See " Flint's Grasses " for a 
good history of American and foreign Grass, and for a good mix- 
ture for permanent pasture. 

Our farmers give one-half bushel Herd's-Grass or Timothy ; 
one-half bushel Red Top ; 12 pounds Clover in spring. I think 
for Grass in rotation these will be the best, but I recommend one 
bushel rather than one-half of Red Top, and 16 pounds instead of 
12, of Clover in the spring, or three kinds. Also I liave no 
doubt that for the first year a liberal allowance of Italian Rye 
Grass would prove profitable. Italian Rye Grass is the staple 
Grass in England, and instances are given of its yielding 10 tons 
of Hay to the acre ; the best varieties are annual, and with irriga- 
tion and liquid manure it is an unrivalled fodder crop. It has been 
but little used in this country, and the experiments made with it 
have been^so badly planned and unsystematically executed that 
they have by no means decided whether it will do well here or 
not Sow with the Grass 4^ pounds of purple topped Turaips. 
The seed may be evenly and advantageously spread in drills, or 
broadcast from the seed-sower, or by handv 

If sowed by hand, either Gi*ass or Grain, the seeds must be 
well mixed. Let the sower tie a good sized apron or small sheet 
about his neck, and gather up the farther end in his hand. Fill 
the pouch thus formed with seed ; set up the poles, and walk slowly 
towards them sowing the seed. If Grain, take a handful and sow 
slowly and evenly by swinging the hand backward and forward. 
A few experiments will be necessary to a beginner in order to as- 
certain how much grain to throw at each swing of the hand. To 
sow Grass seed, it is better to take less and sow with the fingers, 
with more rapid motion. Grass seed is light and easily blown by 
the wind, and should be sown on a still day. J£ sown as early as 
August, there will be no need of a top-dressing, but if later, sow 
100 pounds to the acre of guano with the seed, to give it a quick 
start and early growth. In the spring with the Clover, sow 150 
pounds more. If no manure is spread in the fall, sow in the spring 
200 pounds to the acre with the Clover. 



744 AITOUST, 

The seed sown, harrow it in with a light harrow, and then rail 
Rolling is necessary onlj in order to bury the uncovered seeds out 
of the way of birds. I have tried both methods, with roUiog and 
without, and could see no difference in the rapidity of starting, or 
evenness of growth, and I do not recommend a bush harrow ; I 
think it a relic of barbarous farming. The fine branches of the bush 
gather the earth into ridges, bury some seed too deep, and sweep 
other places bare. The best method, if labor would admit it, would 
be to rake the surface with hand rakes and roll ; and on light, well- 
ploughed, clean land, Grass seed might be sown without harrowing. 

Numerous experiments have shown that Grass seed does not 
need to be covered more than one-fourth inch deep, and oflen seed 
not covered at all, but rolled, has come up quicker and grown bet^ 
ter than any other. 

During the autumn weed, if weeds appear. If sowed with the 
drill without Grass, Grain may be horse-hoed or cultivated with 
ease. Grain sowed early will tiller over the whole surface. Should 
it show any inclination to run up to head, feed it down with cows. 

The Turnips sowed with Gnun or Grass, will need no extra 
labor and will give 300 to 600 bushels per acre. The manure 
that they extract will not injure the Grain crop in proportion to 
their own value. If flat Turnips are to be powed alone, as on the 
pasture No. 1, break up the land with the Michigan plough ; har- 
row ; BOW the seed with sower or in drill, with 150 pounds super- 
phosphate, or guano, 200 pounds ground bone, or the same value in 
unleached ashes ; rows 24 inches apart ; single to 8 inches in the 
row ; cultivate till they cover the ground. Top in the fall, and 
house, either in trenches, or in the cellar. As they keep very well 
in the ground through the whole winter and often start a new 
growth in the spring, it would be good farming on such land to 
fold sheep during the autumn afler October, and through the win- 
ter and early spring where the ground is not covered with snow, 
as in England, and let them eat the Turnips off. 1,000 sheep 
folded on an acre of ground all night is a liberal manuring for the 
acre, and the unconsumed parts of the Turnips would enrich it 
still farther. There are good wire and wooden fences for fold- 
ing. 



THE FARM. 745 

Manures. — I have already discussed the subject of manures 
at some length, but have as yet only entered upon it. I cannot 
close this book without saying more. 

I have given a list of manures, among which urine occupies a 
high place. It is undoubtedly the richest of manures, and were 
all the urine of a family carefully saved and sowed over the 
ground, — either soaked by a compost or In a liquid state, — large 
crops would follow. 

One part of the urine of a man is equal to 13 parts of the ma- 
nure of a horse, or 16 of a cow. The solid and liquid faeces of 
each person are capable of producing, if applied to the soil and 
covered, food enough to support the individual a year. 

The water-closets and privies of every house should be so ar- 
ranged that the solid and liquid excrement of the family could be 
readily and neatly saved and applied to the soil. Many persons 
who annually pay large sums for manure, think they cannot afford 
the permanent investment necessary to arrange their buildings for 
this purpose. They are penny wise, and pound foolish. 

The seat to such places needs to be but little raised over the 
apparent vault, which should have a bottom rapidly sloping to a 
well-built and capacious drain, which leads to a cesspool at a proper 
distance from the house. This cesspool may be excavated in the 
gravel, and made by cementing the gravel, or may be brick or 
stone, laid in mortar. It may be arranged so as to mix muck, 
loam, and road scrapings, or to use the liquid alone. The urine, 
as I have shown, is made more valuable by mixing with it an 
equal bulk of water. Run into the vault of the water-closet the 
spout of the sink, and allow all the soapy liquids from the sink to 
wash out the vault and mix with the faeces in the cesspool. 

This will enrich the manure by its own constituents, besides 
supplying the water for admixtui'e. If you have but scant means 
for constructing the cesspool, let your drain empty into an oil butt 
sunk in the ground. Haul near this oil butt a large quantity of 
mud, loam, sawdust, shavings, leaves, straw, any kind of vegetable 
matter, and even chopped brush, and forming a compact heap, or 
a basin, according to the material, with a long-handled dipper ; as 
often as the cesspool or butt is full, dip it out on the heap. When 

63 



746 AtJOusT. 

the heap is saturated, mix it up, and haul it* away and put more in 
its place. 

A cheap dipper for this purpose is a butter firkin, with a handle 
carried through it and made fast by pins. The waste of a fiunilj 
of six persons, well saved and managed, will thoroughly manure 
two acres of land, and as the net value of the mo^t profitable cro|» 
on well-manured land is at least $50 per acre, we have $100 as 
the value of the waste. 

I will not pursue this subject farther, as it has been so often dis- 
cussed that information upon it is abundant. 

In discussing manures in April, I went upon the supposition that 
there must be returned to the soil every year just what is taken 
away. But in the long run this is not necessary, if land is well 
farmed, for every manure that we apply has a surplus of some- 
thing, which is added to the capital in the soil for future use, and 
may therefore be omitted in the next application. I put the case 
strongly, as the aim of the farmer should be to preserve the balamee 
<rtM, and this must never he lost sight of. 

If we add thb year a guano rich in phosphates and poor in am- 
monia, for a special crop, we may next year add ammonia in a 
similar excess, or lime, or soda, with a deficiency of phosphate. 
But what I wish to impress upon you is the importance of every 
cultivator's understanding the soil and its constituents, and the 
constituents of the . crop and the manure, 8o that he may always 
act upon principles. 

Farming may, in most cases, be compared to a blind man sitting 
down to an entirely unseasoned dish for dinner. Near him are 
pepper, salt, and other condiments, and he is to help himself; but 
as he has no guide, the resulting taste alone can decide whether 
he helps himself wisely or not. So the farmer, blind to all knowl- 
edge of principles, can decide only by experiment upon the appli- 
cation of seasoning to his soil, and he will get first too much pepper, 
then too much salt, and may think himself fortunate if his mistakes 
are not irreparable. But the farmer who knows before he acts just 
what the composition of his soil requires, and just what applica- 
tions will supply the requirement, works with his eyes open, seasons 
accurately by his eye, and is in no danger of spoiling his dinner. 



THE FABM. 747 

I might enter into the details of the application of the various 
manures, but I cannot even describe that of the principal ones, for 
want of room ; the subject is almost inexhaustible. 

Lime, for instance, upon which volumes have been written, is a 
sine qud non to some lands, but worthless to others, and where it is 
of value, its application varies from 5 to 300 bushels per acre, ac- 
cording to the length of time since limeing before. If this has 
been done within 5 or 10 years, 50 bushels is ample ; if not for 
40 years, 300 will be necessary. I must refer you to other books 
for the details of experiments and results. 

Let me close the subject by saying that the best farmer is he 
who cultivates his land in such rotation as to enable each crop' to 
take something from the soil that the preceding crop did not wimt, 
who grows those crops which will give most milk, wool, flesh, and 
return the best and largest amount of manure ; who so husbands 
this manure and combines it with all the refuse, animal, mineral, 
atfd vegetable, that his place affords, as to make it sufficient for all 
his land ; who, if he cannot do this, buys special manures, and does 
not try to manufacture them ; who so drains, subsoils, and irrigates 
his lands, as to give his manures and crops' the best chance ; and 
finally, who so expends his profits as to develop and cultivate his 
own mind and the minds of his family, that they may draw support 
and strength, beauty and nourishment, from all around them ; from 
nature and art, from society and books, from science and religion. 

Profitable but not oenerallt cultivated Crops. — I 
have already alluded to these crops, in the kitchen-garden of a 
previous month, and they may with equal appropriateness be de- 
scribed under the head of Farming. 

We are as much behind the times with regard to this culture, as 
to that of Roots, and to the rotation of crops. 

Chicory, or Succory, is the first that I shall mention. Its use as 
a substitute for coffee, and for other purposes, gives the crop great 
value, and it may also be used for fodder. The land should be pre- 
l)ared by ample (panuring; if fall ploughed, plough again in the spring 
and drill in the seed at the rate of 4 pounds to the acre, in drills 12 



748 AUGUST. 

inches apart. Cultivate through the season. In the fall, draw the 
roots, clean, slice, and kiln-dry. 

For a fodder crop, sow 12 to 14 pounds broadcast, and cut as 
soon as it is well grown ; three or four times during the season. 
All stock are fond of, and thrive well upon, it. 

Flax and Hemp may next be mentioned ; they are somewhat 
largely grown in the Western States, and would grow in New 
England. Ten years ago they were about as much cultivated in 
Old England as now in New, and at that time an agriculturist 
spoke of it in the following manner, and his words might all be ap- 
plied to our American agriculture of to-day. It is to be observed 
that Hemp may be added to Flax each time that he mentions ^e 
latter, as they are alike in all the respects in which he mentions it 
*" The cultivation of Flax, although it holds out a prospect of 
considerable advantage to the farmer, and that neither very doubt- 
ful or very distant, is yet, like most things that are new, beset with 
certain difficulties at the outset. The preparation of the land, and 
sowing of the seed, are not, however, of the number, for those are 
simple ; but the gathering and managing of the Flax, after it has 
grown to maturity, the drying, scutching, hackling, and preparing 
it for market, all require some training and some skill in the per- 
sons who carry through these several operations ; and the great 
difficulty lies in obtaining the requisite practical knowledge in these 
matters at first ; once established, the whole will be plain and easy." 

" In addition to the profit, which, in a pecuniary sense, would 
arise from the cultivation of Flax in this country, another very im- 
portant advantage would be obtained ; it would afford a large 
•amount of employment, especially for females, in those rural dis- 
tricts where employment is at present mast needed. The various 
operations connected with the management of Flax require many 
hands, and much of the work may be performed by females.'* 

*^ It has been said that Flax is a very exhausting crop, but it cer- 
tainly is not more so than any of the usual green crops, neither 
does it require a very rich soil ; indeed, a rich or highly manured 
soil is injurious, causing the plant to grow too strong and luxuriant, 
and rendering the fibre coarse and less valuable. 



THE FARM. 749 

<^ Flax is grown on light land in Belgium and Holland, and I 
have seen it growing on mere bog in Ireland." 

'' The general introduction of Flax culture would constitute a 
new and most valuable element in the rotation, and would enable 
the farmer to varj and extend his successions, which is in itself a 
highly important consideration ; the water in which Flax has been 
steeped is highly fertilizing when applied to the land, and the seed, 
when properly sowed and prepared, constitutes excellent provender 
for cattle and milch cows ; it may be safely asserted, therefore, that 
a Flax crop, rightly managed, is not only valuable as affording in- 
creased means of employment for our agricultural population, and 
highly profitable for the purposes of the manufacturer, and for the 
feeding of cattle, but that it, moreover, returns to the soil, in the 
shape of manure, as much, if not more, than any of the Grain 
crops ; in addition to this it ought not to be overlooked by the ag- 
riculturists that Clover always does well after Flax. 

For Flax the land should be ploughed deep and lightly harrowed, 
enough to reduce it to a fine and uniform condition ; the seed may 
be broadcasted or drilled ; if the former, sow 2^ to 3 bushels to 
the acre ; sowed thickly, the fibre is finer and better. But thick 
or thin are relative terms ; each person must settle how much seed 
he needs, by practice. When cut in blossom, there will be no 
seed, but double the weight of fibre. 

Cut in the seed, 200 pounds of Flax to the acre is a good crop. 
In either case the Flax is pulled up by hand, and laid in bundles 
till somewhat dried, and when well dried stored until it is time to 
rot it. 

COST OP A CROP OP FLAX GROWN UPON 1-,^ ACRES. 

1 1-2 days ploughing, $3.00 

1-2 " harrowing and sowing, 1.00 

6 " pulling Flax, 6.00 

2 " threshing and cleaning seed, 2.00 

1 " spreading and raking in 1.00 

1 " drawing to mill, 2.00 

1 1-2 bushels seed, at $1.50, 2.25 

Dressing and marketing, 15.95 

Interest on land, 10.50 

$43.71 
63* 



750 '.AUGUST. 

CREDIT CBOP BT 

233 pounds clean seeds, $35.50 

798 poonds dressed Flax 7980 

$115^ 
Deduct cost, 43.71 

Net value crop, S71.59 

or 946.42 per acre. 

Hemp is grown to some extent at the West ; it needs strong 
land, and is a paying crop. Sward land should be ploughed both 
fall and spring ; plough deep and harrow well ; sow broadcast or in 
drill ; if the former, 1^ bushels .seed to the acre, from 1st April to 
10th May. Cut it when the blossoms are falling off. 

In the same book the following cost and profit of Hemp in Mis- 
souri, per acre, is given. The estimate was sent to the Patent Of- 
fice. Cost per acre, $20 ; gross profit, $40 ; net, $20. The same 
crop grown in our country, with our care in cultivating, would give 
a much larger gross and net profit. 

For details of culture I must refer you to special treatises. The 
estimate is given of the cost and value of an acre of Flax and 
Hemp, in " Fox's Text-book of Agriculture," to which I am in- 
debted for many valuable facts. 

" Liquorice, another valuable and profitable crop, little known, is 
annually imported in large quantities, though grown to a small ex- 
tent here. It needs a deep, rich soil, and occupies the land for 3 
years ; is grown from sets (small side shoots on the main roots), 
trench the land 3 feet deep, and, if it is not rich, manure with a 
large dressing of well-rotted dung ; throw the land into beds 3^ 
feet wide. In the middle of these beds, in the last of April, plant 
the sets 18 inches apart, in dibble-holes 8 inches deep. As soon as 
they appear above the ground keep them clean. When the leaves 
and stalks die in the fall, cover the bed with a dressing of well- 
rotted manure, which is to be carefully and lightly dug in in the 
succeeding sprmg. Treat this year as before, and the same the 
third year ; in the fall of the third year, after the stalks are dead, 
begin at one end and trench the bed over, throwing all the roots on 
the surface. Small side branches of the roots, with eyes, are to be 
kept in a place rather cool and dry till spring, for sets ; the others 



THE FARM. 751 

are washed, tied in bundles, and sold. Its gross value is not less 
than $500 per acre.** 

Luoerne and Sainfoin. are two fodder crops not much known 
among us, but of great value to the milk farmer and the stall 
feeder. They have been carefully tried in this climate and proved 
capable of cultivation. Sow the seed in May in clean earth, in 
drills ; cultivate and hoe ; cut two or three times in a season. The 
bulk of fodder which may be cut is enormous. English — and 
still more, Flemish and French — farmers, consider them to be all- 
important crops. They last for 3 years, are long, tap-rooted plant*, 
and when the land is afterwards ploughed, their roots contribute a 
large amount of manure. 

From the cultivation of Madder large profits might be made. I 
do not doubt that any farmer who will cultivate this crop in the 
best manner for the next 20 yeai*s, will make money as fast as any 
merchant Madder, like Liquorice, must be grown from sets, as 
its seed rarely ripens with us. It is a dye-stuff, and great quanti- 
ties are annually imported from Europe and used. The roots are 
ground and in that condition sold to the manufacturer who extracts 
his own coloring matter. The land should be rich and deep with- 
out many stones. A stream near by, in which the roots can be 
washed is a convenience, but if overflowed for a day or two in the 
grfwnng season the crop would be destroyed. Trench thoroughly, 
and then plant sets either in beds like Liquorice, or in drills 3 feet 
apart and cultivate with care for 3 years. The entire cost of the 
crop may be estimated at $100 per acre ; a fair yield is 2,000 
pounds (ground Madder) to the acre. The difficulty of giinding 
the root has been one objection to its culture, but now there are 
persons ready to buy the roots in the ground at a price which will 
pay the cost of grinding and a profit ; at 15 cents' per pound for 
ground madder the net profit would be $200 per acre, making the 
large allowance of $100 per acre for cost of culture. 

Rape is valuable for forage and for its seed. It may be sowed in 
the spring to be fed off in the autumn by sheep. It grows rapidly* 
gives a large quantity of food, will grow on much poorer soil than 



753 AuousT. 

the Turnips, and needs less culture an^ manure ; maj be sowed 
broadcast or in drills. In the latter case 2 pounds of seed per acre 
are enough. The seed of Rape is worth for its oil, one-half the 
price of Linseed. It is rather liable to injuij in cold winters, and 
consequently will not be grown extensivelj for seed here, bat the 
experiment has never been fairly tried. To get seed, sow on a 
clean stubble ploughed in drills, 24 inches apart, in August. Cul- 
tivate in the autumn. In the spring it will cover the ground before 
the weeds spring up ; reap the straw the last of June ; dry and 
thresh ; the yield will be from 30 to 50 bushels per acre, and is 
worth at least $1 a busheL 

Rye Grass I have already commended. Too much cannot be 
said for it, and where there is a command of water or liquid ma- 
nure, the produce per acre is almost incredible. It is often cut 5 
times and will yield 20 feet in height, if we add the lengths of the 
several cuttings, and 20 tons per acre of fodder may be, under 
such circumstances, relied upon. 

Silk seems to have been tried and exploded, and whoever rec- 
ommends it, incurs a suspicion of entertaining some sinister design, 
and yet without doubt no more valuable crop can be grown in 
Southern New England, if proper care is taken of the worms and 
their food, and they are managed carefully and economically, and 
without the hope of an inunediate fortune. The worms should 
be tended by children and women, and if the culture were begun 
on a small scale and gradually enlarged as the management proved 
profitable, the growers of the worms would be amply repaid for the 
time and capital invested. 

Sugar beets. Were I to be asked what culture would best repay 
an enterprising fanner, who had capital and good loamy and mod- 
erately level land, I should say, that rotation which should intro- 
duce the Sugar Beet most largely and most frequently. It is 
another instance of a crop which has been hastily tried and con- 
demned by many persons, and yet which promises to the grower 
extraordinary profits. The causes of failuro are easily seen. In 
the first place as in the case of other Root crops, the imported seed 
must be acclimated before the crop can eqiial the cultivator's ex- 



THE FARM. 753 

pectations, and although great benefits arise from the interchange 
of seeds between different countries, yet in most cases this benefit 
does not come in the first sowing. 

Then, in the second place, this crop needs constant attention, and 
the best of culture , a good soil, plenty of manure, deep drainage, 
good subsoiling, and if possible, liquid manure or irrigation. The 
important point with this Beet is not enormous size of the roots, 
bat a heavy yield of moderate, uniform-sized roots. 

Thirdly, there is in general a deficiency of proper machinery 
for the extraction of the sugar. 

Fourthly, a general want of faith in its value and the large 
quantity of refuse lefl afler the sugar is expressed. 

Tlie difficulties with regard to seed, soil, and culture, are easily 
remedied. Imperfect machinery has now been perfected, and above 
all, two large sources of profit have been discovered in the waste ; 
for it proves excellent food for store cattle, and is found to be 
superior stock for all coarse papers, so much so that the time is 
approaching when it will be impossible to provide too great a 
supply for the demand of the paper makers. 

It wd5 first cultivated for sugar in France, under Napoleon, war 
having put a stop to the importation of cane sugar, and at first it 
needed protection to enable the cultivator to make it. Now the 
case is reversed, and so simplified has the process become, that it 
can be produced enough cheaper than cane sugar to undersell it in 
the market, when the latter is not protected by a discriminating 
duty. The vast, loamy, fertile plains of the West, and all the 
alluvial and river soils of New England are well adapted to the 
culture of this Beet. It has the farther advantage of being equal 
to any other Root crop, as a food for stock, having by analysis 
more nutritive qualities. 

Teasels are somewhat grown in New England and the West. 
Their price varies much, so that they are of rather uncertain value. 
They need deep rich soil, and thorough cultivation. Plough deep a 
well-manured fallow, and then harrow down ; sow the seed in drills 
8 feet apart, 6 pounds to the acre ; when the plants are fairly distin- 
guishable, thin to 6 inches ; hoe and cultivate through the season. 
In the autumn leave the field clean. They begin to grow the next 



754 AUGUST. 

upring, and come into blossom in July ; a<) the heads become fit to 
gather (which is known bj the ready separation of the seed), cat 
them ; several cuttings are necessary to secure all the heads in the 
right condition. Dry them on floors made so as to admit air from 
below ; lay them 6 inches deep on the floor. When ready for sale 
they may be tied in bundles according to the quality, or packed in 
boxes. 

There are several varieties of Teasel ; the best are imported 
from Germany, and the best alone should be cultivated. The wider 
our woollen manufactories spread, the greater will be the demand 
for Teasels, as their little elastic hooks do a work wliich cannot be 
equalled by any machinery. Machinery has been invented to su- 
percede them, and is oflen used, but cannot do their work per^ 
fectly. 

The profit on Teasels ranges from $25 to $150 per acre, accord- 
ing to the yield and the markeL Severe and continued cold does 
not seem to injure them, but rapidly alternating cold and heat, 
winter thaws and late spring frosts are very destructive. 

Tobacco. It is with some hesitation that I say any thing to in- 
crease a knowledge of this poisonous plant, but its commercial value 
is so great, and the profits of the culture so large, that it must not 
be omitted in this connection. It was formerly supposed that it 
would grow only in hot countries, and the most delicate varieties 
seem to need a large amount of heat to draw forth their peculiar 
properties. I extract the following with regard to its culture from 
the Text Book of Agriculture : — 

" A seed bed is prepared as early in April as possible, for which 
the richest and best land — moist but not wet — is chosen. It is 
manured, dug deeply, pulverized and rendered fine and smootL 
and the seed sown broadcast at the rate of one table-spoonful to 
the square rod, before the earth becomes dry. 

" After this it is raked, but the seed is not buried, it is rolled or a 
man treads it in, rendering the surface of the bed as hard as pos- 
uible ; weeds must be carefully extirpated. When the plants have 
leaves two or three inches long, they are ready for transplanting, 
about the beginning of June. The field to be pUinted should be 
^well manured, and ploughed at least twice, harrowed and. rolled. 



THE FARM. 755 

and left as smooth as possible ; the rows are marked out for 3 feet 
or 3 feet 4 inches apart, according to the variety grown ; and on 
these rows small hills are formed for the reception of the plants at 
2 feet or 2^ feet apart. 

"To make^/fne Tobacco it is important to plant early, so that the 
leaveis may be cured when the weather is warm and dry. 

^ If it rains at setting out, advantage is taken to plant as many aa 
possible ; if not, about half a pint of water is poured into each hill 
and the plants immediately set. The plants should be set with a 
dibble ; nmke a hole, set in the plant, fill the hole with water, and 
and then press the earth in compactly about its roots. Afler this 
the field is examined several times, and where the plants are dead 
or injured by the worm, others are set 

** As soon as they stand well, they are either carefully hoed and 
the vacant places filled with new plants, or the cultivator is merely 
passed between the rows. Afler this the plants are kept clean 
with the cultivator or hoe, being hoed 3 or 4 times without hilling ; 
the plants are frequently and thoroughly examined for the Tobacco 
worm, which must be destroyed or the crop will be greatly injured. 
Turkeys are very serviceable for this pui^pose ; if a large flock is 
turned into the field, they will soon rid it of the worms. 
. " When in blossom and before the formation of the seed, the plants 
are topped about 32 inches from the ground, leaving from 16 to 20 
leaves on each stalk. 

^ If there are late plants in consequence of resetting, break them 
lower down and they will grow and ripen sooner. All suckers 
must be broken off. When ripe, the leaf is spotted and thick, and 
will crack when pressed between the thumb and finger. It may 
be cut any time in the day after the dew is off, left; in the row till 
wilted, then turned, and if there is a hot sun, turned often to pre- 
vent burning. After being wilted it is put into heaps of six or 
eight plants and carted to the sheds for hanging. 

"^ Here it is hung with cotton twine on horizontal supported poles 
12 feet long, about 20 plants on a side. It must hang until the 
stem of the leaf is thoroughly cured to the stalk ; from 6 to 10 weeks. 

" It is then taken down on a damp day, to prevent the leaves from 
crumbling, and placed in large piles, by letting the tops of the 



756 AUGUST. 

plants lap each other, leaving the bnts of the stalks out It re- 
mains in these heaps from 3 to 10 days before it is stripped, de^ 
pending on the state of the weather, but it must not be allowed to 
heat. Wlien stripped, it is made into small bunches, called hands, 
the small and broken leaves being kept by themselves." 

" When fit for market it is pressed in boxes of about 400 pounds 
each. The crop varies from 1,000 to 2,700 pounds to the acre. 
In France, 4,000 pounds is got to the acre. An acre of Tobacco 
in Massachusetts cost $67.50, it sold for $160 — nett, $92.50. 

" To save seed, allow a few of the strongest plants to produce 
their flowers, which will ripen in September as much seed as win 
stock half a dozen acres. The best soil is a light, sandy loam, or 
a light soil rich*in organic matters, having a portion of sand mixed 
with it. Clay soils are not adapted to it, and pretty steep hill-^ides, 
if light and rich, are better for the production of Tobacco than 
level land. The manure for the crop should be highly ammoni- 
ated, and abundantly supplied, but both the manure and urine of 
horses are objectionable, as they seem to give the Tobacco a bad 
taste." 

^ Tares or Vetches come here in alphabetical order, &s a valuable 
fodder crop. Hogs may be fattened entirely on them ; milch cows 
give more butter when fed on this than on any other food, and 
horses are very fond of them. It should be sowed in a regular 
rotation, and take the place of late fodder, particularly where the 
late Grass is often deficient The land must be clean and well 
cultivated. It will grow on any soil. Sow broadcast 3 to 4 bush- 
els of seed to the acre. If sowed with Oats, — as is very com- 
mon, — sow 1^ to 2 bushels Tares, and 1 bushel Oats. <*The 
Hopetown or White-flowered Tare, is the best variety." 

As fodder, cut afler the pods are well grown, but long before 
they are ripe. If for seed, let them stand till ripe, and then cut 
with the scythe and treat like Peas. 

Willows are a crop but little known in this country, of which 
several millions of dollars are annually imported, yet they might 
be cultivated with profit in many classes of soil, and in many 
places otherwise waste. 



THE FARM. 



/57 



There are seven varieties. The best single varieties are Salix 
purpurea, Salix Forbjana ; S. triandra is excellent Salix vim- 
inalis is generally cultivated in England, with several sub-varie- 
I ties, all of which thrive but poorly in our climate. The Yellow- 
skin Willow (S. vitellina) and the White Willow (S. alba) are 
both good and natives. 

The farmer about to cultivate the Willow, should make inquiries 
and satisfy himself as to the best kind for our market The indis- 
pensable requisites in a soil for a good plantation of Willows, are 
richness, depth, moisture, and ease in cultivation. The many re- 
daimable and reclaimed meadows of New England, would make 
the best of land for the purpose. A long continuance of standing 
water is not desirable, but the land should be so circumstanced 
that the roots may penetrate through a rather dry surface into a 
wet subsoil. Having well drained the land, prepare it as for 
G)m; insert cuttings 2 feet long perpendicularly into the soil, 
leaving 2 inches above the surface. 

**' Plant in rows, 4 feet apart, and 1 foot between the plants ; 
keep clean of weeds, by plough, hoe, and cultivator, for two or three 
years. At the end of the second year, the osier is ready for cutting." 
There is a difference of opmion as to the proper time for cutting ; 
some advising fall and winter, afler the sap has ceased to circulate, 
others the spring, when it is first starting. When cut in winter, 
they are tied in bundles and set upon their buts in water till spring. 
Cut the osier about 2 inches from the stock. Peel them with this 
very simple instrument It is merely a 
round stick of hard wood, about an inch 
thick and a foot long, quartered about half 
the length of the stick, and the two oppo- 
site quarters cut off, so that it will leave a 
shai-p edge upon the remaining two. The 
tool is taken in the right hand, and the 
Willow inserted in the slit with the lefl, 
and pulled through, the bark coming off. 

Lay them to dry, and when dry, sell by 
weight Some persons who have tried 

their culture, have got much more profit 
64 




758 AUGUST. 

from the Willow, than from all the rest of the farm. Some varie> 
ties sell as high as 8 to 10 cents a pound. 

The last crop which I shall refer to is the Grape for the manu- 
facture of wine. The culture of the Grape is on the increase 
throughout the country, both as a fruit, and for its juice. For 
the latter use, the method followed is quite different from anj 
hitherto described. The best land for them varies much with the 
country, the aspect, the kind of Grape ; and the best method of 
making the wine differs in like manner. 

Slight changes of soil and climate make so much difference in 
the Grape and its juice, that no exact directions can be given &r 
it As I have said once before, its cultivation is a specialty, and I 
must refer those interested in it to special treatises on the subject.* 

* There U a manufacturer of brandy and wine in Boston, on somewhat a 
large scale, who buys all the native Grapes he can obtain, so that our common 
wild Grapes, weU cared for, and harvested at the right time, may be made a 
source of considerable profit, without the trouble and expense of manofactor- 
ingthe wioe. 



CHAPTER LXXXI. 

ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 

Some trees not mentioned in July may occasionallj be of service 
and value, but thej will be so at rare intervals ; and I do not 
recommend the proprietor of a small place to plant them, even for 
the purpose of making an Arboretum (collection of all species of 
trees). The number of varieties is too great to admit of such a 
collection having a good effect within small limits ; but in all large 
estates, especially in public grounds, a portion could be set aside 
for this purpose. It seems proper that the love of the beautiful 
should sometimes be sacrificed to the advancement of knowledge, 
in large cities and towns (provided deformity be not put in the 
place of beauty) ; and it is very important that the people should 
learn the shapes, appearances, and uses both of our native trees 
and of those foreigners which will endure our climate. I have al- 
ready said enough against planting trees in rows, except from ne- 
cessity ; but where rows are deemed necessary, as beside malls or 
avenues in public grounds,' it is better not to confine them to one 
kind, but to use several varieties ; for instance, one family, the 
Oaks, would furnish species enough to line quite a long avedue, and 
interspersed with the Walnut and Ash, all somewhat similar in 
habit, would form avenues, while they gave valuable information. 
Very few, even of our country folk, know all the varieties of the 
Oak, and city people seldom know the difierence between an Oak 
and an Ash. 

But I no more recommend that all the rows we plant should be 
devoted to science, than that planting in rows should be general, 
for no one better loves the grand effect of a fine avenue of a single 
variety, of Elms or Maples, or of Elms alternating with Pines or 
Hemlocks. The beauty of an avenue is a separate and important 
consideration. 

759 



760 AUOUflT. 

The row, however, is not the best form in which to plant an AH)w- 
etum. The real habit and character of a varietj can not be so well 
seen in a single specimen, by tlie side of an avenue, as in a gronpw 
Grouped trees are better seen from ail points of view, than these 
unrelieved by any companion. And, besides, the object being to 
familiarize people not only with the individual, but with the,^im%, 
several specimens are necessary. 

I have several times alluded to a doctrine, advanced by Gilpin 
and others, to the effect that but a few varieties should be introduced 
in ornamental bindscape, and they in great numbers, in order to 
secure the characteristic effect, whether of Oak, Ash, or Pine. 
Now by planting in a well-disposed group one of each species of 
Oak, the best Oak effect can be produced, and as the family is large, 
quite a wood can be formed, with a pleasant variety of individuals, 
and yet a certain unity of effect This may be heightened by con- 
trasting and joining with the Oak wood on one side, or perhaps run- 
ning into it Hickories, they again blending with Chestnuts, wfaieh 
in their turn combine with Beeches. The Hickory and Beech are 
more alike than the Hickory and Oak, or the Beech and Chestnut 
so that considerable contrast would be secured. At proper points 
the species — small in number — of Hornbeam and Hop Horn- 
beam, could be grouped to contrast their light and pliant branches 
and small leaves, with the sturdy and gnarled Oaks. The Hazel, 
varying in size from a mere shrub to a low tree, should be planted 
near the edges of the group, to fringe it, and combine Grass and 
trees. 

Thus, without going out of the deciduous trees, we nmy produce 
very beautiful and strongly contrasted efiects, and in such a way 
as to mark decidedly the scientific character of the material used. 
We have joined the two families of Cupulifene and Juglandacese, 
and have made the beginning of a properly arranged Arboretum. 

The shrubs and flowers which inhabit woodbinds vary with the 
variety of trees forming the wood. I do not mean that shrubs, 
flowers, and ferns will not live except in particular woods, but that 
they have strong preferences, by humoring which we may giun 
both in beauty and scientific interest And different species of 
trees are the home of different and particular species of Lichens, 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 761 

Liverworts, and Mosses, while others of these plants lire on all 
trees alike ; another branch of botanic science may thus be illus- 
trated. 

To return to the trees ; the spiry branches and small leaves of 
the Hornbeam are very like some kinds of Elm. The resemblance 
at once suggests the point with which to connect the Elms. These 
vary much in character. The English Elm is a stately, close tree, 
more like the Oak, a strong contrast to the American Elm, and 
these are not the only members of the family which contrast. To 
a group of them, the English Elm in the middle, tall and sturdy, 
will give body and vigor; along the edges we shall be attracted by 
the rough bark of Ulmus suberosa, the cork-bark Elm ; at a well- 
chosen point the grace and beauty of the Ulmus Americana will 
convince the most complete monomaniac on the subject of caterpil- 
lars and canker-worms, that we should rather be more careful in 
its defence, than inclined to discourage its use. Connecting the 
Elms and Hornbeams, we might introduce the Nettle-tree (Celtis 
occidentalis), that queer hybrid which seems to be an Elm-tree 
bearing blue cherries, whilst Celtis pumila is the shrub pertaining 
to the family. 

No need to multiply examples ; enough has already been said to 
show how science and beauty may both be made prominent in groups 
of deciduous ti*ee3. If we wish for contrast between deciduous and 
evergreen trees, we can have it by blending Hemlocks or Spruces 
with the Beeches or Elms, by the introduction of a few Birches and 
Larches, a gradation pleasant and yet productive of striking con- 
trast ; or we may boldly push our White Pines up to the Oaks and 
Ashes, sure that the fall coloring will justify our practice, even to 
eyes which can see no justification in the likeness between the stem 
and branches of the stately and pointed Fines and those of the Ash 
and Oak. In short, the scientific character and connection of our 
forest trees may be shown to as much advantage as their beauty, in 
groups and copses. 

I use the word group for want of a better. The popular idea 
of a group or clump of trees is a bunch of trees planted in a cir- 
de or square, or some forms as close together as possible originally. 

Frequently directions have been given for making such groups ', 
64* 



762 



▲OOUST. 



to plant the trees as closely as the quality of the soil wiH aitow, 
sttZTonnded by a fence to protect it from the browsing of cat- 
Ue. 

The beauty of the fringe along the edge of plantations is cer» 
tainly much reduced by the browsing of cattle, and there is no 
protection like a fence. But fences are expensive, and conse- 
qaently increase the cost of the plantations ; therefore, if the trees 
are to be protected with a fence, there is an almost irresistible in* 
clination to draw the trees into some close and regular shape 
which will need but little fencing. It being plain that the result- 
ing group will be stiff, the ph^nter argues that when grown, the 
trees can be cut out so as to produce an irregular Blape. But the 
argument is very specious. Trees grow so sbwly, that it bat 
rarely happens that he who plants, lives to thin them, and how can 
that unity of design and execution which is so essential to the sao> 
cess of landscape gardening — especially in plantations, its most 
important feature — be secured, if the work designed and oom> 
menced by one person is continued and completed by another? 
When trees are planted, it should be in accordance with a well-^ 
gested phin. In order that they may be perfect when mature, 
their mature perfection should be distinctly seen in the imaginatioB 
of the designer. He will then plant each tree where it will stand, 
so for as the outline of the group is concerned. Its interior may 
be cut out without greatly altering the effect; not so the out- 
side. 




ORNAMENTAI. OBOUND8 768 

Another reason whj the plan of cutting these crowded groups 
into shapeliness can never be realized, is found in the fact that 
trees thus planted can never attain the complete beauty of their 
variety. Every one knows that trees grown in masses, with the 
exception of those on tlie edges of the plantation, lose their lower 
branches ; those branches only develop fully which are open to air 
and light A great beauty of an irregular plantation is, that its 
trees feather down to the ground. Let A be a group of such out- 
line as we want 20 years afler planting it What we want can be 
obtained only by planting it in this shape. Surround it with a 
fence as in the cut, and lose for Grass, pasture, or tillage, all the 
unoccupied land within this fence ; let it go cheerfully as part of 
the price, without which you cannot have a fine group. 

When it is necessary to form a group by cutting it out of trees 
already well grown, much may be done to relieve the nakedness 
sure to follow, by setting tali and quick-growing shrubs along its 
edges ; they will soon protect and fringe the trees. 

In such cases, select shrubs that will bear the drip from trees, to 
stand nearest the group. 

To protect new plantations from cattle, without a fence, the 
English planters fill in among the trees with thorns of various 
kinds, of a rapid habit of growth. They may afterwards be left, 
or cut away, as the beauty of the group demands. 

A mistaken assumption with those who recommend that trees be 
planted in close groups, to be afterwards cut into shape, is, that the 
owner will thin out the trees when they are well grown. By the 
end of 20 years he will become accustomed to the arrangement, 
will hardly believe that it can be improved, and will have a de- 
cided repugnance to cutting down his trees. Those who plant or 
own ornamental trees, acquire so blind an affection for them, that 
they cannot allow any thinning, however much their plantations 
might gain in beauty by it. 

Never plant a group in a circle, or other regular shape, unless 
from some imperative necessity. You may lay it down as a rule 
that the same amount of material may be used more pleasantly in 
some irregular form. You cannot mend a regularly shaped group 
by planting up to it hereafter ; it is as unapproachable as an ice- 



76i 



▲nousT. 



C^^v ^ ^^' B is a circular group. Afier it is well 

<^' ^ ^^j^-^^ grown, approach it as yoa maj with trees and 

^*- Jfefj^ '^jri^ shrubs, you cannot disguise its originaUj hard 

8bi^>e. If it stands alone, — as on a lawn, — it 

is equally bad from all sides ; no more play of 

B light and shade, no more variety of outline, than 

a barrel! If in the comer of a fence, — as in the cut, — it i» 

irreooncihible with the surrounding lines, and cannot be relieved. 

_^ -The first glance shows 

yrr^ that the treatment of C 







^ 



"H 







or D is infinitely better. 
In B, even the beaulj 
of the individuab is lost, 
whilst in C and D, each 
tree is improved by its 
neighbor. 

The recommendation frequently given to use the bushy tops d 
young Evergreens in marking out groups for planting, is good. 
They may be cut 3 or 4 feet long, and pointed at the but, so as to 
be easily thrust into the ground, where they are so prominent as 
to give the character of the group at once. Stakes are rather 
small and inconspicuous. But be careful not to be guided in 
marking out your group by some fanded beauty or picturesque- 
ness of outline ; it will lead you into errors as bad as a ring fence. 
The outline is but a secondary consideration in a group ; the aim 
of the planter should be to exhibit the beauties and peculiarities 
of the trees he uses to the best advantage ; and, accordingly, he 
should 80 arrange the outline of the group, that each individual 
may have just its appropriate place. 

The outline of a wood may be formed on the same principles as 
that of a group, but their interiors must be differently managed. 
The interior of a group should be as closely planted as is consist- 
ent with the proper development of the trees ; but in a wood, there 
is a great charm in the frequent recurrence of grassy glades, de&, 
bits of water, groups of shrubs, openings with a single tree stand- 
ing in them ; and this must be borne in mind when a wood is 
made. If there are trees enough to give a wood or forest efiect. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 765 

to shut out the world, make these openings within, wherever the 
surface will allow ; they not only contrast pleasantly with the gen- 
eral denseness, but tliey admit sunshine, and are rich with wild 
flowers and green grass. In such a wood, the depth of a hollow 
or a mere dimple may be much increased by planting its edges 
with trees of rather dark and sombre character, with marked, con- 
trasting horizontal branches ; whilst any little knoll may be raised 
decidedly by planting it with pyramidal and fastigiate trees. 

To conclude this branch of my subject, I must refer you onoe 
more to Nature's practice. Possess yourself of the spirit with 
which Nature disposes trees, rocks, hill-sides, valleys, and when 
the opportunity offers, practise the lesson she is so ready to teach. 

Shrubs. — I have repeatedly dwelt on the beauty and capaci- 
ties of shrubs. They may be used almost without limit. Were 
the number of trees planted about our suburban houses reduced 
two-thirds, and replaced by well-selected shrubs, the general gain 
would be considerable. Few persons know what size and beauty 
groups of good shrubs acquire, when standing alone. There may 
be such a gradation in size as to carry them from the grass almost 
up to trees, and when varieties are properly cembined, they give a 
succession of blossoms through nearly the whole growing season. 
Many shrubs, too, like Barberry, Privet, Black Alder, Snowdrop, 
produce berries quite as beautiful and striking as their blossoms, 
and which take up the beauty where the flowers leave it, and 
carry it on to midwinter. Groups of Rhododendrons, Laurels, 
Hollies, — particularly in favorable spots in the deep wood, — 
have a beauty of foliage unsurpassed by any tree or plant, while 
the color of the flowers of the two former, and the berries of the 
latter, equal the richest garden display. The inhabitants of the 
deep woods are many and various, and well pay for the trouble 
of making their acquaintance. 

The following list includes many of the best native and foreign 
Bhrubs: — 



nttj. Nam*. Siaelnfeefc. 


Color of flowen 


Time of 




or bonies. 


floweriD0. 


tive, Alder, 20, 


long tassels — 






buff. 


April, 


" Amorpha fruticosa, 







766 



AUGUST. 



Ooantiy. 
Native, 



klalwC 



ColoY of flowcu 
or dorIm* 

purple, 



Time of 

flOWCSlB^ 

Jaij. 



Indigo shnib, 3, 

Andromeda, 1 to 6, many 

Tarieties, white and red, Apr. to SepL 
Nat. and for., Asalea, " many colors, Majr to Aug. 

Of wonderful bcantj. Azalea ViBCOsa of our swampe ia large, bears the 
shade of trees well, likes damp places and any kind of culture, and is deli- 
ciously fragrant. 

" • 3 to 12, 



Foreign, Ahhea^ 



Nat and for., Barberry, 



many Yaneties 
and colors. 



Aug. to Oct. 



scv. varieties — \ May, Jane, 
yellow flowers ; ( berries thro' 
red berries ; red i rest of sea- 
leares in fall, ) son. 



Native, 

<c 
ft 

Foreign, 
Native, 



Bearbenry, 
A trailing vine, adapted to rocky and bleak places. 



Baybcrry, 3, berries, 

Bignonia, vine, yellow and or- 

ange, 

Bladder wort, 10 to SO, white, | 

Button Bush, 6 to 15, brown ball. 

Box, 3 to 6, evergreen and 

vari^ated. 
Excellent for edgings or single specimens. 



midsommer. 
midsnmmer 

till winter. 

August. 



Cocnel, many 

varieties. 
Clethra, 
*' Cinque Foil, 

(shruBby,) 
Nat. and for., Clematis, 
" Currant, 



Imported, 
Native, 



Daphne, 
Elder, 



3 to 12, 
6. 

vine, 
3 to 6, 



vhite, some 

with berries, May to winter. 

white, August. 

yellow, September. 

white and colored, July to Sept. 
red and vellow, June to Ang. 



variegated, some i one in April, 
■ red. 
white, with 



red leaved. ) one in Sept 



6. 



Euonymus, 
Ferns, 

Forsytbin, viridissima, 3, 
vine. 



" Ground Nut, 

Nat. and for.. Honeysuckle, 
Holly, 
English, Hawthorn, 

Native, Hazel, 
Nat. and Eng., Ivy, 

Dwarf Juniper, 



Native, 



Foreign, 
Native, 



Kalmia, 

Leatherwood, 

I^dum, 

Lilac, 

Osage Orange, 

Privet (extra). 



black berries, June to Sept. 
red berries, June to winter. 
Perennial, 
yellow. May. 

purple, August, 

vine (extra), aft colors, June to October, 

already described. 
6 to 20 (extra,) white and red, 

with berries, June to winter. 
6 to 10, tassels and nuts, April to Oct. 
vines (Am. poison.) 

6, rose colored (extra), June and July. 
3 (wet land), June, 

3, pink, JuIt. 

3 to 15, several colored, May and Jute. 

20, for hedges, 

3 to 6, for hedges — 
white and black 

berries, June to winter 






ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 767: 

OooBtry. Num. Slninfeet Color of flowen Time of 

or berriei. flowwring. 

Native, Roses, already described. 

Rhododendron, " " like Kalmia. 

" Rlmmn US-Back- hedee — black 

thorn, 10, berries, 

*' Tamarix, 4, white, aatnmn. 

*' Spice Bash 

(fragrant), 2 to 6, parplc, June. 

St, John's Wort 
(shrubby), 5, yellow, September. 

Nat. and for., Spirea, 3 to 6, many colors, May to Sep. 

" Sweetbrier, already described 

" Smilax (rery 

thorny), Tine, very thorny. 

" Snowdrop, 5, white and fed berries, Aug. to winter. 

" Samach, 20, red berries, cu- 

rious wood, " 

" Vaccinium, 3 to 6, white, fragrant 

berries, Jane to Sept. 

Wigelea, 5, red, white, and yellow, " 

" Wisteria (beantiful), vine, purple, Mny. 

" Virginian Creeper, vine, called hitherto Woodbine. 

Hedges are not well understood. They are too oflen consid- 
ered a part of the ornamental treatment of a place. Now a hedge 
is A fence, is good or bad as it answers the purpose of a fence, as 
it is luxuriant and well kept, or thin and neglected. When good, it 
is certainly much more pleasing than most close fences. Where 
fencing material is scarce — as at the West — hedges should be 
much used as fences. 

Few shrubs are well adapted to make a close fence. The Osage 
' Orange is the best for farm purposes, where protection is desired, and 
the climate is not severe. It will flourish in any part of the Middle, 
Western, or Southern States, and after the first year or two as far 
North as this book applies. No plant is more easily cultivated. 
It is best to place your hedge — of whatever plant — on the hither 
side of a ditch, so that animals may be prevented from charging 
the hedge at full speed ; its thorns will protect it from any mild 
attack. Dig the ditch to suit yourself, beyond 4 feet wide and 18 
inches deep, nothing less is much of an obstacle to cattle. The 
earth dug out should be placed on the hedge side of the ditch, 
sloping as in the cut Sow the 

seeds, or set young plants of the 31 

Osage Orange from 12 to 18 \ 

inches apart ; the seed may be 




768 ▲UGT78T. 

pat closer, and afterwards thinned; the soil should be rich, and 
be deeply dug, ploughed or trenched first If jou use jonng 
plants, cut them within two ejes of the surface of the ground, and 
in the following spring cut down as much in proportion ; do not 
try to get the hedge quickly. The second year after planting — 
my in June — cut the sides of the hedge to the shape you wiah, 
. ^ The conical is best as offering most resist- 

<* tt^2^ ance to the action of snow, (A). B is more 

4^ Cv ^3y common, and poorer. The third year, cat bade 
>Sy-3 » ^ F enough to ensure a good hedge. If it is 6 feet 
high at tiie end of 5 years, you do welL And 
if it reaches 6 feet by slow growth, it will turn a mad bull. 

Buckthorn and other hedges are made and managed much in 
the same way. 

In some respects Buckthorn is the best hedge plant It grows 
rapidly, is perfectly hardy and uninjured by any insect Haw- 
thorn, the common English hedge, is not well adapted to oor cli- 
nuite, and is also liable to be attacked and destroyed by borers. 
Other varieties of the Crategus, Cockspur Thorn, Crusgalli, and 
Cocinnea for instance, are better for our general use. Every por* 
tion of our country has thorns admirably adapted for the purpose. 

Privet makes a beautiful hedge. It never grows large but is 
perfectly hardy and almost evergreen. When a few years old it 
will, if well managed, both blossom and bear berries, and hold its 
leaves till December. 

Hornbeam, Beech,. Boses, Cat Briar, and many other plants, are 
used for the same purpose. 

Cat Briar (Smilax rotundifolia), makes a capital hedge for dis- 
puted boundaries, edges of ponds, brooks, etc. ; grows fast, needs 
no pruning, and in a few years presents a perfectly impervious 
fence to men and animals, while it is a favorite haunt for birds. The 
easiest way is to set bushes, dead or alive along the line, and plant 
among them either the roots or the seeds of Cat Briar. Plenty of 
roots may be got from a Cat Briar thicket, and each joint will 
grow. A few years will turn your bushes to an unequalled hedge. 
Keep the roots well cut back, as they spread badly. 

All these deciduous hedges may be started in three ways. 1st, 



ORNAJfEKTAL GROUNDS. -769 

from plants set in a $ingle line, 6 to 48 inches apart, according to 
the size reached hj the full grown plants ; 2nd. from plants in a 
double line, the lines 1 foot apart, the plants in them alternating, 
not opposite each other, 6 to 48 inches apart ; drd, from seecU. 
Draw a line down the middle of a trench and drop the seeds along 
it, two or three in a place at the same distance apart as the plants ; 
or a single berry may take the place of the 2 or 3 seeds. Plant 
in the fall to get the benefit of the frost ; cover one-half to one 
inch deep. They will generally make their appearance during the 
next summer ; keep clear of weeds. Under either method the soil 
should be well trenched, and the hedges be cut back like the Osage 
Orange, and carefully pruned in July and August of each year. 
They then commonly make two growths, the second of which- re- 
stores roundness and smoothness to the clipped surface. 

Evergreens make beautiful hedges, and where a fence would be 
used as a screen, they are the best plants to take its place, afford- 
ing as they do shelter both in winter and summer, and being more 
beautiful than ordinary deciduous hedges. Arbor Vitse, Hemlock, 
Red Cedar, Norway Spruce, are the common evergreen hedges. 
The American Arbor Vitas makes the quickest growing and stout- 
est hedge, and is liable to but few accidents. At times a single 
plant dies from cold or heat, or disease, but as a class they are safe 
and hardy. In 8 or 10 years they make a hedge 6 to 8 feet high 
a perfect screen from wind and observation. Set the plants from 
18 to 36 inches apart, according to size. Prune once a year into 
the desired shape. The best time for pruning is just before they 
make the new growth which will cover all signs of the shears. 
The Siberian and the Chinese Arbor Yitxe are smaller than the 
American and rather more beautiful. They make excellent di- 
vision fences for flower garden and shrubbery, and never attain the 
height of the American. Treat like the American. 

Norway Spruce makes a stout, quick-growing, impenetrable 
hedge ; plant 2 or 3 feet apart, and prune frequently. They may 
be allowed to grow 10 to 15 feet high and wide in proportion. 
Probably no better high hedge is known. 

The Bed Cedar mBkes a very pretty hedge ; plant 2 feet apart 
65 



770. AVQVBT. 

But when used as a hedge plant it is liable to be winter4ulled and 
to die from other causes and is never stout enough to resist cattle. 

The Hemlock makes the most beaiUiftd hedge that I am ac- 
quainted with ; its delicate spraj and foliage are always loTefy, 
particularlj when making their new growth, when the light green 
tips seem like thousands of blossoms bespangling the hedge. Of 
its appearance when gemmed with rain drops I have alreadj 
spoken. Plant and treat like the Red Cedar. 

Many other plants are used for hedges. A beautiful effect maj 
be got with Pyrus Japonica ; a hedge composed entirely of it 
seems like a line of fire when in blossom ; combined with Hem- 
lock or Arbor Vitas it is still finer, the evergreens presenting a 
beautiful contrast to the flowers. 

Roses, Altheas, Barberries, Guelder Rose or Snow Ball are all 
good for this purpose; The Black Alder is particularly fine with 
its lively scarlet berries in winter, but not so good for fences or 
screens as the preceeding, which are hardy and easily managed. 
Care will make a good hedge of almost any plant, and those best 
adapted to the purpose depend greatly on the gardener's attention. 
All hedges need deep rich soil, and regular care in digging, ma- 
nuring and pruning. 

The varieties of hedge are so many, and they are so differently 
treated in different regions, that it is useless to attempt a minnte 
discription of each. When they grow old and die out badly at the 
bottom, they may be renewed by cutting them down within a few 
inches of the ground ; the strength of the old roots will enable 
them to make a strong growth in a single season. Manage them 
afterwards like a new hedge. When a single bush in the hedge 
dies, remove it and set a new plant in its place ; weave into the 
space above the new plant plashings of old thorn branches, to fill 
the gap till the plant grows to the level of the hedge. Or, in such 
a case, you may introduce the seeds or young plants of Smilaz. 

The usual mistake in managing hedges is to stint manure and neg- 
lect pruning. It is folly to neglect pruning in the hope of getting 
a large hedge sooner. To be a perfect fence a hedge must be thick 
at the bottom, and this can only be the case with one which is eat 
back closely when young, and thus forced to throw out an abun- 



ORNAMENTAL OROT7ND8. 771 

dance of low branches. And by after-pruning to the shape I have 
advised y the hedge may be made to keep itself thick below ; but 
the hedge which is widest above shades and kills out the lower 
branches. 

To allow some of the plants or trees to grow up above the hedge 
at regular intervals, is bad practice. The stronger growing tree 
saps the ground, and robs the roots of the hedge near it, beside 
killing it with its shade. It is robbing Peter to pay Paul. 

Woodland. — I have tried to block out rudely the rules for 
planting trees so as to produce good effects, but have not yet con- 
sidered wood as a crop. No better cultivation can be applied to 
much of our waste land than to cover it with wood. I have men- 
tioned that waste, sterile land, abandoned to the growth of wood, is 
fertilized by the annual deposit of leaves, until we may not only 
cut a large amount of wood, but have lefl after it land that may be 
cultivated with profit. 

In all parts of our country there are towns like Duxbury, in 
Plymouth County, Mass., whose soil naturally light and sandy, has 
been exhausted by long culture, till it has become reaUy barren. 
A very small outlay would make this land the source of large 
profit. In midsummer it should be ploughed, or even harrowed, 
and sown with the seeds of White Birch, Poplar, White and Yel- 
low Pines, American and Scotch Larch, Scotch Pine, some acorns 
of the White and Red Oaks. This seed should be sown very 
thickly, as much of it will be eaten by birds and insects. Then 
harrow again, and roll, if the surface admits of a roller. During 
the next spring much of this seed will germinate, and for several 
years afterwards new plants will appear. Growth will be slow at 
first, but will increase as the young trees shade and fertilize the 
ground. Rev. Morrill Allen, of Pembroke, Mass., recommends us 
to cut back the seedlings, especially of Oak, during their first or 
second year, in order to strengthen the roots. The trees will soon 
cover the ground, too thickly if the seed germinates freely ; thin 
and prune according to the growth, paying the cost by so doing. 
After four or five years of little apparent progress, the young plan- 
tation will grow rapidly, and in 20 years it will give 20 cords to 



778 AUGUST. 

the acre, worth not less than $2 per cord — $40. And if cot ^ 
that time, it will leave the land in good heart 

If lefl longer, the wood will rapidly increase in value, at the an- 
Doal rate of six per cent of its value, according to reliable experi- 
ments in measuring the relative growth and expansion ef muxj 
trees. If left for 40 years, this land will not only yield 40 cords of 
wood to the acre, but will have paid during the time a fair interest 
in thinnings, fence-poles, etc 

Not an acre of land in this Commonwealth is too poor to be tbns 
improved. Of course every acre cannot be made of the best qual- 
ity, but every acre can be improved. 

The above method of planting costs less at first than any other, 
but is not the best or surest The best way would be to plough 
thoroughly with a Michigan plough, and sow the seed in a drill in 
rows 3 or 4 feet apart, with 300 pounds guano, superphosphate, tx 
similar material, to the acre, to hasten the young growth. 

The lands we speak of are dry and sandy, and are burned by 
the summer suns. The trees give some shade, even in their earliest 
years, and more as they increase, until they materially diminish 
evaporation. Their leaves enrich the surface ; their roots draw up 
f(X)d from the subsoil, and entirely change the character of the soil 
A liberal supply of kelp and muck at starting will make the growth 
more sure and rapid. 

It is not absolutely necessary that any attention should be paid 
to such plantations for 40 years ; but in that case the growth will 
be much slower and tiie yield less, for the trees crowd each other, 
and there are too many mouths for the food. Gradually the weaker 
trees, and the lower branches of the stronger, die. Trees stretch 
their boughs eagerly to the air, and never grow freely when they are 
deprived of sunlight. The proper method is to thin and prune an- 
nually aAer the fifth year. The weaker plants and the lower 
branches of the stronger should be removed ; the amount of thin- 
ning must depend on the rapidity 6f growth and other circum- 
stances, only to be met by the judgment of the forester. Cut at first 
every third or fourth tree, afterwards those which do not thrive or are 
over-crowded ; but remember that all trees have not the same rate 
of growth. Poplar, Birch, and Larch grow much faster than Oak 



ORNAHENTAL GROUNDS. 778 

and Pine ; the Pine quicker than the Oak and yet (he slow-growing 
trees will in the end prove most valuable. It should be our aim to 
remove first the quicker-growing and less valuable trees, and re- 
tain the Oaks and Pines as the permanent plantation. The cost 
of preparing and planting need not be more than $5 to $8 per 
acre, and the expense of cultivation will be paid by the thinnings. 
The profit will come in the last years of the operation, and will 
be 20 to 40 per cent on the whole undertaking. There will be an 
additional gain in the improved appearance of the neighborhood. 

This thinning is an essential part of the proper treatment of all 
wood-lots. Farmers who cut all the wood from a lot, regardless 
of size or quality, whether for use or sale, are managing as ill as 
can be imagined. They might thin in such a way as to get a large 
yearly profit, and yet get more for the remaining wood than for all 
which they now cut off at once. 

Suppose an acre to be covered with 500 trees of 30 yean 
growth, standing 10 feet apart, both hard and sofl, of slow and of 
quick growth. If all are cut at once the wood will not be first- 
rate for fuel, as it is mixed. If we cut out 250 trees judiciously, 
remembering that a sofl-wooded, quick-growing tree impoverishes 
as much soil as the best varieties, we retain 250 trees of the best 
quality. Next year these will have twice as much light and air 
as they had before, and almost twice as much earth to feed in ; — 
not quite twice as much, because the stumps of the trees felled 
will throw up suckers which need some food. The natural increase 
of unthinned wood is 6 per cent ; of wood well thinned 20 per 
cent, but we will call it 15. Next year we can cut 15 per cent of 
the remaining trees, (37 trees,) as a clear profit, getting the value 
of 537 trees for the 500 originally standing on the acre, and in the 
same ratio in after years. Continue thus till all are cut, when the 
saplings of the first cuttings will have become quite large trees. 
In this way a farmer may make his wood lot perennial, both for 
fuel and beauty, and the eye would not be offended each spring by 
the sight of thin, bare fields, where were beautifuKgroves the year 
before. One of the most forbidding and desolate features about 
our country towns is the mark of this yearly devastation which is 

65* 



774 AUGUST. 

quite unnecessary. By thinning properly you ** have your cake 
and eat it too." By cutting clean, you "eat cow and calf together." 

It is strange to see men leaving their country homes to perpet- 
ual sterility, and gathering wealth in cities to be lost in bad 
investments or invested at low rates of interest, when by trans- 
forming their native plains and pastures into woods, they might 
beautify their birthplace, make it the pride of the country, and at 
the same time invest their capital at the best of rates. 

A secondary profit will arise from such a course ; every year 
we see men of wealth leaving the cities in summer to buy houses 
in the country ; however wrapt in money making, they are not in- 
sensible to rural beauty. Country towns properly improved wiH 
become exceedingly attractive ; their lanes and by-ways through 
woods and along water courses, will make drives of uncommon 
beauty ; the places will draw summer residents whose money will 
give employment to many persons, and contribute to the permanent 
enrichment of the little community. The more the number of such 
persons who visit a town, the more land increases in value. 

I have heard the past and present inhabitants of decayed and 
sterile towns bemoaning the departed glories of their birthplace, and 
contriving means for rostoring that glory. They would foster man- 
ufacturies for which the people have no taste, or the place affords 
no facilities ; they would build ships for which there is neither 
sale nor use ; would start banks without depositors, miUs with- 
out com whilst they leave untried the readiest means to enrich 
themselves, the soil, and the town. 

The woodland shown on the ground plan of our place is vari- 
ously planted, and divided into evergreens, deciduous trees, shrubs, 
arboretum, and general planting, as shown by color and index. It 
lies mostly about the pond and entrance, and at the foot of the 
lawn. Our house stands on rising land, with comparatively ftw 
trees about it The treatment proper for the home in the matter 
of trees and woods, varies with the character of the estate and 
neighborhood. If it is in the skirts of a town or on a little estate^ 
set it amortg trees if possible, for the sake of privacy, contrast and 
shelter. If it is in the country or on a large place, set it out of the 
woods and group trees about it for belter effect, as a relief to the 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 775 

house, and to give shade at those hours of the daj when it is most 
grateful. Here we want contrast with the surrounding country, 
we want to look out over the landscape and give free entrance to 
sun and air. There should be woods so near that ^e can easily 
walk to them ; but we do not care to live in them, and being at a 
little distance thej become an attractive and a pleasant termination 
to our walks. 

In this way they not only add to the general beauty of the es- 
tate, but give us a point to walk to, an object of interest for 
strangers to visit I repeat that the location of the house is a 
very nice matter, and in deciding it, the peculiarities of the place, 
the neighborhood, and the proprietor, must be taken into consid* 
eration. 

When woods border on water, as ours do, there is a vast increase 
of beauty. Their sliadows and reflections often make us doubt 
whether the real wood above or the mimic wood below is the most 
beautiful 

Water. — Perhaps the most difficult, certainly the most often 
ill-managed part of the arrangement of ornamental grounds is the 
ornamental water, whether artificial or natural. No subject con- 
nected with landscape gardening has been so often and so lengthily 
discussed, and none is less understood. Among the contradictory 
theories and rules, each person is compelled to block out his own 
course. 

The pleasure which the sight of water gives is natural, and the 
wonder is not that the fondness for it is so general, but that it has 
not a stronger influence. In its simplest forms water has a mar- 
vellous individual beauty. Even the closest, most every day and 
prosaic familiarity^ with it, cannot deprive it of its charm as the 
most lovely and bewitching of fluids, even when it stands in or falls 
from a single glass vesseL Its spontaneous motion, in the foun- 
tain, the stream, the rising tide, makes it still more fascinating. 

When to its inherent beauty is added the grace and life of mo- 
tion with all the resulting music, it becomes the principal charm of 
whatever spot it inhabits. 



776 AUGUST. 

Its treacment in ornamental grounds depends on the forms in 
which it appears, and for convenience let us divide these into foon- 
tains, still water, and running water. 

It may be either a primary or a secondary object. Secoodarj, 
when it is used to heighten the general beauty of the place, as 
when we own, perlmps enclose, a pond, brook, or fountain. Pri- 
mary, when it determines the treatment of the rest of the place, as 
when we bound on a river, a lake, the ocean, or liave a waieifiill 
on our grounds or in full view. In such cases the grounds are to 
be used to enhance the beauty of the water, and so &r as we may, 
to bring it into our presence. If it be the ocean that we boimd 
upon, we should open our plantations in one pLice so as to draw in 
as much as possible of the ocean view, and thicken them in an- 
other, where we approach our neighbor's, that we may shut oat all 
that speaks of narrow boundaries, and is out of keeping with the 
illimitable. Our improvements must be adapted to the character 
of the shore. Whei-e that is low sand beach, and our land is level 
our plantations must aim to give broad views of the ocean, and 
shut out all that is disagreeable. Our lawn should slope and un- 
dulate gracefully to the shore, so that the repose of lawn and 
beach may harmonize with the summer peace, or contrast with the 
winter rage of the sea. So, too, on the edge of lake or river. 

Men value most things in proportion to their rarity, and to the 
amount of their own ownersliip in them. Distinct from all mean- 
ness or selfishness, there is an inexpressible pleasure in owning a 
beautiful thing. We feel ourselves nobler and better by the beanty 
we have, and are sure that we are enriching friends and visitors 
when we show it. Much as I love fine views of the ocean under 
any circumstances, I would choose that sea-shore residence which, 
being on a promontory, or on the side of a bay, seems to give a 
kind of proprietorship in the ocean. Our aim,* then, must be to 
increase the appearance of embracement. Good planting will serve 
to carry our land into the water and bring the water into the land. 

As we leave the trees and lawn and come to the shore, the ques- 
tion arises, what shall be done with the water boundary. Let one 
rule never be forgotten : preserve or restore the original character 
of the shore. If it is a sand beach, no matter how great the in- 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 777 

roads upon jour lawn made at times by the swelling surf, never 
bound yourself by a wall. If a stone boundary is necessary, give 
a sloping, broken shore of shingle (loose stones of all sizes), never 
shutting or walling out river, lake, or ocean. Here pre-eminently 
the true art is to conceal art Nothing is more repulsive than a 
fortified shore. I admit that it is not pleasant to have one's lawn 
washed away, or one's trees undermined ; but neither is necessary. 
Follow your sand shore along and you will come to some place 
where the sand is replaced by shingle. This shingle has assumed 
some definite and permanent slope from the water's edge to the 
land above, or to the top of a ridge, which is not deranged by the 
action of the waves. Here is your lesson. Begin at your imper- 
rilled boundary and fill out with shingle, lai^ rocks at first, and 
smaller beyond, at the same slope far enough to protect you. Do 
not attempt to make a perfect work at first, or to lay a pavement ; 
throw the stones loosely into the general shape you wish them to 
take, and leave them to the action of a winter's surf. Before spring 
the waves will pack them into the best possible shape. 

If you wish to change the water boundary by dicing bays or 
carrying out a mole or promontory, g5 and see how nature does iL 
You can find some place like the proposed improvement 

Perhaps, however, you have to deal with a piece of marshy, 
»e<Jgy> low land, repulsively muddy. Make no wall or gravel bank, 
unless they can be so skilfully made and screened that the change 
between the natural and artificial will be imperceptible ; dry your 
immediate shore by underdrains ; plant the outer edge with such 
trees and shrubs as like brackish waters. The Button Ball, Beach 
Plum, some kinds of Vaccinium, Cornel, Bearberry, Wild Rose, 
Ivy, Woodbine, Cat Briar will combine to fringe the marsh. 
Amongst them, and on the shoreward side, plant the Golden Bod 
and some of the Asters. Near and among the shrubs set Tupelo, 
Sassafras, Red Cedar, some of the Oaks, and, as you come farther 
in, any tree or shrub. This fringe will shut out disagreeable 
Bights, and join your place to the marsh and sea gracefully and 
naturally, and its roots will soon make a fence able to resist the 
slowly moving tides of the marshes. 

But perhaps your shore is bold and rocky, like those of Nahant, 



778 ▲UOU8T. 

Gloucester, Cohasset, Newport, Then remember that these sbora 
are the most wonderful and awful of Nature's works ; thej are the 
solid, impregnable fortress set up by her as the limit of old ooeaii's 
power. They are rugged, massive, sublime ; in them there is no 
debatable ground between the beautiftU, the picturesque, and the 
sublime. The view from them may be beautiful ; their oombined 
effect may be picturesque ; but in themselves they are sublime. 
The hottest, roost enervating summer day never tames them. We 
may sleep on them, hunt through their crevices for seaweeds and 
shell*iish, visit them daily, but we never venture on &miliarities. 
They may be as calm to look at as the war4iattered cannon in an 
arsenal ; but as it is only necessary with the cannon to look into 
its throat, or glance at the truck splintered by hostile balls, to feel 
that it is a terrible thing, which one may indeed walk about and 
examine, but only with hat in hand, and a mood of awe and rever- 
ence ; — so with these glorious rocks. Theur wonders of science, 
their beautiful fringes of algse, their delicate and graceful iBhabi- 
tant£>, the rattle of the shingle upon them as the tide rises and &II3, 
their rich deep color, may instruct, delight, and soothe ; but the in- 
stant rejection and destnictidh of the tiny waves of summer tell 
us, by the spray borne to our faces in refreshing shower?, of the 
awful battles which are fought there in winter storms, when the 
thick gray mists bang low over the leaden sea, when the war-blasts 
of the gale howl and sweep round them, when the blinding rain, 
and the terrible, the seemingly, irresistible waves are alike reduced 
to the finest spray the instant they strike the solid shore. We can- 
not be for a moment on such a shore without feeling that it is the 
field of a never-ending battle. The water-worn pebbles, the holes 
indented into the rocks by the blows of monster mallets, the frag- 
ments of wrecks strown about, all keep the mind subdued and 
awed. 

Stand on the rocks at Newport, towering above the sea, where is 
dashed the whole weight of the Atlantic waves, swelling on from 
Spain to New England, with a roar and rattle that would dron-n 
the loudest artillery, and dare to devise plans for their improve- 
ment ! It seems incredible that a man should be found brazen 
enough to talk about laying out and improving such a spot Tis 



ORNAHENTAX OBOUNDS. 779 

trae we might introduce a tufl of Golden Rod or Aster in some 
cleft, where, sheltered from storm-winds, the gold or gray would 
lend color and softness ; or we might fill a sheltered hollow with 
the wild Mountain Bearberrj, a plant that springs and thrives amid 
the battles of earth and sea; if soil and exposure allowed, we 
might plant Red Cedars 'to bend under the blasts, and, as along the 
Jenisalem road at Cohasset, stretch .their weird arms inland, as 
though sheltering the earth from the terrible sea ; we might set 
here and there the low-growing Juniper, or group in proper places 
snch deciduous evergreen trees as the genius of the place toler- 
ates ; but to do as has been done on that same Newport shore^ 
terrace the eaith banks, cut the rocks into carriage roads and arches, 
scoop out and plant beds of flowers, the ladies of the garden, in the 
hollow of rocks, from whose bald heads the salt gales have swept 
away every vestige of grass, and whose only covering against the 
elements is their grizzled beard of sea-weed, is too monstrous and 
sacriligious to be the work of any one who dares even mention the 
word taste in his dreams. It is a sad mockery as a carouse in a 
graveyard ; it is sacrilege in the eyes of every reverential lover 
of the beautiful. But it has been done even on the glorious New- 
port shore ; one of the most sublime parts of the coast has been 
converted, by years of labor, and thousands of dollars, into a bur- 
lesque on nature. 

Whoever is about to arrange grounds bounding on large bodies 
of water, should give long and careful study to the original charac- 
ter of the surface and the landscape, and should endeavor to ap- 
preciate its peculiar spirit. When really beautiful landscape sur- 
rounds an estate, it is rare that improvements can be happily made 
which are of a different style of beauty, as where the general tone 
is beautiful, we can with difficulty make our own place decidedly 
picturesque ; nor among sublime scenery should we attempt to 
make a place beautiful. I am aware that my use of these descrip- 
tive words is somewhat arbitrary, and it must of necessity be so. 
Burke, in defining the difference between the sublime and the 
beautiful, has left no intermediate gix)und for the picturesque. He 
calls all objects sublime which are capable, directly or indirectly, 
of awakening emotions of terror, however slight in degree ; oth^ 



780 ▲uousT. 

and pleasing objects he calls heaytiful^ or rather other objects cap»> 
ble of arousing emotions of taste. I hare no idea of entering the 
lists against Burke and his school, but will state in what sense I uae 
the terms sublime, beautiful, and picturesque. 

The sublime in nature or art is that which can, directly or indi- 
rectly, awaken awe. I do not say terror, as that is an active 
emotion. Niagara, the Alps^ volcanoes, glaciers, the ocean, a thun- 
der-storm, a gale at sea, a tornado, are sublime. In them we must 
recognize a power which has overthrown or can overthrow man 
and his devices. They are the active manifestations or the evident 
results of a divine power. Eveiy line in them combines to inspire 
these sentiments. 

The beautiful may accompany the sublime, or even be a part of 
it^ as where the quiet lake or valley is found among rugged moun- 
tains. The gentle flash of the waves along a sea-beach in summer, 
the clianipagne country, all of whose lines are smooth and easy, 
where hill, water, and wood blend easily and harmoniously, are in- 
stances of the beautiful. It has no abrupt contrasts, no startling 
combinations ; *^ the line of beauty^ prevails ; curves predominate ; 
in the prominent features no sharp angles appear ; the trees are 
rounded and full, as Oak, Ash, Elm, White Pine. 

The picturesque is the ruuU of the sublime. The lightning is 
sublime, as it cleaves its way earthward through the black bosom 
of the thunder-cloud, and strikes and blasts some noble tree in a 
moment. The blasted tree remains a picturesque monument of 
the tempest The noble ship, borne helpless with her precious 
freight of life, adds a fearful interest to the sublimity of the gale 
which sweeps her on to the rock-bound coast, but becomes picturetque 
when weeks or montlis afterwards she lies on the shore, with tat- 
tered sails and loose ropes flapping in the breeze, and broken ribs 
and planks, forcing the image of the skeleton of a sea monster on 
our imagination. Time smooths into picturesqueness the fearful 
traces of the avalanche ; as it gives the beautiful the courage to 
creep up to and twine about the feet of the sublime, the place of 
meeting receives something from each, and the result is the pic- 
turesque. The curves of the beautiful are there mingled with the 
straight lines and sharp angles of the sublime. Harmonious con- 



780 



AnoTT«T. 



! : t. U .- 



/ ■ < .r O' I: ... . f 
'i ' i .<• 

I : . . : 



' x I 



J V 



"I* 



J . ... „ .. V. : 



I • t ■ 



n 

99 

O 













ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 781 

trast is the leading feature of this scenery. Throagh the light, 
sweet music of the beautiful we hear the deep bass of the sublime, 
ever true to the harmony. 

Among trees the Norway Spruce, Hemlock, Larch, Tupelo, are 
picturesque. 

Afler this explanation, the i^eader cannot fail to understand 
though he may not approve, my use of the terms in question. 

To resume ; the landscape gardener must appreciate the kind 
of beauty which surrounds any place, on which he is to exercise 
his art, and must work in harmony with it. • Though contrast is 
the life of rural improvements, it can only be pursued with success 
within certain limits, a knowledge of which is essential to the ar- 
tist. For instance : in an estate some miles in extent, situated in a 
decidedly beatUiftd country, picturesqueness may be gained by in- 
troducing so many trees and other objects of a picturesque char- 
acter and by so altering the surface and water as to afibrd a marked 
contrast to the general landscape ; but no conceivable amount of 
art can make any portion of the estate sublime. 

In comparison with the sublime, the picturesque and the beau- 
tiful are as quarried stones to the everlasting hills. We may 
do what we will with the stones, may construct what we please ; 
our edifice and masonry may strain the limits of human skill; but 
in comparison with Nature's works they are mere trifles. We may 
create the beautiful, may carry it toward the sublime till it becomes 
picturesque ; but then our limit is reached. Unless it be thought 
that the magnificent is a step farther, when a skilful addition of 
objects stately but more artificial, as fountains, architecture, broad 
and brilliant masses of color, gives our estate the character in 
question. 

Of the way in which a home situated at the foot of a mountain, 
on the sea-shore, at the head-waters of a river, or in the gorges cut 
by it — in short among sublime scenery — may be made pictur- 
esque by the tasteful use of the beautiful, I know no better instance 
than the place of Mr. H. W. Sargent, on the Hudson river, oppo- 
site Newburg. The river has just come out of the Highlands, and 
with the forest-clad mountains makes a scene truly sublime. On 
the home-side of the estate, the landscape gardener has most skil- 
66 



782 AUGUST. 

fullj introdaoed the beautiful On the opposite page is a 
taken from these grounds. So well is that which was under 
control adapted to that which was beyond it ; so well is the land- 
scape drawn into the place, that the whole seems at times purelj 
beautiful. 

Another instance of proper adaptation of improvements to tlie 
prevailing tone of surrounding country is given in the view of the 
Fisher Place near Philadelphia. All the scenery of the neighbor- 
hood is beautiful, and with this the grounds are so in harmony 
as to greatly enhance both their own effect and that of the sur- 
roundings. 

The house and grounds of Washington Irving, give another 
instance of judicious and pleasant contrast This quaint old 
Dutch house with fantastic gables and wild draping of most luxu- 
riant vines is very picturesque from the home-side. Taken in 
connection with the wild country lane that leads to it, the rude 
entrance, the banks covered with shrubs and wild vines, it is as 
picturesque as any specimen of landscape gardening to be seen in 
this country. Yet things outside the place, the Hudson with low 
banks and broad bosom, the far-off mountains, are beautiful rather 
than sublime. 

There are several other views in different parts of the bo<^ 
which illustrate the opinions thus briefly stated, and which tell their 
own story. 

Ponds and Brooks. — Let us now turn to the consideration 
of bodies of water, which are wholly or partially under the con- 
trol of the proprietor of the estate. The water may be artificial 
or natural, in the form of brook, pond, or fountain. In the two 
former cases it may be on so large a scale as to be worthy the 
name of river or lake ; the latter like the gigantic fountains at 
Versailles, or the jet on Boston Common, may throw so large an 
amount of water that the cause is lost in the effect ; but whether 
large or small the same principles apply to them. 

When water is artificial, one of two things should be decidecDj 
done ; either the art should be carefully concealed and converted 
into a semblance of nature, or it should be made so prominent as 



* ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 783 

to draw attention both to the beauty of the material and the skill of 
the workman. For skill is a thing by no means to be lost sight of 
in a beautiful work. Though it be the highest art to conceal art, 
the second place should be assigned to that which teaches impres- 
sively that man is the greatest of God's works, and that to him it 
is granted in many 'cases to increase the beauty of the minor 
things which are put under his control by their Maker. Evi- 
dently these two degrees of art have entirely different spheres for 
their exercise. 

The pond, or stream which skirts a lawn, gleams in a wood, 
leaps down a hill ; the water which gushes from a ledge of rocks 
by man's contrivance, can hardly be satisfactory unless they seem 
in place, unless they combine naturally with all about them, earth, 
grass or trees. Naturalness is a primary and essential element in 
their excellence ; but in fountains, fish ponds, aquariums, which 
stand in flower-gardens or on esplanades and terraces, naturalness 
is quite a secondary matter. We know instinctively that the pres- 
ence of water under such circumstances is due to art alone ; and 
accordingly the art should be made prominent ; it lends to the 
effect rather than detracts from it. We may build the pedestal 
of our fountain of mossy rocks, in imitation of sylvan grottoes or 
mountain springs, and may, perhaps, thus increase its beauty, — 
not because we believe that the arrangement is the work of nature, 
but because we admire the art which could present so charming a 
^ing as water in such a way as to add the agreeable association of 
woods and mountains, mosses and ferns. 

Or take an instance on a larger scale. Occasionally we meet 
with a natural and perennial stream of moderate size, winding 
through a hilly country. It may be wise to execute an idea sug- 
gested by the precipitous hill-sides, or by our preference for the 
grand effects of a mountain, lake, or tarn, over the attractions of 
any ordinary mountain brook (where the soil is of too poor quality 
to deter us on economical grounds) ; and to dam the stream and 
flood its waters back till they form such a pond as we like. The 
first step is to ascertain at what point the hills approach each other 
enough to allow a dam to be built with most economy and the best 
effect. Do not imagine me to mean least cast by economy; I mean 



784 ▲UOC8T. 

to the hut advantage, and may as well eaj here that cheap water 
works are a plague to an estate and its owner ; if yon attempt to 
deal with the subtle and insinuating element, remember that baH^ 
way work is ruinous, and that the cheapest work is that which is 
most thorough from its first general conception to the last detail of 
execution. To return ; by foUowing the valley along, we may 
find a point where the approaching hills will permit a dam to be 
made easily, and this is the point at which to pause and decide 
whether to give the dam a natural or an artificial appearance. lo 
both cases the woric must be equally well done. 

First examine the valley and the views of it, as seen by the 
imagination, filled with water, which may be got from different 
points. Consider these views carefully. Though it be sometimes 
well to make ponds for boating, bathing, fish culture, and yet more 
for the beauty they reveal to us when on their shore or their sur- 
face, the wonderful variety of light and shade, the shadows sleep- 
ing in their depths, still in most cases these considerations are not 
the main inducement to make the dam. The views of the water 
which may be got from the windows of the house and from differ- 
ent points on the ground, the general beauty at a distance, are of 
equal importance with the nearer attractions. Consider the pro- 
posed water from all these points. If you examine faithfully, yoa 
will perhaps see that by cutting down or raising a small hill, by 
breaking a ravine through a ridge, eradicating or creating a wood, 
you may give your pond much greater charms. Pause now and 
inquire whether you are able not only to make the pond, but to 
reconstruct the landscape. There no art must appear. In dealmg 
with the water and earth works it may be allowed to show itself; 
in the other changes, never. Study the soil ; make the acquaint- 
ance not only of the trees and shrubs, but of the wild flowers, of 
the grasses even, which grow there, and must be reproduced if 
you remove them. 

Having assured yourself that you can do this, take levels from 
the bed of the brook up the sides of the valley, along the hills, 
into the meadows ; try the difi*erent heights. If your dam is 15 
feet high, the pond will stretch along here and there ; 5 feet more 
would give a beautiful bay or inlet, winding river-like behind the 



ORNAMENTAL GB0UND8. 785 

hill or wood, or through yonder valley, or would bring the sheet 
up to the view from this or that distant point. Another rise w^ould 
connect it with another pond or stream. Try all these things. 
Then return to the dam. To make the pond with a dam of 10 
feet, will cost a certain sum. The earth-work must be of sufficient 
strength and slope to bear the pressure of 620 pounds to the square 
foot at the base. 5 feet more in height involves an additional pres- 
sure of 310 pounds to the square foot, and consequently much more 
solid embankments, at a cori*espondipg increase of cost These 
£Bicts should be carefully ascertained and estimated by a competent 
engineer, and what matter if his bill swells the expense by one or 
two hundred dollars, if thereby the value of the improvements is 
increased many fold, or the cost being thoroughly ascertained, the 
decision can be understandingly made whether the work shall be 
undertaken or abandoned ? 

You have now settled the question of where, how high, and how 
solid the dam is to be. 

The resistance of water is overcome by giving the dam a slope 
on the inside and out. A dam with a perpendicular wall of ma- 
sonry a, necessitates either an 
increase in the size of the 
earth-work 5, or that the ma- , 
sonry should be very heavy f=^ 
and costly. A much more ^^ 
secure and less costly method, 
is to make the whole dam of earth, as in the cut B. 

But before you can settle the question of the material to be used 
in the dam, you must decide what kind of fall or outlet the water 
is to have. The waste-way or fall may be made to suit the fancy 
and the supply of water. Under the lowest part of the dam there 
must be a flume to discharge, by which the pond can be drained at 
any time. This question of the waste-way or fall, brings us back 
to the consideration of the size of the pond. 

Evaporation is nearly constant from every sheet of water. A 
stream which winds through a bog and along a cold shaded bed 
through the whole year, screened from evaporation under sun or 
wind, and maintaining a steady though small stream, may, if con- 

66* 




786 AUGUST. 

▼erted into a pond, be unable to do more in samnier than fiupplj 
evaporation. Thus we are compelied to take into coosiderataon 
the amount of evaporation which our pond can support without 
shrinking into insigniBcance or unoomeliness. 

The rule is sometimes laid down that an artificial pond, ^hidi 
does not at least remain permanently full, is worthless. 

I do not agree. It is bj no means necessaiy that it should stag- 
nate when low, a misfortune not inseparable from a want of oat- 
flow, as appears in Jamaica Pond, a little lake of some three mOes 
circuit, near Boston, which has no visible inlet and outlet, and 
what is true of a large pond, holds, under similar circumstances, 
for small ponds. It is urged that the water line left on the stems of 
trees and shrubs along the shore of a pond low in summer drougbta, 
the rugged banks, the growth of sedge, etc, are unsightij and m- 
tolerable, and more than neutralize its beauty during the rest of 
the year. To argue the point would be to waste breath. What 
can be said to liim who will not admit that half a loaf is better 
than no bread ? It is true that the beauty of a full pond in sum- 
mer is very greatly increased by the coolness it imparts to the air, 
and by the pleasures of bathing and boating. But loven of na- 
ture know that the three hot months when ill-fed ponds shrink, are 
but one-quarter of the beautiful year. They know that sudi a 
pond in the early spring, when it reflects the tassels of the Alder, 
Hazel, and Birch, is decked with the floating flowers of Red 
Maple, and the keys of Maple and Ash, has a wonderful attrac- 
tion. They know, too, that never is it more beautiful than when 
it catches and returns intensified the purple and gold of Maple and 
Ash, or is abUze with the October fire of the Oaks and Walnuts. 
They know that in winter its outlet will be a mystery of icy stalac- 
tites, that the ndes of the waterfall will be fluted with frozen organ 
pipes, whence the music of the brook below seems to flow. They 
know that in stinging mornings the warm breath of the brook will 
rise through the bitter air, and be caught and held in laoework by 
every twig and branch, till the silver wood rivals the summer 
glories. 

They, like me, think half a loaf better than no bread, and we 
agree to tnake a pond, though it be full only half the year. When 



ORNAMENTAL ^ GROUNDS. 787 

it is low, its edges, or even its bare bed, maj in a few weeks ex- 
hibit a new beauty. As the water shrinks, sow the moist margin 
with the seed of Canary Grass ; it will immediately germinate and 
keep th^ shore green all summer, and as it is pot aquatic, will dis- 
appear soon ader the water returns. But do not suppose that this 
is the only compensation with which the owner of a shrunken pond 
can console himself. To me the green covering is no more needed 
than are clothes on the naked limbs of the Greek slave. 

Having made the dam, raise the water to mark the water line, 
and then draw it off. The same line may be marked by grade 
stakes, and the trouble of letting on and drawing off tlie water 
saved ; but in that case you fill the pond %vith imaginary water, 
and the impression lefl on the memory is not ^o vivid, and cer- 
tainly not so reliable, as by the real pond. Before you draw off 
the water, row over it in a boat, study every point and inlet If 
you are not familiar with the shores of any beautiful pond, find 
ones and study it You will then discover how little you know of 
the minute effects that the mossy rock, upturned stump, gnarled 
knuckles of the roots whose reflected beauty you so oilen admire 
are not absolutely and independently beautiful, but depend for 
their effect upon that which surrounds them, and wh^ you admire 
is not the individual, but the tout ensemble ; they are a part of the 
whole construction of the place, and adorn it, and are as relative 
to it as the ribbons and laces are to a lady's dress. 

Let the pond be drawn off a few inches while still in your boat, 
and again study the shore fi-om the water side. First there are 
large stones, some bare, some covered with minute infusoria and 
larger algae. Among them spring Pontederia and Potamogeton, 
Sagittaria, Sedge and Bulrushes, then Grass and tufVs of bushes, 
Viburnum and Cornel, the Button Bush, Alder, £lder, Clethra, 
and Andromeda. Or the stones and pebbles retreat under an over- 
hanging bank, bound together by the roots of trees and shinibs. 
The gentle fingers of the wavelets have picked out the earth from 
between them, and the fibrous roots hang like a veil over the little 
cave within. Or the retreating water exposes the solid rock, 
which, as it hef^ts in the sun, will be alive with basking frogs and 
turtles. Or the roots of a gnarled old Oak project abruptly. In 



788 AX70U8T. 

another place the bank lowers up overhead, covered wiih ferns 
and low shrubs, rich with Violets, Hepaticas, Anemones, or gar 
from bottom to top with Cardinal Flower and Golden-rod ; and 
farther along, a strip of sand beach is left sloping slowly to the 
shore, to be lost in grass, or to open into a cattle track or roadway. 
Hither the cows will saunter lazily in the summer noon, and wad- 
ing knee deep, will stand through the hot hours, beating the flies 
from their sluggish sides with their wet tails. The irregular flap- 
ping, the measured chewing of the cud, the patient waiting, all so 
in keeping with the surroundings, have attracted the artists of suc- 
cessive generations, and moved them to hand down to posterity the 
sweet rural scene in pictures, which they hoped posterity would 
n^yer cease to love. 

Does not the study of this shore prove that the retreating wa- 
ters may add rather tlian remove something, and that for variety 
lui occasional subsidence is desirable. 

I cannot give minute directions for making your pond's edge ; it 
is a matter of feeling rather than of rule. £ach pond has its own 
character and should be treated accordingly. When you are at a 
loss what to do, I can only give you my former advice: hunt out a 
similar natural pond and catch its spirit. The countiy is full of 
beautiful ponds, of delb with pools in the bottom, where lessons 
unteachable in books may be learned. 

So, too, if you want islands. You know Nature makes them 
from a kind of necessity ; peninsulas are cut quite into islands ; 
on accumulations over snags aquatics start, shrubs take root ; and 
the resulting islets are among the greatest charms of the water. 
They may be the same in artificial water, may close or 
lengthen vistas, fill up openings that are too large, make bajs; 
they become the report of water fowl, and increase the number 
und variety of reflections. If you make your ponds as directed by 
damming a brook, you will probably produce islands unawares ; 
some parts of the valley being higher than the rest will be cut ofi* 
from the main land as the water flows back. 

By making the outline of the pond in this way you will get a 
variety and fitness beyond the reach of the most artistic designer, 
however elaborately he measures and levels, and thus made it will 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



789 



have double the beauty it could have, if made in the same place 
by line and rule. 

Where the shore of either pond or island is exposed to the wear- 
ing of a current, it may be fortified by stones, as directed for the 
searshore ; but never surround your water with a stone wall, unless 
necessity requires it The basin in a flower-garden may be stoned 
because it is a basin ; and for the reason that the pond in a lawn or 
woodland is no basin it should never be converted into a washbowl 
by a stone margin ; the outrage is almost as bad as terracing the 
seashore. 







THB FALLS OF BEAVBE BBOOK, AT BBLMOMT, MAM. 



790 AUGUST. 

But to the dam again ; to the oatlet, now that the extent of the 
pond is determined. Whatever oar original prejudice for or againM 
a regular or a broken fall, we must first consider the amount of 
water which will run over it during the months when it is fulL 

No words are needed to set forth the grandeur and beaatj' isif a 
singly unbroken sheet of water, when upon the scal^ of N^iagara, 
and even at the dam of a mill-pond there is no small charm in its 
regularitj and glitter. But I confess that where the supply is not 
verj large, there is to me no comparison betwen a well-brc^en fall 
and a regular sheet. The veiy mention of the two suggests the 
difference in the character of the dams. For the sheet there mii.<*t 
be an uninterrupted descent from the top to the bottom, which can 
be obtained only by a confessed wall of masonry, or by an abrupt 
ledge, real or artificial. If the ledge is available, and the sides of 
the valley narrow to the very fall, and is planted with appropriate 
trees and shrubs and ferns, the single sheet may be made very 
effective ; and when the stream is small and little or no water 
wastes, the solitude of the glen, the luxuriant vegetation, the femfi, 
lichens, and mosses, which will spring out of the crannies and 
crevices of the ledge, make an exquisite and impressive combina- 
tion. There is a pleasure in studjring the water-worn face of the 
ledge, and we can better realize how grand the fall is afler a thorough 
in^^pection of its parts. A fall of this kind seen through a veil of 
trees with its concentration of water toward the outlet, its noiseless 
glide over the brink, the hesitating of the little drops lefl on the 
outside by the greater weight within, the dashing, foaming plunge 
below, has a solemn beauty, which may well rouse the feeling that 
there is nothing more to desire in the way of a fall, — unless a well- 
managed broken fall can be seen near by. 

But if you decide lo have a sheet, try so to combine the stones 
in the masonry of the dam that they may resemble the ledges near 
by, particularly if these crop out in the hillsides which descend to- 
ward the pond. A little study of the peculiarities of such out- 
cropping ledges will teach you not only the intrinsic difference 
between different rocks, but how their characteristics can be im- 
itated, and how artificial rock-work can be pushed toward, or 
even up to them. 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 



7511 



Limestone, Slate, — indeed all the secondary rocks, — are de- 
cidedly laminated ; they lie in strata and according to the dip of 
the strata is the appearance of the outcrop. In the three varieties a 




b e, of such ledges we see how the treatment of a dam should vary, as 
it IS in the neighborhood of one or the other ; a is easily imitated^ 
as its stones lie in the position which masonry most commonly 
takes, and if the pieces of rock are well selected and the sides of 
the ravine well managed, the dam in a few years afler it is made 
will seem to inhabit the place. But in general these ledges are of 
varying softness, so that they break irregularly. The formation at 
Trenton Falb is of this character. In the interspaces there may 
be some long mosses and lichens, but rarely ferns or flowers, as the 
crannies offer no hold for the roots. For the same reason that a 
is good, b is bad for the single sheet ; and yet when exposed to the 
eye for a considerable portion of the year b and c, are the most 
agreeable forms of stratification, because their crevices offer abun- 
dant foothold to ferns, wild flowers and shrubs, and the glen which 
is faced by them will soon be wild, verdurous, aud a haunt for 
birds and lovers of nature. The perpendicular stratification c, 
breaks off on its outer laminations into irreg- 
ular heights, (see cut), and can be easily 
adorned. 

Another class of rocks, the primaries and 
i volcanics, of which our New England is largely 
composed (granites, sienites, porphyries, con- 
glomerates), lie in heavy solid masses dipping 
into the earth at various angles, but the strata 
being very thick, their outcrop seldom shows 
much stratification, is more oflen a bold smooth, 
water-worn surface, covered with some kind of 




792 AUGUST. 

lichenose vegetation, but rarelj giving much foodiold for planta. 
Among such formations the dam for the sin^e sheet must be made 
as solid as possible and of stones native to the place, showing as 
little mortar as may be^ trusting to the growth of trees and bushes 
near bj, and the water lichens etc., to cover their face. 

To whichever of these formations the dam is to be assimilaled, 
if the native ledges do not come near it, set large masses of rocks 
into the neigboring banks, in imitation of the peculiar natural 
ledge, in order to blend earth and dam more kindlj. 

Your dam must be made after the habit of the natural formation^ 
be jour preference what it may ; no other arrangement will har^ 
monize well with the landscape. It is among horizontal or obliqaely 
inclined strata of secondary n>cks that the abrupt fall obtains ; the 
water constantly wears upon and cuts them bock. Not so whh the 
hard rocks of the volcanic and primary formations ; they offer a 
resistance too solid to be much affected by the wear of an ordinary 
stream. The streams which find their way through these rocks is 
so obstinately met and turned back, that they woi^ hither and 
thither, and take advantage of every slope and inequality of the 
surface, finding it necessary to be guided by the original form of 
the stone instead of cutting their way through it ; and to me such 
falls are always the finest, because they are always active and in* 
teresting. In them a very small stream b turned, twisted, and tor* 
mented before it can escape ; at one point its impetuous rush is 
stopped by a projection of the rock ; its waters roar and foam as 
they are crowded back, they eddy and boil till they find an escape 
at a lower point, or until they gather volume enough to swell oyer, 
when away they go ! all foam and roar, to be again tortured and 
fretted. All is hurried beauty. Cries of pain at being dashed 
against hard rocks, and torn by sharp points, combine with thegiad 
laugh of triumph as the water at last esci^s and blends in the 
deep undertone of the current below, which has all the while been 
hastening on to its final leap. It is rich in variety ; bushes fringe 
and dip into it, and sway with wind and current ; trees root at the 
edge of eddies, where their seeds have been caught and whirled 
till they found a resting-place. In the winter each point is seixed 
by the frost as a fortress, whence it throws out bastions and breast- 



OBNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 793 

woiks of ice to stop the stream. The constant dashing sends np 
unexpectedly large volumes of spraj to clothe the trees. And 
when in summer the channel is nearly or quite dry, its '^ potholes," 
where stones have churned deep into the rock, its jagged points and 
polished surfaces, the little bushes and flowers which have clung 
tenaciously to the cracks, the flicker of light and shade make the 
bed of the fall almost as attractive as when full of water. 

A broken fall like this gives the largest amount of beauty possi* 
ble from a smaU supply of water, and will not generally be so ex- 
pensive to build as the other. The bulk of the dam can be of 
gravel and clay, much less expensive than masonry, and only so 
jnuch stone used as is necessary to receive and turn the water. 

The fall several times referred to, and of which a sketch is given 
on page 789, is a notable illustration of the points just insisted 
on. It is on Beaver Brook, Belmont, Mass. In a distance of 200 
feet it falls about 50 feet The outlet of the pond is over a com- 
mon mill-dam, 10 feet high, where it is caught in the jaws of a 
rocky ravine; the ravine narrows rapidly, and the compressed 
water foams and boils, but soon escapes ; running some 50 feet, 
among rocks and trees, it meets a perpendicular barrier of rock, 
fringed with Ivy, and shaded by Elms, where it turns at a right 
angle, falling quite rapidly through a course of about 20 feet ; 
then turns again at a right angle in another ravine, glides over some 
15 feet of rapids and rocks, and makes its final leap of about 20 
feet. This cold description can give no clear idea of even the 
mechanical formation of these falls, much less of their beauty at 
all times. In all parts but the outlet of the pond it is natural, and 
I mention it to show how nature makes falls among the primary 
rocks. By these turns of the channel a little water is made at all 
seasons to assume the character, give the foam and spray and music 
of a large fall, whilst in a fi*eshet it rises from beauty to grandeur. 
It comes down, a torrent, with a body and violence that seems to 
threaten the solid rock, and sweeps along large fragments of rock 
like pebbles. In the ravine about the fall the high sides, outcrop* 
ping ledges, sturdy trees, and views over the distance, give the 
scene a mountainous character ; and almost within sound of the 

bells of Boston is a bit of wild beauty and real grandeur not often 
67 



794 AUGUST. 

surpassed in the mountains and forests of Vennont and New 
Hampshire. 

I have said that the dam of the broken fall may be made of d^ 
and gravel mainly. A close, hard gravel, paddled or intermingled 
with clay, is the best material to resist water. It packs together 
under the pressure of water, and unless there are too many large 
stones in it, prevents its escape. In gravel dams great pains should 
be taken to entirely surround all large stones with fine materiaL 
Water is very insidious ; it will work along a stone, clinging to its 
surface, dissolving all soluble particles, and will gradually creep on 
to the next, so that if many lie near together, or in a somewhat 
direct line through the dam, it will not be long in making its ap- 
pearance on the other side. 

There is hardly a pond which is not at times very much fuller 
than usual. During freshets, the water is far above its usual level 
To make a pond capable of holding this excess would not only 
necessitate a much higlier and more costly dam, but leave a large 
empty space aAer the freshet was over. The emergency may be 
as well met by the waste-way before mentioned, which should be 
quite narrow at bottom, with a wide flare as its sides rise. Let a 




i be the waste-way. At all ordinary times the water will not rise 
much above a, but in a freshet there may be a great and sadden 
rise ; but water seeks its level, and a foot*s rise in the pond is a 
foot's rise in the waste-way, And the flare of its sides allows a much 
greater amount of water to eso^te as it rises, so that the rapid and 
increased flow will counteract the tendency of the pond to fill, the 
escape being in the ratio of the rise, and experience shows how 
difficult it is for a pond with such a dam to rise inconveniently. 

The great drawback to the gravel banked dam b the danger ai 
being mined by muskrats, in their desire to get into the pond during 
winter, or to descend thence into the bank for a home. This Biay 
be met by vigilance and good traps. 



ORNAMEKTJX GROUNDS. 795 

I do not propose to give minute directions for building dams any 
more than greenhouses ; one is the province of engineering the 
other of carpentry. 

I have said that the undisguised appearance of art in masonry, 
is sometimes agreeable in water-work?. This depends on locality 
and circumstance. If a large stream is to be used to flood a 
valley, it is nearly impossible to check it unless with expensive 
works of engineering, to disguise which into a semblance of nature 
would be enormously expensive. A case might occur where such 
disguise would be in good taste and worth the cost, but it would be 
the exception. Masonry may be made beautiful to look at, and is 
certainly beautiful in its suggestive power, — as the work of man. 
When a dam is obviously artificial, a road or path may cross it, the 
waste way being spanned by a bridge, iiistic or elaborate accord- 
ing to tlie character of the shores. Thus we seem to invite in- 
spection and to appeal to the perfection of the work for our justifi- 
cation. 

In laying out and improving grounds, the avowed object is to 
create beauty, and we may therefore put up on the shores of our 
ponds and islands rustic houses for boats and aquatic birds, bathing 
houses, rustic seats. Islands should be connected with the main 
land, waste ways, inlets and brooks spanned with rustic bridges, 
both for their convenience and the beauty of their reflections. The 
line between good and bad taste in such structures is very fine, and 
beautiful natural scenes are often terribly disfigured by carpentry. 
Rustic bridges and seats are perhaps no more beautiful in them- 
selves than elaborate carpentry. We often see archways over 
gates in a fiat, sandy country, devoid of all similar objects ; arbors 
in town gardens, and the like, evidently considered beautiful by 
their owners. They are just as bad and incongruous in such places 
as the carpentei^work in the woods and by the water. There is a 
^fitness which we all recognize as an important element of beauty. 
The rough bark, and irregular, contorted roots and branches woven 
into rustic seats, bridges, and arbors, assimilate in color, form, 
character to the surroundings ; they harmonize well with shrubs 



796 AUGUST. 

trees, and vines. Vines seem to have a liking for them, will climb 
along the baric, garland the rough knots, festoon the hand-nub as 
though they loved them ; the irregularity of wild vines, shrabs, and 
flowers seem to need irregularity in all wood or stone work to fet4 
at home; and however nicely, beautiftilly, luxuriantly, ivy or 
flowering vines may cover the wall of a stone house in town, the 
gardener's hand is evident ; they give no idea of the free growth 
of these climbers in the forest or waste, where they trail over 
bushes to look at themselves in the still waters, or dip in the run- 
ning stream. 

But even into wild scenes rustic ornaments are not to be intro- 
duced at random. It by no means follows that because some tree 
stretches its arms widely that we ought to set a rustic seat undo* 
it. or because there is a point reaching out into a pond that it should 
not terminate in a boat house, or because a path crosses a brook 
that it should have a bridge. Many objects of this kind tire, and 
remove the feeling of fltness. 

As for bridges they should be introduced only where depth of 
water necessitates. Shallow spots are much more agreeably crossed 
by stepping-stones, round which the waters may purl and babble in 
a thousand little bubbles (o catch the sunlight as they sail down the 
stream, and where in a June morning we may sit and paddle 
barefooted. 

It is impassible within these limits to do more than hint at the 
various beauties of water. One quality it has in common with 
green meadows : horizontality. It is sometimes said that the beauty 
of level meadows is attributable to their resemblance to a sheet of 
water, but the truth is that the beauty is due to the horizontality 
common to both, a quality always attractive, and also to their con- 
trast with the irregular forms that surround them. The truth of 
this statement may be demonstrated in winter. Visit the most 
beautiful sheet of water you know, when frozen and covered with 
snow, and you will And that the charm you have been accustomed 
to connect with water solely is not peculiar to it Now that the 
charm of sparkle and reflection are gone, yon will surely derive a 
greater pleasure from the horizontal surface than when water was 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 797 

in the place of snow and ice. In the summer there is a perplex- 
ing superfluity of wealth, which prevents anj fair analysis or re- 
cognition of the attraction of the quality under consideration. 

Ponds may sometimes take the place of grass meadows. I am 
an advocate of ponds great or small, wherever they will heighten 
effect, and can be economically made, and kept reasonably full 
One can often drain a bog into a pond dug out in its centre, or can 
carry all the underdrains from the grounds into some dell or hdlow, 
where a little pond may nestle ; a pond thus supplied will be per- 
ennial. In most ponds thus made in bog-soil, there is a tendency 
to noisome vegetation. Make your pond on the principle of an 
aquarium. First dig out enough of the original soil to give the 
proper depth ; upon the bottom lay several inches of clean stones, 
(shingle from the searbeach is best), over this lay several inches of 
clean sand from river or beach ; put in snails and little flsh, but 
never aquatic bu'ds, unless you can have a perpetual stream run- 
ning through the pond ; they will eat the snails and little fish, and 
leave the confervas and algse, which in time will fill the pond. In 
some cases it will be cheaper to pave the bottom, leaving openings 
where springs exist for their water to come up through. Clear 
away the autumnal leaves; if left they will sink to the bottom, 
causing considerable impurity. 'In very small ponds it may be well 
to surround the edge with stones to prevent the bank's caving, etc., 
and if the stones are old and mossy they may be a great orna- 
ment ; but as surely as a pond larger than a basin in a flower- 
garden is bordered with hewn stones, unless avowedly used for a 
horse, duck, or fish-pond, good taste is inexcusably outraged. 

In connection with fish-ponds, a word on the subject of ponds for 
breeding fish. They should be stocked with such fish as are na* 
tive to similar soil, water, and surroundings. At small expense 
they will, in a year or two, give the fisherman both sport and profit. 
Those who wish to know more must consult special treatises. 

By referring to the plan of our place you will see in the large 

fiond ill the lawn many dotted lines connecting the shores at 

different points. Tliese in connection with the true shore lines, 

show the shape of the pond when we took it. By the other 

67* 



798 AUotrsT. 

water lines joa see that if the water were raised a little at 
the dam, it would be sent into manj little deUs and would cut olT 
some promontories. It was by raising the dam 3 feet that we got 
the present pond. This increase of size makes a second brid*^ 
upon the avenue necessary, but it is evident that the bridge and its re- 
flection will be a pleasant object. Bj the enlargement we get three 
prettj islands and many bays, and add to the extent of the water 
even more in appearance than in reality. You see by the direc^ 
tion of the little arrows, how from various points there are large 
water views, no two alike. These extensive but different views 
from points so far separated give the pond all the merits of a lai^ 
lake to one who strolb along its shore. 

The dam is supposed to be 10 feet high and with a broken fiifl 
situated just where the land narrows abruptly, and planted princi- 
pally with evergreens. In fact it is an evergreen wood. No 
path has been carried to it, for the pleasure of a stroll in the woods 
is often heightened by the absence of paths and a sense of 
untrammelled freedom. 

There should be as many paths on a place as possible without 
showing to one who walks along them, more than the portion of 
the one he is upon which is just before and behind him. Where 
many are visible at once the place* seems cut up and pathy. Yet 
a plan may look pathy without being so, for upon it every wood or 
path is seen at a glance, while on the ground they wind in and out 
among hills and valleys and are screened by trees or even by slight 
inequalities of surface. You should never pronounce on a plan in 
this respect, till you know the surface which it represents well 
enough to be a competent judge of the degree of concealment it 
affords, or unless the topography is so well shown on the plan as to 
tell its own story. 

Brooks. From the dam you descend to the brook. The most 
difficult matter in the management of ornamental water is to make 
a natural brook, one which shall be neither canal nor ditch. The 
course of brooks is naturally devious, bending hither and thither to 
avoid roots, stones, hard pan, and this gives them much of their 



ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 799 

l)eaut7 ; they are still more indebted to the bushes and flowers that 
fringe them, and not a little to the music they make as they run 
over stones. 

To attempt to give directions for making brooks in the abstract 
would be like painting the portrait of a person one had never 
seen. 

The general principles laid down for the treatment of water ap* 
ply to the brook. Make its banks like the shores of a pond, af\er 
the style of other brooks. Its bed must vary with the soil it trav- 
erses ; its bends and curves may suit your fancy ; only remember 
that here, as elsewhere, no one line is always right Sometimes 
the straight line is best, sometimes the abrupt, sometimes the gen- 
tle curve. As before, learn of Nature ; visit many brooks, become 
fiuniliar with them ; fill your mind, too, with the theories and prin- 
ciples advanced about other kinds of water. Then carefully try to 
make your brook. If it prove successful, you are more than 
fortunate ; if unsuccessful you could hardly expect more ; and at 
worst, it will be better than a ditch or canal, if you made any 
^ort for variety. 

The course of a brook through a rapidly changing and steep 
surface may occasionally be varied by a little dam to spread It in 
some hollow or make a little fall whose deep tones shall give body 
to the song of the hghter ripples. All the devices of taste and 
skill may be exhausted and the result be only a very poor brook. 
Beware of the serpentine / the tendency is toward it ; brooks are 
capricious, and rarely move in regular curves, often in abrupt 
twists and bends. 

Following our brook through the farm you come to the cattle 
pond near the bam, where the brook was dammed to give water to 
all the animals, and a swimming-place for water-fowl. Where 
the pond bounds the farmyard its edge is carefully made and 
sloped with shingle to give a gradual and safe descent. -The 
opposite side is protected by a wire fence, to prevent the aninuils 
crossing at will into the pasture beyond. 

There now remaias only the consideration of water in 

Fountains. Where it varies according to the supply and to 



800 



AUGUST. 



the fancy of the maker. In their proper place all kinds are 
beautiful, from the jet single or combined, that leaps a hundred 
feet into the air, to the weeping or oozing fountain whose 
supply is hardly enough to sustain a constant overplus and keep 
the water plants at its base in a healthy state. Every form into 
which they can be put has its charms and has its due of praise, 
till we come down to the squirt ; — here we must stop. Nothing 
is more pitiful than to see in front of some expensive mansion, in 
the centre of a broad lawn, or of a glowing flower garden, a little 
intermittent jet, flickering and wavering in the air a few feet above 
its basin, without sufficient vitality to withstand a mild zephyr, and 
80 slender that we must bring it into relief against some dark 
object to assure ourselves of its existence. This kind of preten- 
sion is truly painful and reprehensible. The same weakness in a 
different form, leads men of small means to ape the vices and 
extravagances which disgrace men of fortune. Such abortions are 
the more to be regretted, as the same amount of water could make 
a very pretty weeping fountain. To get the squirt, the pipe of 
discharge and supply must be narrowed to the smallest possible 
opening. Were the opening slightly increased, the stream would 
instantly topple over like a ricketty child, and disappear. 

The weeping fountain is 
generally a large basin of fan- 
tastic form, raised on a pedes- 
tal, which in its turn b sur- 
rounded by a lower basin 
ilUed with water, and perhaps 
containing gold-fish or shining 
pebbles. The force with which 
the water bubbles up is in pro- 
portion to the supply, and it 
then escapes over the sides^ 
l^ into the lower basin. If the 
^ upper one is well designed, 
the lower may be built with 
rough, mossy blocks of stone, 
and in their crevices may be 




ORNAMENTAL GROUNDS. 801 

planted tufts of Fern, Lobelia, Mjsotis, etc, which will be nour- 
ished bj the water from above. A wide field for ingenuity is 
opened, and with a very small amount of waste water a great 
deal of beauty may be produced, which is impossible with the 
squirt. It is not my purpose to describe larger fountains, as they 
are familiar to every reader, in one form or another, and where 
there is a free supply of water they may be fashioned after the 
most beautiful devices. 

The base, or the part, by whatever name it be called, used as 
the means of discharge, is too often the expensive part of a foun- 
tain ; people are very apt to think that the water should be second- 
ary to the shell of the fountain. This is a pity ! the most beauti- 
ful fountains are the simplest ; the single or complicated jet rising 
from the middle of a pond pleases everybody more than the most 
elaborate device. The weeping fountain, with a boiling, irregular 
jet in the middle, is much prettier than a larger jet, which lacks 
the picturesqueness of base, which should always accompany the 
weeping fountain. The latter may be introduced into conservato- 
ries and flower-gardens with the happiest result. Be careful to 
know well what will be the supply and head of water before you ' 
begin the fountain ; upon these two things its importance depends. 
If you can do what you please with the water, the flower-garden 
should be subordinate to the fountain ; but if the supply is too 
small for any thing but a vase, the fountain must be subordinate to 
the flowers. On a slope the same water may be used several times, 
if it can be brought out upon the top of the slope to advantage. 
At first it may appear as a jet, next as a weeping fountain at some 
turn in the path, shaded by dark pines, or under a bank ; again as 
a rill bursting from the top of a ledge, or from under a projecting 
i*ock ; at another turn it may seem to be a cool spring, surrounded 
by moss and wild-flowers ; and it may often happen that by careful 
designs this variety may be produced with little trouble and no ap* 
pearance of straining. A Hydraulic Ram is very useful in all 
these cases. By means of it a small brook may be made to force 
itself to a very high point, whence the water may be again dis- 
tributed over the whole place, to return finally to the brook which 
gave it birth. The improved Hydraulic Ram will raise water 10 



802 AUGUST. 

feet for each foot of £dl ; it is mentioDed in the Annual of Sda»- 
tific Discovery for 1851, that one with a fiOl of 6 feet lifted 60,000 
gallons per daj 60 feet 

Another means of raising water is by a wind-null, whicfa may 
be made quite a pictoresqae ornament to any place. 

All machines of this kind, however, are liable to get oat irf" 
order, and will try the proprietor's patience. 

By whatever means a good supply of water is secored, it is a 
great acquisition to any place. 

Abbobs, etc., in 6ABDEK8.-r-My reasoB for objecting to car- 
pmiUr architecture for little stroctores in the rural parts of an es* 
tate ; viz., that it is not in harmony with surroondings, may be 
supposed to imply an approval of it in the more enriched and ar- 
tificial grounds near the house; and it is true that arbors, seats, etc, 
in and about a flower-garden should be more elaborate ; but let 
them be used sparingly. It is common to see a litde garden, with 
starveling flower-beds and a few shrubs, bestridden by an elabo- 
rate, expensive edifice, miscalled a sunmier-house, miscalled an 
* arbor, properly called a nuisance. If a place is wanted for shade, 
rest, as an out-of-door sitting-room, in a small garden, it should be 
at one side, and of humble, unpretending character. A seat under 
the shade of a tree, or overrun with roses or other vines, is appro- 
priate and often convenient No one cares to sit about in a flower- 
garden, unless after the sun is low, or before he'tises high ; when 
the shadows are long, no especial structure for shade is needed ; 
and in 99 cases out of 100 no arbor or garden structure should be 
built in a suburban garden. When a simple building can be 
partly hidden by a group of trees, relieved by rising ground near 
by, or otherwise fitly placed, it is well enough to have it It be- 
comes a support for vines, and perhi^ a fovorite place for children 
to play in. 

Another popular delusion is the idea that empty urns and vases, 
painted china sets, ugly statues of mythological deities are appro- 
priate to square plots of grass and patches of flowers. Subuiban 
gardens are often spotted with these things, which are seldom either 
ornamental or useftiL A rich urn or vase filled with flowen 



ORKAJfENTAL GROUNDS. 803 

is a beautiful aight, and may sometimes be used with excellent 
effect, but when and where must remain an open question. Some 
persons contend that the antique vases, copies of which are com- 
monly used for this purpose, were not originally intended to hold 
flowers, and that it is a perversion to put them to this use in our 
gardens. Grant that such use is a dtvernon from their original 
purpose ; it may not be a perversion. The real question is, Why 
introduce them at all ? if to show them as in a gallery of sculp- 
ture, then treat the surroundings accordingly ; but if the vase is 
used as a flower-garden ornament, the flower-holding property is 
its attraction, and constitutes its fitness. If it is not appropriate 
for this, and cannot receive from graceful vines and brilliant flow- 
ers as much beauty as it gives to them, it is badly chosen, and 
should be changed for a better. 

Earnest appeals have been made to the love of art in man not 
to desecrate the sacredness of art and antiquity in this way. The 
alarm is unfounded. A vase in the middle of an open space, gi- 
gantic, surrounded by impressive architecture, may fitly concentre 
on itself all the beauty and solemnity of the place. A reduced and 
imperfect copy in plaster or iron, which can be carried in a wheel- 
barrow and set where we please, is quite another thing, is to be 
judged from another stand-point, and is by no means desecrated 
when used to show plants and flowers to the best advantage. ' 

Having thus passed in review the principal features of the 
country place, having considered how economy and beauty , busi- 
ness and pleasure, may be combined, it is with great regret that I 
leave the subject, since the fact is now thrust upon me, which I 
indeed foresaw, but could not realize, from the beginning ; viz., that 
however minutely I have followed the subject, I have only touched 
upon it, and that what is said is but as the cropping out of the 
ledge in comparison to the vast stratum beneath the surface which 
has not even been uncovered. 

It must, however, be apparent that none but a man of expanded 
views and noble aims can be the best fanner and gardener ; that 
these occupations have an interest not surpassed by any other ; 



804 



AUGUST. 



and that the arrangement of a country place is a very difficult and 
elaborate, though a charming work. 

You sec that no book can conyej the minutise and details which 
giTC finish and fitness to ornamental grounds. Bring to the work 
of arranging such grounds the best agriculture, horticulture, en- 
gineering, aix;hitecture, and there yet remains a subtle sense of 
natural beauty, of harmony and fitness in details, which are to the 
whole place what the " atmosphere " is to a picture, or the cuticle 
which covers the nerves is to the organism ; without it there will 
be harshness, and an indefinable want ; with it, rich, harmonious 
perfection. This spirit of landscape gardening cannot be com- 
mitted to paper ; the artist who possesses it seldom has an oppor- 
tunity to give it full scope, he is cramped and fettered by the 
economy of his employer, who thinks it quite etiough to pay for 
time he sees expended in producing obvious and large results, and 
cannot be persuaded that time spent in giving his place those last 
touches, which would be to it what glazing and varnish are to the 
painted landscape, is worth any &rther outlay of money. 




SUPPLEMENT. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE GREENHOUSE AND CONSERVATORT. 

INCE " Conntry Life " was first published, very 
many new green and hothouses have been con- 
structed, and we ought to expect a correspond* 
ing improvement in heating, ventilating, and 
the use of materials ; and, although great im- 
provements have been made over the common 
practice of former times, a careful examination 
of the plans and theories herein presented will 
show that ^^ Country Life '' is still in advance of 
the times. We gladly welcome every new house, 
whether erected for purely commercial pur- 
poses or for private gratification ; for, besides 
the pleasure their fruit and flowers give their 
owners, they exert a liberalizing and humaniz- 
ing influence on every one who comes into 
contact with them. The most earnest lover of nature and flowers, 
who will readily walk miles in the fields and forests for the pleas- 
ure of association with nature, or to procure some favorite flower, 
who knows the delight with which one finds a rich bed of Epigasa 
in blossom, a bank of Violets, a tuft of Pogonia, a hedge of wild 
Hoses, or the fringed Gentian, feels a still keener pleasure when 
he enters in winter a planthouse full of blossoms. 

We seem then to especially realize the value and beauty of 
flowers ; and but few persons are so stolid or careless as not to 
wish, when they visit a greenhouse, that they too might have 
plants in blossom during the winter. The contrast between the 
cold silence of nature out-of-doors, and the rich glow and fra- 

806 




806 ORSBKHOUSI AND 00H8BRTAI0BT. 

grance within, compels us to recognise the real beauty and aigmfi. 
oance of the flowers, which we are too apt to neglect in the profo- 
sion of summer. 

Keeping pace with the increasing number of planthouses, many 
families of plants have been greatly increased, and haye sprung 
from the minority to the majority in point of numbers. This 
change is most conspicuous in the plants with variegated leaves, 
which have become sufficiently numerous to demand special accom- 
modation ; these plants have an advantage over others in the con- 
trasts of color in their foliage, which mak^ them interesting when 
not in blossom ; some indeed are more valuable for their leaves 
than their flowers. The following list of the most desirable varie- 
gated plants, for a private collection, was made for me by Jona- 
than French, Esq., of Roxbury, Mass., who has been a very suc- 
cessful cultivator of these plants : — 



Begonia, — rex, reichenhemia, grandis, argentea. Queen Victoria, 
Madame Boy, Madame Grouse, velvetiana, Madame R. L. Stewart, 
verachaffeltii. 

Caladium, — argyrites, bellemeyii, barraquinii, chantinS, lucolor 
pictorata, Newmanii, pictom, poecile, hastatum, Wighdi, bicdor. 

Ferns, — plais, argynea, tricolor, cretica alba lineata. 

Croton, — picta, variegata, noblesse. 

Mabanta, — zebrina, regalis, alba lineata, fasciata, eximea. 

An(ectochilcs, — argentens, Eldorado. 

POTHOS, — argynea 

Ananassa, — sativa variegata. 

Panda Nus, — javanicus argenteus. 

Diffenbachia, — seguina picta. 

Aspidistra, — lacida variegata. 

Aphelandb A£, — leopoldii 

Draocena, — terminalis, picta. 

HoYA, — variegata. 

Ebanthemum leuconeryum. 

Billbergia, — zebnna, gesnera BplendidJsBima. 

Dioscorea, — discolor, zebrina. 

Agave Americana variegata. 

Ledum, — cameum, variegatum. 

Hydrangea, — variegata. 



CHAPTER IL • 

FLOWER-GARDEN. 

The flower-garden has been sensibly a£fected by the increased 
interest in borticoltnre : the number of genera of flowers has not 
been increased, bat the number of species has expanded im- 
mensely. 

Whole exhibitions of our horticultural societies have been 
given to special plants, such as the Gladiolus, the Cape Bulb, the 
Japan Lilies, Verbenas, or Petunias, which a few years ago were 
content to occupy a very small space. For many years it was sup- 
posed that new varieties of plants could be produced only by a 
kind of legerdemain; for instance. Tulips, we were told, would 
change their color if we drew different colored silken or worsted 
threads through the bulb, that the color of thread might pass into 
the circulation and change the petal; there were also minute 
directions for special composts and watering solutions, which, ap- 
plied around the growing plants, would change color and form. 

None but special gardeners cared to try to bring new varieties for 
seed ; Tulips and Gladiolus bore seed, but it was supposed they 
could not be expected to blossom from the seed under five or seven 
years. All this has changed, and we have every year increasing 
numbers of seedlings, some better, others not so good as their par- 
ents ; the seedlings, generally, seem less reliable and permanent 
than the old varieties, and many of them are never heard of after 
a year or two. 

Tulips can be produced from seed in three years, instead of 
seven, as formerly believed. 

Gladiolus s^eds, planted the year they ripen in peaty soil, and 
carried through the winter in a greenhouse or pit, will blossom in 
two, or, at most, three years ; and, starting from the pretty but not 
especially interesting G. Byzantinus, the beautiful but weakly 

807 



808 VLOWSK-aABDKff. 

6. Cardinalifl, the O. Psittaoiniis, ike briUiant G. Gandarenfiig, 
several huodred new and magnificent varieties of Gladiolus bave 
been prodaced, which are so varied in color and form that one 
might well be excused if he devoted himself to their cultore to 
the exclusion of all ot^er flowers ; grown singly, tied up to stakes, 
nursed in beds, retarded to give a succession of bloom, there is 
really no bulbous plant which repays so bountifully the care ex- 
pended upon it. 

The Gladiolus requires no special culture. A rich, light, well- 
drained garden soil will produce splendid flowers ; its worst enemy 
is the mealy bug ; if any bulbs are found to be troubled with them, 
bum the bulbs at once. 

The bulbs should be taken up as soon as the leaves turn yellow, 
be dried rapidly, and kept in a cool place until spring ; never plant 
it in wet land, or clayey loam, on a clayey subsoil ; if your soil is 
wet, drain and surround the bulb with sand ; wet produces rust, 
which soon bums the foilage and plants ; when in favorable soil, the 
bulbs often produce two or three spikes of blossoms, giving a great 
quantity of blossoms for several weeks. 

When the bulbs are lifted and dried, remove the bulblets which 
will be found at the base ; put these bulblets in dry paper bags, 
and lay them aside for at least a year ; then plant in pots in the fall, 
or in the earth the succeeding spring, and you will get plants 
which will, at maturity, give the same variety as the parent ; by 
the bulbs, therefore, we may produce like, and by seeds unlike 
varieties. 

The list of beautiful species is numerous ; and, as they are con- 
stantly changing by new seedlings, no list can be of permanent 
value. T shall therefore only give names of twelve. Their colors 
will enable the amateur to select according to the effect he may 
wish to produce. Planted in the beds of city areas (see pp. 
880-9), as succession to spring bulbs, I think they would be equal 
to any bedding plants. 

1. Ceres, pure white and purple. 

2. Napoleon III., bright scarlet, striped. 

3. Brenchlyensis, yermilion-flcariet. 

4. Solfaterre, pure yellow. 



n.owjfiR-aASDXN. 809 

5. £1 Dorado, pure yellow. 

6. Ophis, yellow, spotted with purple. 

7. PlutOD, deep scarlet, spotted with white. 

8. Hebe, carnation, striped with carmine. 

9. Madame Yilmorine, rose, white centre, striped with carmine. 

10. Purity, pure white, lower petals marked with posy-violet 

11. McMahon, cherry-orange (very bright). 

12. Azlaie, salmon-rose, shaded. 

Oladioliis ByzantinoB, Communis and Roseus are sufficiently 
hardy to be planted in the autumn, and, well covered, will come up 
and blossom in the spring. 

Hyacinths have always been favorites as spring bulbs, both in 
the garden and the house. New varieties are yearly introduced 
to r^lace those which have deteriorated ; for even when the bulbs 
are carefully taken up each spring, after flowering, and replanted 
in the autumn, they seem to lose vigor, making it necessary for 
those who would keep up with the times to purchase new bulbs or 
propagate for themselves. 

The precautions are to have rich, loamy, well-drained soil, and, as 
with the Gladiolus, to surround the bulb with sand if the land is 
inclined to much moisture. Where Hyacinths are left in the ground 
unremoved for several years, they will continue to blossom, but less 
perfectly each year, as the tendency of the bulb to make o&eta 
increases, and at last the offsets consume the parent ; these offsets, 
taken and treated like the full, grown bulb, will in time produce 
perfect flowers of the same species. 

To all these bulbs the same rule may be applied : if you desire 
to surpass in the quality of your flowers, you may make a soil just 
suited to them, — and all require about the same, — an equal mix- 
ture of loam and cow manure and one-quarter common sand. 
These bulbs are grown in the house in the winter, in rather deep 
and narrow pots about four inches in diameter, with good drainage, 
made of broken charcoal, soil like that just described. Set bulb in 
sand, and cover top one half-inch deep ; as they grow, move in to 
the light. Occasionally the bulbs may be watered with nitrogenous 
guano-water or any other form of ammonia; when in bloom give 
plenty of water. 

68* 



810 fLOWXR-QARDXH. 

When Hyacinths are grown in glaasesi be sore to use daik col- 
ored glass, and change the water sufficiently often to keep it pme; 
if the roots get slimy, the slime should be remoTed and the water 
changed ; pieces of charcoal in the water help keep it pure, and 
yon may add yery little gnano or ammonia to the water to stimn- 
late the plants. Set the bottom of the bnlb one-qnarter of an inch 
aboTC the water ; keep them in the dark until the roots get a couple 
inches long, then remove to the light. After Hyacinths have blos- 
somed, either in pots or glasses, you must be very careful to dry 
them thoroughly, and then lay them aside to be planted in the 
ground next autumn ; but they seldom blossom as weU a second 
time, though after a year in the garden the bulbs recoTer mndi of 
their sise and firmness. 

The same objection applies to lists of Hyacinths as to Gladio- 
lus. The subjoined list of twelve varieties is made by B. McCleaiy 
Gopeland, who has been for many years a very successful exhilntor 
of Hyacinths before the Massachusetts Horticultural Sociely. 

Lord Palmerston, grayish blue, shaded with purple. 

Bobert Fortune, reddish pney-mauTe. 

Thorwaldson, bright azurean blue. 

Josephine, rich crimson. 

Von Schiller, deep red, striped. 

Macanlay, deep rose-pink, full centre. 

Ida, clear yellow. 

Heroine, yellow. 

Croesos, deep yellow. 

Sultan Achmet, white. 

Mont Blanc, white. 

General Cavaignac, white. 

I could easily fill pages with detailed descriptions of different 
bulbs, the treatment varies but little, all wanting attention, rich, 
dry, light soil and good drainage, and earnest amateurs will soon 
find what particular care each variety requires to bring it to per- 
fection. I can safely say that there is no variety of plants which 
will not compensate the cultivator who brings them to their per- 
fect condition. 

Many of the tender Cape bulbs would become acclimated if snf- 



VLOWBR^IABDBN. 811 

fioient care should be taken with them. Mr. Sargent, in his yery 
thorough appendix to Downing's Landscape Gardening, describes 
the careful experiments he has tried in acclimating tender and half- 
hardy evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs ; planting them, 
in the first place, in sheltered situations, the first winter he would 
surround them with boxes and straw, the second with straw and 
canvas, the third with canvas, and at last leave them unprotected. 
In some such manner he has brought several specimens to endure 
a temperature which would have been fatal at first. 

Such experiments teach a lesson of value : we cannot make any 
given bulb more hardy by planting it year after year, but we may 
produce seedlings which in a few years would become hardy. The 
beautiful Cape bulbs, now only fit for the greenhouse, or the heated 
and protected border, to be started in pots imder glass and removed 
to shelter before wintej, comes, would be very much more valuable 
if we could treat them like Hyacinths or Tulips ; as there is sure 
to be trouble and vexation in every horticultural operation, and 
every effort should be made to reduce the sources from w&ich 
trouble and vexation are liable to arise. 

Cyclamens are very charming little plants, the most patient and 
enduring bulbs we can have in the greenhouse. There are many 
species which are very tender and fit only for the greenhouse, whilst 
there are others which in England are as hardy as the Crocus, such 
as C. Coum, C. Europseum, C. Ibericum, C. Lalifolium, C. Linearifo- 
lium, C. Littorale, G. Neapolitanns, C. Yerum; being hardy, there, 
it only needs patience to acclimate them or their seedlings here. 

These plants offer as good a field for the amateur' fiorist as the 
Gladiolus did a few years since ; and to show what are the ele- 
ments necessary to commence their culture, I will give a brief ac- 
count of the English method. '^ It would be folly to deal with 
hardy Cyclamens as we deal with most other hardy spring flowers, 
because, if exposed to all the rigors of the early season at which 
they bloom, nothing but disappointment is to be expected.'' Those 
who grow Ixias, Sp.araxis, and othar of the newly hardy Cape 
bulbs out-of-doors are in just a proper position to do justice to 
hardy Cyclamens. A border facing south, sheltered with a back 
wall or greenhouse, or enjoying some of the surplus warmth from a 



812 ILOWm-GAKDlN. 

stove or furnace, and ooiuisting chiefly of peat and leaf mould, in a 
warm and well-drained subsoil, b the place for Cyclamens, Tritonias, 
Izias, the hardy Amaiyllises, Alstrimerias, and myriads of the 
choicest flowering-plants known, which need not so much the help 
of artificial heat, as moderate protection against the scathing blasts 
and perishing sleets of our spring. We can promise our readers 
who will make up a border for plants of the kind first named, an 
amount of enjoyment far surpassing all that they have ever derived 
from the pursuit of gardening according to the established plan of 
' making a grand summer display, and devoting every possible ener- 
gy to the development of the bedding system. 

If the position is well drained, all that hardy Cyclamens require 
is a mixture of turfy peat, leaf mould, and yellow loam, equal 
parts : this must be eighteen inches deep ; and, when the bulbs are 
planted, cover them with two inches well-rotted dung. Plant in 
October, and take up and replant every succeeding October \ plant 
in a little sand, and set C. Coum an inch below the surface ; the 
others press in slightly like onions ; cover the bed in ^'winter with 
four inches of tan." ^ 

The varieties of greenhouse Cyclamens must be refused water 
as soon as out of bloom until the leaves turn yellow ; then keep 
the plants moderately dry until you wish to start them anew. 

The Cyclamen will ripen seed freely, which easily germinates 
when sowed in rich earth \ they will blossom in three years from 
seed. In our hot summers the bulbs might dry too much, which 
can be prevented by setting them in a box of loam or trench, 
where they could be occasionally moistened ; this would keep the 
bulbs full and plump until wanted. 

This English advice is not directly applicable to this country, 
hjxi it teaches the direction in which our efforts should be made. 
The same reasoning applies to the other Cape bulbs, and I believe 
that in the small and protected gardens of city areas, warm borders 
under hedges, and indeed whenever there is sufficient interest to 
provide good quarters, we may hope to propagate seedlings of these 
plants which will become in time perfectly hardy. 

The Tuberose is another illustration of the rewards bulbs will 
give the patient cultivator. It is a most beautiful flower, and deli- 



7L0WSR-OARDEN. 813 

oiouslyfiragrant. Their qualities have induced many persons to try 
to grow tbem in the open ground, but with little success; when they 
roceived the best skill of nurserymen, only about half the bulbs 
Gould be made to blossom, throwing up stalks with fifteen to twenty 
blossoms on them. 

Mr. £. W. Buswell, an enthusiatio admirer of flowers, living near 
Boston, tried tuberoses year afler year, and found that the purchased 
bulbs would rarely throw up flower stems, although they made many 
small bulbs as offsets. This awakened his curiosity, and induced 
the belief, that if he should remove all the offsets, and every ap- 
pearance of them, by gouging out the eyes which could be seen 
on the bulb, that he could drive the vigor of the bulb into the 
flower stem. He according purchased some new bulbs, carefully 
selecting those which were hard at the top, showing that they had 
not blossomed the preceding year, and which showed neither scars 
of old offsets, nor many indications of new ones. Knowing that 
roots must precede the leaves, and that the more roots at first, the 
more vigorously the flower stems would push when they should start, 
he prepared a compost, as directed on p. 809 ; he selected medium- 
sized pote, and filled them one quarter full of broken, very dry cow 
manure, picked up in the pastures; over this he placed the loam, 
and planted his bulbs ; to promote growth at the roots, he set the 
pots in an active hotbed, watered them moderately, and covered 
them from the light. As soon as the point of the new growth began 
to appear through the soil, and he found that the roots had got to 
the manure, he gave water freely, admitted light, and kept the 
plants covered with glass ; in this warm and moist air, they pushed 
rapidly, and soon required to be set in deeper frames to give the 
ascending stalks more room; he continued to water freely, and 
when the weather got warm enough, transferred them to an old 
hotbed frame in the open air, where the plants blossomed abun- 
dantly, eighty per cent blossoming, giving thirty blossoms on a stalk. 
During the entire growth, he watched for offsets, and, on their first 
appearance, pushed his knife down, and cut them off so that the 
bulb had nothing to do but blossom. 

This success shows what can be done. Doubtless, the tuberose, 
started in pots in the house, in April, would, with attention, be 



814 rLOWUrOABSBI. 

ready to go into the open ground by June. Set them over some 
fermenting horse muiare to g^ve a little bottom heat, and water if 
the weather should be dry, a yery fine bloom may be expected, 
not so large a percentage as Mr. Buswell got with his hotbeds, 
but sufficient to repay all the care and trouble. 

The following list of perenniab, bedding plants, and annuals was 
prepared by Mr. John G. Hovey, of Cambridge, and member of 
tl|e Flower Committee of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society. 
The plants and flowers here mentioned can be relied upouas being 
really the best for a small collection : — 



TWBNTT-FIVE BEST FEREHHIALS. 

Aoonitom Japonicum. 

Adonis Temalis, yellow. 

Caliha paliistriB, fl. pleno, yellow. 

Campanula carpatica, blue. 

CampaDula persictBfolia, alba plena (white). 

Clematis erecta, white. 

Delphinium fbrmosum, deep blue. ' 

Dielytra spectabilis, rose and white. 

Epimedium macranthum, white. 

Grenista Siberica, fl. pleno, yellow. 

Gypeophila paniculata, white. 

Helleborus Niger, white. 

Iberis saxitile, white. 

Iris superba, light blue. 

Lathjms latifoHas, dark rose. 

Lychnis, viscaria, fl. pleno, red. 

Orobus yema. 

Papaver Orientalis. 

Banunculns aconitefolius, fl. pleno. 

Salvia azurea, blue. 

Sedum denticuUtum, red. 

Sptrea filipendula fl. pleno, white. 

Spirea japonica, white. 

Trillium grandiflorum, white. 

Yucca filimentosa, white. 



VLOWEBrOABDXN. 815 

BEST TWELVE NEW FBBENKIAL8. 

AraHs lueida, yariegata. 
Qematifl erecta, fl. pleii<H white. 
Dielytra spectalnlis alba, white. 
Doronicum caucamcom, yellow. 
Gaillardia grandiflora. 
Iberb tenoreana, purple. 
Orobns, yerna mbra, red. 
Pentstemon grandiflora, lilac. 
Phlomis abasiciis. 
Platjrcodon grandiflomm, blae. 
Tradescantia pilosa. 
Verbena montana 

TEN BEST PHLOXES. 

Augostm Lierral, white, with crimson eye. 
Julie Bouflsel, white, carmine eye. 
La Volupte, dark crimaon. 
Madame Marseau, white, purple eye. 
Madame Suer, white, crimBon eye. 
Triomph de Twickel, white, and crimson stripe. 
Madame Vilmorin, crimson, dark eye. 
Madame Lierral, violet and crimson. 
Madame Rougiere, white, rose eye. 
Madame Henricq, rose. ^ 

BEST TEN HERBACEOUS PEONIES. 

Festiva maxima. Camille Caillot. 

Rosea lutea. La Negres. 

Victor Leman. Lutisciana. 

Madame Vilmorin. Officinalis pleno. 

Comtesse de Momy. Tenuifolia plena 

BEST TEN TREE PAONIEB. 

Banksia. Maxima plena. 

Athlete. Ottorius. 

Alba plena. Rosea odorata. 

Camea plena. Splendissima. 

Fragrans. Iriomphe de malines. 



818 TLOWER-OABDEN. 

BEBT EIOHTBEir CHOICE CABNATIOKB. 

ApoUo. Lady PeeL 

Lively Ann. Mayor of Nottingham. 

Admiral Curzon. Splendor. 

Christopher Sly. Tenby Riyal. 

Royal Scarlet James Kirtland. 

William IV. Sir Joseph Paxton. 

James the Second. Fanny Garden. 

Merrimack. General Simpson. 

Lord Gooderich. . Qaeen Boadicea. 

BEST EIGHTEEN VABIETIE8 PICOTEE8. 

Rotetta. Mrs. Norman. 

Princess Helene. William Summers. 

Jemima. Sultana. 

Mn. Holbeck. Countess. 

Finis. Prince of Wales. 

Prince Albert Mrs. Dodwell. 

Ada Mary. Mrs. Lochner. 

Cedo Nullii. Mrs. Hovey. 

Ophelia. Pawee Bride. 

BEST EIOHTBRN HOLLYHOCKS. 

Acme. Macrantha. 

Warrior. Princess. 

George Young. Prince of Wales. 

Princess. Lucifier. 

Minerva. Chrysolite. 

Decision. Hesperus. 

Rev. J. A. Dix. Cynthia. 

Invincible. Lady Dacres. 

Carus. Queen Victoria. 

The following list of roses is recommended by Mr. Francis Park- 
man, of Jamacia Plain, near Boston, as having been grown by him, 
and are adapted to our climate. The most of them will be found 
in the list of roses, on pp. 611 to 622, ^< Country Life," with their 
colon and habit described : — 

Moss, Reine blanche, pore white, large and ML 



FLOWER-OARDIN. 



819 



SIX CUMBEBS. 

BouBSAULT, — amadis, crimosa. 

Atbshibb, — roga, splendens (needs protection in exposed ntoa- 
tions in winter and spring). 
Evergreen, — felicity perpetn^, (cover). 
Prairie queen. 
Baltimore belle. 



HTBBIIX PEBPETUALB. 



Augoste IkCe, fl. pleno. 
Baronne Prevost, fi. pleno. 
Caroline de Sansel, fl. pleno. 
General Washington. 
General Jacqueminot, fl. plena 
Gloire de Santenay. 
Jules Margottin. 



La Heine, fl. pleno. 
Ix)rd Raglan, pleno. 
Maurice Bemardin, fl. pleno. 
Sensteur Vaisse, fl. pleno. 
Souvenir de Beine d'Angleterfe. 
Triomphe de TExposition. 



BOUBBON R0SE8, — NOT ABSOLUTELY HABDT. 



Blanche Lafitte. 

Dr. Berthet 

Dnpelit Thouers. 

George Peabody, fl. pleno. 

La Quintrine. 

Monsieur Jard. 

Prince Albert 



Reveil. 

Sir J. Paxton. 
Souchet . 

Souvenir de Malmaison, fl. pleno. 
Louise Odier (these are especial- 
ly autumn roses). 



CHINESE BOSES. 



Archduke Charles. 

Cels Multiflore. 

Cramoisie Superieure, fl. pleno. 

Eugene Beauharaais. 

Fabvier. 

Madame Breon. 



Madame Bureau. 

Mad. Bosanquet, fl. plena 

Carmine Superb. 

Napoleon. 

President d'Olbecque. 

Prince Charies. 



These roses are most valuable for phinting in masses or in beds, 
where succession is wanted. 



820 FLOWKK-OABDEN. 

List of perenaials especially recommended by Mr. Parkman. 

Achillea, ptarmica, doable white. 

Aconitum Tereicolor, variegated blue and white, 

Aquilegia Alpina, blue and white. 

Aquilegia formosa plena, blue and maroon. 

Betonica grandiflora, rich purple. 

Cerastium tomentosum, pure white. 

Delphinium formosum celestinum, white and sky-blue. 

Dianthus florii, deep rose. 

Diclytra spectabilis, red and white. 

Funkia Sieboldii yariegata, blue variegated lea€ 

Gloxinia flowered Digitalis, white, with black and purple spots. 

Iberis caridifolia, pure white. 

Lychnis Haageana, scarlet and red. 

Lychnis viscaria splendens, deep vivid red, double. 

Platycodon grandiflora, blue, vexy large, drooping beUs. 

Platycodon Wahlenbergia, white, very full 

P}Tethrum Cameum, flesh-color, yellow centre. 



CHAPTER m. 

KITOHEN-GABDEN. 

The most important improvement connected with the kitchen 
garden, is the puhlication of '' The Field and Garden Vegetahles of 
America/' bj Fearing Burr, of Hingham, Mass. This is the most 
valuable contribution to horticultural literature for many years. 
Mr. Burr has not only collected into one volume a careful descrip- 
tion of all the vegetables which can be cultivated in this climate, 
but has grown most of them himself; so that we know that his 
judgment upon any particular variety is formed upon actual expe- 
rience. 

We iave long needed such a book, because the diversity of cli- 
mates and soils in this country permits the cultivation of a great 
variety of fruits and vegetables ; and yet but few persons can hope 
to know all the plants they might profitably cultivate. In this 
book of six hundred and forty pages, the reader will find all the 
genera of vegetables, and most of the species, with their character, 
value, and methods of culture, carefully described. 

Mr. Burr disagrees with the direction given in p. 625, ** Country 
Life," where the cultivator is directed not to tie up his tomato- 
plants, but to leave them on the ground until they are well grown, 
and then to work some meadow hay under them to protect the fruit. 
This practice is certainly the best in field culture, as obviously to 
make trellises of supports for an acre or two of tomatoes would be 
more troublesome and costly than the profit of the crop would war- 
rant In his article on the tomato, he advocates confining the vines 
to trellises, as a means of hastening the maturity of the crop. 

This seems very reasonable ; and as it is of the utmost importance 
to get tomatoes early, where early fruits may be expected, I will 
quote his directions for forcing the crop on p. 640 : " The ripening 
of the fruit may be hastened by setting the plants against a south 

69* 821 



822 KITOHKir««AKDlH. 

wall or olofiie fenoe : as the plants increase in size, they must he 
nailed or otherwise attached to the wall or fence ; and, if the weather 
\^ dry, liberally watered. When the first two trusses of bloom 
have expanded over each shoot, the shoot should be stopped by 
pinching off the portion which is beyond the leaf above the seoond 
truss, and no more lateral shoots should be suffered to grow ; but 
the leaves must be carefully preserved, especially those near the 
trusses of bloom. The numb^ of trusses on each plant will vaiy 
with the strength and vigor of the particular plant ; but three or 
four will be quite enough, leaving about half a doien trusses of 
fruit." 

*' As the fruit ripens, it must be well exposed to the sun. There 
will be nothing gained by allowing a great many fruit to ripen : 
the number above given will be sufficient, and the tomatoes will 
be much earlier and larger than if they were more numerous/' 

By growing them on trellises or within loops, supported by 
stakes, the vines can be more easily controlled, and the fruit more 
readily gathered. 

The best varieties are, for general field culture, the large red 
^•imato : this is the most productive variety, but not so early by a 
fortnight as White's Extra Early. " The plants are moderately vig- 
orous and readily distinguished by their peculiar, curled, and appa- 
rently withering foliage. In order to retain this or any other 
early variety in its purity, seed for planting should be saved 
from the smoothest, best-formed, and earliest-ripened fruit." 

In strawberry culture, there has been no material change. The 
practice recommended on p. 735, " Country Life," of growing it as 
an annual crop, is increasing, and is universally advocated by mar- 
ket-gardeners near Boston. Nor is there very much change in the 
varieties about Boston for market : Hovey's Seedling continues on 
the whole the favorite. Wilson's Albany, though more prolific, 
is too sour to be desirable, and the Jenny Lind lacks firmness of 
berry to stand transportation. 

Mr. W. H. Locke, a well-known market-gardener of Belmont, 
Mass., the headquarters of successful strawberry culture in New 
England, gives the following list of the strawberries cultivated in 
Belmont : — 



KITOHSN-OABDUi. 

Jenny Lind ; Early Virginia ; Gotter^B Seedling, a good bearer, 
hardy, bnt fruit too soft for market ; Brighton Pine, a fine berry, 
bat difficult to cultiTate; Wilson's Albany; Hovey's Seedling; 
Jenney's Seedling; Austin's Seedling; Triomphe de Gand; La 
Oonstante. 

The two latter are generally conceded to be the best of the im- 
ported varieties. Mr. Locke recommends for three varieties, Jen- 
ny Lind, Hovey's Seedling, and La Constante, ripening in the 
order in which I have named them ; La C9nstante exceeding the 
others in sweetness and flavor. 

A new berry, widely disseminated and highly praised, The 
Agriculturist, has not yet been sufficiently tried to enable one to 
speak definitely of its qualities ; it is claimed to be the best new 
strawberry : as there are many beds of them which will fruit this 
year, its merits will soon be known. 

Currants have been improved by two seedlings of Mr. Dana, of 
Rozbury ; but, for general use, the old Dutch currants continue to 
be favorites. There has been little change in the other small fruits : 
each year gives new varieties ; but there is no need to discuss them 
here. 

The profit attending the culture of the small fruits is strongly 
brought out in a report of the New-Jersey Fruit-growers' Associ- 
ation, published in 1864. 

This report gives the number of acres under strawberries in 
three towns, Burlington, Chester, Cinnaminson, as three hundred 
and fifty-four ; yielding 12,596 bushels strawberries, which were 
sold at the average price of three dollars and sixty cents per bushel. . 

^^ Two hundred bushels have been raised to the acre under favor- 
able circumstances; the common error is, not adapting the variety to 
the soil. Early Scarlet,' May'Queen, Iowa, Denner's Prolific, suc- 
ceed well in light sandy soil ; Triomphe de Gand, Scarlet Magnate, 
Lady's Finger, require rich and heavy soil. Set the vines, eighty 
thousand to an acre, beds three and a half feet wide, plants twelve 
inches apart, in rows five inches apart, eighteen inches between 
beds." 

They give the yield of raspberries on forty acres as an average 
of thirty-three bushels to the acre, sold at four dollars and sixty- 



824 KiTcmEN-eABPUi. 

foar cents per bushel The varieties grown were Old Pnrple Cane, 
two kinds Allen, KirtUnd, and Black. 

There were ninety-nine acres of blackberries, yielding an ayer- 
age of fifty-three bushels to the acre, sold at three dollars and 
thirty cents per bushel ; varieties grown were New Rochelle and 
Dorchester. 

An interesting fact elicited in connection with market-garden- 
ing is, that of all engaged in that occupation, twenty-five per 
cent get rich; twenty-five per cent make a living; twenty-five 
per cent just get along, and the remainder fail. There is no other 
occupation, not even general fanning, which gives so favorable a 
return to those who follow it 



CHAPTER IV. 

ORCHARD. 

There is little to say about the orchard, although there is no 
branch of my subject which possesses a wider interest. Near Bos- 
ton, cultivators, having met with so many discouragements in 
peaches, gave up their general culture ; but a few who have ob- 
served the theories and directions given in " Country Life/' pp. 
296-299, have found the peach steadily improve under their 
hands : and, during the past year, the peaches shown at the Bos- 
ton Horticultural Society were as fine as in the good old days, when 
every garden could boast of its abundant and perfect fruit. 
Throughout the West, the peach-crop failed. Occasional failure 
of peaches from late frosts, and from early warm weather in the 
spring, must ever be expected ; but where cultivators are careful 
to get healthy trees, and take good care of them, the peach will be 
found, one year with another, a very profitable crop. 

In Eastern New England, the apple-tree has been so infested 
with canker-worms for several years, that it seems almost impossible 
to secure a reasonable yield of fruit; and farmers are in many cases 
cutting dowii their trees to cultivate pears, grapes, and vegetables : 
but through the rest of the country, the apple continues to pay the 
grower perhaps better than any other kind of fruit. The lists 
already given of apples are as well suited to general culture as any. 
A meeting of eminent fruit-growers, in New York, to decide to 
what varieties of fruit the Greeley prizes should be awarded, gave 
the first premium, of a hundred dollars, to the Baldwin Apple. 
As the best six apples after the Baldwin for general culture, — 

For Summer — Red Astrachan, Primate. 
Autumn — Gravenstein, Porter. 
Winter — Northern Spy, Hubbardston. 

826 



826 OBCHABD. 

The same oommittee awarded die fint prize for pears to the 
Bartlett. Best six — 

For Summer — Manning^s Elisabeth, Best 
Autumn — Shelden, Seokel, 
Winter — Lawrence, Hovey. 

This committee of eight gentlemen, from different parts of Uie 
country, in making these selections were obliged to leave ont many 
first-rate varieties of fruit. They first agreed upon the points of 
excellence which a fruit should have to make it perfect ; and then 
classified the fruits in the order in which each variety covered the 
greatest number of these points. The result of their vote showed, 
that, in the judgment of the committee, no collection can be ccmi- 
plete which does not comprise at least twenty-four varieties of 
pears. 

In conclusion, I will give two receipts for grafting wax, which 
have been found very valuable by many persons. 

Db. Ward's beoeipt. — One part of tallow, two of wax, four 
of rosin; if too stiff, add tallow; too soft, rosin; keep bottled, and 
apply with a brush. 

Watson's begbipt. — Two parts of rosin, two of black pitch, 
one of white turpentine, one of tallow, one of beeswax ; apply when 
melted with a brush ; keep warm when using, in a bottle or jar of 
hot water. 

Liquid obaftino wax. — One pound rosin, five ounces ninety- 
five per cent alcohol, one ounce beef tallow, one tablespoon spirits 
turpentine ; melt the rosin over a slow fire; then take from the fire, 
and stir in the beef tallow with a perfectly dry stick or wire ; when 
cooled, add spirits turpentine, and last, the alcohol, in small quan* 
tities, stirring constantly ; if the alcohol cools too much, so that a 
lump forms, reheat until it melts. Keep it in a corked bottle, and 
lay it on with a brush. 



CHAPTER V. 

OBAPEBT. — OBAPBS, AND HOW TO QBOW THEM. 

I DO not intend to devote any space to the oulture of grapes 
under glass, as the directions previonslj given are sufficient ; but 
the interest in the oaltnre of out-of-door grapes has greatly in- 
creased : in every village there are many who now grow them for 
their own use or the market, and very many vineyards have been 
planted in different parts of the country in order to make wine. 

In California, grape culture and wine making seem as certain 
as any other kind of cultivation, whether owing to peculiarities of 
atmosphere or rarity of rains ; but east of the Rocky Mountains, 
the vine has suffered from a variety of enemies, which have proved 
in some cases too powerful to be overcome, until many vineyards 
have been pulled up, and the soil devoted to other purposes. 

Immense efforts have been made, and are now making, to find 
or produce some grape which will be hardy in all sections of the 
country, not liable to mildew and rot, and yrhich shall be sufficiently 
spirited for the table and sweet for wine. Several grapes have 
been propagated which it was hoped would prove all that could 
be desired, and have been very extensively sold; but none has 
yet proved equally valuable in all parts of the country. If 
such a grape can be found, it will be an incalculable benefit to the 
country ; but I think our cultivators ask too much, and have set 
too great a stint for themselves. 

No one grape has ever been the favorite in Europe, where there 
are a great variety of wines of entirely different qualities, and 
made from very dissimilar grapes. Some of the best wine-grapes 
prove very inferior for the table. 

Our country affords very dissimilar soils and climates for the 
vine; and if man, with hb infinite capability of self adaptation, 

827 



828 QKAPES, AND HOW 10 GROW THEM. 

finds it so difficult to move from the east to the west, and continae 
in the same health and vigor, do we not make an i]mreason&ble de- 
mand on the vine. 

The grape which would be perfectly satisfactory in the cool, 
changeable climate of New England, where we rarely have a hot 
moist interval in summer, so very common in Cincinnati, would 
find itself unable to contend with the Ohio climate ; whilst, on the 
other hand, a grape which would find in the long, hot summer of 
the West the time to develop and perfect its sugar, and to ripen 
its wood, would be crude and unripe here : it might make a fine 
wine on the Ohio, and a poor vinegar in the environs of Bostcm. 

Grapes have two distinct uses, — to be eaten, and to make wine; 
and their value as a crop in any locality depends on the manner in 
which they are to be consumed. Near cities and large towns, they 
are most valuable for the table. At five cents per pound net, grapes 
will sell in any city, if well grown and ripened, faster than they 
can be brought into the market. It is the rarest thing that we can 
buy a nicely flavored and well-ripened grape in our markets: 
there are plenty of sour, ill-ripened grapes, which are sold at five, 
ten J fifteen cents per pound, whilst the perfect article can rarely 
be purchased at any price. 

Supposing that a gardener should establish a vineyard solely to 
grow table-grapes ; grown to stakes or espaliers by any good method 
the fruit will average, when he gets a crop, ten to twenty- 
five pounds per vine, which at five cents per pound, and this 
generation will not see well-ripened, good quality of grapes at a 
less price, would give at least eighty-four cents net per vine. 

Setting the vines one to every forty-eight square feet would 
give nine hundred vines to the acre, or a net profit, under favor- 
able circumstances, in grapes of seven hundred and fifty-six dol- 
lars per acre. Such calculations and realisations as these are vety 
tempting, and certainly enough to stimulate an immense cultnxe. 
And it is to the fact that men have made money in grape^snltuie 
that we owe the increased interest in new varieties of the grvpe. 

With these figures before their eyes, men have established vine- 
yards with the reasonable belief that a great deal of money could 
be made ; and, when the heavy first-cost of starting the vineyard 



OBAPES, AND HOW TO GilOW THEH. 829 

has been iacurred, it is a great sorrow as well as loss to have the 
crops cut off by some insidious disease. 

Every new vine is asserted to have all the required virtues, and 
to be exempt from disease ; but in time it is found but little better 
than its predecessor. When the first edition of " Country Life " 
was prepared, the interest in grapes was commencing, and the 
" Concord " was the great favorite ; every thing was predicted for 
it : but so many fine grapes have been since produced, that it is 
difficult to decide which is really the best. 

In order, if possible, to ascertain what grape or grapes are really 
best for general culture in the Northern and Western States, and 
to enable me to succinctly state the most important facts about the 
vine and its culture, before commencing to write this article, I 
wrote to many of the leading cultivators of the grape in all parts 
of the country, asking them the same questions, as to best varie- 
ties, frequency and cause and cure of mildew and rot, best soil and 
method of pruning, and other similar questions. I have received 
a large number of replies embodying the most important informa- 
tion from Mr. Huseman, Hermann, Mo. ; Mr. Huidekoper, Mead- 
ville, Penn. ; Mr. Meehan, Philadelphia, Penn. j R. A. Grider, 
Bethlehem, Penn. ; J. A. Deliot, Sing Sing, N. Y. ; R. Buchanan, 
Cincinnati, ; Dr. Grant, lona Island, N. Y. ; Professor Silliman, 
New Haven, Conn. ; J. Fiske Allen, Salem, Mass. ; W. C. Strong, 
Brighton, Mass. ; and E. A Brackett, Winchester ; and the views 
which I shall give in the following pages are those in which all 
these gentlemen, or a majority of them, coincide. I do not propose 
to write a minute treatise on the vine, its propagation, profits, dis- 
eases, &c. I have no space in which to do so, nor does the able 
treatise of Mr. Andrew S. Fuller of New York leave much room 
for a new comer ; for the same reason, I cannot enter into any 
extensive discussion of varieties and various methods of treatment. 
I shall confine myself to the general plan of this book, and give a 
simple statement of what I esteem to be the best method of culti- 
vating the vine, a summary of the facts about its diseases, &c., 
and the most valuable varieties in which, as I have said before, 
these distinguished cultivators coincide. 

Many varieties of grape have been discovered which blossom 
70 



880 asAPn, anb how to osow ihbii. 

kte enough, and ripen early enough) to esoape froet ; so that tike 
chief enemies to grape-culture are blaek rot and mildew. The rot 
is more injurious at the West than the East } but, whereyer it 
exists, it is attributed to excessive moisture, either at the root, cr 
in the atmosphere, and to sudden changes of temperature. It la 
nearly sure to come with a hot, moist condition of the air ; and when 
these periods occur at the West, in the infancy of the berry, the crop 
is sure to be lost. There seems to be no cure for the disease, other 
than planting vines on high and dry land, and selecting those vari- 
eties of grapes whose constitution will not be affected by it Differ- 
ent grapes in the same vineyard will be affected differently, same 
varieties escaping entirely, when all the rest are ruined ; and singu- 
larly enough the grape ruined this year may escape next. The 
natural precaution is to plant in each vineyard several varieties of 
grape, selecting those which common experience has most often 
shown to have escaped the destroyer. In the East we are but littfe 
troubled by black rot. Professor Silliman finds the Catawba and 
Isabella rot in New Haven; Mr. W. C. Strong, the Catawba and 
Concord, in Brighton, Mass. ; and J. Fiske Allen, the Diana, in 
Salem, Mass. ; but these agree with other cultivators, that, at the 
East, the rot is not as yet a dangerous enemy. In Missouri, Mr. 
Huseman complains of the Catawba, IsabelU, Garugufo, and To 
Kalon, as most subject to rot and mildew; Mr. Buchanan, of the 
Catawba, Delaware, Norton, and Ives; Mr. Orider, Bethlehem, 
Penn., finds Concord, Maxataway, and Clinton very great sufferers, 
whilst the Franklin escapes from disease. On the Hudson at Sing 
Sing, Mr. Deliot finds Catawba, Anna, and Concord most injured. 
The West has suffered more because vineyards have been more 
extensively planted in that region, but every cultivator at the East 
has lost his crop at some time by blighting diseases. Mr. Grider 
states that vineyards frequently escape both mildew and rot for 
several years ; but at last their time comes nearly irrespective of 
locality and varieties of grape. Mildew seems to act very capri- 
ciously, attacking some plants standing near to each other in a vine- 
yard, and leaving others of the same variety, equally near each 
other, untouched ; sweeping off all the fruit from some variety, and 
leaving all of another uninjured ; whilst the next year it will affect 
the vines left uninjured this year, its former victims escaping. 



GSAP£8, AND HOW TO GROW THXM. 881 

What all the causes of mildew are is not yet asoertaiiued, ttiough 
some and the worst are well known. All agree that sudden changes 
of temperature, unequal currents of cold or warm air, radiation 
^m the leaves of the plants at night when the temperature becomes 
unusually cold, standing water about the roots of the plants, badly 
drained land, are sure to cause mildew ; or at least plants exposed 
to these conditions always suffer from mildew. 

It is possible, in the oold or warm grapery, when the vines are 
growing rapidly and the temperature is high, to produce mildew in 
a few hours by leaving the sashes open so as to bring rapid cur- 
rents of cold air over the surface of the leaves, but mildew under 
glass may be checked and removed by the free use of sulphur 
dusted over the leaves, and exposed on the flues. Brushing the 
vine over before it commences to grow with a mixture of sulphur 
and lime-water is found to be very beneficial. Under glass, none 
but careless persons need suffer from mildew ; but sulphur applied 
out of doors is of doubtful benefit, for in the open ground we can- 
not control the currents of air. 

Professor Silliman, reasoning from the effects of cold currents 
of air in graperies, and from the fact that vines growing on fences 
or house walls rarely mildew where there is a projecting roof ov«r 
them which moderates nocturnal radiation, believes that this disease 
can be controlled by planting vines against such supports as will 
enable us to throw out a light roof or shelter over the top of the 
vine, thus checking or retarding upward currents of air, and reduc- 
ing the radiation. This would be beneficial, but it does not cover 
another class of causes. Mr. Allen of Salem has frequently found 
grapes out of doors ruined by mildew after being enveloped for 
twenty-four hours in a dense fog, against which no projecting roof 
would be any defence. 

Others of the gentlemen I have referred to have found that 
those vines are sure to be the victims of mildew which are of 
weakly habit of growth, whether produced by over-pruning, over- 
bearing, moisture, sterility of soil, or currents of air; and here I 
think lies the root of the matter, — mildew is a consequence of 
enfeebled vitality ; the seeds or spores of this fungus are always 
floating in the air, ready to take root and develop whenever a suit- 



882 O&AFBS, AND HOW TO GROW THSM. 

able soil is ready for them : we all know that any vegetable matter 
laid in a damp and ill-ventilated place will become mouldy \erj 
quickly. Vegetation aoffere from fongitic growth, whenever any 
cause renders it sickly, weakens its vitality, suddenly checks its 
vital processes^ whether currents of air, nocturnal radiation, or ex- 
cessive moisture. As soon as the vine ceases to progress or main- 
tain its integrity, it commences to decay ; for growth and decay are 
simultaneous processes in all living matter, the animal absorbing 
oxygen and giving out carbon at the same time, and the plant doing 
just the opposite. When therefore from any cause you cheek the 
advancing processes of vegetation, you uncover the decaying pro- 
cesses to the seeds of the fungus, which is mildew or mould. If 
the vine's progress is but momentarily arrested, it may start on 
again, and suffer but little, its leaves perhaps become spotted ; but, 
if the adverse condition is continued long enough, the leaves and 
fruit are both blighted. f 

We therefore see that there are two methods for us to pursue 
with the hope of ultimate success : first, so to arrange the vine- 
yard that its aspect, shelter, soil, moisture, shall afford to the vine 
a perfect condition of health ; second, as we can rarely insure all 
these conditions, we must try to produce vines of such varieties 
as shall have particularly hardy constitutions, and be in them- 
selves able to resist adverse influences. 

It is a mistake in growing new varieties, which we may hope will 
be able to resist mildew, ftc, to suppose that the wild grape of 
any portion of the country is the best stock to commence with, 
because sometimes wild grapes suffer from these diseases, quite 
as much as cultivated ; during the last year, for instance, wild 
grapes in many parts of the country were entirely cut off by mildew. 
Wc must follow the same plan which cultivators of other plants have 
proved to be the best, propagate from the best cultivated varieties 
you can get, for cultivation brings with it new diseases and condi- 
tions, and the best cultivated varieties will have overcome many 
dangers, which will threaten new comers from the field and forest. 

These considerations enforce the importance of seeking new va- 
rieties of grape adapted to particular localities ; the climate of the 
East may be expected to attack vines from the West, and vice 



GBAPBS, AND HOW TO GBOW THEM. 833 

versa; and, whilst we may reasonably expect to produce a vine per- 
fectly adapted to one district where the conditions are always rel- 
atively the same, it is almost impossible to believe that one can 
be foxmd whose constitution can equally resist the unfavorable 
influlnces of climates and atmospheres of widely separated loca- 
lities. 

I will now give a list of the grapes which the gentlemen I have 
referred to believe to be the best for the part of the country in 
which they reside. The following are the six grapes on which the 
greatest number of persons have united ; perhaps if a still larger 
number of persons were consulted the verdict might be different ; 
but these gentlemen are well-known authorities in horticulture, 
and their opinion is as likely to be fair as that of any other set 
of men. 

1. Delaware — Grant, New York ; Silliman, Connecticut ; Strong, 
Allen, Brackett, Massacbusetts ; Huidekoper, PeDnsylvama ; Huseman, 
Missouri ; a quali6ed commendation, Meehan, Deliot, in rich soils, Bu- 
chanan (10). 

2. Concord* — Silliman, Huidekoper (thinks it vigorous, prolific, but 
crude), Hoseman, Meehan, Deliot (in poor soil), Grider, Buchanan (7). 

3. loNA — Grant, Silliman, Strong, Allen, Brackett, Deliot fall Eas- 
tern men), (6). 

4. Diana — Ghrant, Strong, AUen, Htiidekoper, Meehan (6). 

5. Allen's Hybrid — Silliman, Strong, Allen (Eastern) (3). 

6. Crevelling — Strong, Brackett, Meehan (3). 

Clinton — Meehan, Deliot (poor soil), Grider (Middle States). 
Hartford Prolific — Silliman, Huseman, Grider. 

This tabular view shows us that the Delaware is a favorite in all 
parts of the country, to which may be added the opinion of Mr. 
Fuller, who in his " Treatise on the Grape " says, " It (the Delaware) 
is a purely native variety, and probably a seedling of the Catawba, 
or one of that group." " If I could have but one variety for my 
own use it certainly would be the Delaware, as it is the highest fla- 
vored native grape known." " All that it requires is a good rich 
soil, with fair culture, to produce the best results." 

"Bunch and berries of a medium size, skin thin of a beautiful 
dark red color when ripe, flesh tender and juicy and scarcely any 
70» 



884 e&APXS, AHP BOW to €»0W thxx. 

palp, ezoeedinglj sweet, but still brisk and yioous, never dojiag 
to the taste, vine very hardy, moderately vigorons and produetiTe, 
ripens the first of September/' 

Mr. Hnseman of Missouri, whose first fayorite is the Concord, 
says, " The first season the Delaware attracted great attentAn by 
its fruitfolness, seemingly healthy habit, and excellent quality oi its 
fruit; but the two following seasons it has been badly affected by 
leaf blight, and seems too feeble and delicate in its habit to be- 
come a paying fruit here compared with others." 

The Concord, which is second in number of advocates, is a 
hardy, vigorous, and productive gr^>e, though found to be more 
liable to rot and mildew. than some of the other grapes. Ito fine 
color, a rich deep purple, and largish berries make it a very attzae- 
tive market fruit, for which it will be a favorite until purchasers 
shall learn to discriminate in buying between looks and flavor, as 
its juicy, pulpy, sometimes acid and foxy, though thin-skinned 
berry is decidedly inferior in table qualities to several other varie- 
ties ; it ripens from 10th to 20th September. Mr. Huseman finds 
it the best grape in Missouri for table and market, and third for 
wine purposes. 

Third, the lona, which is also a seedling of the Catawba, which 
Mr. Fuller '* considers the most promising of all the new varietieB; 
the vine is strong, vigorous, short-jointed, and hardy ; berries large, 
round, semi-transparent when they begin to ripen, growing opaque 
as the color deepens; skin thin, pale red, with deep small red veins 
at first, changing to dark red when fully ripe ; flesh tender with 
very little pulp; sweet brisk flavor ; ripens 10th to 20th September. 

Fourth, Diana. This grape has been twenty-eix years before the 
public, and has been always praised ; but owing to its being more 
tender than some varieties, and more liable to rot and mildew, it 
does not rank as high as formerly; medium-sised branches; me- 
dium-sized, though often uneven berry, pale red with thick skin; 
flesh tender though more pulpy than the two former ; keeps well 
after being gathered ; ripens from 15th to 30th September. 

Fifth, Allen's Hybrid is considered to be a cross between our 
native and the foreign grape. Bunches medium to large ; berries 
round, good sized; skin thin, amber-colored; flesh tender, pulpless; 



ORAPJSS, AMD HOW TO GBOW TIUM. 835 

very fine vinous flavor; ripens Ist of September; rather tender, 
needing some covering to thrive in the Northern half of the 
Northern States, therefore not so good for the vineyard unless in 
well-protected situations. 

Sixth, Crevelling. This is a Pennsylvania variety of grape 
which is very highly praised by those who have cultivated it, but 
has not been generally cultivated. Berries round, black, rather 
large; flesh juicy, sweet, and rich flavored; good bearer, vine 
hardy and vigorous ; ripens from 5th to 20th September. 

For the eastern half of the Northern States this list is undoubt- 
edly all that one can wish who only proposes to plant half a dozen 
varieties ; there are many others very popular and doubtless very 
valuable. First, the Adirondac, a seedling of the Isabella, which 
Mr. Brackett of Winchester, Mass., places second in his list of 
grapes. Bunches large ; berries large ; skin thin, nearly black, 
with a delicate bloom ; flesh tender, little pulp, sweet flavored ; 
ripens 1st to 20th September. Strong and vigorous grower. Sec- 
ond, Israella, seedling of Isabella, much like the Adirondac, ri- 
pens 1st to 10th September. Third, Rogers No. 15, which some 
cultivators think the best of the new seedlings ; bunch rather large ; 
berries loose, large, round, amber-colored, tender, juicy, pulpless, 
rich flavor, earlier than the Concord ; vine vigorous and but little 
affiected by mildew. This grape is constantly increasing in favor ; 
but the great number, more than forty seedlings, grown by Bog- 
ers tends to create confusion, and some of the inferior varieties 
have been taken for No. 15, which has injured its reputation. 

As we get farther West there is less unanimity of sentiment as 
to the six best grapes, because of the greater number of varieties 
which thrive in the different localities, and the smaller interest 
felt by cultivators in comparing and testing their individual expe- 
riences. 

Mr. Huseman, of Missouri, recommended in an essay published 
by him in 1863, — for wine, Norton's Virginia, Herbement, Con- 
cord ; for table and market. Concord, Herbement, Hartford Proli- 
fic, Blood's Black, Union V ilhige, North-Carolina seedling, or Mary 
Ann. 

I should consider any cultivator unwise who should stock a vine- 



OSAPSS, AND HOW TO GBOW THKM. 

yard of whateyer aiie with one or two yarietiea : he Bhonld hare 
at least half a doien, in order to take advantage of all eircom* 
Btanees ; but where one can grow only a single vine on some fence, 
house- wall, or post, then let him select of the foregoing six Tarie- 
ties the one he prefers, sure that it will be as good as any gn^ 
yet discovered. 

Leaving the varieties, we will now come to methods of enltiva- 
tion. The first condition of success is thorough drainage; and 
whether the vine is to be in a city area or a country vineyard, no 
one can have reasonable hope of success who does not thoroughly 
secure good drainage. 

Where otherwise there is no appearance of surplus moisture, a 
close, clayey subsoil almost prohibits success, as it is, like the cop- 
per bottom of a basin, almost impervious to moisture } and a suddoi 
summer rain which does not appear on the surface may be collect- 
ed in the subsoil like a pond, and give the vine, by its cold evapo- 
rations, a sudden check and mildew. 

Second, Soil. Many specific soils have been recommended for 
grapes ; in the grapery under glass, whether the border be with> 
in the house or outside, the soil and border must be rich, as the 
roots are compelled to draw their support from a limited surface. 
In garden or field culture, the best soil is a light rich loam, which 
must be thoroughly worked by trenching or subsoiling. If it is 
rich, it is an advantage to have a tendency to sand, and that a rich 
soil is rather stony is in its favor. 

If the soil is poor, it must be enriched by well-rotted barnyard 
manure or special manures, of which the two best are ground bone, 
ashes and gypsum. 

Third, Situation. First let it be sheltered, to reduce as far as 
may be the injurious sweep of cold winds. The garden or the 
vineyani. protected on the north, west, and east by high ever- 
green woods and hedges, is most likely to be healthy. When 
a side-hill well sheltered, and with the other conditions se- 
cured, can be obtained, it is the best, as the atmospheric conditions 
are more uniform, there is loss tendency to stagnation of air, 
cold currents, and low temperature than on level land. 

When a vineyard is to be made on a side-hill, select the side 



GRAPES, AND UOW TO QBOW IHSM. 887 

fiioing east or south if possible, the west last, and north not at all, 
as it does not receire sufficient sun early and late in the day or in 
the year to give the vine its necessary stimulus. 

If vines are to be grown in city areas, where the soil is on the 
shady side of the yard, procure a vine with a long cane, plant on 
the shady side, and lay the cane down under the bricks or flags of 
the yard, and bring it up on the sunny side ; or plant your vine, and 
let grow the first season as long a cane as will ripen its wood ; 
then stop it, and lay it down as before. You will also gain in this 
way more active root-surface, as the vine under the bricks or walk 
will root freely, and will obtain a much larger feeding ground : if 
the soil is rich and well drained, the roots will thrive under the 
pavement about as well as in the open ground -, they will be pro- 
tected from the direct evaporation, and, if they get less direct rain, 
will lose less by evaporation. 

Fourth, How to plant. Prepare the ground thoroughly, not 
merely where you are to set the vine, but the entire surface to be 
used for the culture; by deep spading or trenching (see pp. 88, 89, 
C. L.), adding at that time such manure as you desire, carefully 
incorporating it with the soil. The soil ready, dig your holes 
eight feet apart, three feet in diameter, in rows six feet apart, deep- 
est on the edges, say one foot on the circumference, shoaling to six 
inches in the centre, which enables one to spread the roots evenly, 
and give their ends a suitable downward tendency. When you 
plant in the open ground, set the stake in the centre of the hole 
first, lest it should injure the roots by being thrust in afterwards. 
Select good red cedar, locust, chestnut stakes, about three inches 
square or diameter ; char the lower three and one-half feet ; then 
drive them in three feet deep, leaving seven feet projecting above 
the surface } then set the vine, first softening the surface around 
the stake on the surface of the hole with a hand fork, as directed 
4m pp. 157 to 160, " Country Life." 

Select in preference two or three year old plants, and, before set- 
ting them, prune their roots carefully, and cut the cane back to 
four or six buds ; after planting, leave the surface of the ground 
fine and smooth ; if you plant in the fall, cover the ground with 
well-rotted top-dressing of manure, dravring the mulch or some 



838 oaAPJSS, and how to grow tbxm. 

earth about the stem to protect buds ; during the first seaaon, the 
yines which grow feebly should be stimulated with liquid maaure 
or guano, in order that all may be equally ready for pruaiiig 
and training the second year. 

If the vines are to be grown on espaliers, you may make the 
whole espalier when you set the vines, or only set the posts^ leav- 
ing the completion of the espalier for the time when it is needed. 
Where the vines are to be trained on walls or fences, there will be 
no need of any long stakes. Light stakes one inch square may 
be set as a support for the vine for the first year or two. 

When the buds break after planting, select the strongest, and mb 
off the other buds that all the strength may go into it, and, when 
it has made a few inches' growth, cut off the naked stem of the re- 
maining old cane an inch or two above the new shoot : this shoot 
may be left to trail over the grobnd, or be tied up to the stake. 
About the first of August, pinch off the end of' the cane to 
check its growth and ripen the wood. One or two new eyes may 
break below ; if so, when they have grown a few joints, pi&eh 
them ; the vine may now be left until time for pruning. The best 
season for pruning is from the fall of the leaf to the middle of 
winter. 

It is best for all young vines to be lightly corered with 
some kind of litter during the first winter ; and therefore conve- 
nience will induce "one to prune before the cold sets in. Cut 
away the long cane, leaving two buds at any rate, and, to avoid acci- 
dents, it will be well to leave three or four. In the spring, before the 
vines have started, you can rub off the weaker buds. Saye the 
canes you cut off to propagate new vines. 

If your ground is not rich enough to maintain a permanent vine- 
yard, top-dressing of manure may be dug in between the rows ; 
best do this in the fall, and use well-rotted maaure, as green ma- 
nure, or too much of it, is likely to over-stimulate the growth when 
applied in the spring, driving the yine too much to wood, produ- 
cing larger but not so well-flayored fruit. 

We are now ready to start on the second year of the yine, and 
must commence by deciding in what way our vine is to be pmned. 
Experience has shown that yines left to themselves will grow 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GBOW TUBM. 889 

every year longer, and farther from the ground, with a long inter* 
yal of naked stem of no possible good, at the top of which is the 
new growth and the fruit ; and where the vine is lefl to run un- 
pruned, the fruit will be large and fine at the top of the vine, and 
nearly worthless below. Pruning, therefore, is simply a process 
by which man brings the fruit-bearing portion near the ground, 
saving labor, and, as it proves, increasing the crop, by compelling 
the sap to feed all the fruit-bearing buds alike, producing fruit 
equally good in all portions of the vine. This is the principle ; the 
application has varied with different cultivators, but the vari- 
ations are easily reducible to two : the long-cane system, in which 
the vine throws up a cane this year which bears fruit next, and 
at the same time produces a second cane ; next year the fruit- 
bearing cane of this year is cut out, and the succeeding or third 
year the cane of the second year bears fruit, and makes a new 
cane to replace the fruit-bearing cane of the same year. I will 
dispose of this method at once, by saying that although it has 
some advantages it is wasteful, more troublesome and inferior to 
the second system or spur-pruning. On pp. 116, 117, 118, you 
have the cuts of the method of spur-pruning applied to the grape- 
vine as it is carried along the ra^rs of the grapery : the prin- 
ciple is the same when enforced out-of-doors, though the man- 
agement is different ; but even though I may repeat myself I shall 
go through the treatment of the Vine for the first four years. 

Having decided upon spur-pruning, we must next decide 
whether the vines are to be grown on posts or espaliers, and we 
should remember that the wall of a house or a fence are the same 
as espaliers. It has been found best, in order to secure the greatest 
amount of fruit with the least expenditure of vital force, and to 
insure the even breaking of all the buds and a uniform supply 
of fruit, to bend the vine considerably out of the perpendicular, 
as thereby we retard the sap, and are enabled to produce uni- 
formity in the length of the new wood, which insures an equal 
distribution of sap to all parts of the vine, and therefore a uni- 
form development and quality of fruit. 

When vines are to be grown upon espaliers, the first step is to 
produce for the second year canes which can be bent at a consid- 



840 



ORAPIS, AKD HOW TO GBOW TIUEM. 



erable angle, if not a right angle, and carried along the espalier ; 
the posts of the espalier being set eight feet apart, the vines maj 
be set opposite them or half way between : in either case it will 
have eight feet in length bj one-half the height to cover with 
fruit-bearing wood, and the simple problem is how this maj be 
most perfectly done. 

By referring to the plan annexed, you will see the method of 
pruning and training for several years ; after the fourth year the 
method of pruning is the same, unless spurs become too old or 
chance to lose their buds, in which case they must be cut back 
to the arm. In time the arms themselves get too old to produce 
as vigorous fruit as when younger ; in that event cut one out at 
the fork, when a new one can be developed from many latent or 
concealed buds which are always present at the base of buds 
formerly developed and removed, and which will grow whenever 
there is a chance ; after one arm is renewed treat the other in the 
same manner. 




Fig. 1. 



To return to our vine with four buds Icfl at the commencement 
of the second year, let the two most vigorous buds grow, and 
rub off the others ; as they grow, bend them down to the ground, 
or tie them to stakes, keeping them always very carefully bent. 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM.' 841 

Pinch the vines when they have made five feet growth ; prune them 
back to four feet in the autumn, and laj them down and cover 
them up as the first year. At the commencement of the third year 
tie them to the espaliers at A and C ; the buds will break at each 
eye ; rub off all but those you wish to preserve, and .tie them up 
to the espalier as they grow ; when they have made three to four 
feet growth pinch them ; they will then be in the condition shown 
by the left side of C. Prune them to two buds ; besides these two 
buds, B and C, shown in fig. 8, there will be several base 
buds, D, E, F ; leave them all until spring. 

In pruning the vine this and succeeding years be careful to cut 
the right hand-spurs so that they will indine to grow to the left, 
and the lefl vice versa, to ensure the espaliers shall be covered 
evenly, — this is best effected by leaving that bud as terminal for 
growth which has the right inclination. 





Plate No. 2 shows the condition of the buds on the arms 
at the end of the second year. Plate No. 8 at the end of the 
third year. 

The fourth year there will be two shoots, one starting from 
B or E, plate No. 13, for fruit ; and one for growth of new 
cane from C, D, or F, according to which of these buds is the 
strongest and has the best inclination ; all other buds but the tivo 
will be rubbed off. B, in plate No. 1, shows on its left side 
the conditio^ of the vine at the end of the fourth year, and on 
its right, when pruned at the commencement of the fifth. 
71 



842 



QKAFEA, AND HOW TO (IROW THKM. 




Fig. 4. . 



Plate No. 4 shows the con- 
dition of the spurs at the end 
of the fourth year, the right hand 
cane B developed from bud £, in 
fig. 3, and produced ftnit; and 
cane D was developed from bud D 
in same plate, which was the 
strongest of the base buds ; afler the 
cane B had grown two buds beyond 
the fruit, it was pinched, and D was 
pinched at three feet ; in the au- 
tumn, all the fruit-bearing spurs 
I were cut off at H, in ^. 4, and 
' the other shoitened back to two 
buds of base. 

Remember that the object of this 
method is to keep the spurs short hs possible, by constantly bring- 
ing up the new canes from as near the arm as the buds will per- 
mit. When the vine is pruned in the autumn, it is safe to leave 
one more bud than we mean to retain to enable us to cut it off 
later in the year, when the frost of winter may have chilled the 
upper bud ; as I have said in another part of this book, the prun- 
ing should always be made midway of an interuodc to leave a bit 
of cane above the bud as its protector. 

Plate No. 1, at D, shows the vine at the end of the fifth, 
and pruned for the commencement of the sixth year : there 
is a difference between A and B, C and D, in that B and D are 
trained on the upper half of the trellis ; to get the vine up the 
extra height, generally requires another year. When at the be- 
ginning of the second year the two buds grow into two shoots, 
and are bent down, in order to produce B and D, we remove one 
shoot and carry it up to the place where it is wanted, stop it a little 
beyond, and, when ripened, prune the wood back to the point at 
which you wish to have it commence growing the third year, rub- 
bing off all the buds below ; from that time the treatment is the 
same as A and C. 

This method enables one to carry a vine on the side of a house 
or as high as he desires, and spread it where he wants it, either 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GROW THEM. 848 

to get it into the sun or out of the way of thieves : this method 
of pruning once fairly understood, the cultivator can do what he 
pleases, carry his vine where he pleases ; if he wants to lay a 
tender vine down and cover it each year, he can carry one cane 
the second year diagonal to the espalier, and the third year carry 
out his spur from one arm instead of two ; then, when the fall 
oomes, he can untie the vine and cover it as he thinks best. When 
vines are grown on walls or houses singly, they may be allowed to 
make longer arms and spurs than when in vineyards, as the vine 
has more room for its roots to feed. 

Plate number five shows a spur 
which has grown too old and clumsy 
to give vigorous canes and the best of 
fruit : remove it at the line A^B^ but 
not smooth with the wood, as the la- 
tent buds are more readily developed 
from the base of the spur, a little 
above the arm, than from the surface 
of the arm itself. 
*^' ' Espaliers for the support of the 

vine are but rarely used in the vineyard, where it is usual to tie 
the vines to stakes. The vines are allowed to grow about six feet 
high, and are then stopped, and pruned according to the short- 
spur system. This is cheaper, and very oflen a more convenient 
method ; but, unless the vine is twisted, in order to retard the flow 
of sap, the upper buds will be over stimulated, and produce the 
best fruit. There are many ways for doing this, but by far the best 
is that practised by Mr. E. A. Brackett, of Winchester, 
who, taking the two eyes and canes of the second year, 
winds them in opposite directions in a spiral around 
his stake, keeping the two canes about four inches 
apart, and stops the growth by pinching when the 
vine has reached the top of the stake. The spiral 
vine is in much the same oondition as the horizontal, 
and is pruned by the short spur method. A secondary 
advantage -of this method is, that as the vines acquire 
age, they become rigid, and ultimately can dispense 
with a stake. 





844 0RAPB8, A2n> HOW TO OBOW THEM. 

How long yineB oan oontinae to be pruned in this manner ^nd 
yield profitable crops has never been aeoertained. Bat there ai« 
some in Europe more than one hundred years old, still bea ring 
vigorously every year. As vines acquire age and stretch tlieir 
roots indefinitely, they could be allowed to carry out their arras 
much farther, and in such cases the alternate vines should be re- 
moved to give room on the espaliers to the remainder. As the eost 
of vines in the new vineyard is large, the proprietor should, na 
far as possible, propagate his own vines ; and I should not do jus- 
tice to this subject, were I to leave it without briefly setting beibre 
the reader the best methods for their propagation. 

If our object is to get new varieties, plant the seed selected 
from well-grown and perfectly ripe grapes of the variety to be coi- 
tivated. The seed must be kept from drying, or their vitality will 
be injured, which may be prevented by drying the grape into a 
raisin, which will keep the seeds moist until spring, or by plant- 
ing them in the fall, in open seed-beds, or boxes of loam, or sand, 
which are to remain under cover : as grape seeds very often do 
not germinate until they have been in the ground two years, the 
cultivator must leave the bed in which he plants them undisturbed 
for two years, unless as many vines come up the first year as he 
wishes. The seed should be sowed in drills one foot apart, seed 
three inches apart, and half an inch deep : plant in a light, rich, 
loamy soil ; when the seedlings come up, shade the young foliage 
in its infancy from the scorching rays of the sun ; the plants will 
soon grow strong enough to need no protection ; they may be al- 
lowed to grow together in a mass until fall. When they have made a 
few leaves, tie the little plants up to small sticks, and pinch them 
after they have made six or eight good buds ; in the fall take them 
up, cut back the wood to four eyes, leave the tap-root of a moderate 
length, and either plant them at once in rows four feet apart, plants 
four feet apart in the row, or cover them up, tops and all, in a 
trench until spring ; if they are planted out, they should be cov- 
ered with a protection of light litter until spring. In the spring 
tie them up, and let them run from four to six feet, then stop them, 
and cut them back in <the autumn to four eyes, when they will be 
ready to be set out in a permanent position. The fruit continues 



GBAPXS, AND HOW TO OBOW THBM. 845 

to ifuprove for several years, so that it is not possible, until the vine 
is mature, to decide upon the saocess of the experiment. 

But if you want to increase the number of plants of the kinds 
you now have, it must be done by cuttings, either of a single eye 
or of several eyes, or by layers. In layering the vine, you do 
not need to tongue it as is directed on p. 289. When it is laid down 
under the soil, it will root at every bud, and if the buds are near 
the surface, each eye will break and throw up a cane ; when well 
rooted, cut the layer off the main stem, and treat like a new vine. 

Single eyes will give the greatest number of plants in the short- 
est time. Gut buds off with a piece of the intemode on each 
side as in plate 12, taking them from wood of the last year's 
growth : you may set the bud in that condition in the soil, covering 
the bud about a quarter of an inch; or you may slice off the lower 
part of the wood under the eye, nearly or quite to the pith; or 
you may cut the bud away from the intemode at the upper end, and 
taper the lower end, leaving it an inch or two long. In the first 
two cases the bud is laid horizontally on the earth, in the top of 
the pot, and then covered over ; in the other the pointed end is 
pressed down into the earth in an oblique direction, until the bud 
is covered as deeply as before. On p. 292 of " Country Life," 
you will find its after-treatment indicated. It is quite necessary 
in order to succeed with single eye cuttings to have bottom heat 
until the plants have gol well established, when they may be potted 
off into small pots, or be at once set in an open frame or bed in 
the ground, to be treated like seedlings. You can get bottom heat 
by the hotbed where there is no greenhouse. 

Cuttings of two or more eyes may be set at first in the open 
ground : when the vines are pruned in the fall, cut the prunings 
into two, four, or six buds, according to the number of plants you 
need ; two will answer. Pack them in sand or loam, and keep them 
during the winter where they will be moist, or bury them in the 
garden ; prepare the cuttings by removing the wood smoothly at 
the base of the lower bud, and two inches above the top of the 
upper bud. In the spring make a trench of good soil, with a slop- 
ing side deep enough to take the cuttings ; set them in four to six 
inches apart, and cover all but the top eye with soil ; return all the 
71* 



846 OEAPIS, AND HOW TO GBOW THSM. 

earth back, and press it compactly about the entdngs. If tbe 
weather should be very diy, occasioBally watering to keep the 
ground moist might be necessary ; they will yery soon oomm^ee 
growing, and frequently make three to six feet the first year. Tie 
them to stakes as they grow, and pinch the end^ of the vine as in 
other cases ; in the autumn take them up, prune back to four 
buds ; you will find roots have started out from each bud which 
was below the ground ; cut off the rooUstem below the strongest 
roots, and then cover the vines till spring, or set them in their 
proper places. 

AnoUier method of increasing vines is to graft old or worthksa 
stocks with new varieties ; the method in '< Country Life/' on p. 
562, is not the best; it has been proved that grafting the root or 
lower part of the stem by the deft method is more successful, cut- 
ting the vine off just below the sur&ce of the ground, or as near 
it as is convenient, using but one scion of one year's wood, shaping 
it as you would an apple^cion : insert it so as to bring the edge of 
the inner back of the scion and root together ; cover the head with 
grafting clay, or merely return the earth close about it. Mr. 
Fuller recommends, when this is done in the autumn, setting an 
inverted pot over the top of the scion to protect it when we re- 
move the covering in the spring, and then to cover the whole 
with earth and litter. 

Cuttings may be made of the immature wood, but they are 
more troublesome, and some think can never make healthy vines, 
though there is no reason why they should not, after they once 
become established ; the cutting is made and treated as is de- 
scribed on p. 284 to 286 ; cut a piece of the vine with two eyes 
upon it; cut away the cane smoothly below the lower eye, and a 
short distance above the upper, leaving the leaf that is opposite 
the upper eye ; the cane should be taken off smoothly below in 
order to offer as large and smooth a surface of the cambium layer 
as possible, out of which the new roots will be emitted ; set these 
cuttings in pots like that shown on p. 284, and -treat as is there 
described ; when they are well rooted, transplant to open beds, 
frame, or small pots, and treat them as heretofore described. 

With these directions I must leave the subject, believing that I 



GRAPES, AND HOW TO GBOW THSM. 847 

have simply and succinctly stated threading facts, and given the 
important directions about the vine which will enable any earnest 
person to cultivate grapes successfully. There will be, of coarse, 
many questionings occurring to evety one which I have not answer- 
ed ; many cases to which my directions do not seem to apply ; but I 
have given the principles, which, like the foot rule, may be applied 
by intelligence to all oases. 

Different localities will require different treatments, and will be 
exposed to very dissimilar obstacles; men who live near great 
sheets of water, as on the islands in Lake Erie, will be able to 
grow grapes with a perfection unknown to the main land, the great 
body of water producing a more equable condition of atmosphere. 
The vineyard on a side-hill or upland will escape some of the trials 
which annoy those in valleys; but each grape-grower will learn 
how best to contend with his own enemies, and at length sufficient 
knowledge will be gained to enable us to overcome the principal 
obstacles to grape-culture. Before many years, we may reasonably 
hope to see grapes adapted to every locality, which will funish an 
abundance of fruit and wine. 



CHAPTER VL 

THE FARM. 

DtJBiNO the past six years, there bave been many improTements 
in farming tools and Bt4>ck ; by the aid of improved tools, the old 
men, women, and children of the Northern United States haye 
coltivated and harvested full crops, with as mnoh ease as the entire 
male population before the war, and with greater profit. 

I shall not -recount the changes in tools, for they are still pro- 
gressing, and the tools which are seemingly perfect this year may 
be surpassed next : in '^ Country Life,'' I described and gave an 
illustration of a very excellent mowing and reaping machine, which 
is antiquated now ; and the same would be true in a few years of 
the best mower or reaper of the present day. Great as the ad- 
vances have been, there is an immense field stiU open in the appli- 
cation of steam-power to cultivation : many steam-ploughs, field 
and road engines, have been invented, but none which can do the 
work with sufficient economy. The time is near when all the woik 
of the farm will be done by steam : the farmer will make a fire 
under his engine, get up steam, ride to his field, plough, harrow, 
hoe his crop, cut and harvest his hay and grain, gather 4t into 
wagons, and move it away by steam ; nor would such power re- 
duce the value of cattle and horses, or the rates of labor. Noth- 
ing in human economy is more remarkable than that eveiy 
simplification of process, every invention of labor-saving machin- 
ery, has increased the demand for labor, and the rate of wages. 
The Spanish Proverb says, " It takes a mine to work a mine ; " 
and it certainly takes a machine to repair and utilize each new 
machine, and men to supervize, control, and use them. 

The improvement in stock-breeding has been in sheep, rather 
than cattle. The greatly increased demand for wool for the past 
six years has made sheep more valuable than formerly, and of 

i 84S 



THS FARM. 849 

course as fast as sheep become important, men try to develop 
them into their most yaluable form and condition. 

Wise sheep-breeders have been at work for twenty years, lay- 
ing the foundation of the new and improved varieties of sheep, 
and were ready to meet the inquiry for them, when they were 
.wanted ; and, stimulated anew by the rapid and profitable sales 
they made of their improved animals, they have continued breed- 
ing with care until we now have an American merino sheep,* 
which is better than any other variety of sheep for wool, and 
although carefully bred from Spanish imported stock, have so 
far outstripped their progenitors that our sheep are carried from 
America back to Europe to give the flocks there fresh start and 
better blood. 

What variety of sheep is best for this whole country cannot 
be settled in a word. There are many considerations latterly over- 
looked by sheep-breeders, which will yet qualify the estimation 
in which the merino is held, and which will raise other varieties, 
if not to its level, to at least a very high point in the general 
estimation. 

Sheep are valuable for mutton and wool ; and the greatest profit 
seems certainly to lie in a sheep which will make the best and 
most mutton, and the best and most wool, at the same time. With 
the usual enthusiasm of Americans, who believe that what is good 
for one part of the country must be for the whole, some breeders 
have assumed, that, with sufficient care and time, such a sheep 
may be produced. 

But there are certain hidisputable facts which contradict this 
theory : all sheep do not produce the same kind of wool ; there is 
as much difference between the wool of a merino and Leicester or 
Cots wold as between the feathers of a turkey and eider-down. 
The merino wool, whether long or short, is very fine, and each 
separate fibre is crimped or curled ; whilst the wool of the Cots- 
wold is coarse and straight, with few, if any, curls and crimps. 
These distinct characters never vary, and are of great importance, 
as from the fine wool broad-cl<^ths and fine cloths are made ; whilst 
blankets, shirts, alpacas, and similar goods, are made from the 
coarse ; and neither kind of wool can be made into both kinds of 
cloth. 



860 mi f ABS. 

This fact leads to another. In England there are sev«xai 
breeds of sheep, which have been in that island so loag that 
thej are called native. These sheep are all long-wookd, tlioogli 
some, like the South-downs, are shorter and finer wooled thmn 
the others ; and, thongh bred for years side by side, the fine and 
coarse-wooled sheep have maintained their differences. Thej 
have also differed in size, the coarse-wooled being the largest. 
Many breeders have tried to combine these two kinds, and vari- 
ous cross breeds have been made, some lasting for a time ; but 
all the valuable improvements have been made in the direct line 
of the same variety as coarse or fine wool, or rather, as they call 
it, long and short wool. Besides the difference in the wool, there 
is a marked difference in the quality of the mutton ; the short' 
wooled or South-down sheep having always had the highest rep- 
utation for the quality of their mutton. Certain English breeders 
have improved the quality of the coarse or long-wooled sheep. 
They have increased the tendency to fatten, reducing the coarse- 
ness of structure, replacing bones by fat, and substituting a 
rounded outline, and skeleton capable of taking on flesh, for the 
gaunt, leggy, bony animals which yielded but little mutton or 
wool. 

The old Leicesters are described as large, heavy, ooane- 
grained animals, the meat having little flavor, and no deliea^ ; 
the carcass was long, thin, flat-sided, with large bones and thick 
legs ; the fleece was heavy, long, and of coarse quality. The 
sheep were slow feeders ; and when sent to market, at two and 
three years old, weighed about one hundred to one hundred and 
twenty pounds each. Mr. Bakewell by care produced from these 
sheep the new Leicester, a sheep without horns, with white 
faces and legs, head small and clean, eye bright, neck and shoul- 
der square and deep, back straight, deep carcass, hind quarters 
tapering towards the tail, and somewhat deficient in Uiia respect 
when compared with the Cotswold sheep ; legs clean, wiUi fine 
bone ; the flesh is juicy, but of moderate quality, and is remark- 
able for the proportion of outside fat it carries. They are not 
considered so hardy as the other large breeds, and require shelter 
and good keep. Early maturity and an aptitude for fattening 



TEE VABM. 861 

are the principal characteristics of the breed ; wethers at twelve 
to fifteen months old weighing from eighty to one hundred 
pounds, and at two years they average one hundred and twenty 
to one hundred and fifty pounds each ; fleeces averaging seven 
pounds each. I have quoted the Leicesters, not because I should 
propose them to our farmers as the sheep for us, but to show 
what has been done. 

The merino sheep, with all its wool, and all its good qualities, 
is inferior in flavor and quality of mutton to the best coarse- 
wooled sheep ; and no amount of breeding has ever changed it 
materially in this particular : it is just as inferior to the im- 
proved English long-wools as they are to the short-wools. Were 
fine the only or the best wool for manufacturing purposes, it 
might be best to content ourselves with poor mutton, and make 
up in the wool. But this is not the case ; the long-wools are 
equally important, and some of them, for special purposes, sell 
higher than the fine wool. The obvious concluuon is, that long 
wool and good mutton are to be set against fine wool and poor 
mutton. Nor is the weight of fleece of clean wool in favor of the 
merino in all cases. Owing to the large amount of yolk in the 
merino wool, their fleeces average much heavier than the long- 
wooled sheep ; but from fifty to seventy per' cent of the weight 
will scour out when it is cleansed against thirty to forty per cent 
of the weight of the long wool ; and therefore, in many cases, 
carefully bred long-wooled flocks will beat fine wools in weight. 

Generally, however, the fiocks of full blood or grade merinos 
3rield a greater average weight of wool than any other sheep. 
Therefore where sheep are raised for wool, as they must be 
where distant from market, the merino is preferable ; but where 
the market is convenient, the long-wooled and fine-muttoned 
sheep may be made more valuable to the breeders. I do not 
mean what are now called mutton-sheep in New England and 
Canada, any more than when I say merino I mean the merino 
sheep of 1850, whose average fleeces would weigh three pounds 
against five pounds to-day, but the mutton sheep which will be 
bred by some competent person who will improve it, as Hammond 
and others have improved the merino. 



The merino has oertain qualities for New England, and 
of the Northern United States, which are invaluable : tbej i 
good workers, not being willing to feed in the same pasture, ho^r- 
ever fertile, unless it has considerable range ; they will walk orer 
the surface, cropping the bits thej like, until thej get back to 
the hills and sterile places, seeming to find in the stunted herbi^e 
food exactly adapted to them ; and, as we know, they improve 
the poor land by feeding upon it. They thrive on lands that 
would be only a burying-ground for the improved Leicester or 
Cotswold. The merino also are very quiet ; and though inclined 
to ramble for their food, they are not unruly, and are restrained 
from jumping by very moderate fences, whilst the old-fashioned 
mutton sheep could be controlled only by six or seven high bars. 
Careful breeding has changed these sheep in shape, wool, and 
mutton ; has reduced the wild flocks of former times to the quiet 
and contented animals which follow their master whenever he 
appears. 

The number of sheep in Vermont, the headquarters of the merino, 
has not increased in the last ten years in proportion to their 
quality ; but the yield of wool to the head has doubled. The 
credit for this change is due to a few men who, though, at first 
prejudiced against the Spanish merino, soon saw their good 
qualities, and purchased full-blooded animals from the importers, 
and have carefully bred them since ; never mixing any impure 
blood with their flocks. The Vermont merinos originated from 
two families of Spanish sheep, called, in Spain, Paular and Infan- 
tado ; names belonging for many generations to large families of 
sheep which were carefully bred, and kept from any intermixture 
with other families. These sheep were driven every year from one 
part of Spain to another, seeking pasture ; making a march of 
eight hundred miles a year, for so many generations, that the sheep 
became great travellers, and, according to the Darwinian theory 
of development, acquired a constitutional capacity for enduring 
labor, and a disposition to work for their Uving, of great value 
to us. Imported into America at diflPerent times, most of the 
merinos were mixed with the common sheep ; but some of the 
Infnntado family passed into the hands of a Mr. Atwood, in 



THB VABM. 858 

Conuecticat, who kept them pure, and from whose sheep the im- 
proved Infantado or Atwood merino is derived. 

The Paulars were brought to the United States by Mr. Jarvis 
at about the same time with the Infantados. Some were kept 
pure ; others mixed and disappeared amongst other sheep. A 
few full-blooded Paulars went into Vermont, and are still bred 
there, but have failed to find as many admirers as» the Infantado 
or Atwood sheep, which, as improved by Mr. Hammond, of Mid- 
'dlebury, who has done for the merino what Mr. Bakewell did 
for the Leicesters, are certainly the beau-ideal of fine-wooled 



I cannot give the details of their breeding, or enter into minute 
descriptions of these sheep. They have been described in the 
Patent-Office Reports, in Randall's " Practical Shepherd," and 
elsewhere ; and it is enough for my present purpose to say, that, as 
merinos, they stand first, and have been sold for fabulous prices. 
Mr. TV. R. Sauford, of Orwell, sold twenty-three two-year-old 
ewes, in 1863, for $15,000, and they were soon dold a second 
time foran advance. Mr. N. T. Sprague, of Brandon, Yt., a cele- 
brated breeder of these sheep, has a buck which he values at $20,- 
000. Bucks have been sold within the past two years for $5,000 
to $7,000 each ; and ofiTers of $10,000 have been refused ; and 
ewes for $1 ,000 to $8,000. These prices seem fabulous and purely 
speculative ; but it is not speculation alone, rather the real merit 
of the animal, which sells them. One of these extra bucks 
taken West, and crossed on any flock of coarse- wooled sheep, 
would, in two or three years, double and perhaps treble the yield 
of wool, without increasing the cost of producing it, and at the 
same time perhaps give rise to a lamb as good or better than 
himself. 

Nor is the improvement imaginary : it is conceded by those 
who have grown sheep, and who for years kept only the com- 
mon varieties, that the present merino is better than the old 
sheep in all particulars. Their wool is finer, more uniform in 
all parts of the body, equal in quality, is stronger, makes stronger 
and more durable cloth ; the sheep are less liable to disease, are 
better shaped, more compact ; every part of the body is covered 
ra 



854 sm f ABM. 

with wool, the head and fuse, all but the top of the noeot and tbe 
legs down to the dewH^ws, just above the hoof. More ^ool 
can be cot from the fMurts of theee sheep which naed to be naked* 
than came from the whole body of the old common sheep. 

The wool is worth from ten to twenty per cent more in qoallt^y 
besides its increased quantity ; the average of most flocks now be- 
ing from Ave to seven poonds per head, and many going as hig^ 
as twelve pounds per head. Mr. Sprague cut frotn ten yearUo^ 
ewes, eight of whom had bom lambs, which always reduces the 
wool, one hundred and seventy-two pounds, thirteen oonees, — 
one shearing nineteen and three-fourths pounds, unwashed wool. 

Mr. Darwin E. Griswold, of Orwell, who has been several 
years breeding these sheep, estimates the improvement in the av- 
erage yield of Vermont wool to be two and a.half pounds per 
head. The coarse sheep have been improved by Spanidi merino 
blood, making their wool finer and heavier ; whilst the Saxony 
sheep, a smaller variety, which yield very fine wool, have gained 
in sixe of body and fieeoe, losing some of the fineness of the fibre 
by the same cross. 

This improvement has resulted from the constant care of the 
breeders, who have never sold their best sheep, but preserring 
the best to make their flocks better, and selling only the poorer 
sheep ; and we may reasonably believe, that, if they adhere to 
this practice, these sheep will be stiU further improved, until the 
culls of the flock will be as good as the best are now. 

To bring the merino to their present condition, it has been 
necessary to keep them from storms in cold weather, and feed 
and water them generously. Formerly, sheep were left to shift 
for themselves all winter, the farmer tossing some hay or straw 
to them every day, or letting them eat at a stack, without shelter 
or care. I have seen large flocks, which have remained oat 
through sleety storms in winter, perfectly cased with ice. 

The bams provided for their flocks by good sheep-farmers of 
the present day are models of convenience and comfort ; the 
sheep are sheltered from all severe storms between the first of 
October and May. In the winter they are fed with the best hay, 
have free access to pure water, and are kept warm in good eel- 



nam YABM. 856 

lars or barnB ; their lambs now come in March, when they can 
be easily watched and provided for by the shepherd, instead of 
being scattered far and wide in bleak pastures, to be hunted up, 
or left to die if exposed to a severe storm. The sheep are 
sheared in May, and sheltered from bad weather until their new 
wool grows enough to protect them, and then turned into well- 
fenced pastures, which are not overstocked. During the summer 
they are carefully watched, salted, their noses kept tarred, to drive 
away tlie fly, and then, as autumn's storms come on, are carefuUy 
protected. 

It hardly seems as if all this increased cost could pay ; but it 
does. Mr. Daniel B. Buell, a careful breeder in Orwell, Addi- 
son County, Vermont, who has been brought up with sheep, and 
has kept them in all ways, considers that the present price of 
wool, fifty to fifty-five cents currency, pays for all the extra trou- 
ble. He considers that the better the sheep are fed, the more 
profitable they become. He turns his sheep into his best fall 
(bed, to bring them into the bam in good condition, and then 
keeps them well during the winter, giving a peck of oats and 
corn to fifty sheep per day, with abundance of best hay, and pure 
mnning water. Too much care cannot be taken to provide water 
in abundance. Sheep do not drink much, but often. They do ' 
not need grain all winter : it is best to give it them at first, when 
changing from grass to hay ; and when they become used to hay, 
and are thriving on it, the grain may he withdrawn, until to- 
wards spring. 

The breeding ewes should have grain, oats and shorts being 
best, six weeks before lambing, and turnips or some roots, in 
order to increase their milk. A variety of food is of great im- 
portance to them ; many careful experiments have been tried, in 
England and America, with different varieties and mixtures of 
food ; and the result has been always in favor of mixed food in 
which there was a large proportion of roots. 

Strangers to the merino are frequently surprised at their 
wrinkled appearance, and do not understand how the many folds 
of skin sheep-fanciers desire to produce, can be of any value. 
The original merino was a nearly smooth-skinned sheep, with a 



856 TBI FASM. 

tendencj to folds of loose skio about hb neck ; these fcdda wczer 
of course, extra skin, and caused just so much more wool-surfiaee. 
As the sheep were improved, the tendencj to wrinkle increctaed^ 
and it was soon considered a proof of improved blood ; this is- 
duced some breeders to try to increase the wrinkles on their 
stock, imtil sheep are produced that have twice as much akin as 
their carcase would warrant. Wrinkles are bj no means a 
proof of good blood, nor are thej especially desirable ; the wool 
of very wrinkly sheep is generally shorter and less valuable, 
though it is equally true that some of the best sheep are verT' 
much wrinkled. Wrinkles belong to no one family ; and Mr. 
Sprague, who has kept them sixteen years, thinks they are rather 
a proof of mongrels, or mixed famiUes of merino. 

The merinos are less subject to disease than common kinds 
of sheep, which seems contrary to analogy ; as we should expect 
that increased care and protection would make them more 
tender. Sore lips, sore ejes^ a kind of colic called stretches, and 
foot-rot, are the principal diseases. Grub in the head is veiy 
troublesome sometimes, but may generally be prevented by tar- 
ring the nose in the summer, to drive away the fly which seeks 
to lay its eggs in the sheep's nose. If the eggs are laid, the 
grub, after it is hatched, creeps up the nostril, and attaches itself 
to the upper part of the mucous membrane, causing the aheqi 
great uneasiness, and sometimes, when their numbers are exces- 
sive, death. 

Sore mouth and lips generally come from eating some pernio 
cious weed in the grass or hay ; lambs arc frequently very much 
distressed by sore lips after the winter sets in, when hay is their 
principal food. Whether due to hay or other causes, this sore 
mouth generally 3rields to a few applications of healing ointment 
of any kind, even common mutton-tallow. Sore eyes, ophtbal- 
iui«i, and the like, will generally pass away without any perma- 
nent injury, after bathing the eyes a few times with luke-wann 
water. Some shepherds recommend many kinds of violent treat- 
ment, but they are useless, and often injurious 4 Nature will 
effect a eure with the most simple treatment. 

Foot-rot, the scourge of thousands of flocks in Europe, is well 



THi FAmc. 857 

known in America, bat has not yet become a great evil here. It 
is an inflammation of the foot, which first shows itself in the 
skin between the cleft of the toes at the top of the hoof; this 
skin is commonly as fine, ^* sound, smooth, and dry as the skin 
between a man's fingers ; the first symptom of hoof-rot, is a dis* 
appearance of this smooth, dry, colorless condition of the naked 
skin at the top of the cleft over the heels, and of its coolness ; ** 
the skin becomes chafed, a little corrugated and moist, and, as 
the disease increases, hot. The part first attacked becomes sore, 
discharges a very foul-smelling water, and soon ulcerates ; the 
ulcer extends between the horn on the inside of the clefl and the 
inner sole or core of the foot, and increases very rapidly ; if not 
cured soon, the inside of the foot will become entirely rotten, 
and at last the hoof drop ofiT. 

As soon as a sheep is seen to be lame, it should be caught, and 
examined ; if there is any appearance of rot, dissolve some 
green-vitriol in hot-water, making a strong solution ; then lay 
the sheep on its back, holding it partly between your kuees ; pare 
the inner-sole, or side-horn, as thin as you can, and not bring 
blood ; cut the diseased horn entirely away if possible. Return 
the sheep to its feet, but set the diseased feet into the hot solu- 
tion of vitriol, taking care that it shall not be scalding hot ; let 
the sheep stand on its feet, resting its weight as much as possi- 
ble on the feet in the solution ; so that the pressure may open 
out the hoof, giving the vitriol a chance to get into every part. 
Let the sheep stand three to five minutes, and then take it out, 
and turn it into a dry place, where it should be kept for a day 
out of the wet. Very bad cases will be cured by one immersion, 
if it is thoroughly done ; many specifics are advertised to cure 
foot-rot, but none will be found more simple or effective than 
this. 

Foot-rot is attributed to many causes ; changing from a light 
and dry to a low and wet pasture ; too much rank, green food in 
the autumn, producing general derangement and inflammation 
of the system ; contagion, filthy yards, wet straw. Whatever its 
origin,, it should be watched with car^ a lame sheep should be 
examined as soon as seen, and isolated from the rest of the flock, 



858 TBI rASM. 

as it IB certainly contagious ; and common sense shonld teadi 
eTorj one to keep their sheep in clean and drj quarters. It has 
so oflen appeared in flocks which have been removed fronoi hig^ 
and dry summer-pastures to low and damp meadows in the fialU 
that I suppose we must believe it is often originated in that waj ; 
but it appears in flocks not subjected to such changes, whilst 
flocks in wet meadows often entirely escape. I believe, thsit, 
although oflen due to locality, it is also hereditary, like the goat ; 
and that descendants of flocks in which the hoof-rot has been 
will always be subject to it. 

Where a flock of sheep, or an individual, shows the hoof-rot, 
it is very desirable to change their food, and dean their yards 
and stables at once, as so violent a disease cannot fail to affect 
the general system, and no local treatment will dispokse with a 
proper attention to food and cleanliness. No good sheqi-fimner 
will ever allow his jrards and folds to get filthy, but will dean 
them as carefully as the horse-stable, and permit no accumula- 
tion of manure or litter. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

FABM. 

In order to present to those of my readers who are not farm- 
ers or stock-raisers a clear idea of the management of sheep, 
I will follow a flock through a year, and will commence with 
them in January, when they will have become accustomed to 
winter food and treatment. 

The amount of food, whether hay or grain, which sheep or 
other animals require to keep them thriving, depends on the con- 
dition in which they were when they were brought into the bam, 
and the kind of building in which they are kept. It has been 
found, that, when sheep commence the winter fkt, they can be 
kept so with very little extra care ; first-rate hay and plenty 
of fresh water is enough for most of the winter. But, if they 
come in poor, it is very difficult with any amount of feeding to 
get them fat, or keep them improving. To insure the best con- 
dition, some farmers give their sheep a little grain every day, 
after the frosts set in in the fall, to replace the sweetness of the 
herbage, as it withers under the frost, — a gill of oats per day 
per head would be ample for this purpose. 

A perfectly warm bam may be made above the surface of the 
ground ; but the best way to secure warmth is to dig a cellar in 
a side-hill which faces to the south or east, selecting a place to 
which water from a spring may be readily brought through pipes. 
Build a solid wall on the west and north, and board up the east 
and south, leaving large windows, which must be carefully glazed, 
as sunlight is of great importance to the health of the sheep. 
Carry a drain under the walls and across the floor of the cellar, 
to keep it perfectly dry. Over the cellar erect a suitable barn to 
hold hay and grain, but not for stabling cattle, as their water 
would leak through, and injure the wool. The room may be 

859 



860 FABM. 

divided into aa many small apartments as is desirable bj ustog 
racks for holding the hay, as division fences, taking care to set 
them in sudi a manner that the hay sent down through a tunnel 
from above 6an be easily distributed to each rack without eztrm 
labor, and without carrying it over the sheep, sprinkling hay and 
seed on their wool, which is very injurious, dirtying the wool, 
and causing irritation in the skin, which induces the sheep to 
tear out their wool with their teeth, or by rubbing against project- 
ing surfaces in their efforts to allay the itching. Set the water- 
tubs convenient to each apartment, so that all may drink at will ; 
if the racks are properly made, hay and grain can be fed in the 
same rack with economy. Shut off a small space, which should 
be built up for bucks, like a room. When they are allowed to 
run with the sheep, their long horns catch in the wool ; and as 
theylare often cross, they bunt the other sheep, perhaps kilfing 
a pregnant ewe, or destroying her lamb. In such a cellar as 
this, the sheep will be warm all winter, and ewes can be per- 
mitted to lamb in March with greater security than out of doors 
in May, as the young lambs are protected from the damp ground 
and cold currents of air. One hundred per cent in lambs may 
be reasonably expected, whereas the merino left to lamb in the 
fields rarely give over eighty per cent. 

The cellar should be connected with extensive yards on the 
south and east, to which the sheep should be admitted whenever 
the weather will permit, in order that they may get as much 
exercise as possible. Want of exercise is very injurious to 
breeding -ewes in particular, some flocks having been nearly 
ruined by confinement. 

By January, the sheep will have become accustomed to their 
winter-food ; and if they are in good condition, and the hay is 
of the best quality, their grain may be slowly reduced until 
none is given. Keep salt with a little sulphur in some accessi* 
ble place : the sheep like it, and its free use is thought by many 
Ho counteract the tendency to stretches. The feeding should be 
perfectly regular in time and amount ; in winter, feeding three 
times in the day, and once in the evening, would be none too 
much ; and, every day, all the remaining hay, straw, and stubbk 



FABM. 861 

should be cleaned out of the mangers, and given to colts or 
horses. 

Early in Febmary, the sheep should be sorted ; all the lambs, 
wethers, barren ewes, being removed from the breeding-ewes. 

If the ewes were properly marked when tupped, it will be 
easy to know when to expect them to lamb, as they are regular, 
rarely exceeding one hundred and fifty-two days. 

Strong ewes rarely need any assistance in labor, but the 
lambs often come weak, and, if they are born on a cold night, 
might die before morning. To prevent mishaps, good shepherds 
visit the flock once, and better twice, between the last feeding 
and morning. The new-bom lamb will soon get sufficient 
strength to stand up, and will immediately try to suck : if he 
once gets his stomach full of his mother's milk, he will take care 
of himself; but if he seems to be unable to find the teat, or the 
mother will not stand still, the shepherd turns the ewe's head 
into a corner, stands over her, holding her tight between his legs, 
his face towards her tail . he moves the lamb up to the mother's 
udder, and inserts the teat into its mouth ; if it does not incline 
to suck, by inserting his finger a little way into its mouth, and 
tickling the tongue, or roof of the mouth, it will be induced to 
try. If it really makes a vigorous pull, it will soon learn to 
take care of itself; milking a few drops into its mouth will 
sometimes stimulate an unwilling lamb ; but it often happens that 
all is useless, and it will not suck : for this case, the bottle is the 
only remedy. A common pint^bottle with an India-rubber nip- 
ple is the best for convenience. The milk of a new milch cow 
warmed to the temperature of the body, sweetened with molas- 
ses or brown sugar, and stiffened with a few drops of whiskey, 
should be ready ; and rather than tire lamb, mother, and shep- 
herd by inofiectual attempts to make it suck, give it a good feed. 
It will soon gain strength, and compel its mother to stand for 
it. In very cold nights, lambs should be wrapped in a piece of 
old carpet, bufialo, or be well covered with straw : they are easily 
chilled, and yet may often be saved by timely care. I have 
known a very valuable sheep grow up from a lamb, which was so 
far gone with cold and hunger, that he was wrapped up, placed 



YABM. 

in a warm oven, and fed with whidcey and milk from a epocm Ibr 
several hours, giving a few dro]Mi at a time, until it could mo 
round, and bleat as loud as the best lamb in the pen. As 00011 
as the lamb is able to run about, all solidtude is over, for the^ 
will gain very rapidly. 

Within a fortnight of their birth the lambs' tails should be eoi 
off about two joints or vertebr» from the body. This is done by 
laying the tail on a block of wood ; ^nss the skin back as much 
as possible, so that when the bone is cut the end of the skin will 
project beyond it ; after cutting the tail, the two ^ps of the 
skin may be drawn together with needle and thread to dieck 
bleeding. The tail should be cut with a qni<^ blow, of a dull 
chisel ; if bleeding is profuse, the end of the tail may be seiu^ 
with a hot iron, which effectually stops bleeding and saves the 
lamb's strength, which often suffers from the loss of blood, but 
when the operation is made just right, there will be very little 
bleeding, which can be neglected. The older the lamb is, the 
more be will bleed and suffer from it. The male lambs not to 
be preserved for bucks should be castrated within a few days of 
the docking, so that the lamb need have nothing farther to im- 
pede its growth. 

Running with their mothers, the lambs will early learn to eat 
some hay, grain, &c., and will thrive if the mothers have suffi- 
cient milk. Some over-zealous breeders feed their choice lambs 
with cow's milk for some weeks, by which they increase the 
size of the lamb. 

After the lambs are all bom, there will be but little for the 
shepherd to do until shearing, other than the regular routine oi 
feeding and tending. In old times shearing was postponed un- 
til June ; now the sheep are sheared early in May, before they 
are turned out to pasture, which saves the trouble of tagging. 
If the sheep are to be turned into the pasture before shearing 
they must be tagged ; tiiat is, the wool on both hind legs, from the 
roots of the tail down, should be cut off. The change of food 
from dry to green will cause the sheep to scour, and if the long 
wool is on the legs it gets very much injured in value ; the tags 
are laid aside in the wool-room until shearing, when the dean 



YAUf. 868 

wool is rolled in with the fleece, the remainder put with the 
sweepings of the wool-room floor, to be sold as dirty wool. 

When the sheep are not sheared until June, they sufler from 
the heat through May, and sometimes shed their wool ; and, 
afler shearing, the hot summer sun blisters the skin, and often 
checks the growth of the wool for the year. When sheared 
early in May, they must be sheltered at night and during cold 
storms ; in a fortnight, enough new wool will haye grown to de- 
fend them against any ordinary weather. 

Whether sheep should be washed before shearing is a mooted 
point : we know that a large percentage of the weight of wool 
is dirt and grease for which the buyer does not want to pay ; if 
this could be thoroughly washed out the remainder should com- 
mand a high and corresponding price. But to wash completely, 
the sheep should be soaked in warm water with potash in it, 
and then be carefully scrubbed until every vestige of dirt is 
removed. The usual practice, merely dipping the sheep ii. cold 
water, or letting a stream run over them, an attendant squeezing 
the water out as fast as possible, can remove but little dirt. 
.Buyers careless or ignorant pay alike for all kinds of washing, 
and of course discriminate against the good work. If wool is 
not washed, the buyer takes ofl* a third of the weight from all 
wool alike, which is also indiscriminating and unjust. 

A sheep kept well in clean stables, with no exposure to hay- 
seed, mud, or filth, will get but little dirt into its wool, and 
whilst some sheep are full of coarse heavy yolk, properly called 
grease, others having only a light, soft oil, of course the wool 
of the latter has less waste than the former ; but if all unwashed 
fleeces are shrunk alike, the heavy wool is most profitable to the 
farmer. Sheep sheared early should never be washed, as they 
are liable to take bad colds from carrying a heavy wet fleece un- 
til it drys ; besides the rough handling which they must undergo 
is bad for them. 

Every physiological argument is^ against the practice, and 
nothing in its favor but the cost of the dirt to the buyer. 
When the time comes that men who buy are really good judges 
of wool they will pay for wool according to its quality, which 



864 rixM. 

wilt encourage fiumen to take pains to produce a reaDj good 
article. 

The clean floor of any room or bam is selected for the 8heariiig>- 
place, and when there is no suitably clean floor, sheets or canvas 
may be spread under the sheep. As whoever reads this book 
will either be a shearer or have to employ one, it is needless for 
me to enter into any details of the process. When the fleece 
is removed the sheep is set upon its legs, its toes cut short with 
a chisel or toe-shears, and its owner^s initials and its own num- 
ber are stamped in lamp-black or venetian-red on the sheep's 
hind-quarter or side as fancy may dictate. 

Sheep-breeders who wish to sell in the succeeding autumn are 
careful not to cut the wool close, but leave rather a thick cover- 
ing of wool, say one-quarter to three-quarters of an inch on the 
forehead, along the legs, and about the scrotum, wherever, in 
fact, it is desirable to have a sheep look well wooled when he is 
offered for sale. This is not a fair practice, unless the buyer is nod- 
fled, for it is impossible to judge in the autumn of the sheep's 
capacity for fleece. Ewes are not as often treated in this man- 
ner as bucks, as they are usually judged by their general appear- 
ance and lambs ; but a buck may sire many lambs, and whether 
he is worth Ave or five hundred dollars depends on particular 
points of merit, a thick and uniform fleece being one of the 
most important. 

Too many merino buck-lambs are raised in Vermont at pres- 
ent ; the number of breeders has largely increased, and eveiy 
farmer hopes to sell his buck lambs or yearlings for great prices, 
and therefore, instead of converting all but the undoubtedly 
most valuable into weathers, all passable bucks are permitted to 
grow up, with the hope that some few may sell the whole lot for 
high prices ; as a consequence, they become a drug, and are peddled 
about the Western country, and often sold for a trifle at last^ 
and when sold can do very little to improve the stock of those 
who purchase them. 

As soon as the fleece is removed, the folder of the wool gath- 
ers it up in his arms, and lays it down on a large, clean table, the 
inside down : he carefully spreads it out to its full size, cleans it 



FABM. 865 

from dung and other impurities, turns over the two sides to 
meet in the middle, folds over the ends, and then doubles it all 
together, and ties it in a firm square bundle with stout twine. 
As this is rather a nice job, and must be firmly and well done 
in order that the discolored surface may all be carefully closed 
in, and the fleece be neat and white, wool-boxes have been in- 
vented into which the fleece is laid after the ends are folded up. 
String being first laid across the box, the sides of the box are 
then pressed together, compressing the wool into the smallest 
compass ; it is then tied with the strings which lay under it. A 
cheap and good box may be made as follows : Take a board, 
a, 6, c, three feet long and one foot wide, 
cut it into three equal parts, and attach 
a and c to 5 by hinges, then attach two 
boards same size d and e to 5 by hinges, 
screw two small hooks to a and c: when 
the fleece is twice folded lay two strong 
strings lengthwise of a, 5, c, and two 

across d^ 5,- e, at equal distances. Lay 

^ ^^ the fleece in the box, covering the central 

part ; raise d and e to a right angle with 5, then raise a and c to 
a right angle also ; fasten the sides a and c into d and c by let- 
ting the little hooks attached to a and c drop into the notches 
made for them in d and e ; thus the whole will be held compact : 
tie the strings tight, open the box, and you have the fleece solid 
well shaped ; store the wool in a cool dry place ; cover well 
from dust. 

Merino sheep, partly owing to their thick, close wool, are but 
little troubled with ticks: such as there are will take refuge 
in the lambs as soon as they are admitted to the company of the 
old sheep after shearing. In a week they will be all in the lambs, 
and may then be all killed by dipping the lambs into a decoction 
of tobacco, which may be made by steeping " five pounds of 
tobacco to every one hundred lambs in hot water until the tea 
becomes strong enough to kill a tick as soon as it is inmiersed : 
or three pounds of white powdered arsenic are dissolved in six 
gallons boiling water, to which add forty gallons of cold water ; " 
•^8 




866 lASX. 

in either case stir the solution, and immerse the whole lamb in ii, 
saving the eyes, nose, and mouth. Keep it in the water long 
enough to soak the wool ; then take it out and set it on a grating 
over the tub to drain ; one dose will kill the vermin ; it is a good 
plan to dip the old sheep in the same manner, as additional 
security. 

When the ewes are sheared, their number, weight, and quality 
of fleece, and quality of lamb should be entered in the Sheep Re- 
gister, that we may know in the fall to what kind of bucks the 
ewes should be bred. Ewes vary very much in their qualities ; 
and by carefully noting the variations, we may increase or dimin- 
ish any given characteristics by using bucks of like or. unlike 
peculiarities. Vermont farmers often carry their ewes many 
miles, and divide their flocks amongst several different bucks, 
and are exceedingly particular as to the merits of the animals 
they use. 

When the sheep are sheared, marked, and dipped, they are 
turned into pastures, where they are expected to range during 
summer. In some convenient place set a box, with some tar in 
its bottom, into which q[>rinkle salt and a little sulphur ; or pal 
in it only a lump of rock-salt and a little sulphur, so that Uie 
sheep may lick it as often as they wish ; or salt them a little 
every week. Sheep will do very well in good pastures where 
Uiere is no water, as they get the dew in the morning and eve- 
ning feeding, and the juices of vegetation reduce their thirst ; but 
water is very grateful to them, and they thrive better if they can 
get it. 

With the exception of salting the sheep and occasionally tar- 
ring their noses, they are left to themselves until August, when 
the lambs are separated from the ewes, leaving with the lambs 
one or two dry ewes, or cossets, to keep them tame, and teach 
them to follow the shepherd. The lambs should be turned into 
the best pasture which can be given them, and feu: enough from 
their mothers not to hear them calling. In a fortnight they will 
have ceased to miss the nu>thers' milk, on which they have, of 
course, depended but little for some weeks. After the lambs are 
taken away, the ewes should be carefuUy watched lest their bi^ 



lABM. 867 

swell : when they do, bathe the bag with warm water, and grease 
it, and draw a little milk out ; they will then soon dry up. 

As .the feed on the hill-pastures gets short, move them on to 
the after-grass in the meadows. J£ the grass is very rank, let 
them stay at first only long enough to fill themselves with it, and 
then drive them back to the hill until their stomachs become ac- 
customed to the new food, and their eagerness for it abates, 
when they may be left on the meadows until winter. It is 
very desirable throughout the season to change the sheep from 
one pasture to another ; they improve more rapidly if their pas- 
tures are frequently changed, thereby being able to get a greater 
variety of food. 

When the lambs are taken off the ewes is the usual time for 
looking over the fiock, and drafting out by themselves the inferior 
animalsj and the fat sheep which are to be sold during the fall. 
About the 10th October, if the ewes have not got fat since lambing, 
^ve them a little grain daily up to the time of buck-service, and for 
a week after. They are more sure to conceive and give their 
foetus a vigorous start if they are themselves in good condition. 
The 20th October is time enough to begin to serve the ewes : a good 
adult buck will serve one hundred and fifty to two hundred ewes 
at the rate of five or six a day without harm, if he is well man- 
aged. He should be fed well, and only allowed to serve the ewes 
once ; as the ewes come in heat at different times, the fiock must 
be examined every day ; and the quickest and best method is to 
put the ewes in a pen, connected by a door with a pen or room 
in which the buck is. Let them in one at a time, and as soon 
as they have been served, or prove not in heat, remove them ; if 
served, mark them on one side with the day of the month, and 
record it in your register against the ewe's number. In this way 
you can examine a flock of ninety ewes in an hour easily, and 
save all the hurry, bustle, and injury to the ewes which is liable 
to occur when the buck is turned in to the entire fiock : the ewes 
should be returned to the buck until the seventeenth day after 
service, as they will come about again within that period if they 
have failed to conceive the first time. 

During the summer, the bucks must be kept away from the 



W6 lABK. 

ewes ; if the backs nin together, they will fight more or less, bat 
gradually get used to each other, and the weaker decline fighting 
with the stronger animals. About a month before their working 
season commences, begin to feed the bucks grain, half a pint a 
day, and increase until you give a quart of com and oats mixed, 
with plenty good hay and fresh water. When serring-time id 
over, gradually discontinue the grain to the minimum which will 
keep him vigorous : good hay and a few roots during winter will 
be sufficient without grain. 

Af^er the middle of September, careful farmers house their sheep 
every night, and take them in whenever there is a prospect of contin- 
uous or severe rain. This practice may be carried too far, and 
the sheep's vigor be diminished by too much sheltering : they are 
able to contend with any reasonable weather ; and unless one 
wishes to sell his sheep, and fears that rains will wash the wool, 
removing the yolk, and make the wool look dry and towy on 
the ends, he had better leave his sheep out during all moderate 
weather until winter. Carefully-sheltered sheep get to look 
almost black ; the oil in the wool collects dust and dirt on the ont- 
side of the fleece and crusts it over, so that some very oily sheep 
would seem to have been painted with lamp-black ; but when 
they are painted or rubbed with lamp-black to impart an artificial 
blackness, it is apparent upon careful examination ; for, however 
severe rains a sheep may have been in, an oily sheep will be sure 
to show it under the belly and legs, and in all sheltered spots be- 
tween the wrinkles, whibt no amount of blacking can make 
those places greasy. 

I have described the year's management of a flock of merino 
sheep ; but there would be no noaterial diflerence if they were 
mutton and long-wool sheep. I have entered rather lengthily 
into the merits of the merino, because it is the best known, and 
because I believe that over the immense plains of the' South and 
West, where the carcass is of little value, they will prove the 
most profitable. But there is unquestionably a field open to long- 
wool and mutton sheep of no less importance in the thickly set- 
tled parts of the country. Whether Leicester, Cotswold, South- 
down, Oxfordshire, or Flemish sheep are to be the source from 



FARH. 869 

which the American mutton-sheep will arise, time will show ; 
but nothing is clearer than that, whoever can produce a sheep 
which will come earlj to maturity, yielding lambs which will 
weigh eight to ten pounds to the quarter, and sheep fifteen to 
twenty^five pounds to the quarter, which is hardy, a good worker, 
adapted to our rough hills and briery pastures, will realize as 
great profits as Mr. Hammond, and will find an immense sale 
for his stock. 

There are several gentlemen now engaged in the business, with 
various success. Most of them are too rich to feel the acute in- 
terest in the subject which makes a man keenly alive to all the 
considerations which afiect stock-raising. Not by any means 
every man who loves animals and keeps them is competent 
even to begin to raise an improved breed of any kind : it re- 
quires a peculiar quickness to see and appreciate the good and 
bad points of animals ; a readiness to remember how each ani- 
mal he has bred resembled or dififered from the rest ; a power of 
combining facts connected with his own and others' breeding, 
and deducing from them the theories which can be followed to a 
successful conclusion. 

The man who is to make an improved breed of sheep will 
very likely know nothing else : he will see sheep, think sheep, 
dream sheep. They will be always present in his mind ; and 
such a man will yet. be found to produce the American-mutton 
sheep, and he will reap a golden reward. 

An improver of foreign sheep, in adapting them to America, 
will find many unexpected obstacles, in climate, soil, and food ; 
and when he has overcome them all, he will very likely have an 
animal widely differing from the parent stock. The merino- 
breeders, after having attained great exeellence, thought they 
could, perhaps, get on faster by importing new and superior ani- 
mals from Spain ; and several competent persons went to Spain 
and other European countries to examine the fiocks in tlieir na- 
tive localities, i-eady to pay any price for first-rate stock ; but no 
importations were made which were equal to the sheep already 
here. This seemed strange, and unaccountable upon any other 
theory than that the sheep had deteriorated in Europe. 
72* 



870 FARIL 

Some of the Spanish breeders claimed that the French inTa- 
sion had broken up the flocks, mixing varieties; and that, 
since that invasion, no breeders had taken sufficient care to re- 
store their animals by careful management. I do not believe 
that this is the cause of the apparent depreciation. Our best 
farmers are satisfied that their sheep can be much more snrdj 
improved by keeping them in small flocks, and will divide eYea 
flfty sheep into three or four flocks, when they have room. By 
this plan, each sheep gets a better chance at the food than when 
many are pushing at the same time. The shepherd can easily 
study each individual, learn its defects, and decide how to breed 
to improve its progeny. During the season, each sheep is 
studied carefully, and defective animals sold ; but in Spain, the 
flocks vary from hundreds to thousands, owned by a few rieh 
men, and managed by hired shepherds. Although the best men 
are got for shepherds that can be hired, no hired man can be ex- 
pected to take the care of his master^s sheep, and feel the intense 
interest in improving them that he would feel in his own, where 
every improvement would give him money and reputation. 

If a few extra sheep were to be imported from the best of the 
Spanish flocks, and divided amongst men like the Atwoods, 
Humphreys, Hammonds, Spragues, Buels, Griswolds, and Camp- 
bells, who have improved the American merino, in another 
forty years there would be sheep derived from them so greatly 
in advaoee of the imported progenitors, that they would seem to 
have been of an inferior variety, could they be compared with 
their descendants. 

Improvement in stock-raising in America is the most promis- 
ing and profitable business to which any farmer can turn, and 
will prove a surer mine of wealth and &me than the gold, coal, 
oil, and copper-mines, which seem to our farmers to be the short 
and tempting roads to prosperity. 



CHAPTER Vm. 

OBNAHENTAL GROUNDS. 

In the first edition of '' Countrj Life," I haye discussed very 
folly the ndvantages of living in the country, the beauty we may 
find there, the principles which should govern us in selecting our 
homes, and arranging them afterwards ; but I said little or noth- 
ing about cities. It might seem that cities were to be denied 
all participation in natural beauty because they are the places in 
which men live for the convenience of business and social inter- 
course ; but this would be a very narrow view of the subject. I 
believe every city ofiers abundant opportunity, if it is well im- 
proved, for the cultivation of flowers and flowering-plants ; and 
often, in their parks and public gardens, may be found the finest 
opportunities for producing beauty with earth, grass, and trees. 

As I propose to devote some space to this branch of the sub- 
ject, I will first draw the reader's attention to some of the promi- 
nent defects in the present treatment of public grounds in cities ; 
and, as I am best acquainted with Boston, I shall apply my criti- 
cism to that city, conscious that what is true of one is applicable 
to all. 

The necessity of large and frequent open places in cities to 
promote the health of their inhabitants is universally admitted ; 
and when land is set aside for such purposes, it has always been 
considered proper to plant it with trees ; but hitherto very little 
care has been taken that such plantations should be made with 
any other view than to furnish abundant shade. It has been 
taken for granted that a variety of trees will not flourish in cities ; 
and, therefore, the plantation is always of the same kind, and of 
very few varieties. Elms, lindens, horse-chestnuts, and latterly 
maples, are planted in endless repetition ; and either indolence 
or ignorance prevents any earnest attempt being made to plant 

sn 



872 OBNiJiSNTAL 0B0UNB8. 

the many other foreet trees, some of which are more beaaUfbl, 
and less liable to the ravages of insects, and premature decaj. 

Let us consider, first, the Boston Common, a very undulat- 
ing and beautiful surface, of about fifty acres, with several hills 
of considerable elevation. Nature seems to have given man a 
chance here to produce something beautiful ; and, according to the 
reverential enthusiasm of generations of Bostonians and New 
Englanders, man has done so. But, in truth, man has done noUi- 
ing towards improving this beautiful surface. Regardless of the 
undulations which imperatively demand that the foot-paths shall 
follow the hollows, or gently wind up the hills, every path was 
carried as straight as the compass could run it, careless of how 
or where it should strike the hills, or cut the valleys. If such 
straightness came awry to a valley, and made an awkward hole, 
the surveyor ruthlessly filled up the valley, and destroyed its un- 
dulatory beauty. 

The lesson that Nature teaches us, that the cattle practise, that 
is the foundation of the river's pliant power, has been neglected : 
the crookedness of Boston streets, which are a real inconvenience 
to traffic, are shamed by the straightness of the walks and paths 
over the broad field which has been preserved for the health and 
beauty of the city. 

The broad, straight malls, with their double rows of trees, were 
well enough : their stately formality bordering the noisy streets 
seems to bring us by gentle gradation into the presence of the 
quiet beauty of the Common itself; but with the malls, the de« 
mand for straightness and formality ceased. When we look at 
the surface, and see how by planting the trees in groups on the 
hill-tops and sides, winding the paths around, rather than forcing 
them over the undulations, we might have broad lawns and open 
grassy play*grounds, ornamented by trees and shrubs, which, 
well placed, would have made the surface appear still more diver- 
sified, all now sacrificed to the straight paths which have been 
cut across it, each defended by rows of lindens or maples, like 
so many grenadiers on guard, we feel that man has thrown away 
the whole to take a part. 

The plea of convenience does not weigh in the argument, be- 



OBNAMBNTAL QBOUUDfi. 878 

cause we all know that a curve is no shorter when it stands upon 
its diameter, as a base, than when it lies- on its side. Paths, 
which would have wound their way through the hollows, gently 
ascending the hills aCt the easiest angle, would have been as short 
as those which now go straight from point to point, and would 
have cost less and have granted opportunities for skilful planting 
now gone forever. 

The ignorance or carelessness which made these paths has 
been farther exhibited in the plantation, which is mainly composed 
of three species of trees, the elms, maples, and lindens ; and 
lest these trees might really be too beautiful, the city causes their 
stems to be yearly scraped and painted with a filthy mud-wash 
which removes all the color and variety of the lichens from their 
trunks. 

No one can deny that the tops of the elms in their dignity and 
grace, with their beautiful tracery of branch and twig against the 
sky, are truly beautiful. The foliage of the maples and lindens 
is very refreshing in the hot summer days, and the dullest person 
must feel real pleasure in seeing on some bright spring or sum* 
mer evening, the gay children, happy people, bright sky, blue 
water, golden yellow grass, rich green foliage of the Common ; 
but all this is only a part of what might have been, and should 
teach us the more loudly to condemn those, who, from ignorance 
or design, have mutilated the beautiful pleasure-ground we might 
have had. 

When the artistic world is startled by the discovery of some 
grand old Torso, or fragment of Grecian sculpture which has 
lain under the dust and ruin of ages, but which, when exhumed, 
shows us how great was its conception and execution, do you 
think it is admired the more because it is mutilated ? Far from 
it. The artistic soul enjoys the beauty which remains whilst 
mourning the mutilation. 

This should be the sentiment with which we should think of 
such wasted opportunities as the Common. Why are elms, ma- 
ples, and lindens planted row upon row? Because they are the 
only trees worthy our love and admiration ? Beautiful as the 
elm is, the Venus of the forest, shady as the linden with its 



874 OBHAMIIITAL CttOmrM. 

sugar-loaf of foliage, glowing and grand the maple with ita re- 
dondant wealth of aoiumnal colors, like a painter's palette, cm 
which are gathered together the jellow and red of the brilliaitt 
sununer san, jet stationed in rows, with no gronping of one 
against the other, lending and receiving no new glories bj har- 
mony and contrast, they are deprived of the largest part of their 
power and beauty. 

What have the oaks done, so sturdy of limb, rich in leaf, 
grand in outline, earnest in autumnal color, to be shut out, espe* 
cially when they do not bring worms to spin their gay cocoons, 
filling the air with swinging acrobats, whose crowning feat is to 
catch on the bonnet and hat and dress of the passer-by ? Why 
have we no knowle^e of the beeches, whose sumptuous green of 
summer is turned to a still more sumptuous yellow in the an- 
tumn, making our northern hills golden for muny weeks? 

Have the richly clad hickories, whose irregular and graceful 
branches and lithe ascending stems are of surpassing beau^, com- 
mitted the deadly sin, and been therefore excluded? Is the fact 
that they bear nuts to condemn them to the orchard, and exdude 
them from the ornamental grounds? 

For what faults of omission or commission are the feathery 
pines, the picturesque and kingly hemlocks, the graceful Nor- 
way spruce, shut out from the sight of Boston men, women, and 
children? 

There are thousands in that city, whose only idea of evergreen 
is the trimming material brought in to decorate the churches at 
Christmas, or to make the Christmas-tree ; who, if they think 
of a tree at all in winter, think of it only as stripped of its 
clothing of leaves to offer as little resistance as possible to the 
wintry wind. Transport them into one of our pine or hemlock 
forests in winter, where the thick branches sift the sharp cold 
out of the winter wind, and they would think they had be^i the 
subjects of a conjurer's hocus-pocus. 

Men who plant public grounds are often ignorant themselves 
of what trees are ; they have often only seen to know by name, 
the elms, maples, and lindens of city streets, and when success- 
ful business or politics have placed them in authority to dictate 



OBKAMBNTAL aBOUNDS. 876 

as to the laying out of public grounds, they naturally desire the 
only thing they know about. It is a positive wrong committed 
on the public, who cannot go out into the country to learn its 
beauties, and see the trees and shrubs. 

One who plants for the public ought to be true and generous 
to his employer, and instead of wilfully deceiving him us to what 
he might have, giving only the easiest got and commonest varie- 
ties, he should try to bring together a good collection of the 
beautiful inhabitants of our woods. There is no reason why we 
should not plant every variety of trees on a large area, like the 
Common. The narrowness of the street, the too great shade of 
the houses, which may be quoted to prevent the planting of some 
kinds of trees in the streets of cities, are no argument here, 
where every tree and shrub of New England would grow and 
thrive. 

South of the Common is an area of about twenty-five acres, 
called the Public Garden. This garden is a vigorous effort of 
an enthusiastic person in the wrong direction. The original 
surface was a dead level, much of it made from deposits of city 
rubbish. Conscious of the mistakes made in the Common, where 
the irregular and graceful had been sacrificed to the straight, 
and not comprehending that under some circumstances the sur- 
face demands straight lines as imperatively as in*another curves, 
the designer of the improvements, taking before him a piece of 
paper, the surveyor's plan of the surface, laid out thereon a 
series of ovals, circles, and curves, meaning nothing, leading no- 
where, the paths serving rather as a bewilderment and aggrava- 
tion than either a convenience or pleasing effect. 

The reader of the previous pages of this book needs not be told 
here, that I believe in sometimes treating level surfaces with 
graceful lines, curves, and irregularities ; but I have laid down as 
an axiomatic principle, that curved lines on level surfaces are 
justified only by real or apparent necessity. 

If you have no hill or variety of surface to cause you to bend 
out of the straight line, a group of trees or shrubs, a building or 
flower-bed, some real obstruction, should be created to give a real 
«6 well as apparent reason for the deflection. ^ 



876 ORNAMXNTAL QB0inn)6. 

But in this design no such idea prevailed. An oval or a circle, 
or some geometrical figure, looked nicelj on paper, and they 
were therefore transferred to the ground ; what was to be done 
with them afterward seems to have had nothing to do with their 
first conception. 

Nor is there anj harmonj of detail. This design could only 
be excused by the dead level of a Dutch tea^arden, where petty 
conceits and surprises, p«iths leading nowhere or ending in a 
seat or bower, a place to be enriched by frequent flower-beds and 
architectural ornaments, and to have all th6 peculiar elaborate 
details of the artificial French school, is considered the height 
of perfection. Into this plan has been introduced, apparently 
borrowed from some design for an irregular surface, several mod- 
erate alterations of the surface, and a pond of regular irregularity 
of outline, which serves to utterly distort it, and destroy what 
merit it originally possessed. 

As has been said, it is perfec.!y legitimate to wish to introduce 
a variety into a level surface. Taking the dead level as a base, 
laying out a pond of such shape as seemed best, giving the shore 
variety by raising it in some places, leaving it natural in others, 
carrying the raised portions back into little hills or undulations 
to give a surface, around and amongst which paths might wind 
giving new charms by the variety produced, would have been 
legitimate ; but the heterogenous combinations of the Public Gkur- 
den are inexcusable and very ugly. The Common is great in 
spite of its abuses : the grandeur of the surface will make itself 
conspicuous, and compels admiration however much it has 
been distorted ; but in the Public Garden the deformity cannot 
be concealed, and is as incongruous as the fooFs motley over a 
parson's surplice. 

When we leave the arrangement of the surface, and come to 
the planting, there is no improvement, the previous faults sink 
into insignificance. The first excuse of the changes of surface 
from a level is to get places on which to raise plantations above 
the usual surface, by which, with well-selected groups and varie- 
ties of trees, we may increase, indefinitely, the real variation. By 
taking advantage of each change, however small, we may pro- 



OBNAUENTAL OBOUNM. 877 

duce an effect perfectly incomprehensible to the uneducated mind ; 
but in this garden no such thing has been done : indeed, the word 
plantation has no meaning when applied to it. In spring and 
summer there are gaj flowers and bright grass, and some very 
conmion trees and shrubs, some roses, some azalias, some, I 
should say much, of many things arranged with no more eye to 
harmony, contrast, and combination than if they had been 
sprinkled from a pepper-pot. 

Nor is the poverty of design compensated by richness and va- 
riety of material. I have never seen so many ordinary, cheap, 
and poor shrubs and flowers got together, excepting in a nursery ; 
the shrubs are mostly lilacs, snow-balls, syringas, common roses 
like the boursault, spireas, and herbaceous plants of the most 
ordinary character. In sununer, there are rich bedding^plants 
and a profusion of bloom ; but the general material used for 
planting seems to have been bought at a miscellaneous auction, 
because it was cheap ; and having been purchased, it must be 
used somewhere, and, alas, here was the spot I 

I would not deny the beauty of color anywhere ; it is as glo- 
rious and enchanting as music ; and nature will be beautiful in 
spite of man* s efibrts to prevent. The delicate or rich green of 
the newly-shaven grass, the sparkling water, the rich masses of 
salvia, geranium, heliotrope, and verbena, make the Public Gar- 
den an attraction not to be lost from the Boston world, and they 
do much to reconcile one to its obvious failure ; but, granting 
it all, it is a pitiable apology for what might have been. 

This area, which will be surrounded by the finest architectural 
dwellings money can produce, should have been so arranged with 
groups of trees, conservatories, rich gardens, open play-grounds, 
fountains, basins, shrubberies, that it could have rivalled any for- 
eign garden of its size, and been a spot to which a Bostonian 
might gladly take an acknowledged master of the art of land- 
scape gardening, sure of his approbation. 

Stretching away from the Public Garden is the broad Com- 
monwealth Avenue, of sufficient width to permit a continuous 
line of planting in its centre. In the original plan for the ave- 
nue, it was proposed to introduce through its entire length a se- 
74 



878 OBHAHnTAL OBOUlfM. 

ries of little openings, — I hardly know what specific name to 
give them. To add still more to its glory, the houses are all to 
be set back from the very broad side-walks, leaving large areas 
in front of every hoose. 

The avenue is partially completed ; and although, so fair as k 
is made, it is planted in the usual way, there is still left an op- 
portunity for a grand treatment. Of oooxve^ every one can sug- 
gest that these centres should have some plantation ; but to be 
content with introducing a double row of trees, as is now pro- 
posed, through its length, is partially throwing away a chance for 
one of the finest effects. 

Let the avenue be treated as a wliole, the sides as well as the 
centre ; although each one of the areas is snudl, plant them ar- 
tistically. Supposing, for instance, that it has been decided that 
in the centre we are to have nothing but trees ; introduce, in sue> 
cessive groups, all the trees which will endure our climate. In 
the first space a group of pines, next hemlocks, alone or mixed 
with other trees of the same genus, or the Norway spruce ; then 
a group of maples, then oaks, then beech and walnut, then a 
combined group of several varieties, then the many members of 
the ash family, and so on. Or, better still, devote some of these 
spaces to shrubbery ; bring in groups of shrubs among the trees, 
thus breaking the monotony of trees, and again combining 
shrubs and flowers, and at another place shrubs, flowers, and 
trees. 

At the same time, carry the hand of culture and nature's dec- 
orations to the areas in front of the houses, which afibrd, as I 
shall show, a field for a great deal of pleasure and beauty. 

The Public Garden should have been laid out and planted so 
as to produce the utmost beauty the space could afibrd, and then 
have been connected by the grand avenue with some large park, 
yet'to be made in the new land near Boxbury, where there could 
be a large basin of water kept ever fresh by the Charles River 
or the changing tide. 

Treated in some such manner, the beauty would increase 
each year ; and, eventually, the combined avenue, trees, shrubs, 
fiowers, parks, and buildings would have become a splendid 
ornament to the city and the surrounding countiy. 



ORNAMXNTAL 0B0UMD8. 879 

The question of how best to treat our cities is not to be passed 
by carelessly ; we are planting towns and embryo cities every 
year, and their future health and prosperity, as well as beauty, 
will depend on their being laid out and planted in the best man- 
ner. It is worth our while to consider the question at once, 
both in the old cities of the land and in the villages which are 
springing up everywhere, some of which are certain, in time, to 
rival the most populous cities of the present day. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CTTT AREAS. 

I WILL now give some directions for the treatment of small 
city areas, the few feet in front of honses which are often catch- 
alls for scraps of paper and rags, and tenanted by a little rank 
or half-starved grass. A primary objection to the culture of 
plants and flowers in cities, is, that they will be broken and 
stolen by thieves ; but, first, I do not believe they would be ato- 
len ; second, this is not a treatise on police management. 

The directions I shall give are based on the belief that what 
is worth doing at all is worth doing well, and that we know 
that any kind of horticulture is attended by difficulties. Who- 
ever wishes to have his house adorned by flowers, shrubs, and 
vines, must realize at commencement, that he will have a great 
deal of trouble and labor. You cannot thrust a few bushes into 
the ground, set a vine against the wall, attach a plant^box to a 
window, and then give yourself no further concern about them. 
When you have planted you must cultivate, prune, train, and 
protect, sure, if you do not, that all previous preparation was 
wasted, and that, if you do, you will have a great amount of real 
pleasure. 

Again, my directions will not apply indifferently to all kinds and 
styles of houses ; a small and unpretending house, such as the 
thousand live in, maybe clothed with shrubs, flowers, and vines, it 
mattering but little how they are carried over the surface. A 
costly house, with rich architectural finish and ornaments, shonld 
be very carefully approached, and only those plants applied to it 
which will harmonize with its style of architecture ; and, what- 
ever we plant must be carefully pruned and trained, each year, 
so as to remain subordinate to the architecture. 

880 



OITT ARIAS. 



881 



But for expensive houses and rich owners I shall give no di- 
rections ; if they want aid, and the presence of natural beauty, 
they can afford to get advice when they need it, and thus they 
make sure to produce a harmonious result. Nor can I give, at 
the same time, directions for the shaded and sunny sides of the 
same street ; houses erected on the south side must treat their 
front areas differently from those on the north side of the street. 
Moreover, the space allotted to houses differs in every street ; 
in some they are flush with the side-walk, no space being lefl 
even for a vine ; in others there will be ten, in others twenty 
feet of area, and I shall not give details for all ; but this, I 
think, may be assumed, that what is possible for the area of 
twenty by thirty is proportionately so for ten by thirty, and 
when there is but a foot or two, although the resident must 
dispense with the flowers and shrubs, he can have the vines, and 
plant boxes that his more lucky neighbor uses as a part of his 
improvement. 

In the few square feet of a city area we must not strive for 
grand effects, but must rest content with pleasant color, fragrance, 
and variety. Though in a small way, in our beds of bulbs and 
bedding^plants, even in cities we can get contrasts and harmonies 
of color. 

It may seem, when one examines the plans I have subjoined, 
that I have overcrowded the space ; but I expect that constant 
B -^^^ ^ care and pruning will keep all the 

'■% plants and shrubs in their proper 
J bounds, and many of the largest 
shrubs, as the cydonia japonica, 
could be trained directly on the 
fence, like an espaliered fruit; its 
thorns would deter any thief from 
putting his hand through to gather 
the flowers, and its rich coral blos- 
soms in the spring, and dark green 
leaves in summer, would be very 
beautiful. A, B, represents comer of fence and stem of cy- 
donia. 

74* 




882 omr ajuus. 

In order to get the atmost beauty from the city street, several 
persons living in contiguous houses should combine togeth^* to 
arrange and plant their areas according to a definite plan, one 
person giving especial predominance to roses, another to azaliaa, 
another to flower-beds of bedding-plants, another to ev e r gre ca 
shrubs. In the spring, one devoting most space to hyacinths, 
another to tulips ; and later, one to the gladiolus, another to Japan 
lilies, another to Cape bulbs, another to verbenas or petunias. 
The small plots planted in this way would be like the flower-beds 
of a large garden, and though the different owners would have no 
right to gather each other's flowers, they would share the plea- 
sure of seeing them, and could try experiments and produce a 
variety of plants utterly beyond the efforts of one or even tea 
persons. 

The same method should prevail in treating the house-front or 
fa^e ; let one phint against the house be running roses, another 
honeysuckles or woodbine (Virginia creeper), or bignonia, &o. 

If we extend this kind of improvement to its utmost capaeiiy, 
by attacliing hanging boxes of plants to the windows of the houses, 
we could make many a city street more varied and beautiful than 
any country village. 

If trees are wanted, plant them in the same manner ; take care 
not to put the trees so near as to over<hade Uie flowers and shrubs, 
and select such a variety as the space permits, which would give 
the street a great interest to strangers and residents, and teach the 
dwellers in cities, how varied and beautiful our fresh trees are. 

I will give a detailed treatment for a large area, — where I sup- 
pose the houses to have a front of thirty feet, and to be thirty feet 
back from the street, with walks leading to the house six feet 
wide ; the fences separating the difilerent houses and areas are to 
be used as trellises for various vines, as well as t^e front fenoea 
and the wire fences separating each walk from the area belonging 
to the same house. 



CITT ABIA8. 



Flower-bed bulbs. — 1, niowdropB; 2, crown 
imperial; 3, polyanthus; 4, crocus, all around the 
edge; 6, iris; 0, Jonquils; 7, narcissus; 8, hya- 
etnth; n^ase for trailing planto; n basket for 
trailing plants ; flowers to follow bulbs, edge with 
gasanla splendens, centre with Mexican Bage,Ter- 
Mnas next edge, then heliotrope and geranium 
10, dimbing roses; lljCydoniajaponica; 12,iy7on 
fence; 13, mahonia; 14, standard rose; 15, trail- 
ing rose ; 10, double flowering almond ; 17, spirea 
pnudfolia; 18, perpetual roses; 19, woodbine; 
20, cobea scandens; 21, rose. 



Shrubs fbr B: 1, spirea punifoUa; 2, forsythia 
Tiridissima; 3, spirea gracilis; 4, rosa acada; 
0, dethra; 6, asalea pontica; 7, perpetual roses; 
8, black alder; 9, woodbine; 10, tropeolum; 11, 
wigela rosea ; 13, woodbine ; 14, trumpet creeper ; q 
n yuse. Flower beds of B and C : crown impe> 
rial next fence ; then nardssns and Jonquil, small 
beds; hyacinths and sundries; large drole, edge 
with polyanthus; then tulips and white and Ja- 
pan lilies against fenee. 



Shrubs toC: 1, prairie rose; 2, honeysuckle; 
3, honeysuckle; 4,priTet; 5, roses; 6, mahonla; 
7, shrubby dnquefoil; 8, asalea pontica; 9, cy- 
donia; 10, phlox; 11, Roxbury wax work; 12, C^ 
honeysuckle; 13, Dutchman's pipe. Between C 
and D, on fence: 1, rose; 2, honeysuckle; 5, 
woodbine; 6»iTy. 



D, after bulbs : Gentre with salrla, next sear- 
let geranium, heliotrope, points with verbena, 
gazania, nierembcrgia and mignonette; bulbs, 1, 
■nowdrop ; 2, polyanthus; 3, Jonquil; 4, croons ; g, 
hyadnth ; 0, tulips ; 7, crown imperial, after these 
in place or with bedding plants use Japan lilies, q 
gladiolus, amaryllis, and other Cape bulbs ; 8, 
honeysuckle; 9, roses (running); 10, wigelea ; 11, 
woodbine; 12,dematis; 13, cobea scandens and 
woodbine ; 14, roses ; 15, asalea pontica ; 10, daph- 
ne mesereon; 17, black alder; 18, snow ball ; 19, 
dethra; 20, English priret ; 21, roses ; 22, spirea ; 
2S, tropeolum. 




884 



OITT ABMAB. 




Many of the evergreen sHrabs, and 
partienlarlj the new yariegated kinds, 
,-Z\ would be especially inteieBting to eify 
' /* amatears, but I should recommend 
^' them rather for the shady sides of the 
street; and I fully believe that on the 
shady side, the most beautiful rhodo- 
dendrons and, kahnias, and where the 
{ space would permit, pinus cembra, ilex 
laurifolia, American hoUy, andiome- 
das, j uniper, would live and thrive. As 
city gardening is a novelty, there 
^^ would be constant opportunity for ex- 
'^^"^ periment, and we should undoubtedly 
find many shrubs doing just as well in 
\^^ |:,^ithe city as the country; whilst others, 
L J of which we had reason to expect bet- 

ter results, would die, unable to contend 
with the dust, smoke, and confined air. 

1, perpetual roset; 2, holly; S, \Ambk alder; 4, 
BQonjnmBi 5, prlret; 0, kalmta; 7, detfara; 8, 
wigelea rosea; 0,azalla pontioa; 10, rosea; 11, 
apirea pranlfoUa; 12, dentzia acabra; 13, roae 
aeada; 14, cjdonia (on fence); 15, apirea oorTia- 
bosa i 10, standard roaes ; 17, dapbne mesereon ; 
18, forsythia Tiridissima ; 19, ahmoby St. Johna- 
wort; 20, barberry; 21, doable flowering al- 
mond; 22, fiicbsia; 23, snowdrops. 

In this plan, by turning the paths 
out of the right line, we are enabled 
to get masses of shrubs together, which 
would be very efiective. We might 
introduce some of the small ever- 
greens, like pinus cembra or deciduous 
trees, like chionanthus (the fringe 
tree), cornus florida, haiesiA (silver 
bell), cranberry tree, the snow ball, 
magnolias, and others. 



CITT ABUS. 



885 



L 






I haTe given, first, two arrangements of large areas ; now let us 
tarn to the front of the house, where the vines are to be trained 
over the surface. To relieve them from the heated radiation from 
the bricks, a simple wire-trellis like that shown in the cut should 

be made, covering the brick- 
work, and raised four or six 
inches from its surface. The 
construction of the trellis is very 
simple: drive in between the 
bricks, eye-bolts, or pins of stout 
wire, say one-eighth of an inch in 
diameter, sharpened at one end 
to drive in, and turned into an 
eye or loop at the other ; drive 
one at each side of the lower 
window, and one between, "just 

CIV^ v^ ^ ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^® underpin- 

I i I ning; drive again at same rela- 

_^ B=jl Ifejl tive positions over the windows 

of each story. Then take a 
wire about one-tenth of an inch 
in diameter, and fasten to the top eye-bolt; bring it down through 
the others, and fasten at the bottom; you can cross wires as 
often as the vines need. Paint these wires dark-btown, and they 
will be inconspicuous, and yet answer the purpose of supports to 
the vines perfectly ; and as there will be sufficient air-space be- 
tween the trellis and the wall, there will never be any danger of 
burning the foliage of the vines. The only danger to apprehend 
is the over-stimulating effects of the spring sun, which, as I have 
before described, causes the destruction of our partly acclimated 
plants, by starting the sap too early, which freezes, thus bursting 
the sap-vessels when the cold returns before the mild weather is 
f^Uy established. 

Under each alternate window of the different stories, suspend a 
box, which may be made as graceful in shape as you please, of two- 
inch plank, or of common boards ; the box to be supported by 
clamps from the window-sills, or brackets of wrought iron, let in 



cm ABBA8. 




to the brick-work. Snob plant-boxes should be about two feet deep 
and wide, and as much longer 
than the window as one can 
easily reach from either side. 

Fill six inches of the box- 
es with broken crock or 
stones for drainage; then 
three inches of broken bones 
and pieces of leather; over 
this fill a rich, light loam ; to 
make sure of its quality, it 
would be well to prepare a 
compost similar to that de- 
scribed on page 10 of this 
book. In such a box, we 
can grow what we please, — plant along its front edge, yerbenaa, 
nierembergia, gilia, mignonette, maurandyia, and let them hang 
down in the air, showing their beauty of form and color, as a 
fringe to the box. We might commence the season with a collec- 
tion of spring bulbs, to be followed by Cape bulbs, like ixia, 
cyclamen, amaryllis, sparaxis, homeria, nerine, tuberose. All 
these bulbs should have been started in some greenhouse, and be 
set in the boxes after the spring bulbs have gone. 

In lieu of the bulbs, use the bedding-plants or annuab ; set at 
the corner of the boxes, tropeolum, or convolyulus, to cling to 
the nearest wires. Be careful to select only those climbing- 
plants which will run of their own free will when once they are 
attached to the vine, as it would be troublesome, and to a careless 
person dangerous, to get out by ladder, or painter's window-jaok, 
to train the yines. 

It needs but a feeble imagination to summon up the rich pic- 
ture such a house would present to the eye of the owner or of a 
stranger. Were there no back area to be improved, we could get 
from the front, end, or side of a house a great deal of satisfac- 
tion and a large quantity of flowers. 

I will now introduce a plan for a series of houses, with but ten 
feet front area, the length of the house, or say two hundred 
square feet. 



cm ABIiB. 



887 



Crooat, on the edge ; 2, groups of polyanthus ; 3, Jon<|uU and nardsstts ; 

4, hyadnth ; 5, tulips ; 0, snowdrops ; 7, oydonia, on fence j 8, plants on 

[I staging in pots ; 10, rose; 11, rose and honeysuckle. The oomers next 

; the house could be occupied by staging for i^aats eairied as high as the 

■ owner wishes. 



1, roses ; 2, honeysn^e, on fence ; 3, priret, on fence; 4, ibrsythla 
▼iridisslma, on fence ; 5, mahonia. In a rery small area, large shrubs, un- 
less well confined to the fence, would crowd, and lose their beauty be- 
low, only showing leayes and flowers on the top. In the crowded space, 
dirt and rubbish would collect 



1, snowdrops; 2, oobea soaoden ; 3, black alder, trained against fence ; 
^Si^ 4f deutsia scabra rariegata, on fence; 5, trumpet creeper; 6, sweet 
^,]''r briar, on fence; 7, oobea scandens; 8, Dutchman's pipe; 9, lilies of the 
*^/~ ^ Talley. Stand of flowers against house with fire steps ; rerbena, roses, 
a geranium, heliotrope, fhchsla. 




1, roses ; 2, spirea prunifolia ; 3, privet on fence : 4, clethra ; 6, rose 
acacia ; 6, crocus, on the edge ; 7, polyanthus, in groups ; 8, hyacinths ; 
tulips; 10, rose; 11, honeysuckle. If the area is depressed much below 
sidewalk, bedding plants or annuals might suffer fh)m want of sun, in 
which case, a raised flowei^bed should be made to bring them up to 
thaUght. 



888 



GIIT AMMAB. 




But there are areas not more than fourteen feet square, and 
some smaller ; the greater the depth in proportion to the length 
tlie better the chance for planting. 

I give one now fourteen by fourteen, with walk to house fomv 
teen by five feet. 

_ < _*^J4_ >4 Flower bed, bolbifonowed by Imlbi or bedding irfaato: 

I, irj; 2, woodbine; 3, honeymcUe ukd blfnoniA; i, 
roMt; 5, tropeolom; 0, honeyinekle; 7, woodbine; 8, 
rowt; 9, amUm; 10, dentoUgnoUli; 13, dwarf wig«Iia 
.JS roflee; 14, aymphoria anc emo en; 15, dielytrm ipectabilU, 
▼viegaU; 10, rariegmted Urtmrlan honey tuekle; 17, 
•Undnrd rote; 18, mnhonin; 19, luUmIn; 20, roses on 
fenoe. 



For areas on the shaded side of the street, the treatment most 
t>e entirely different : we can have snow-drops and lily of the 
valley ; and probably some of the other bulbs, like the hyacinths, 
will blossom pretty well ; but the want of sun would be a fatal ob- 
jection to most flowers. 

But shade would be no objection to evergreen and variegated 
shrubs ; of these, many varieties have been introduced to notice 
during the last five years, and the shaded side would be especially 
favorably for ivy. You must not expect the blossoms of any 
plants, even evergreens, to be as brilliant in the shade ; but the 
foliage will be very rich, for it is not the severe winter cold that 
kills our evergreens, but the sun of spring and late winter. On 
the contrary, it is the sun of summer which kills many of the 
leaves of the variegated leaved shrubs. The white places in the 
leaf are practically diseased portions from which the chlorophyl 
or coloring matter is absent ; when these leaves are exposed to 
the hot sun's rays, they are burned up. 

I venture into this part of the subject with diffidence, because 
this experiment has never been carefully tried, although analogy 
is decidedly in its favor ; for in the country we always select the 
north sides of hedges, groups of trees, and the like, as the best 
positions for both these evergreens and variegated plants. 

All the variegated shrubs require only good, well-drained com* 
mon garden soil. The evergreens do better for having incorpo- 



OITT AREAS. 



rated into the soil lumps and fine particles of peat ; but both should 
be well drained. 





r " 3 - 


fi 

1 


iC^J^ 4 ^^-\ 



Flu for shaded side of street: 1, Ivy; 2, 
woodbine; 3, trj; 4, snowdrops; 5,lUiesof 
the TftUey; 0, mnhonias; 7, rhododendron; 8, 
rhodon canadensis; 9, kalmfa; 10, golden 
box, erergreen enonymns (half hardy, corered 
in winter); 12,6weedlsh Juniper; 13, rhodo- 
dendron ; 14, ilex laorifoUa; 15, sUver box; 
17, kalmia. WhereTer I hare giren kalmia, I 
K. UtifoUa. 



In these several plans I have used the same scale, twenty feet 
to the inch. I have planted the shrubs too thickly, were they to 
be left unthinned, as they would ultimately crowd and injure 
each other ; but I have set them thickly to get an early effect, 
believing that the planter will have sufficient sense to cut out and 
prune closely before the plants begin to crowd each other. 

I have been thus precise and full in my treatment of the front 
areas, because they are generally most open to the sun ; but I do 
not forget the back of the house, where there is generally much 
the largest space. The back areas are very often deeply shaded 
by high fences and surrounding houses. Whatever room there is 
should be improved. On the sunny sides, I should prepare the 
soil thoroughly, and plant grape-vines and fruit on espaliers. In 
the ground at the roots of the trees and vines, we may have bulbs 
and flowers ; but the necessity of using most of the back area for 
household purposes generally forbids the introduction of shrub- 
bery. 

Mr. R. McCleaiy Copeland, the Librarian of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, has shown triumphantly, that great success in 
special culture may be had in the city. He has cultivated for 
many years in a small back yard, hyacinths so successfully as to 
take the first premiums offered by that society. These beautiful 
flowers were grown in a grape-border, an Isabella grape occupying 
the wall above it; the hyacinths being replaced, when their time 
of bloom had passed, by Japan lilies and other bulbous plants, 
and later by pot-plants, which had passed the winter in the house. 

In a very confined area not nearly as large as the one first shown, 
76 



890 



cnr ABXAS. 



Mr. Copeland has raised great quantities of flowers, and, as he says, 
" plenty of grapes." 

In plan on p. 884, 1 omit the planting of bulbs, as from what I 
have said any one can combine for himself; also, I have made 
the plan more simple by using the same numbers to designate 
the same plant on the four plans. 

There is no need for me to dwell any longer on this part of 
my subject. I have given details in the earlier portions of this 
book which will readily teach whoever wants to improve his 
back-yard, how to do it ; on the shady side we can only hope to 
succeed, as on the south sides of the streets, by planting those 
things which do not require sun. 

Let us now go up on to the roof of the house, not for the view, 

but to see the opportunity it affords for greenhouse, conserva- 

' tory, or even garden-culture. I do not mean the roof of the six 

or seven-story house, but of the projecting L, and the lower parts 

of the house. 

Many city houses have a long, low shed, and often a two-story 
elevation over the whole or a part of the back yard and kitchen, 
which may be used for garden or green-house ; in the latter case, 
heat might be supplied from the kitchen-range, or the furnace. 
In as small space as twenty by fifteen feet, we could have a col- 
lection of plants, a cold grapery, or a cold peach-house, that 
would be perfectly satisfactory ; or, if we do not want to be 
troubled with glass, make the roof strong enough, and lay out a 
garden there. 

Suppose ▲, B to be the slanting roof of such projection ; b, c the 

front of the house to the 
yard. Carry up the posts 
A, D, and lay a strong floor 
over the area b, d ; then 
plank up the sides d, c, e, 
F, eighteen inches or two 
feet deep ; lay a bottom of 
coarse materials and bro- 
ken bones for drainage, and 
fill with compost. Any 
thing will grow here, and 




CITT AREAS. 801 

jou can make the house-top as perfect a flower or vegetable gar- 
den, so far as its size permits, as if it were on the ground. I 
know there are objections : first, the weight on the walls of the 
house, — strengthen them ; weight and trouble of snow in win- 
ter, — shovel it off; trouble in getting up the materials and wa- 
tering, — generally it would be watered by the rain, and the 
materials once carried up would be there forever. 

Many of the far-famed hanging-gardens of Babylon were, 
doubtless, made in this way ; and it requires but a feeble effort 
of the imagination to see the beautiful addition such gardens 
would be to city houses. 

I do not give minute details for this arrangement, because the 
simplicity of the garden is obvious ; and when any one wishes to 
have a greenhouse, or other planthouse, he would naturally get 
advice at the time, as the peculiar shape of each roof, and its 
exposure, would require special arrangement. 



CHAPTER X. 

BOW TO PLANT TBES8. 

I HATE spoken of the overcrowding of citj areas, and in the 
earlier part of the book (see pp. 760, 763), of the evils of over- 
crowding plantations in the country, but I think, before leaving 
the subject, a little more might be said ; for there is really no 
more serious mistake made in ornamental planting. 

Whether one plants for himself or employs a landscape-gar- 
dener, he wants to get as immediate an effect as possible. Life 
is short, and very uncertain for all ; and when a man has reached 
the age of forty to forty-five years, and but few Americans are - 
ready to make a country home at an earlier age, his chances of life 
are less than those of younger men. But take heart ! seven years 
will make a plantation where the trees will be from fifteen to 
twenty feet high : good trees, well planted, grow very rapidly ; 
and, if the trees have been well combined with shrubs, in seven 
years we may convert an open field into a thicket. 

Few men believe, when they plant trees, that they shall be un- 
willing to cut them down at a suitable time ; but when the tree 
we have loved and protected gets lusty and well developed, it 
seems almost a sacrilege to cut it down. Nor can many men 
realize how much beauty and protection may be got from well- 
grown and well-selected shrubs ; they have always associated the 
idea of trees and country together, and they do not understand a 
plantation which does not give shade. 

Shade is very desirable in hot, summer days, and we should be 
careful to provide it somewhere near the house ; but a little wiU 
answer for comfort, and, having secured that, we should arrange 
the remainder of our plantation with a strict regard to the beauty 
we can produce. 

6M 



HOW TO PLANT THUS. 808 

Many persons, who have made plantations within the last ten 
years, and who thoroughly love and understand trees, and who 
thought their trees were far enough apart, are already compelled to 
cut them down, or cut off the leading shoots to delay their growth, 
and devise all kinds of plans to prevent the trees they do not re- 
move from injuring each other. 

This difficulty could be avoided in small places, by planting 
only the low-growing trees and tree-like shrubs, such as 



EVERORBEN SHRUBS. 

Rhododendron, — varieties. 

Ealmia, — latifi)lia. 

Ilex, — laurifolia, scottica. 

Mahonia, — aquilegifolia. 

Arbor YitjE, — varieties. 

Juniper, — varieties. 

Box, — varieties. 

Privet, — varieties. 

Andromeda, — floribonda. 

CoTONEASTEB, — buxifoUa, microphylla, margniata. 



YARISOATED EVERGREENS. 

Box. 
Privet. 

Taxus, — argentea, aurea, and variegata. 

Thuja, — variegata. 

EuoNTUUS, — japonica, half hardy (could be covered with straw). 



VARIEGATED DECIDUOUS SHRUBS. 

Wiegelia, — rosea nana, dwarf, two to three feet high. 
LoNiCERA, — brachypoda reticulata, climber, six to ten feet 
Philadelphus, — variegatus, six feet 
Stmphoria, — racemosa, four feet 
Deutzia, — gracilis, six inches to two feet 

Sahbucus, — aurea (golden elder), eight feet; argentea (silver), 
three feet. 



894 HOW TO PLANT TRXtt. 

DbCIDUOVB 6HBUB8, — 866 lifltl On pp. 766, 767. 

Then we might use for the low-growing evergreen trees, — 

Pdtub, — oembra. 

Abbor Vitje, ^^ varietiet (aome new and fine). 

Crtptombbia, — generally tender. 

Abauc ABiA, — in shade. 

Abies, — alba nana. 

Biota, — pendola (weeping Arbor Vite), nepaulensis, tartarica, and 

Siberian. 
Ckphalotaxub, — dmpacea, abo Irish yew. 
JuviPBBUS, — saecica, commnnin, hibemica, sqoamata (scaly leared), 

very fine. 
ToBBBTA, — . taadfolia (rather laige). 

With these shrubs and low-growing trees, we shoald not need 
the larger trees, either evergreen or deciduous. I do not wish 
to be understood to discourage all tree-planting in small places, 
because there is a pleasure in trees which shrubs cannot give. 
Nor do I think that trees are satisfactory only when grown sin- 
gly, and as specimen trees. I admire them as much in the 
grove, and well combined in groups, as single. Indeed, I think 
it is only by grouping, so as to get their mutual effects, that we 
can ever understand the full beauty aud capacity of trees and 
shrubs. 

There are many persons who only appreciate a tree when it is 
grown like a specimen-plant in the conservatory, perfectly de- 
veloped and balanced. In order to produce such trees, much 
more room must be allowed to each, and we must indulge our- 
selves with less in quantity or fewer varieties. I like variety as 
well as perfection, and should prefer to crowd a little, if I must 
choose between perfect trees and shrubs and few varieties, and 
groups with less perfect specimens. 

The important point when we commence is, whether we shall 
plant for ourselves or posterity. If for the latter, arrange your 
plan so as to leave ample room between the trees as they are to 
ultimately stand, and fill in with such trees and shrubs as you 
will be willing to cut out when their duty as nurses is at an end. 
76» 



HOW TO PLANT THUS. 896 

If we plant for ourselvea, decide whether we want specimen trees 
and shrabs, or close groups and immediate effects. If the 
former, we must wait patiently for the effect, which will come 
with time, and compel ourselves to cut down whatever grows too 
fast, and destroys the harmony of the plan we have laid out. 

Latterly, great interest has been felt in growing in the green- 
house and in the open grounds plants with variegated leaves. 
It is a foreign taste, especially developed in Japan : the Japanese 
have several hundred varieties. The variegation is an unhealthy 
absence of the coloring matter of the leaf, and is curious rather 
than pretty ; very often such leaves cannot stand the intensity of 
our summer sun ; but when they will bear our climate, they are 
interesting as varieties ; and some of them should be planted in 
all ornamental grounds. 

The following list of variegated trees (of both kinds), as well 
as the list of variegated evergreen and deciduous shrubs, last 
given, was made by Mr. Francis Parkman, a most suc- 
cessful horticulturist, of Jamaica Plain, near Boston, who has 
found those he names hardy in his grounds, and they will doubt- 
less prove hardy throughout our Northern States. The spotty 
foliage of these plants, valuable only as curiosities, will not per- 
mit them to be used in masses ; they should always be grown 
with plenty of room, as specimen plants. 

VABIEOATED DECIDUOtTS TBBB8. 

HoRSB-CHESTNUT, — slxty fcct high. 

Oak, — forty feet high. 

Willow, — ten feet high. 

AcEB Negundo, — twenty feet high. 

GiNOO, — (Salisbnria) twenty to thirty feet, rare. 

Ash. 

varieqated bvebqrbbn tbbbb. 

CupRESsus, — lawsoniana. 
Thuja, — occidentalis. 
Thuja, — dolobrata. 
Chamaotparis. 
Betinobpera, — aurea, ai^gentea. 



eVO HOW TO PI.A11T 

The growing interest in horticultnre will insure that all new 
varieties will he tried, where one's grounds are extensive, and 
there is room for experiments ; hut for our thousand oovntry 
homes thej are of little value. 

The commoner varieties of trees and shruhs are more aoeesaihfe 
and cheaper, and are the hest for general culture ; no newlj dis- 
covered trees have yet trenched on the merits of the white pine 
and hemlock, the oaks, maples, elms, and hickories of America; 
and whoever plants the known and loved trees and shruhs of our 
native land, giving them good soil to grow in, and good care in 
their infancy, need not envy his neighhors their foreign or Tarie- 
gated trees. He can produce effects with them which will make 
his home veiy beautiful, and capable of enduring the most jBar&> 
ful criticism. 

The secret of successful landscape-gardening lies in thoroughly 
understanding the various shrubs and trees which we can plant 
in any given place, and the effect they will produce alone and 
combined in groups. No matter how skilful one may be aa an 
architect, how careful and successful as an engineer, unleaa be 
thoroughly knows and loves natural beauly, and understands how 
to produce it, he cannot hope to arrange a country place suocess- 
fnlly. Too many persons suppose that how and where roads and 
paths are directed, flower-beds niarked out, and kitchen-gardens 
planted, are the essential parts of laying out a place : these are 
essential as the canvas, the frame over which it is stretched, the 
palette, the brush, are the essentials of landscape-painting; the 
success of the landscape painted depends on the knowledge and 
use of color in the painter, combined with skill in drawing. 

Inness, with a few rapid dashes of his brush, owing to his won- 
derful knowledge of color and memory of effects he has seen in 
nature, combined with a peculiar instinctive knowledge of the 
results of certain combinations of form and color, will make a pic- 
ture of great beauty and lasting value in a few hours ; other men 
may use his brushes, his palette, canvas, and colors, and be withal 
splendid draughtsmen, and yet work hours and days, and fail not 
only to produce a decent result, but even be utterly unable to 
copy successfully Inness's picture, which they have taken as a 



HOW TO PLANT TRKK8. 897 

study. On pp. 581 to 587 of this book, I have briefly sketched 
the elements which should enter into the composition of one who 
would make landscape-gardening his profession; and the experi- 
ence of many years convinces me that I did not set the standard 
too high. 

Landscape-gardening in America will never attain the position 
it deserves ; for most of the work a landscape-gardener may do 
will be ruined by the neglect or caprice of the owner, the accidents 
of time, or the necessities of a growing population, which in a 
few years compel the destruction of places laid out with cost 
and skill. Where there are so many accidents, and when as a 
necessity much time must elapse before under the most favorable 
oiroumstances the perfected design can be realized, it is obvious 
that men of other professions, who lay out grounds to put money 
in their purses when their own business will not support Ihem, 
and who are in no wise inspired with the enthusiasm of the art, 
may get good reputations ; for they will probably make few mis- 
takes in the skeleton of paths, roads, and gardens which are per- 
manent, and the world will be but slowly educated up to the ap- 
preciation of true success in ornamental planting, which is the 
real test of the landscape-gardener. 

Men will be employed to lay out grounds, not so much because 
they are thoroughly acquainted with the subject as because they 
are at hand, or cheap. Occasionally there will be a man who 
knows what a truly beautiful country place, park, or public gar- 
den is, and who will give the real artist a chance to produce the 
best result nature will permit ; and for such rare opportunities 
the landscape-gardener must wait, content in the mean while to 
do whatever he can to improve the public taste. 



898 OEAPB-Oni/TOBS. 

The following letter from Mr. R. A. Grider was reoeiyed too 
late to be noticed in the *^ Essay on Grape-cnltnre/' and as it seems 
to give valuable directions and advice for these parts of the conn- 
try where the thrip is an annoyance, I have subjoined it, copying 
it in full. 

Bbthiahex, Fa., Febb SS, ISSB. 
To RoBBBT Morris Copeland, Winchester, Mass. 

Dkar Sir, — Fruit-growen sufier much from bogs, worms, and other 
insects, but experience teaches that the larger-sized bugs, althoogh de- 
structive, are not as much to be dreaded as the small sized, which almost 
always appear in great nnmbers, while the former are comparatively 
few ; the larger can be readily found and destroyed, but the smaller are 
not eafily found, and are harder to extirpate. I need not give yoo a 
long description of losses caused by the thrip or grape-vine hopper, an 
insect of minute size, which is found on the young shoots of the vine, 
early in spring, when they first begin to sprout. They deposit thdr 
eggs on the young leaves and shoots. When first bom, they can 
scarcely be seen without a magnifying glass, but soon legs appear and 
the perfect insect comes forth. 

Whenever an egg hatches, it leaves a wound caused by the eating of 
the insect ; the wound turns rose color, then purple, brown, and finally 
black. As the vine expands in growth, so does the wound in like pro- 
portion, and, although one wound does but little damage, many wounds 
cause great damage, as they not only destroy the growing crop, but 
sometimes every young shoot over acres in extent ; and, of course, de- 
stroy the wood for the coming season, leaving the vines covered at first 
with festering sores, and then looking as if fire had passed, and left all 
black and desolate. Such is the experience we have had of that insig- 
nificant little hopper, known by different names. 

We made many experiments ere we learned bow to destroy the eggs, 
but now find it perfectly eafty to do so. To destroy the eggs, powder 
them with air-slacked lime, which can be readily done in early sum- 
mer before the foliage has expanded. This should be frequently done 
early in the morning, while the dew is on. After the leaves expand to 
about one-half their size, provide free-burning torches, and, when the 
weather is warm and the evening dark, let two persons, — one to agi- 
ate the vine, and one to carry the torch, — visit the vineyard ; one 
shakes the vine, the other passes the torch under and about it, the in- 
sects start as soon as disturbed, and fly into the fire. Care must be 
taken not to heat the foliage, but it should be passed to and fro ; if this 



GRAPE-OULTUBS. 899 

w done a few times, the tbrip will be destroyed. They gain great head- 
way only in the early part of the season ; later in the season their ene- 
mies thin them out 

Many excellent practical fruit-growers believe that the black spots on 
the vine are caused by the sun's rays acting on drops of water ailer a 
shower, and, being condensed by the drops, bum the surface on which 
they rest. 

Charlton, in his work on grape-culture, examined the Subject, and ac- 
counts for the spots by the drops of water, which form a lens and burn 
the shoots ; but as the wounds are found on the lower part of the shoot, 
this theory does not answer ; as the rays of the sun cannot be concen- 
trated there, the sun is not the cause. 

I have stated these facts at meetings of fruit-growers, and have asked 
them to test the matter and correct me, if wrong, and have been so far 
confirmed. 

I am, yours respectfully, 

B. A. Grider. 



INDEX. 



AcMba, their ehMMterlitSes, 716. When to 
pUnt, 717. 

AceonnU, fknn, ought to he kept, M8. 

AchimeoM, the, 96, 227,. 298, 728. 

Acorns, when to phint, 146. 

AdlQmU Clrrhoaa, 467. 

AentioD, 96, 97. 

Agentum, deicrlptloa of, 663.. 

Agriealture, the proeemeeof, an endless chain, 
fi27. Processes of. time to oommenee Tsrles 
with latitude, 1, 2 Treatises on, when of a 
general character dif&cnlt to prepare, 2. 

Air, enrrents of, beneficial, 99, 100. Full of 
elements of regetable life, 99. Currents of, 
ramore insects, and add to the efflciencj of 
the syringe, 99. 

Aldemey cattle, the, 890, 891. 

Alexanders, 134. 

AUsanders, 551. 

AlkaUs, some one predominates in each soil, 
526. 

Amaranths, globe, 8. 

Amarrllis, the, 181, 496. 

Ammonia, 624. Sources of, 600. Amount 
constant in the soil, 500. Amount of, sup- 
plied to. an acre by the air, 608. Amount 
of, which re-eTaporates, 604. Much of, in 
rain-water runs into the drains, 604. Chem- 
ical constitution of, 497. Is the source of 
nitrogen in plants, 497. Carbonate of, how 
affected by Plaster of Paris, charcoal, etc., 
492. Its action, 614, 525. 

Ammoniacal gas, fororable to regetation, 866, 
866. 

AnagaUis, 663. 

Anahsis of Bolls, 496, 496, 497; of Beans, 
498; of Clorer, 498: ofOats, 498; of Rye, 
498; of PoUtoes, 498; of Turnips, 498; of 
>Theat. 498; of Crops, by Bousningault and 
Way, 499. Any one, which neglects an im- 
portant element, worthless, 601; of human 
urine, 504, 506; of cows' urine, 605; of 
soils, is of but little practical ralne, 507 ; of 
sheep, cow, and horse manure. 512, 518, 
514 ; of barnyard manure, 515 ; of peat, 615, 
516; ofwood-afhes, 522. 

Anemone, 180, 402. 654. How to cultlrate, 
465. Treatment of, when out of blomom, 582. 

Animals, bones and blood of, are dependent 
on plants for their mineral constituents, 
494. Care of in cold weather. 218. 

Annuals, seeds of often sown broadcast with 
guano, 462, 468. Which grow well in 
masses, 468. Seeds of, when to sow, 587. 
Depth at which to sow seeds of, 587. How 
to sow seeds of, 588. Arrangement of, in 
flower-garden, 583. Lists of, 544, 545, 546, 
547. 

Antirrhinum, description of, 664. How to 
propagate, 666. 



Apples, rarieties of, 89, 142. Harf«sting. 80, 
140,141. How to prune, 906, 206. Barrels 
of, to be kept eloeed, 268. Trees, how grafted 
when without wax, 661. WlndlhUs de- 
stroyed by pigs, 566. Generally keep best 
when come ftom uneultlTated trees, 78J. 
Which ripen in August, 787. 

Apricots, under glass. 804, 806, 806, 807, 626. 
I Ripening of, 809. On espaliers, 86. 

Aquarium, 249-266. How to make, 268. How 
to manage, 262-266. 

Arbor YitaeB, where to use, 718. 
, Arboretum, how to plant, 769, 760. 
' Arbors, rustic, when to be introduced, 796. 

Arbors, in gardens, when to use, 802. 

Artichokes, 406, 407. 661. 784. Chacd, 88, 
182. Jerusalem, 407, 406. 

Artificial water, treatment of, 222. 

Ash, its cliarseter, 92. Mountain, its eharae- 
teristics, 714. How to plant, 714. 

Ashes, of wood, Taluab^B as manurs, 622. 
Salts contained in them essential to vegeta- 
tion, 624. 

Asparsgus, autumnal treatment of. 88. Seeds 
of, 199. Bed, where to place, 196. Bed, 
how to make, 199. For forcing, 188. How 
to treat in September, 88. How to force, 
852, 858, 408. How to treat in May, 560. 
Bo not cut for too long a time, 624. For 
seed, 784. 

Association an aid In agricultural improre- 
ments, 877. 

Atmosphere, cooling of, 176. Laws which 
gorern the. 177. 

Auriculas, 28, 457, 664. How to cultirate, 
464. When in blossom, treatment of, 680. 
When out of bloasom, treatment of. 681. 
Repotting of, 668. Treatment of when re- 
potted. 658. Soil for. 659. 

ATenue, how to make, 81, 88, 769. 

Ayreshire eattie, the. 890, 891. 

Aaalias, 14, 166, 228, 298, 896 How to culti- 
Tate, 229, 280. To be cut back in May, 629, 
580. 

Banks, how to make, 86, 87. 

Bark, uses of, 419, 420. Outer, a protection 
from cold, 420; of plantSj^aries with the 
species and locality. 421. washes, no bene- 
fit to, 421. Lichens and moss a benefit to, 
422,428. 

Barley, kinds of, 488. Time for sowing, 483, 
486. Amount of seed to the acre, 486. 

Bams, for the farm, their location, 888- Our 
description of, 148, 149, 465. 

Beans, 38. Uma and Sieva, treatment of, 
564. Lima, how to ripen their fruit, 87, 
785 Seed, 87. Time to sow, 491. Distance 
apart of rows, 491. Seed to the acre, 491. 
Value as fodder, 491. Should be cracked 
before ted out, 491. 



902 



IKDEX. 



Bnatiftil, cOeri of the, on the mind. 273. 274, 
276. The, )U b««t exhibitions uuezpccied 
and flcetiofr. &42. The. deflnitlon and de- 
■erlpUon of, 779, 7M, 781, 782. The. may 
be enated In lubUmo acenery, b«t not the 
rtfeiM, 781 • 

Seanty.ltaanlTeimlitj. 161-168. 171, 172.886- 

846. lU cuUlyation proflUble, 264, 266. 
Bedding plaoCii, 26, 26, 28, 601. Roola of, to 

be well spread out before planttng, 601. 
Wateriof of, Important, 691. To be cam* 
ItaUy tralDea, 654. 

Deeehes, their chanu?terl«tieii, 712. Best 
adapted to rocky le<lm and hiU-ddss, 718. 

ficef, when to cars, 28i . 

Beets, when to plant, 668. Time to sow, 642. 
Soger, their Talae and calture, why hither- 
to neglected, 769. 

Blrrhes. their ehancleriiitlcs, 718. 

Birds, the amoant of insects eonsnmad by, in 
the conne of the year, 473. Crows, 47^. 

Bladiberries, 188. How to increase the qnan- 
Utyoffroit,686. 

Blossoms of piantspreserred by being shaded 
from the snn, 682 

Boiler, our, 128. How to ealcnUte rim U^ 
122. Barface for. liow to calculate, 122. 

Book £innlng, not to be cond«qnned, 879, 799. 

Done*, as manure, profit of, 447. 

nnrccole, 413. 

Borprs, how to destror, 800. 

BoutsircGtcLT, edvoeate for the use of ■mmo> 
tiia, 49 S 

1V>x, eiljfdngs. time to clip, 726. 

Brldffpa, rustic, when to be introdvotd, 796, 
796. 

Broccoli. 38. 188, 876, 418, 660. 

Brooks, RKondarr water, 783t. The most difll- 
cult kind of artificial water to treat, 796. 
The same principles apply to, as to other 
artificial water. 706. Beware of the sefpen- 
tine. 799. Our, 799. 

Buekthom, Ibr hedge. 146; 768. 

Buds, bloflsoro, and leaf, how to distinguish, 
806. 

Budding. 728. Time to commence, 686. 
Similar to grafting, 728. Time for, depends 
upon thv condition of the bud and of the 
stock. 728. Usual Ume for, 728. Ail buds 
not fit Ibr use, 728. 789. Treatment 
of the bud for Insertion. 729. Rapidity 
essential to the success of the operation, 
780. Knife Ibr, description of, 780. De- 
scription of the process of, 780, 781. How 
to sscertain whether the bod has talcen, 
782. Buds inserted in the summer, 788. 
An easy me%ns of increasing the numlwr 
and Tiiriety of our cultivated plants, 788. 
Oao only be suepeeeftil when similar q>edes 
are budded upon each oth r, 782. 

Bngn. injuriouH to rioes. 624. 

Bulbil. 106. 681, 688. How to cnltlrate, 107. 
Varieties of, 107. Oompoet for, 107. How 
to pot, 107. Indloation of growing season, 
107. Pott for, 107. Treatment of, 9, 164, 

847. When to plant beds, 26, 96, 726. 
Depth at which Co plant, 96. Succession of 
bloom, 26. Proper distanoe apart to set 
different Tarietiee. 96. From seeds, how to 
propagate, 226, 226. Utter oa beds to U 



ISX 



l e mo f ed In April, 461. KB flowmiii g ot 
601. Gate of. In Novenber, 180. Wlotcr 
cultnre of, 181. 

Butter, how to make, 688. How to piuaaimi 
a long time, 684. Beatof salt for, twry im- 
portant, 684. Mrs.Wlnehsater'smettiodor 
making, 688, 634. 

Buttonwoods. their elianeterisCica, 716- 
Where to plant, 716- 

Cactus, 224. 

Oabbages,82,97,186.408,47S,660,784. B«v 
to preserre, 187. Early, ftwhnanfr of, 6S6. 
oent^lSS. ImpfOVBd bj ferrnxM' 
iting, 624, 626. 
larlaa, not good bedding plaota, 062, 

Calla;,8,166, 

Calves, 681. 

Ctunelias. 8. 18, 14,96, 165, 896,807.688,687. 

How to evltivato, IH. 2SB. 229, 29& 
Candytuft, hew to be used. 682. 
Cankerwonns, 142, 664, 416. T^aps for, 416, 

Capital, want of, tlie eamm of owr lafiBfar 
culture, 488. 

Carawayp. for seed, 662. 

Carbonic add. amoant of anpptted to the land 
bT the air, 600. 

Garbonaoeoas matter. In ezeeas, injariooe, 
610. 

Carbon, In manure, of but little Talne. 618. 

Caidoons, 88, 186, 187, 876, 408, 406, 40O, 651. 
628. 

Carnations, 8. 98. 96, 166. 227. 28. 181, 2ftR. 
681. Varieties of. 666. Kinds of, 655. 
Time to propagate, 666 How to propagotr. 
666. 8oU for, 666. How to force, 6B6. 
How to insure perfect flowers, 666. Wirv- 
wonas, destmrtive to, 666. Preparathko 
of the flower for extkibltlon, 666. A per> 
foet one, 667. Layers of, trcatment of, 667. 

Carrots, time to sow, 642. SoU for, 618. 

Cat briam, for hedge, 768. 

CafterpiHars. to be destroyed In the spripg, 
471. How to destroy, 471, 664. Birds their 
greatest enemy, 472. 

Cattle, breeds of. 890. Time lequUte to pro- 
duce a new breed. 889. Mfliereneee between 
lazgeandnttall.890' Cirenmstaaces which 
render flattening profitable, 439, 480. Neat 
not proAtoble to the feeder through their 
eariier years, 481. How to fktten profitably, 
481. Indicatloos in an animal easy to £it- 
ten, 481. How fottened at Sadllngton, 
460. 

OanliflowoB, 182, 876. 408. How to pieeerve, 
187,188. Glasses for. 414. Perfect flowen, 
indioatlons of. 414, 660, 686. 

Cedar, led, its efaaiaeteristics, 719. Ibihenntr, 
719. Its winter beanty. 720. Where to 
plant, 719, 720. 

OeWv, how to house, 88, 406, 684. 186. 187. 
When to plant, 668. How to cultivate, 
625. 

Cesspools, 67. How to arrange, 745. AU 
waste water of the flmilly to be oonducted 
Into, 745. Materials to be mixed with waste 
water. 746. 

Cheese, how to make. 6K. How to trsat, 686l 
Coloring of, 686. Boom for, where ioaaJed, 



iXDnx. 



903 



688. Pfditablo, if Well madfl, 636. Maoij 

meUiods for making, 686 
Gherries. 208. Prunicg of. 209. Under gluft, 

804. 80&, 806. 807. 806, 809. How to pro- 
tect from birUj. 626 
ChMtnata, when to plant, 146 Thieir chaiac- 

teri«tic«, 718 
Chickena, in the ihell, nerer try to releMe, 

687. Treatment of. when young. 687. 633. 

Barly and late broods mwit profitable, 640. 
Cbieory, for forcing, 88, 188. Its Talne, 747 

It* coltnre. 747 
Chnrianthemama, 8, 28, 96, 96, 227, 529, 

rhum, kind of, 688. 

Cineniriaa, 8, 96, 166, 293 DeKripUon of, 
633. 

(^limate, dlfferecces of. 2. 

CI lyo, how benefited by dzalnage, 65. 

Clorer. bow to make, 44. Seed for, 44, 46. 
^Thlte, produced by wood-aebea, 470. lied, 
produced by a top-dresdng of sulphate of 
lime. 470 Seed to bo sown in April, 482 
Amount (4' seed to be sown, 482. 

Cockspar, thorn, 768. 

Cold, to be especially provided against In glass 
hooai^s in April, 467, 4(>8. Orapery, 178 
Work in, 23 Pits, 227. 

Color how to produce effects of, in the flower 
garden, 639, 643. 544. 666. Nice gradations 
of not poscdble in the flower-guden, 543, 
544 A loTe of, to be cultirated, 540. 

CompoAt. 10, 182 Materials for, 615, 628, 
785, 740. Seventy per cent of water, 517. 

Coowrratory, what constitutes a, 18. Work 
in,lU,U2,228 How to make beds in. 21, 
112. Management of. 18. 19. 118, 114 
Plan of, 18-20. Cost of, 21. Work in, in 
Janoaiy, 294. Work iil, in February, 831 
Work in , In March, 895 Work in. In AprU, 
456. Work in, in May« 538. Sashea to be 
remoTQd, 588* Pits in, time to renew and 
repair, 72B. Work in, in Angu«t, 723 
Wbrk In, In Sept., 18-20. In Oct., 112-114. 
In Nor., in. In Dec , 228-255. 

Conserrative pit, how to make, 165, 106, 1G8, 
168, 285, 286. Plante in, how to treat, 166, 
167,170,288. How to heat, 238, 239. Cosj 
of. 240. Fuel for, 240. Treatment of. in 
M^. 531. Time to plan and start, 537, 
T28- 

Com salad, 186. 

Corn, for seed, 87 How to harvest, 150, 151. 
162. DUEerent methods of harrestlng, 151. 
152. Treatment of, in June, 641. 

Cora, Indian, its culture, 488. Amount of 
seed to the acre, 488. Manuring of, as a 
means of laying down land to grass, 488. 
Amount of seed to the acre, 488- Time for 
sowing, 468. 489. Time to plant, 576. 

Corn, sweet, for table, when to plant, 558 

CorydaUs, 467. 

Country places, the important features In 
their laying out, 647. 

Courage, the want of, prerente New England 
flurmers from improvinff Uteir fiurms, 446. 

Covers, for greenhouses, 108. 

Cows. 46. Treatment of, and food for, 153, 
680. Manure of, 153. 154. New-mUch, 
tieatment of, 154. How to select (Oneuon's 



Treattoe), 681. Calves unvrosnlsing, 681. 
How to ralfe calves economkally, 681, 632. 
Heard's method, 682. 

Cranberries, how to cultivate, 740. 

Cream, to make butter, should not be very 
sour, 633. Tmnperature of, for churning, 
688. Vessels for keeping in, 684. 

Cresses, 188, 411. 

Crocus, autumnal, 466. (See Bulbs.) 

Crocks, 11. 

CroDS, which of them to be marketed, 158. 
The value of, for cultivation, to be deter* 
mined bv the net profit. 486 The proAte 
of, greatly Increased by drainage, 488. 
Ratio of profit the same in America as Eng- 
land, 443. Mineral elemente of, exist In 
all soils, 528. Those obtained, by carefttl 
culture, without manuring, 526. 

Crows. (See Birds.) 

Cucumbers, 628. In May, 550, 554. Beds 
for, 852. 

Cultivation, relative to latitude, 2. 

Cuphea, description of, 663. 

Curd, how to treat, 686. 

Currants. ftJl treatment of, 183. Where to 
plant, 198. How to Improve the berries, 
o84 Time to prune and propagate, 668. 
How to propagate, 688. Never plant suck- 
ers of, 688. Much benefited by thorough 
pruning, 688. New varieties of, 689. One 
of the most profitable of fruits, 689. Bushee 
should be reset often, 6*^9. 

Cuttings, 588. list of plants so propagated, 
288, Wd, 290, 291, 292 How to transport, 
288, 292. How to learn whether they have 
struck, 285. Time to make, 395, 728. For 
faU stock of pUnte. time to make, 658. Of 
Chinese hollyhock and double scarlet lych- 
nis, 725. Pot and repotjJ725. 

Cut branches, cement for, 20O. 

Cyclamen. 8, 165, 227. 

Cyprus, 716. 

IMilias, summer treatment of, 659. Cultifir 
tion of, 25. 181, 456, 466. 

Daisies, 96, 186. 227. 457. 582. 

Dams, bulk, 785. Elevation, 784. Character, 
790 Material, 785, 790, 791, 792. Arti- 
ficial, 794, 795. 

Dandelions, 410. 

Daphne, 18, 228, 231. 

Day-lily, 467. 

Devon cattie, 890, 892. 

Dew, ori«dn of, 175, 176, 177. 

Dibb1es,84. 

Dielytra. 298, 466. 

DiU, 184. 

Disaigreeable objects, how to conceal, 828. 

Drainage, imp^iant In the cultivation of 
plants, 10 Universally applicable, 57. 
Profit from, 447. Doubles the value of 
land, 489. Relative value, 487. 

Draining, 47-55. 436. RcAsons for. 48, 48. 
Instruments for. 62. Effects of. 440. 

Drains, oateh, 64, 55, 56, 58, 61, 62, 68, 67, 75, 
78,79. Depth of, 54, 68. On side hUls, 60. 
Point of discharge, 758. Cost of. 64, 66. 
Time to make, §b. Tilea for, 66. Y, 62. 
Discharge of water Into, calculations by 
Pnriu and Shedd, 54, 55, 66, 67. Peat, 67. 
Open, 68. Importance of outlet, 67, 58, 



904 



INDEX. 



488. Angle to Join. 69. BUnd, 62. DIa- 

tance apart, 66, 66, 67. 
Drive, or walk, how to make, 617. Principlet 

of laying out, 647. 
Docks, treatment of, 688. 
Durham catUe, 890. 
Dnxbnry, Mass., land in, how to imprOTe, 

771. 
Dwarf trees, how to m«ke, 207, 206. 
Earth, impoTerished by remoriog leaTeii, 218. 

A sponge, 10 
Edgings for beds, 201. 
Editors, agricultural, their duty, 462. 
Egg crop, raloe of, 429. 
Eggplant, 566. 
. Elements of plants, soluble and insoluble, 

499,600. 
Elm, form of, 91. American, beauty, 882. 

English and others, 761. How to plant, 

714. 
Endive. 88, 184. 409, 686, 784. For Ibrring, 

188, ziT 

English best Iknning. 881. 

Erica. 108, 109, 229. 6«7, 728 

EspaUers, 123, 124, 183, 138 How to make, 
192, 197. Fruit on, 36. 667. Varieties of 
firuit fit for, 36. 

Espaliered trew, how to pmn^. 627 Treat- 
ment in August, 723. Mulching, 627, 
628. 

Estote, nlxe uf, 8. 

Euphorbias, treatment, 14, 629, 687. 

Erergreens, pruning, 48, 717, 718. Trans- 
planting, 42. 48- Shrubs, treatment in 
winter. 181, 182. 

Eraporation, cold caused by, in soil; 49, 60, 

Exotic bulbs, 631. 

Experiments, what they are, 677. 

Fallows, 483. 484. 

Farm, 46, 47 Work in September, 44, 45; in 
October, 147; In NoTcmber, 211; in De- 
cember. 266; in Januarr. 844-846, In Feb- 
ruary, 876, in March, 429; in April, 481; 
in Hay. 666, in June, 680; in July, 690; in 
August, 738 How to select and arrange, 
886 

Farms, English, like manuftctories, 448. 

Farming, American. 487; English, 446-461. 
Advantages of, 269 ProflUble, 271, 272. 
In New Enj^land, 882. Value of cropn. 429* 
English, applicable to America, 436. n]|;h, 
profitable. 448. English, most profltxxble, 
460. Profit of, 448-461 

Farmer, what constitutes perfection of, 
878 Crops of each, important, 430 Be- 
invcstment of profits, 446. If poor, 444. 
Our character, 446. Inertness of, 461. 
The best, 747. His education, bow affected 
by surroundings. 885-346. 

Fiinners' clubs, 378. 

Fattening cattle. 166. 429-488. 

Feeding cattle, 266, 432. Regularity impor- 
Unt, 216. 

Fencing, 884. 

Feering poles, 670. 

Fennc Ornee. 3, 4. 

rig!«. 13D. 203, 262, 66S. 

FUbertu, 133. 

Fir baLsnm, 717. 



Flax, value and eultnrB of, 748, 749. 

Flow meadows, 76 

Flower-garden, in September, 25; in October, 
126: in November, 180: In March, 402; In 
April, 460; in May. 687: In June. 601; in 
July, 664 , in Aunist, 724 Plans for, 461 
Not too large. 4^ Grass and shrubs ic, 
468. How to plant, 467, 468. Pot plants 
in, 468. Its perfection short, 541 None 
periect in this country, 547. Annuals re- 
moved fW)m, 724. Seedlings of perennials 
and biennials, 724. 726. Reasons for hav- 
ing, 781. Urns and vases, 802. Fonntains, 
797, 798, 799. Our pUn of, 726. 727 

Flower-bed. in shrubs ery, 127 How to stake 
out, 28, 29, SO, 31. Perfect one, 464. Shape 
of, 28, 29, 659-666. 

Flowers, new varieties should not supplant 
old, 462 Should be often cut, 660. Bow 
to arnirge in bouquets and dbhes, 541. 
Flon8ts\ 28. The cultivation of, conducivo 
to mental culture, 282-284 

Food, influence on manure, 445. 

Fodder, green, 667. 

Forring, house, 22, 115, 117, 178, 899, 400,' 
536 When to begin, 22, 28. 874. 

Forest, planting, growth, management, and 
profit, 771-776. 

Fountains, 799-802. 

Fowls, for table, 47- Fattening and feeding, 
213, 267. Should lay in their house, 686. 
Setting, 637. Treatment of, in cold weather, 
218 

Frames, cold, 167, 457. 

Fringe tree, 714. 

Fruits, on espaliers, 198, 460, 686- Trees In 
tubs, 260. Under glass, 295, 296. 

Fruit trees, in grapery, 124. Trees, how to 
dwarf, 298. Thinning of. 297,686- Shooto, 
803 

Fruit, ripening of. under glass, 686. Row to 
protect from birds, 626 Trees, time to 
bud, 790 Profits of culture, 427. Houses, 
267 261. 

Fumigation. 225, 226, 808 

Fumitory, 487. 

Fuchsia, 8, 14, 282. 293. 629, 723. 

Furrows, 671. Slice, 574. 

Garden, reserve. 547 

Gardener, landscape, 680-582. Competent, 
ui:common. 689. 

Geese, 639, 640. 

Geranium (see Pelargonium), varieties of, 
654. 

Germinstion, 706. 

Oilia. 227. Tricolor. 661. 

Gilhflowcr, 8, 180, 629. 

Glndiolns, 181, 466. 

Gloxinia, 227, 298, 687, 728. 

Glasshouses. (See ''Gold.'') Heating, 7. 

Gooseberries. fiiU treatment, 188, 262. Where 
toplant, 198. How to improve, 122, 684. 
687 Time and methods to prune and 
propagate, 687, 688. Mildew, to avoid, 687. 
Best varieti^, fbrcign and domestic, 687. 

Goslings, 639, 640. 

Grain crops, August, 741. How to sow, 748 
Drills, advantage of, 441. Winter and 
spring, 488. Importance of weeding, '489. 
Stacks, 700. Cutting and harvesting. 7Q2- 



IMDKZ. 



905 



704. More «zhaiuiiTe than roots to w>ll, 
484. 

Ompe, Tmla« and cttUnre of. 758. Tarietief , 
40. liat for forcing houm, 813. In pota, 
118, 119, 810 Bordera, 124, 125, 206, 460. 
For retardinff bonae, rarietles. 174. Garden 
culture of, 204. Trough culture of, 811, 
812. How to grow firom cnttiogi, with rin- 
gle eye, 292, W&. How to keep, 179. For 
general planting, list of, 318- 

Gmpery. 22. 119, 120, 121, 173, 266, 295, 372, 
459, 722. DeMription of, 119-125. Work 
in. in September, 23. Work In, in October, 
115-119. Temperature in, 872. 874, 899, 
459 Preparations for forcing, 874. Cold, 
121, 459. 585, 586. List of grapes for, 813. 
Attractive, 587. 

Grafting, wax, 209. 501. Clay for. 569. To 
befdn, 428 474. Roses and Camellias. 562. 
Uerbaoeou* plant^i, time for, 568. Cleft, 
the Tine, thne for, 662. Scion for, 568. 
Cleft, 560. Crown. 662. Whip, 659. Sad- 
dle, 660. Shoulder. 5^. 

Grass crop, value of, 420. Seed, time and 
< quantity to sow, 484, 748. Seed, weeds in, 
i06. For seed, 705. English, 742. How 
to lay down land to, with Indian corn, 4^. 
Experiments on, with artificial manure, 
578, 579. Lawn, treatment of, in June, 
645 Beat time to cut for ha/, 691. Mowed, 
why it dures slowly, 692 How to row, 743. 
Turnips with, ^. IttUian rye, 748. Treat- 
ment after aowing, 744. 

Grasses, Flint's book on, 748 

Gravel and clay, retentive power of, 54, 55. 

Green crops as manure, 99. 

Greenhouse and conservatory, plants In, how 
to group, 95. How to protect, against cold, 
10^ 104 In September, 6. 14; in October, 
95,224; in November, 164 ; in December, 
224; in January. 280; in February. 847 ; 
in March. 895; in April, 455; in May, 528; 
in June, 587; In July, 653: in August. 722. 
Temperature, etc., in. 108. 224, 804, 317, 
457 Plan and description of, 6-15. What 
constitutes, 116. List of plants for, 110, 

Grounds bordering on water, 776. 

Groups of tre^, natural and artificial, 90-94. 
Variety in, 380, 881. Groups of trees and 
shrubs, how to make, 92, 94. 710, 761. 

Growth of plants controllable, 9 

Guano, 12. Advantages of, 484 ; in kitchen 
garden, 479; and disadvantages of, 493. 

Harrow, brush, 744. 

Harrowing, unscientific, 741 

Hawthorn, time to plant seeds of, 145. 

Hay and fodder to be cut, 267 ; cured lo cock, 
44. Value as feed, compared with turnip.s, 
443. Importance of being well made. ^ 
Ventilation, 695. Salt, 694. Time of cut- 
ting, 736. Danger of being too salt, 699 
Varieties of, 738. IIow preserved in Europe. 
099. Value of, dependent on time of 
cutting, 738. Varieties of flresh and salt, 
738. Covers for, 698; description of, 695, 
696. Rakes, 693. Making, 69O-705. Ma- 
chines for making, 697. Ropes, 698. Stacks, 
687-700. 

Haying, not iiard work, 690. 

68* 



Heating glass houses, 7, 852, 868. Polomaise 
system of, 855. 

Heaths, 529. 680, 637. 

Hedges, 767-770 

HeUotropes, 8, 18. 529, 661. 

Hens, keep close, 821. Setting. 687. 

Herbs, treatment of, 188, 188. Place for, 200, 
201 

Hereford cattle. 890. 

Hemlock, rooto, 700, 706. Characteristics of, 
718. 

Hemp culture. 748-760. 

Hyacinths, 648, 549. 

Hickory, character of the. 91, 712. 

Hill pastures for sheep, 884, 885. 

Hoeing, advantages of, &A. 

Holes for trees and shrubs, 90. 

Hollyhock, 292. Chinese, 725. 

Home spirit, 886, 887 

Honeysuckles, 144. 

Hornbeam, 761. 

HorsoHsheetnut, character of, 92. When to 
plant, 146. 

Horseradish, 188, 406, 651. Winter treat- 
ment, 188. How to cultivate, 200. 

Horra, Morgan, 892. 

Horticultural, processes of, time to b^n 
varies with latitude, 12. Tx«atises. (See 
Agriculture.) 

Hotbeds, 170, 262, 817, 403. How to make. 
848,849,850,362. Materials for, 850. Heat 
in, 851-863. Heated by water. 355 Polo- 
maise system, 356. Best, 357. Range of. 861. 
For strawberries, 862. Work in, in March, 
895; in April, 462. 

Hothouse, 17, 105. List of planU for, 110., 

Hot-water pipes, how to calculate amount 
necessary, 121, 122. 

House, location of, on small place, 319, 820. 

HuDsox. Mr. John, of Castle Acre Farm, 
448. 

Humus, source of carbonic acid, 524. 

Ilyacinth, 27, 180, 548. 

Hybridising, how to do, 285, 286, 287, 291, 
292. By insects, 292. 

Hydraulic rams, 799. 

Hygrometer, 174, 170- 

Inarch, how to, 896. 

Insects, to destroy, 83. Not removed by 
scraping, 118. 119, 418-424. Harmful, un- 
der glass, how to remove, 807, 808. luUod 
by wood-ashes, etc., 470. 

Iris, 465. 

Irrigation, method and benefit of. 48, 68, 69, 
77, 463, 702. In England, 70, 76, 77 ; in 
Scotland JO; in New England, 76; in Swit- 
seriand, 77. First method of, 74, 75. F«c- 
ond method of. 77. Keiuious for. 69-72. 
Water oT. when to apply, 482. 

Ixias, 9, 95. 

Japan lily, 227, 293, 347. 

Jessamine, Cape, 13. 

Judas tree, characteristics, where to plant, 
714. 

June, charms of, 650-652. 

Kitchen-garden, how to select, lay out, and 
make. 189-202. 263, 264 : fruits in. 33 ; work 
in, during September, 32; in October, 132; 
November, 186; December, 262 ; .Tanuary, 
816; March, 402; April, 475; May, 550; 



ro6 



INt>EZ. 



JviM, <128^Jiilj, C84; August, 784. Treat- 
ment of, 192. 

Labor, price of, no arKiiiiwnt aealnat root 
crofM.448. 

Land, all liii fertile eleroenta not direetly arail- 
able, 6U3. Fertile, exhatnted by cropping 
without manure. A06. How to keep in good 
beut, 606 Wby benefited by nn«ll amounts 
of manure. 607. Preo ftrtlle elements in, 
■mall in quantity, 606. Stubble and aod, 
turn to plough, 6i8. 

Landscape gar(lot.er (see ** Gardener ") must 
have executive as well as mtbetic oualitie^, 
681. Bdncation never complete, 588. Ilia 
mind like the painter's sketch book, 684. 
8er?iees, why costly. 684. Advice flWini, and 
economy of, 664, 686: should be followed 
minutely, if at all, 686 Works of, perfl<r- 
tion not attained for yean, 686. £ffu.t 
souirht relative, 682. 

Landscape gardening, an art by Itself, 681- 
688 Plans for, 646 CareAiI prelimlnaiy 
^urv»>8 essential to, 646. Architectuzal, 
Inappropriate to this country, 688 As 
showing the npirit of the improver, 804. 

Untona, 26, 86, 227, 629, 668. 

lAperouAias, 9. 

Lavrh, Ruropean and American, tbeir cbarae- 
teristics, etc.. 716. 

I^urestinuD, 13. 

Lawn, how to make, 88, 89, 647-640. Care of 
in autumn. 222 Importance of manure 
to, 649. How to make permanent in a dn- 
glo ycfir, 647 -<H9. 

levering, in autumn, 146. Method ot^ 289, 
291. Feanon Ihr, 291. 

layers, of carnation, etc., time to make, 726. 

Lea. or grass, laud, suffers Atom cut-worms, 
487. 

Leaves, action of, 97; fbr bedding, 211. 

Lemon, 166. Propa^tion of, 89? . 

Leaa to, 16. 

Lettuce, 82, 182, 186, 476, 784. Transplant- 
inc, 624. 

Lerel for laying out drains, 80. 

Lnsio, on saline manures, 490. 

Ulies, 181, 466. 

Uma beans, 87. 

Lime, essential to vegetalioa, 470; value of 
to, 747 Sulphate of, to fix ammonia, GOS 

Unings. should be protected from loss of heat, 
868,854 

Liquid, amber, characteristic, ete., 714. Ma- 
nure, 12, 18, 14, 621, 606. 746, 746. 
Strengtli of. how to regulate, 18. Its effect 
on roses, oamelias, ete. 

T fqnorlce crop. Tiilue of and culture, 760. 

\j .Ulia , ai, 2Z7. TarieUos of, 662. 

' <w«.«t, 716. 

Luccriie, value and culture of, 761. 

Lvrhnia. double, 292. Double scarlet (see 
"CutUng"),725 

Machine, mowing, importance of; how to use 
it, 691, 692; when inappUeable, 682; de- 
scription of, 701* 

Madeira vine, 181. 

Madder, Talue and culture of, 761. 

Blagnolia, characteristics of the, etc., 714. 

Mabonia, 181 

Mangold wunel, 148, 642, 64& 



Manure, 211, 416. Effect of food on, 154 
Bffert of. on cropa, even in small quaotitk^, 
618, 619. Cow. a type of manures, 614. 
Amount made in a year, 614. Horm, the 
most valuable in compost, 613. Sheep, 
very raluable. 618. Escape intn snbeoil 
when applied at beginning of rotation, 521. 
Contact of, harmfiil to rootr of vines, 126. 
Hound cold frames, di^positkni of in spring, 
467. 

Bfauures, value erf' ammonia to. S24. 498, 601. 
Ammoniated, etc., sUmulating, 6£4. Arti- 
ficial, 446, 492, 621, 622: list of, £28; Oumld 
be applied each year. 621 ; why costly, 622 ; 
te^t of Tnlue, 498. Barnyard, amonnt per 
acre, 490 : its mlue and constituents. 601. 
611,612 Valneofn:oi!'tnrein,512. Gases 
of. how to absorb, 492. Healing or fenueo- 
tation of, in pile, the cauw and cure. 492. 
Treatment of, in spring. 491, 492 Afipli- 
cation oC in summer, to grass land. i02. 
Mineral extraction of, fyom rocks, by the 
slow process cf atmospheric action, 6(3; 
TAloe relatiTc to amonnt of salts in. MS. 
SaUne, highly fertilbdng, 801: how to im-. 
proTe, 611 ; liquid, 18: cfBect of. 521, 606; 
▼alue and rarleties of, 745, in a fkmily . 746. 
{9ee " Liquid'^ manure. ) Special cost of. 820, 
621 ; value of, 677; time to apply, 677 : for 
rotntion of five years, 619-628; value of, 
relative to barnyard and animal manures 
neceMiar^', to same crop. 619-623. 

Manuring, suoceesfUl princfple of, 493; theory 
of, 746 

Market gardening, 888. 

Maplej«, characteristics of, 712. Norway, 716. 

MarUng. practice of, in Xni^d, 447; in- 
stances of, 447- 

Mauiandyia, 668. 

Meadovrs. reclaiming, 788. After cultlvmtion, 
788. Benefited by gmvel, 739. Salt, ra- 
clidming. 740. 

Melons, 188, 408, 628; in May, 660, 668 Beds 
(m> <-Cucumber*T 862. Tarietlesof, 86, 664. 
Row to force, 862. Bipeoess of, how to as- 
certain, 87. 

Mignonette, 8. 

Mildew, conaequerce of Imperfect drainage, 
10. How to prevent, 28. 

Milk, of large cattle. 891. Summer and win- 
ter value of. 667. How long it should aet, 
684. 686. Rnoni, 688. 

Bfillet, 646. 649, 706. 

MirauIuB. 663. 

Mowing, 690 Machines for, 691, 602, 701. 

Mulching. 627. 628. 

Mushroom beds, 184-187. 624: spawn, 186, 
187,188. 

Mustatd. 18S, 410, 411. 

Nasturtiums, for pickles, 663, 668. 

Nature, the study of, a great aid to mental 
culture, 386-846. 

Nmt cattle, 886. 

Nectarines, on espalier*, 36; in orcha>d,40; 
under glass, 804-809. 

NemophiU, 96. 166, 227, 062. 

Nettle tree, 761. 

Nieremburgia, 96, 237, 662, 629. 

Nitrogen, Its importance to Tcgetatkm, iyff 
625; in food, 601; in manures, 626. 



INDBX. 



907 



Nunery. 145; In September, 41: Ameriean, 

610. How to taake a, 706. Bj unateiin, 

709. Men, 712. 
Not hftnrest, 144. Ttane to plant, 146. 
Oak, character of, 91. CharMterUtks of the, 

n2. SeedUng, 7n. 
Oatt, kind of, and time for aowing, 488, 486. 

Seed to the acre, 486. Straw aa fodder, 708. 
Ocean Shore, 778. 
Okra. 88, 666. 

Oleander, 230, 281, 289. • 

Onions, 88, 182, 186. For spring, 784. For 

seed, 188, 662, 657, 686. 
OtaDges, 166, 663. Propagation of, 07; in 

Orchard, October, 140; November, 208; De- 
cember, 966; Han;h,416; April, 470; Bfay, 
669; June, 628; August, 786. How to 
pluit, 426. SOMt of high cultivation of, 

Orchids, list of, 106, 106. How and whcm to 
cultivate, 106- 

Oroamental grounds, September, 80-86; Oc- 
tober, 166; November, 222; December, 278; 
Hareh, 470 ; May, 680; June, 646^660 ; July, 
706; August, 769. Harmony with land- 
scape. 779. Plantations, 760. Trees, 686. 

Oyster plant, 188, 406, 665. 

Oxalis,8. 

Pansies, 8, 298, 26. 28. 180, 467, 682. Sum- 
mer treatment of; 669, 660. 

Pasture, ouTy 667. 

Parasites, 419, 420, 424. 

Parsnips, winter treatment of, 188. Time to 
sow, 642; soil for, 648. 

Parsley, 182, 651 

Paasion flower. 16. 

Paths, 84. 86, 192,222, 268-266, 276. Seem 
crowded on plan, 796. 

Peaches, 146. 198. 256. Cause of decay in 
trees. 296. 297, 425. Peachhonse, 267-261. 
Espaliered, 86. In orchard, 40. Under 
ela^s, 296-308. In tubs, 804-806. Soil 
for peach-trees, 298. Borden -for. 299. 
Profitable, 421. Pruning and cultivation 
of under glass, 299-808. 

Pears, 203, 627. Artificial impregnation of, 
806. Root, pruning of, 309. Espaliered, 
86. DwaifandsUndard, 198. In orchard, 
89. How to harvest, 142. To prune, 205, 
206,686. List of, 148. Culture of, 426, 427. 
Trees, distance apart in orchard, 427. 
Wliich ripen in August, 786. Ust of, 89. 
Best method of gathering and preserving, 
89,142. 

Peas, 88, 138. 665. Time to sow, eto , 481, 
624,685,784. For seed, 87. 

Peat, 609, 610, 616, 616, 618. 

I'elargoniums. 26. 96, 166, 280-287, 298, 629, 
654, 660, 664, 723. Varieties of, 281. Soil 
for, 281. Underpotting of, 282. Cuttings, 
how to treat, 2^286. Varieties, how to 
produce, 285-287. 

Peonies, 466. 

Peppers, red, 665. 

Perennials, list of, 127-180, 182-186, 687. 
Damask, 606. Plants, 41. Hardihood of, 
606. Soil for, 606. Arrangement of, 180, 
186. — e I . 

Perspiration of plants, 97. 



Petospomm, 228. 

Patunlas, as bedding plants, 662. 

Picturesque the, definition and description 
of, 780-782. 

Pictures, as seen on canvas, rarely created on 
ornamental grounds. 682, 688. 

Pickles, 87, 1887 For s^, 486, 486, 677. For 
crop, time to plant, 624, 686. 

Pigs, &ttening, 47, 166. Oreen fodder for. 
664,666. Pig8,m 

Piootees,28,664. 

Pine, white, chasaeteristicB, 710. Red, char- 
acteristics, etc., 717. Yellow, 718. 

Pinks, 227, 288. Varieties of, 667. Propapn- 
tion oi; 667. How they show to advantafr . 
667. 

Pips, or pipings, 288. 

Pirns, japonica as hedge, 770. 

Plt,m 

Place, small, what constitutes, 710. 

Plans for year's work, 882. 

Plantations, of tives. for winter as well as 
summer, 709. Native trees in, 709. Should 
vaiT with siae of place, 710. 

Planting, ornamental, principles of, 91-94. 
769-766- 

Plants, arrangement of, 95. Perspiration of. 
97. Fed by air, 96. 99, Treatment of, when 
chilled, 104. Uat of. for greenhouse, 110; 
for conservatory, 113. Preserved by frees- 
ing, 170, 468. How to group, 185. Atten- 
tion when young, 688. Propagation of, by 
leaves, 288. Ltst of, to be so treated, 266. 
For layering, 291. Stock, repotting and 
pruning, 18, 14, 687. Treatment of, wlien 
newly potted, 8. Time to house, 9. Shape 
ot, should decide the kind of roof for, 16. 
Benefited by guano, when injured young 
by bugs, etc., 479. Bedding, 629. Stock, 
629,680.687. Seeds for fidl stock, etc., 666. 

Plousk Michigan, 487, 488, 673, 574. Sob- 
Ploughing, proper method, 669. 570. 572. 673- 

Plums, 40, 146. Under gloss, 804^309, 627. 

Polnsettias, 629. 

Polyanthus, 28, 181, 531. 

Ponds, 782-796. Secondary water, 782. Be- 
fore making, dam to be considered, 784. 
Evaporation, 786. Not permanently ftill, 
786, 787. Shores of, 787, 788. Islands in, 
788. Ponds made by damming brooks, 788. 
Stone waU about, 788. Outlet of, 792. How 
to make, in level places, 797. Should be on 
prindple of aquarium, 797. Liability to 
stsgnate, 797. Stocking with fish, 797. 
Our, 797. 

Pork, when to oure, 267. 

Potatoes, hills to acre, 668. Culture of, 49u. 
Ttane to plant, 491. How to forre, 404 
Sbe of, to plant, 406. Treatment of, when 
ripe, 87, 46. Varieties of, 46, 405, 491. 
Tops of, 150. Varieties of, for seed, 66S. 
Sweet, 666, 686. 

Potash, essential to vegetation, 470. 

Pot-herbs, 552, 623. 

Pots for large plants, 898. 

Potting, 11. 

Poultry, preparation of, for market, 640 

Primrose, Chinese, 8, 620, 681. 

Praning, 586. Of grapes, 116-117, 204. Of 



908 



INDEX. 



pears, 206, 206 In ramiiMr, 196. Seuon 
for, 196. A maaiu of chanfioK time of 
blOiflomlnK* 699, 600. Root, n, 809. 

Quaflsia, 694. 

Qoinoes, 148. 

Radishes. 88, 188, 476, 650, 784. 

Rain water, number of inches renudning in 
soil, 68. QnanUty and welgfat of, to the 
fu^re, per annum, 62. 

Railways in flrulthouses, 806. 

lUnunoulus, 28, 180, 402, 467, 465, 682, 664. 

RMmberries,661,662,686. AOl treatment of, 

Rnpe', 751, 752. 

Ted spiders in forrinff-bouee, 685. 

Uetaiding-house, 28, 116, 121. 173, 875, 400, 
469. How to train Tines in, 876 

Hhododendrons, 181, 229, 281. 

Rhubaib, 134, 661. 

Ridge, and fturow, sash, 16: roof, 364-870. 

Roads in &11, 168. Method of maldtig, 88, 84. 
How to lay out, 276. Variety important, 
277-279. 

Roclcs, disintegration, 602. 

Rooft of hot-beds, 863, 364. Ridge and fUr- 
row, curvilinear, and flat, 16, 864-370. 
Construction, 865. Rain water on, 866. 
Resistance to hail, 367. Ventilation, 860. 

Root crops, 87. Thinning, 626, 612. Sowing, 
642-644. IMstanco apart in row, 644. 
Manures ft»r, G44. Earth not ridged for, 
643. Sammer culture of, 640, 641. Treat- 
ment of. In September, 46. How to har^ 
vest, 147. How to pretwre, 168 Soil 
enriched by, 488. BeriTe nourishment 
from air. 434. Profit of, 435. VoUowod by 
grain, 487. Cellars fbr, 148. Thne to plant, 
677. Cutting, 289. Culture of, in America, 
452. Coot of, per acre, 443. 

Roots, depth of desoent of, 66, 67- Pruning 
of, 11, ft)9, 168. Of cankered stook plants, 
680. Fatten stock, 458. Prqfadicesgalnst.. 
why, 690. 

Rose, the, natural home, 696. Beauty In 
masses of, 598. Cuttino, time to make 
for greenhouse, etc., 7SB. Time for, 725, 
780; disbudding, a kind of pruning, 688, 
609. Principles of, 688. Pruning, 698, 605. 
877. According to Paul, 677; dose, 679; 
long, 678; annual, 682; summer, 683. To 
what varieties applicable, 677. Gardens, 
plans for, 666, 667; from Jardindes Plantes, 
m-, English, 667-670. Plans by author, 
670-672. Seeds, how to produce. 674. 
8eedbed.i. 674, 676. Seedlings, 674. 676. 

RoraS, 14, 16. 18, 96. 145, 629, 165, 227 Va- 
rietlos of. 596-604. Treatment of, in win- 
ter, 181. 182. Soil for, 694. Insects harm- 
fur to, 592. 593. Diseases of. 594. Piopa- 
Ration of, 596. Sweetbricr, 696. Prairie, 
596. Cherokee, 596. Cinnamon, 597. Mom, 
599. Hybrid China. 599, 600. Monthly, 95. 
.lttne.595.697. Wild, 595. 687. Bourbon 
Hvbrid.600. Perpetual. 600, 601 White, 

- m. Damask, 600. Scotch, 601. English 
Sweetbrier, 601. Yellow, 601. Boursanlt, 
etc., 602. Prairie, 602. MuUiflora and 
Banksia, 602. Erorgreen, 603. Hybrid 
Climbing, 606. Aryshire, 603. Damask, 
006. Half-hardy, 604. China and Bengal, 



604. Bourbon, 006. Perpetuate, improied, 
604. Budded. 604. Pruned, 604. Moss, 
606. Scotch, 606. Musk, 607. China and 
Tea Monthly, 607. Saffmno,607. McCart- 
ney, 607. Miniatue. 606. Noisette, 608. 
How to group. 603. Soil, 606. Suckering, 
to prevent, <W6. Dying, to pxvTent, prun- 
ing, 606. Disbudding and pruning, 698, 
699. Knowledge of IkmiUeBimporUnt, 608. 
Downing's lists of, 611, 612; Melntosh^s, 
612-622. Trade sales for, 610. New vari- 
eties of, 670. How to produce. 670. Points 
sought, 678 New varieties alfected by pa- 
rent, 674. Pillar and climbing, 609, CSO, 

681 . Should be pinned to ground fn order 
to break buds weU, 680. Weeping, how 
made, 681, 682. Autumnal, efiiDct of sum- 
mer pruning on, 688. Old, how renovated, 

682. Habit of, varies much, 680. 
Rotation of crops, 96, 297, 434-458, 444. Ov, 

481,566. 

Rowen, how to make, 44, 46. 

Rust, etc., parasitical ftingi, 479. 

Ruta Bagas, 642, 613. Leaves of, as fodder, 
149. 

Rye, 47. Time for sowing, 488. Seed of; to 
acre, 486, 566. 

Rye grass, value and culture of, 762. 

Straw, vaUie of. 486. 

Sage, Mexican, finest in towns, 661. 

SaUcloth, 103. 

Sainfoin, value and culture of. 751. 

Salads, 875, 651. FaU tn»tment of, 82, 133. 
262. 

8aU8fy,656. (See "Qyster" pUnt.) 

Salt and lime mixture, 203. Destructive to 
weeds, 726. 

Salts, amounts of. In fertile soil, 600. 

Salvias, 8, 629. Summer treatment of; 6M, 
661. 

Sap ripened by deky, 810. 

Sashes, revolvtng, 101, 102. 

Scraping trees, 417-426. 

Scoraonera, 666. 

Sea-kale, 88, 184, 188, 876, 411, 661. For 
pots, 412. 

Sea-shore, how to treat, 777-779. 

Seed for lawn. 89. 

Seeds, ripe, 87. Autumnal planting of, 82, 
144. How to improve, 476. Deterioration 
of, 477. Germination of, 146. CultivatloB 
of, 626. How to make beds for, 708. Sow- 
ers of, labor saving, etc., 440 Thinly sowed, 
best, 441, 476. Perfect, only when kept 
apart from rimllar species. 477. List of; for 
one acre, kitchen-gairden, 478. Mixture of. 
with weed seed, 478, 479 Importance of 
freshness of, 479. Of parasites. 479. Drillt 
for sowing, 486. Proper depth to sow, 48$. 
Germinate soonest when sown as soon as 
ripe, 724. 

Seedlings, treatment of, 708. 

Sedlington, the ferm at, 450. 

Selling plants, amateurs warned against, 240 > 

Shagbarks, how to harvest, 144. 

Sheep, 393. Growing, in Scotland and Swit- 
zerland,384. Management of. 690. Merino, 
393. Fattening, 431. Manure of, 450. 

Shrubs^ native and foreign, list o^ 711, 712, 



INDEX. 



909 



Shnttem, 103. 

811k, TaliM and culture of, 763. 

Skimt, 134, C66. 

8now drops, 4G5. 

8oap, whale oU to make, 603. 

Soda, enentfal to rwetatloii, 470. 

Soil, ibr plants, 9, 10. Action of atakoephexe 
on, 96- Wd^t of an acre of, one foot in 
depth, 4d5. Element* of the, ramoted by 
wheat, 497. FerUIeaalts in. 600. Glaniifi- 
cation of, 606. Textnre of, 600. Mechani- 
cally impTored, how, 600. Chefnically, 
bow, 600. Clay, 609. Sandy, 609. Effect 
of standing water on, 48. Temperature of, 
4^1,68. 

Solomon^ seal, 406. 

Soot as manure, 588. 

Span roof, 16. Advantages and description 
of, 16. 

Spanuds, 96. 

Spinach, 82, 83, 686, 784. 

Spring, ito effect on the mind, 688, 584. 

Sprucvs. 718. 

Spurs, 118, 890. Bistanee apart, 178. 

Squashes, 88, 668, 664. Summer, 88, 686. 

Squill, 467. 

Stacks, hay and grain, 607, 698. Roping and 
thatching, 609. 

StaU-feeding. 480, 431. 

Stephanotus, 587. 

Stepping-stones, 796. 

Stock, Ikrming, 883-390. Stall-feeding, 480, 
481. Breeds of, 888, 890. Tenweek, 165. 

Straw, liardnees of coat of, cause, 600. Rye, 
486. 

Strawberries, 262. Planting of, 34, 85,551. 
Varieties of, 85. To force, 189, 188. 875. 
Old beds of. how renoTated, 684. Mulch- 
ing beds with tan, 686. As field-crop, 785. 

Stubble and sod, how to plough. 578. 

Sublime, the definltfon of, 770-782.' 

Subsoil, 575, 576. 

Succory, 410. 

Snzftce, irregularities of, obTiated in plant- 
ing, 765. 

Sweet Alyssum, S. 

Sycamore, European, 715. 

Tank, system, 866. 

Tap, rooU, 706-708. 

Tares, culture of, 756. 

Tsste, good, 68L 

Teasles, 768, 754. 

Temperature of soils, 60-54. Temperature, 
176. Animal, 211, 212. In glass houses, 
226,288,233. In grapery, 26^ 295. 

Terraces, 86. 

Thanksgiving, 219. 221. 

Thimbleberrles, fcll treatment, 183. Propa- 
gation, 685. 

Throw crooks, 606. 

Tiger4ower, 465. 

Tiles. 67. 

Toads, Talue in flowert»rden. 688, 604. 

Tobacco, culture, etc., 754-766. 

Tomatoes, 403, 555. Treatment of, when ripe, 
87. Plants, 628. Protection agahist frost, 
188 

Tools, list of, for kitchen-garden, 479. Care 
of, in winter, 214, 215. 



Transplanters, 84. 

Transplanting, when to commence, 156. 

TuoooiA, formubi for calculating hot>water 
pipes, 121. 

Tree peony, 227. 

Trees, how to plant, 157-100. How to pre- 
pare for, 90. Tarieties of, not to be 
planted in tlM Ml, 160. Remored ftt>m the 
forest, 421. Fruit of, benefited by alkalies, 
470. Ust of native and foreign, 711, 712. 
Weeping, 715. Evergreen and deciduous, 
eontruted, 761. Voices of, 720. Groups 
of, how to make, 762. How to improve, 
788. Thinning, 768. Protection against 
cattle, 763. In comer of, 764. Interior of, 
762, 764. Trees and shrubs planted to- 
gether, 765. For shores near salt watir, 
777-779. Boxing roots of. In fruithonses, 
124. Area occupied by tneir rootii, 707. 
How to protect when newly planted, 224. 

Trellises, for vines, 128 • 

Trenching. 88. 89. 

Tuberose, 8, 181, 456, 

Tuberous-rooted pelargomums, 287, 268. 

Tulips, 27, 180. Protection of the blossom of, 
548. Out of bloftMmi, 540. 

Tullp-tiee, 714. 

Tupelo, 714. 

Turkies, setting, 688. Consume worms, 755. 
Poults of. m. 

Turnips, 88, 651, 188, 784. Early. 88. Seed 
sown with grass seed, 706. Thinning and 
hoeing, 442. Diseased, 446. 

Underpotting, 282. 

Undereuttings, 284. 

Urine, 605. 

Vases and urns for flowers, 802. 

Variety, an important element jn the beauti- 
ftd,83(H)88. 

Vegetables, Ikll plai\tlng of, 82. Forcing, 
extra eariy, 817. April sowing of seed of, 
475. Protection of, by fences, 815. Early 
and suocessive crops of, 560. 

Vegetatton fed from the air, 97. 96. Produced 
In sand. 90. Constituents of, gaseous and 
saline, 404. Under glass, 636. 

Ventilation, 06, 97. In greenhouses, 100, 101. 
Nocturnal, 102. Eventlal to fruit-culture 
under glass, 257. 

Verbenas, 8, 11, 14, 26, 85, 227, 298, 520. 

Village-garden, 817-888. LiKt of vines in, 
nf, &8. Paths in, 828-326. Fruit-trees, 
828. 

'Hues, in fordng-house, 115, 116. Treatment 
In autumn, 116. 117. How to dbibud. 173. 
How to prune, 174, 176. On trellises, 182. 
Toung, not allow to bear, 28. Injured by 
exposure to heat, 875 Thiuning, 400, 401. 
Rust, 401. Shanking, 401. Equal brmk- 
ing of buda, 115, 116. Age when planted. 
116. Sulphur mixture for, 116. llethod<« 
of training, 115, 118. Treatment second 
year, 117. In April. 460. Ornamental. 540, 
660 Flowering, 603. When to plant, 60O. 

Violets, 165, 180, 457. Neapolitan, 8, 95, 227. 

VIrglUa, nl 

Wages of laborers, 280. 

WaUca,182. 

Wall, flowers, 180, 629. Skirting the water, 
always diaa«reeab]e, 777. 



no 



IKDEX. 



W«lniita. 144. 

Water, eraporation of, 66. 67. Bmt Moe*- 
ttkrj to coDwrt ioto rapor, 68. Table, the, 
68, 66. 67. Bfbct on the temperatiiN of 
■oils, 60-64. Sapplj of, to ■toek. 217. 219. 
Bemoral of eontfeiiMd, 872. Arnfldal and 
omainental, 776-779. Inherent beauty of, 
776 ▲ primary or eeeood^iy feature In 
landwsape, 776. Skirted bj waU, 777. 
Boundwry, how to cfa»n|e well, 777, 778. 
Water in flowerHrardene. i88. Works, 788, 
784. FlOls, 789 791. Artificial, ehould fol- 
low oatoTB, 789. Natural, modified by 
rocks, 790 Regular, prepooderate among 

Krpendieular ledgei, 790. Broken, 790. 
>w diwttised, 788 At Bearer Brook, 789, 
793. mum to ornament artificial, archi- 
tecturally, 796. Horizoiualitif of. 796. 
Uie Qt imall quantity of, on estatoi 797t 801. 



Watermelooe, 668. 

Weeds, 441, 448, 667, 826. Heter boe in 
cloudy weather. 691. 

Weeping trees, 7U. 

Wheat, kinds of, and tfane to sow, 488, 484. 
Bow improved, 476. 477. Grains oC, to 
bushel, 476, 477. SoQ for, «4, 487. Thin 
seeding, 742. Depth of seeding, 742. 

WIUow7714, 716, 766, 767- 

Window-gardens, bow to make, 242, 34S. 
Plants Ibr, 243. Temperature ot 248. Fu- 
migation of. 244. CoetQt245. 

Whe feness, 196. Instrument ftir tightening, 
194. 

Wood, as crop, 771-774. 

Woods, about house, 774. 

Woodland, how planted, on phm, 774. 

Teer,bi«tauii]igorthe,6. 



INDEX TO TREES IN VILLAGE-GARDEN. 



See piaa of TOlafs-OwdA, p. 816. 



1. White Ash. 

2. Bed Ash. * 
8. Sugar Maple. 
4. White Oak. 
6. White Pine. 

6. American Kim. 

7. Norway Spruce. 

8. Urch. 

9. Laburnum. 

10. Judas Tree. 

11. Bed Oftk. 



12. TuBpftee. 
18. Boaea. 
14. KngUsh Bfan. 
16. Fringe Tkee. 

16. Hemioek. 

17. Spmoe. 
p. Peaza. 

c. Ctttrmats. 



Quinoei. 



INDEX TO SUPPLEMENT. 



PLATES. 



Grapes on enuUler, 840. 

Single eje of grape, 841. 

Spur, end of tne third year, 841. 

Spur, end of fourth year, 842. 

Old spur. 843. 

Braciett'B method of ipiral tnlnlng. 

Wool-box, 866. 

Cydonia on fbnoe, 681. 



City areas, plans fbr, 883, 884. 
Plan of trellis on house. 886. 
Plant-box for A-onts of houses, 880. 
Plan of dty areas, 8872^, 889. 
Plan of roof garden, 880. 
Front of city house, with Tines, 
boxes, and shrubs m front area. 



•^^i>eii^- 



6ENEBAL INDEX. 



Aedimatisatlon of bulbs, fto., 811. 

Adirondac grape, 836. 

Allen's hybrid grape, 834. 

Annuals, list or, 810. 

Apples, list of best, 825. 

Areas in dties maybe used for gardenlnf 
purposes. 880; plans for laying them 
out, and lists of plants and shrubs for, 
883, 884. 887, 888, 880; back areas, treat- 
ment of, 680. 

Atwood, sheep, 862, 863. 

Avenues in cities, planting of, 878. 

Bedding-planu for ilower-beds and city 
areas, lists of, 883, 884, 887, 888, 880. 

Belmont, strawberries cultivated at, 822, 
823. 

Blackberries, cultivation of in New Jer- 
sey, and Hats of, 824. 

Boston Common, defective arrangement 
and planting of, 871, 872, 873. 

Boston Public Garden, how laid out and 
planted, 875. 870, 877. 

Brackett's method of training grapes, 843. 

Bucks, stable for, 800; lambs, too many 
raised, 804: management wben serving 
ewes. 867. 

Bulbs for flower-beds and city areas, lists 
of, 883, 884, 887, 888, 880. 

Bulbs, compost for, 800. 

Burr's (Fearing) treatment of tomatoes, 
821. [813. 

Buswell, £. W., tuberose, cnltlvBtion of, 



Cape bulbs, treatment of, 807, 8U| 812. 

Carnations, list of, 818. 

Cities, opportunities offored by for land- 
scape-gardening, 870. 

City areas, — see areas. 

Clinton grape, 833. 

Compost for bulbs, 800. 

Concord grape, 834. 

Copeland>s (B. McCleary) hyadnthSjJlst 
of, 810 : treatment of back areas, 880. 

Cotswold sheep, 860. 

Currants, 823. 

Cuttings of ffrapes, 846. 

Crevelling grape, 836. 

Cyclamens, cultivation of, list of, 811. 

Cydonia, how trained on fence, 881. 

Chrysanthemums, list of, 816. 

Dahlias, lUt of, 816. 
Delaware grape, 833. 
Diana grap^, 834. 
Diseases in sheep, 856. 

Espalier, grapes on, 840, 841, 842, 843, 844. 

Ewes, breeding, food for. and care of, 865 ; 
treatment of when lambing, 861 ; dis- 
crimination to be used in breeding, 860; 
time for buck servioe, 767. 

Evergreens in dty areas, 888, 880, 803, 806. 

Foot-rot In sheep, cause of and cure for, 
866,867,868. 

911 



912 



OBKSRAL nn>KX. 



Qnftiof wmx, raeeipU for, BOA* 

UralUng of ffrapes, 8i6. 

Urapet, how to grow them, 827 ; profita 
or, Tioes per acre, 828; bett graipe for 
general eultore, 829; dlseMCM or, 630; 
rot tn grapes. Tarietlet moHt alTeoied bv, 
830; list of bent six, 833; Hanemairs 
lUt, 836; eonditions for saoeevsflil eul- 
ttvatton, 8rl0; soil, situation, 830 ; oolti- 
ratlon of in eitr areas, &37; how to 

filont, 837 ; age or plants, 837 : on cspa- 
iers, 838 : treatment of first winter, »» ; 
maanre for, 838; pruning of. 83tf, 840, 
8il, 842, 841; spiral method of tnininc, 
843 ; to what age profltabljr cultiTated, 
844 ; seeds of, 844 ; seedlings, how to 
raise, 8H; layers, 845; oattings of, 84ft; 
grafting, 846; single eyes, propagation 
oj, 846; grow best near lam bodies of 
water, 847. 

Gladiolus propagated from seed, 807; ool* 
tlTatlonof;ilstof,808. 

Grider, R. H., letter on the tbrip, 896. 

Hartlbrd prolific grape, 833. 

HoUyhodEs, list of. 818. 

UoTej John C, list of perennials. 814, 
816 ; of phloxes, 816 ; of psmnies, 816 ; of 
dahlias, 810; of chrTsantbemums, 810: 
of annuals, 810; or rerlwaas, 817; of 
petunias, 817. 

Hnseman'ft list of grapes, 836. 

Hyacinths, how to cnltlTate In pots and 
glasses, 800; list of, 800. 



Infhntado sheep, 862. 

" «pe,834. 

I grape, 636. 



lona grape, 834l 
Israeua grai 



Lambs, management of when first bom, 
801 ; dookiug of, castration otj 802 ; treat* 
ment when removed from the mother, 
860. 

Lambing, period of, 866. 

Landso^ gardening, the essentials of, 

Lavers of grapes, 845. 

Leicester sheep, 800. 

Level surfhoes. how to be treated, 876, 876. 

Locke W. H., list of strawberries, 822. 

MaoTear (James), list of carnations, pico- 
tees, and hollyhocks, 817. 

Market gardening, profits of, 894. 

tiprino sheep, 851, 862; varieties of, 863; 
value of, 853; care of, 863, 864: wrin- 
kles In, 850 i diseases of, 857, 868; why 
the merino Is better than the Spanish, 
870. 

Mildew in grapes, 830, 832, 833 ; canses of, 
831 ; prevention of, 831, 632 ; wUd grapes 
alfeoted by, 832. 

Mutton sheep, best variety yet to be found 

Ornamental trees, ioltaUe for dtj plant- 
ing, 873, 874, 876. 

rieonies, list of, 816. 



Parkman Fraaeis. list of roses. 810; of 

pereno ials, 820 ; list of trees and shrnbe, 

893,8IH,8d6. 
Paular sheep, 8SS. 
Perennials, list at, 814, 816, 880. 
Petunias, list of, 817. 
Plants, variegated for Conservatory, list 

of, 806. 
Plant-box, for fronts of city houses, 88S; 

list of bulbs for, and plants tn, 880. 
Planting trees, generaUy too thieUjr 

planted. 882. 
Phloxe< list of. 816. 
Plcotees, Ust of, 818. 
Pruning of grapes, 839, 840, 841, 812, 

843; spu^praning, 839. 

Baspberries, cultivation of la Kev Jer* 

sey, and lists of, 823. 
Rogers, No. 16. grape, 836. 
Roof gardens, how to make and how to 

manage, 890, 891. 
Roses, flst of, 818. 810. • 
Rot in grapes, 830. 

Seedlings, of grape, 846. 

Sheep, American merino, 849 ; dMh ren e es 
In wool, 840, 850; Southdown, 860 ; Lei- 
cester. 850; Cotswold, 858: fattening 
qualities, 850: weight of fleece, 851 ; 
merino, qualities of; 861, 852; varieties 
of, 853; value of, 853; care of, 853, 854; 
wrinkles in, 850; diseases of, 857. 868; 
buildings for, 890, 800; Ugginc o/; 862 ; 
shearing of, 863, 864; washing. 863; 
treatment during summer, 866; in au- 
tumn, 867. 

Shrubs, lists of, 883, 884, 887, 868, 860, 803, 
804 ; vmlegated, 888, 803. 

Southdown sheep, 860. 

Steam, nse of in fkrming, 848. 

Strawberries, cultivation and lista of, 
822, 823; lA New Jersey, 883. 

Ticks in sheen, bow to destroy, 866. 

Tomatoes, cultivation of, 821. 

Thrip, ii\Jurioas to the grape, how de- 
stroyed, 896. 

Trees, evergreens for plnnting in dtics, 
874. 

Trees, variegated, deeidoous, evergreen, 
805; generally too thickly planted, 802; 
relatHre advantages of planting singly* 
or in groups, 804; native the best, 800. 

Trellis, for vines on oitv houses, 886. 

Tuberose, cultivation of, 813. 

Tulips, propag a ted from seed, 807. 

Yarlegated, — see plants and shrubs. 
Verbenas, list of, 817. 

Wax. for grafting, receipts for, 896. 

Wool, diferences in, 849, 850; yolk or 
grease In, 851 ; Increased value of nMrt> 
no, 663, 864 ; weight of fleece per head, 
864. 

Wool-box, 806. 

Wrinkles in sliesp, no proof of blood, 



DAH DUE 




^ 



(^*H999 



miT 



s 



1983 



#- 



JUN 



IU-«8&- 






4mU 



1 1991 






iTotrg 



OEMCO 3B 



JB-197 



HAS SM cru ^^^^ ^ ^^ 
3 2044 026 621 979 



\ 



Ccpeland. 5736 



