MRS. CK OWEN'S 

LADY'S COOKERY BOOK, 

COMPRISING EVERY TAHirTT Or INFORMATION TOR 

OEDINAEY AND HOLIDAY OCCASIONS, 

AND CONTAINING OrKR 

1200 ORIGINAL RECEIPTS 

FOR PSEPAKINa AND COOKINO 

sotrrs a:td Er.oTn^, rxsn aitd oystit-.s, ct.a?.t3, jtuscles a^td scol- 
lops, LOBsrEKS, cr..c:s a:;d TiiaitAPi^is, i:zat3 02- ai.l cr^'DS, 
pouLTBY AND GA:iii;, EQGS ainD ciirr.si:, %-r;ai;TABLr3 A2;d 

SALADS, SAUCES OF ALL KIIODS, TA2iCY DESSEET3, PUD- 
DINGS AND CUSTABDS, PIES AI^D TAZT3, EEEAD 
AXD BISCUIT, EOLL3 AI^D CAEE3, PEECEi:'\'E3 
AXD JELLIES, PICS^LES A:;D CATSUPS, 
POTTED MEATS, ctC, CtC, 

TOGETHER WITH 

TAIA7ABI,B AND IMPORTANT HINTS, ON CHOOSING AND PURCHASING AI.l. KINDS O^ 
PROVISIONS, AND PREPARING RIFE Fr.LITS FOR TABLE. SII-I-S OF FABZ 
FOB THE r.EIJEF OF YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS, AERAXnKMgXT OF 
THE TABLK FOR EVERY VARIETY OF DINNER rARTI.-5, ETI- 
QUETTE OF THE DINNER TASI-E, COOXERY FOR 
INVALIDS, CARVING MADE EASY, etc. 

The whole beingf a Complete System of American Cookery, 
BY MES. T. J. CROWEK 

ILLUSTBATED ■WITH SEVEBAL DIAOHAMS. 



NET? YOKE: 
DICK & FITZGERALD, PUBLISIIERS. 






C- 



q'A 



Entered according to Act cf CongvcEs, in tlic year 18i7, ty 

T . J . C U O W K X , 

in tho Clcri'a Office of the District Court for the Southern District of 
Kcw York. 

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year ISCG, by 

DICK & riTZGEUAED, 

in tho Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of 
Kew York. 



For a Complete Index to this work, see page 453. 




PREFACE. 



Tlie American Lady's Cook Book, which was 
first published under the title of the "American 
System of Cookery," is now presented with numer- 
ous additions and thorough revision. To its already 
acknowledged practical value, are added a great 
number of excellent original receipts, enhancing it 
materially, placing the uninitiated on a par with 
the most experienced, and ofiering to the expe- 
rienced something new for every day uses. 

The System of Cookery studied and adopted in 
the preparation of this volume of receipts, is strict- 
ly hygenic in its efi'ects, and although particularly 
adapted to our own country, it is not the less use- 
ful for other countries. 

Simplicity, that is, adherence to first ])rinciplcs^ 
even in the preparation of food, will generally be 
found to produce the most healthful results. It 



IV PREFACE. 

may not begonerallj nnderstood, but it is most cer- 
tainly true, that to prepare simple food is as much 
a work of ait as the mystifications and elaborations 
of the cuisine, and many j^ersons in this country 
possessing unlimited means prefer the less luxurious 
preparations. This book of receipts is recommend- 
ed particularly to foreign cooks, as it instructs them 
in many things j)eculiar to this country, in which 
books merely compiled from, or imitations of, for- 
eign books, are deficient. 

It is hoped that both natives and foreigners will 
give the present edition a fair trial, and the author 
trusts it will return them daily satisfaction. 



THE 

AMERICAN SYSTEM OF COOKERY. 



SOUPS. 

Soup. — In soup makiiif^ the greatest care is ne- 
cessary that the vessel for it be perfectly clean, 
and I'vee from any grease or sand. 

An iron soup-pot must be washed with a tea- 
spoonful of potasli or bit of soda the size of a small 
nutmeg, dissolved in hot water, immediately after 
using; this will remove all greasiness and taste ol 
onion, or any peculiar taste which might injure the 
next soup to be made. 

An iron pot or well tinned or porcelain kettle ig 
best for soup making. 

Soup must have a sufficient time to make ; — boil 
gently, that the meat be tender, and give out its 
juices." 

The pot must not be uncovered more frequently 
than is necessary for skimming it clear. 

The required quantity of salt put in with the 
meat will cause the scum to rise, and therefore 
make the soup clearer. 

Allow a quart of water and a teaspoonful of salt 
for each pound of meat. 

Soup may be made of any sort of fish, flesh or 
fowi inferior pieces of meat, such as the neck or 
scrag, knuckle bone, etc. 

Remaias of cooked meats of several kinds to- 
gether make a good soup ; for this purpose, the 
meat should be chopped or cut small, and seasoned 



12 SOUP. 

with pepper and salt, and hot water, (not boil- 
ing,) a quart to each pound of meat put to it; 
then let it simmer gently for half an hour before 
putting in the vegetables. 

Care should be taken that no one seasoning pre- 
dominates; for this reason the exact quantity of 
each sort is specified in the following jeceipts. 

Take off every particle of scum as it rises, and 
before the vegetables are put in. 

" The greens and vegetables for soup must be 
carefully prepared, that is, picked clean and washed. 

Where fit soup is not liked, the grease must be 
skimmed off before putting in the vegetables; it 
will then be fit for other uses. 

Soup meat must be put down in cold water and 
boiled very gentl3^ 

The water in which meat or fowls have been 
boiled, will make good broth ; it is not rich enough 
for soup without the addition of other meat. 

The meat from which soup has been made, is 
good to serve cold thus: take out all the bones, sea- 
son with pepper, and salt, and catsup, if liked, then 
chop it small, tie it in a cloth, and la}^ it between 
two plates, with a weight on the upper one : slice it 
thin for luncheon or supper ; or make sandwiches 
of it; or make a hash for breakfast; or make it in 
balls, with the addition of a little wheat flour and 
an egg, and serve then:: fried in fat, or boiled in the 
soup. 

The vegetables used in soups are carrots, leeks, 
parsley, turnip, celery, tomatoes, ochras, cabbage, 
cauliflower, green beans, peas, and potatoes. 

One leek, one large carrot, one bunch of parsley, 
<Tnd two turnips f()r a pot of soup. 

One'l)ea,d of celery, one leek, two small turnips, 
ai^l five or six small potatoes, another. 

Five or six tomatoes skinned and the seeds 



SOUP. 13 

squeezed out, one leek, abuncli of parsle}', and five 
or six potatoes cut small, another. 

Carrot, cabbage, turnip tomatoes, and potatoes, 
another. 

Ochras alone are sufficient vegetable for a dish 
of soup. 

Green peas and new potatoes are enough for lamb 
soup. 

Vermicelli or maccaroni are enough with the 
usual seasoning for chicken, lamb, or veal soup. 

It is well to begin to prepare the vegetables as 
soon as the meat is put down. 

Trim and scrape carrots clean, and cut them 
across in slices quarter of an inch thick, and notch 
the edge of each slice neatly, or cut each slice in 
stars or rings ; or grate it on a coarse grater — gra- 
ted, it gives a fine amber color to the soup- 
Wash parsley and cut it small. Pare turnips 
and cut them in slices quarter of an inch thick, then 
divide each slice in halves or quarters. Cut leeks 
in slices as thick as a dollar piece. 

Cut celer\' in half inch lengths ; the delicate green 
leaves impart a fine flavor to the soup. 

Take the skins from tomatoes, and squeeze out 
some of the seeds. 

Shave cabbasfe in thin slices. 

Slice ochras ; boil cauliflower ni water, then cut 
it small. 

Pare potatoes if old, or scrape, if young ones. 
Slice old potatoes an inch thick, and put them i^to 
soup fifteen minutes before it is done. 

If tlie soup is too rich by boiling a long time, 
make it less so by the addition of boiling water. 

Peas, sweet corn cut from the cob, green beans 
stringed and cut small, or lima beans may be used 
in soups. 

Pearl barley cr rice arc used as thickening. 



14 PORTABLE SOUP. 

Giated carrot gives a fine amber color to soup ; 
it must be put in as soon ns the soup is free from 
scum. 

To color soup brown ; use browned flour or a little 
burnt brown sugnr in llie thickening. 

Pounded spiu;ich loaves, give a fine green color 
to soup. Pursley, or the green leaves of celery put 
in soup will serve instend of spinnch. 

Pound a large handful of spinach in a mortar, 
then tie it in a cloth and wring out all the juice ; put 
this to the soup you wish to color green, five minutes 
before taking it up. 

ISIock turde, and sometimes veal or lamb soups 
are liked liiis color. 

Ochras give a green color to soups. 

To color soup red, skin six red tomatoes, squeeze 
'out the seeds and put them into the soup with the 
other vegetables — or take the juice only as directed 
for spinach. 

For white soups, which are of veal, lamb or 
chicken, none but white vegetables are used ; rice, 
pearl barle}', vermicelli, or maccaroni for thicken- 
ing. 

To MAKE Portable Soup. — Take about twen- 
ty-five pounds of the leg of beef, take off all the 
skin and fat as well as you can; then take all the 
meat and sinews clear from bones; put it in a large 
pot, and put to it four gallons and a half of water, 
and put it over a gentle fire ; then put ten ounces 
of salt and two and a half of pepper to it; let it 
Doil gently ; take off the scum as it rises ; pfitl six 
onions or as many leeks, and add them to it, with a 
small bundle of thyme, and a dry hard crust ol 
breads stir it well together, cover the pot close, and 
let it simintM' gently l<)r four or five hours, then un- 
cover it and stir it together aq;ain. after which covei 



OYSTER SOUP 15 

It close ; and let it boil until it is a rich strong 
jelly, which you will know by taking a little now 
antl then in a saucer to cool ; when you find it 
so, take it oil" and strain it through a coarse muslin 
bag ; press it liard, then strain it through a coarse 
hair sieve into a large earthen pan, and when 
it is quite cold take od" the scum and fat, and take 
the jelly clear from settlings at the bottom, then put 
it in a large well-tinned stew-pan; and set it on a 
stove with a slow fire ; keep stirring it often, and 
take care that it neither sticks to the pan or burns. 

When you find the jelly veiy stiff' and thick, as 
it will be, in luitips about ihe pan, take it out and 
put it ill large deep earthenware cups; set the cups 
in a pan, and fill it with boiling water nearly to the 
top of the cups, taking care that no water gels into 
them; keep it boiling very gently all the lime, add 
more boiling water as it wastes away, until you find 
the jelly like a stiff" glue; take out the cups, and 
when they are cool, turn out the glue on a coarse 
new flannel ; let it lay eight or nine hours, then put 
in the sun until it is quite hard and dry. Put it in 
boxes of tin, with writing paper between the pieces, 
and keep them in a. dry cool place ; let the boxes 
be covered with a close fitting cover. 

When wanted for use, pour boiling water on to it, 
and stir it all the time until it is melted. A piece 
the size of a hickory nut will make a pint of water 
very rich. Boil celery or any vegetable you like 
in the water before putting in the glue ; when it is 
dissolved let it boil up once. 

A small bit dissolved in boilinaf water makes a 
fine brolh. 

OvsTER Soup. — Take of water and milk, each 
three pints; set it on the fire to boil; roll half a 
pound of butter crackers, or soda biscuit fine, and 



'16 CABBAGE AND MILK SOUP. 

add to the milk and water M'ith a pint of oj^sterg 
chopped fine ; let it boil until the flavor of the oyster 
is iziven to the soup, and the crackers are well 
swelled, then add Sidl and pepper to taste, and three 
pints more of the f)3'sters, with a quarter of a [)ound 
of sweet butter; cover it for ten minutes more, then 
serve it in a tureen. A small saltspoonful of cay- 
enne pepper added to it when the 03'sters are put m, 
is by most persons considered an improvement. 

Another Oyster Soup. — Take a knuckle of 
veal or a leg of lamb ; allow a quart of water and 
a teaspoonful of salt to each pound ; set it over a 
gentle fire and let it simmer (after having come to 
a boil) for at least two hours ; skim it clear, then put 
to it half a pound of rolled crackers, pepper and 
salt to taste, and a quart of oj^sters. Let it boil up 
once, then add a bit of butler the size of a large 
egg, and serve without the meat. Vermicelli or 
maccaroni may be used instead of crackers for this 
soup if preferred. 

Lobster Soup. — x\fter having boiled a lobster, 
take it from the shell, roll two or three crackers, 
and put them to the meat, which must be cut 
small — put of milk and water, each a quart, into a 
stewpan, with a tablespoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper; when it is boiling hot, add the 
lobster, cut small, and the green inside if liked, and 
a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; let it boii 
closely covered for half an hour; break a dozen 
butter crackers, or six or seven soda biscuit, into a 
tureen, pour the soup over and serve. 

Cabbage and Milk Soup. — Cut a large white- 
heart caljbage in quarters, first taking off" the out- 
side leaves, put it in two nuarts of boiling water. 



GHEEN PEA SOUP. 17 

cover it, and set it over a fire for half an Ijour; 
then take out half of the water, add three pints of 
boihng milk, quarter of a pound of sweet butter, 
and pepper and salt to taste ; cover it for ten 
minutes ; cut slices of delicately toasted bread, in 
squares or lozenges, (first taking off the crust,) put 
tiiem in a tureen and pour the soup over — or, 
instead of toast, use broken soda biscuit. 

Ox-head Soup. — Take the skin and eyes from 
an ox head ; put half of it in cold water over 
night, then break the bones and wash it in warm 
water ; put it in a soup-kettle with water more 
than to cover it, let it boil gently ; salt it and skim 
it clear, and when the meat is tender, add two tur- 
nips sliced, a grated or sliced carrot, one leek or 
one or two sliced white onions, five or six potatoes 
cut small, and salt and pepper to taste; then cover 
and stew gently until the meat parts from the 
bones; then take out the meat and l)ones, and serve 
the soup in a tureen. If the soup is richer than is 
liked, add boiling water. 

Pick all the meat from the bones, season with 
pepper, salt, and made mustard, chop it small, tie 
it in a cloth and press it between two plates. When 
cold, it is fine for supper or sandwich^ sliced thin. 

Green Pea Soup. — Wash a small quarter of 
Iamb in cold water, and put it into a soup-pot with 
six quarts of cold water ; add to it two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, and set it over a moderate fire — let it 
boil gently for two hours, then skim it clear ; add 
a quart of shelled peas, and a teaspoonful of })ep- 
per; cover it, and let it boil for half an hour, then 
having scraped the skins from a quart of small 
yo^jng potatoes, add theni to thp soup ; cover the 



IS TURTLE SOUP. 

pot, niu] let it boil for lirilf an liour longer ; work 
quarter of a pnmui of bnttcr, nnd a dessert spoon- 
ful of Hour together, and add them to the soup ten 
or twelve minutes before faking it off the fire. 

Serve the meat on a dish with parsley sauce 
over, and the soup in a tureen. 

Another Green Pea Soup. — Put two-pounds 
of veal, or lamb cutlets or steaks, and quarter of 
a pound of salt fat pork, slice'd thin, into two quarts 
of water, set it over a moderate fire ; when it 
boils, skim it clear, add a quart of shelled peas and 
a dozen smiill new potatoes (their skins scraped 
off), cover it close for nearly an hour, or until the 
peas are tender, then add half a teacup of sweet 
butter, with a heaping teaspoonful of wheat flour 
worked into it, and pepper to taste; if the pork is 
not sufficient, add more salt. 

Serve in a tureen, without the meat. Shelled 
Lima beans may be used in their season instead ol 
peas. 

Turtle Soup. — Cut the head off the turde the 
day before you dress it, and place the body so as to 
drain it well from blood ; then cut it u[) in the fol- 
lowing manner : divide the back, belly, head and 
fins, from the intestines and lean parts ; take care 
to cut the gall clean out without breaking — sen Id in 
boiling w:iter the first named parts so as to take 
off the skin and shell; cut them in neat square 
pieces and throw them into cold water ; boil the 
back and belly in a little water long enough to 
extract the bones easily, then make a good stock 
of a leg of veal, a slice of ham, and the llesh of the 
inside of the turtle; let it do away until it is 
browned, then fill it up with water, and the liquor 



SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 19 

and bones of the boiled turtle. Season with sliced 
lemon, whole pejjper, a bunch of parsley, a leek 
sliced, and salt to taste. Let it lioil slowly f')r four 
Ijours, then strain it to the pieces of back, belly, 
head and fins of the turtle (take the bones from the 
fins); add to it half a pint of Madeira wine jind 
quarter of a pound of fresh sweet butter, with a 
tablespoonful of flour worked into it, and a lemon 
sliced thin ; let it boil gently for two hours, then 
serve. 

In cutting up the turtle, the fat should be taken 
great care of; It should be separated and cut in 
neat pieces, and stewed tender in a little of the 
soup, and put into the tureen when ready to serve. 

Catfish or Bullhead Soup. — Cut the heads 
from two pounds of fish, skin and clean tiiem, and 
wash them well; cut them in pieces, and put with 
them one pound of fat ham or salt pork, some pep- 
per, and two quarts of water ; let it boil until the 
fish is tender ; beat two fresh eggs with two tea- 
spoonfuls of fiour and a gill of milk, stir it into the 
soup, add a tablespoonful of butter, let it boil toge- 
ther for a few minutes, tlien take out the ham or 
pork, and serve in a tureen. 

Eel soup may be made in the same manner, or 
like lobster soup. * 

Soup without Meat. — Put two quarts of water 
in a stew-pan with a penny roll cut up, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a white onion or two, cut 
small, cover it crlose and let it boil for half an hour ; 
tiien add the white part of a bunch of celerv, cut 
small, and quarter of a pound of sweet butter — 
add pepper to taste ; cover it, and let it boil for 
half an hour longer ; break half a pound of crack- 
ers into a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 



20 GREEN BEAN SOUP. 

Soup Maigre. — Melt half a pound of butter in 
a stew-pan, slice six onions into it, add two heads 
of celery, cut small, one small cabbage, and a 
bunch of parsley, cut small; shake these together 
over the fire for fifteen minutes, then stir in three 
rolled crackers ; add further, two quarts of boiling 
milk or water, and pepper and salt to taste; let it 
boil gendy for three quarters of an hour, then take 
it from the fire, stir into it two well beaten eggs, 
and serve. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Clean and wash a calf's 
head, split it in two, save the brains, boil the head 
until tender in plenty of water ; put a slice of fat 
ham, a bunch of parsley cut small, a sprig of 
thyme, two leeks cut small, six cloves, a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, and three ounces of butter, into a 
stew-pari, and fry them a nice brown ; then add 
the water in which the head was boiled, cut the 
meat from the head in neat square pieces^ and put 
them to the soup ; add a pint of Madeira and one 
lemon sliced thin, add cayenne pepper and salt to 
taste ; let it simmer gently for two hours, then 
skim it clear and serve. 

Make a forcemeat of the brains as follows: put 
them in a stew-pan, pour hot water over, and set it 
over the fire for a fewjninutes, then take them up, 
chop them small, with a sprig of parsley, a salt- 
spoonful of salt and pepper each, a tablespoonful 
of wheat flour, the same of butter, and one well- 
beaten egg; make it in small balls, and drop tliem 
in the soup fifteen minutes before it is taken from 
the fire ; in making the balls, a little more (lour 
may be necessary. Egg balls may also be added. 

Green Bean Soup. — String half a peck or less 
of young green beans, cut them in pieces an inch 



CHICKEN SOUP. 21 

long, and finish the same as directed for green pea 
soup. 

Split Peas Soup. — Put a quart of split peas 
in water to cover tneni, at night, with half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus ; next day take tliem from the 
water in which they were soaked, and put to them 
two quarts of water and a pound of salt pork, with 
a bone of beef; let it boil gently until the peas are 
tender, then add five or six potatoes, and pepper to 
taste^; cover it for fifteen minutes, then add a table- 
spoonful of butter and flour each, worked toge- 
ther — cover it until the potatoes are done, which 
will be about fifteen minutes : serve in a tureen. 

Dried Bean Soup. — Make the same as split 
peas soup. 

Fish Soup. — Take different sorts of small fish, 
steam them until tender; them add some veal broth, 
cut two turnips in slices, also one leek and one head 
of celery; let it boil for half an hour, then strahi it, 
or take out the bones; season with pepper and salt, 
work a table-spoonful of wheat flour, with quarter 
of a pound of butter, add egg balls.; covet for ten 
minutes and serve. 

Chicken Soup, (Yellow.) — Take two pounds of 
veal or lamb, and one small chicken cut up; boil 
these in three quarts of water, skim it clear; slice 
a leek, or two white onions, grate two small or one 
large carrot, and put to the soup; add two table- 
spoonsful of salt and one of pepper; let it boil 
gently for nearly two hours, then add a table-spoon- 
ful of butter, and the same of flour worked together, 
cover it for fifteen minutes and serve it in a tureen. 

Take the chicken into a deep dish, add butter 



22 ONION SOUP. 

and pepper to it, and serve garnished with sprigs of 
parsley. The meat may be made in l-)alls and put 
in the soup ; chop it fine ; add a tablespoonful of 
butter and Hour each, and asallspoonful of pepper, 
with one beaten eixp.', dip your hands in flour, and 
make the preparation in balls, drop them into soup 
with the butter and flour. 

Chicken Soup, (White.) — Make as directed for 
j'ellow soup, without the carrot ; season with pepper 
and salt only ; put a cup of well washed jpce or 
pearl barley as soon as it is clear from scum ; when 
nearlv done add a t;d:)lespoonful of butter and flour, 
each worked together; let it boil for ten minutes 
longer, then serve. 

Onion Soup. — Put a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter in a stew-pan, with six large white onions cut 
in slices, let them fry a nice brown, then add six 
crackers rolled, pepper to taste, and a quart of boil- 
ing water; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, and 
serve. 

Another Oxion Soup. — Put half a pound of 
butter into a «tew-pan and let it boil ; have ready 
ten or twelve large onions, peeled and cut in slices, 
put them into the butter and fry to a nice brown, 
sprinkle in a tables[)oonful of flour, shake the pan 
often, and keep it over the fire for ten minutes, then 
add three pints of boiling milk, stir it well, cut some 
pie paste in slips and drop them iti ; add salt to 
taste; let it boil for ten minutes, stirring it frequent 
ly, then take it from the fire, work the yolks of two 
hard boiled eggs w'iih a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
fji-st Uiix a iittio of the soup with this, then stir it 
into tlie remainder. 



SHIN OF BEEF SOUP. 23 

Hare Soup. — Skin and clean a hare, then cui 
it up; season with salt and pep[»er, and fry a nice 
brown with lard or butter ; then put it in a soup- 
pot, with two onions sliced and fried, a bunch of 
parsley fried, and enouojh hot water to cover it ; let 
it sinnner gently for half an hour, then add two or 
three blades of mace, a glass or two of Maderia or 
port wine, a tablespoonful of browned flour worked 
into a small teacup of butter ; let it simmer for half 
an i'.our, and serve. 

The i)ones of poultry added to this soup while 
boiling, and taken out Ijefi^re serving, will improve 
it. A teaspoonful of made mustard may be added. 

A chicken, or old fowl, or duck soup, may be 
made in the same manner. 

Shin^ of Beef Soup. — Get a shin bone of beef 
weighing four or five pounds; let the butcher saw 
it in pieces about two inches long, that the marrow 
may become the better incorporated with the soup, 
and so give it greater richness. 

Wash the meat in cold water ; mix together of 
salt and pepper each a tablespoonful, rub this well 
into the meat, then put into a soup-pot; put to it as 
many quarts of water as there are pounds of meat, 
and set it over a moderate fire, until it coines to a 
boil, then take off whatever scum may have risen, 
after which cover it close ; and set it where it will 
boil very gently for two hours longer; then skim it 
again, and add to it the proper vegetables which are 
these — one large carrot grated, one large turnip cut 
in slices, (the yellow or ruta baga is best) one leek 
cut in slices, one bunch of parsley cut small, six 
small potatoes peeled and cut in half, and a teacup- 
ful of pearl barley well washed ; then cover it and 
let it boil gently ti)r one hour, at which time add 
another tablespoonful of salt and a thickening made 



24 BEEF SOUP. 

of a tablespoonful of wheat flour and a gill of water 
stir it in by the spoonful; cover it for fifteen min- 
utes and it is done. 

Three hours and a half is required to make this 
soup: it is best for cold weather. Should any re- 
main over the 'first day, it may be heated with the 
addition of a little boiling water, and served ngain. 

Take the meat from the soup, and if to be served 
with it, take out the bones, and lay it closely and 
neatly on a dish, and garnish with sprigs of parsley; 
serve made mustard and catsup with it. It is very 
nice pressed and eaten with mustard and vinegar 
or catsup. 

In making this soup there may be this variation: 
instead of the last thickening, make a batter of two 
well-beaten eggs, half a pint of milk, and as much 
wheat flour as will make a smooth batter, about as 
thick as pound cake; drop it by the spoonful iiuo 
the boiling soup, until all is used, then cover it for 
fifteen minutes. This is called egg dumplings. 

Beef Soup. — Take four pounds of beef, for four 
quarts of water, and finish with any vegetables you 
like, the same as shin-of-beef soup, or as follows — 

Take two tablespoonstul of salt, and one of pep- 
per, (fine black) rub it well into the meat, then put 
it over a moderate fire, with one quart of water ; 
let it boil very gently for one hour, then add three 
quarts of boiling water, cover it close, skim it clear 
and let it boil very gently for another hour, in which 
time prepare the vegetables as follows — One large 
carrot scraped and cut in thin slices, one large or 
two small turnips cut in the same manner, six small 
potatoes of equal size cut in halves, and one head ol 
celery, leaves and white part cut small ; the carnjts 
and tarnips should be sliced about one-third of an 
inch thick. 



VEAL OR LAMB SOUP lib 

When the first hour is up, put in the carrots, fif- 
teen minutes after add the turnips and celery ; aftet 
another fifteen minutes, put in the potatoes and a 
thickening made of two tablespoon sful of flour and 
as much cold water as will make .a smooth thin 
batter; stir it in by the spoonful; cover the pot for 
fifteen minutes ; let it boil, and as soon as the pota- 
toes are tender it is done. Soup should not be 
taken off the fire whilst makinc;. 

Beef Broth. — Take four pounds of beef, crack 
the bone in two or three places, wash it in cold wa- 
ter, and put it with a gallon of water over a mode- 
rate fire ; add to it a heaping tablespoontlil of salt, 
and a tea spoonful of pepper ; let it boil slowly, take 
off the scum as it rises; in two hours add a bunch 
of parsley cut small, or a head of celery, let it 
simmer for an hour longer. 

Tonstsome slices of bread a delicate brown, cut 
it in squares or lozenges, put them in a tureen, and 
pour the soup over. 

A cup of pearl barley, well washed, and put in 
with the meat will be liked by invalids ; or vermi- 
celli or maccaroni stewed tender in it, is both 
healthful and palateable. 

A leek, or two or three tomatoes may be added 
to the broth. 

Veal or Lamb Soup. — The scrag or neck of 
veal or lamb, or the leg, is best for making soup. 
A slice of corned pork or ham is an improvement 
to veal or lamb soup. 

For four pounds of meat allow four quarts of 
water; wash the meat in cold water, trim o'X the 
rough ends, and shape it neatly, then put it and 
the odd bits into a soup pot with a quart of cold 
water, a heaping tablespoonful of salt and a tea- 

B 



89 calf's head soup. 

spoonful of fine pepper; cover h close, and let it 
simmer <i;entlY for one hour, then skhn it clear; add 
three (juarls of boiling water, and let it boil gently 
for one liour longer; then sUim it again, and add 
sliceil ochras, or any other vegetables which may 
be preferred — a leek sliced, a bunch of parsley cut 
sniidl, and a carrot grated or cut in slices and the 
edges neatly notched ; or a bunch of aspariigus, 
the tops and green parts cut the size of peas or a 
little laiger. These vegetables should be put in 
half an hour before the soup is done. Three hours 
will be recjuired for iTi;i.king tlie soup; if asparagus 
is used, toast some thin slices of bread, butler them 
freelv, cut them small, and put them in the tureen 
before putting in the soup. 

For suitable combinations of vegetables, sec 
introductory remarks. 

Take up the meat by itself, and serve with dravi'n 
I utter sauce and mashed potatoes. 

The bones of poultry or cold roast beef put in 
with the meat to make the soup, and taken out be- 
fore serving, improves the flavor of veal or lamb 
soup; cold fried or broiled steaks, whether of beef 
or lamb, may be added to the soup and im- 
prove it. 

Vermicelli, maccaroni, green peas, ochras or 
tomatoes, maybe used in tiiese soups ; atablespoon- 
ful of sweet butter, with a heaping teaspoonful of 
flour worked into it, should be stirred mto the 
soup, ten minutes before taking it from the fire. 

Calf's Head Soup. — Get a cleaned calf's 
head., split it open, and save the brains to make 
loicemeat balls; put it in a soup-pot with five 
quart-; of water, add to it a heaping tablespoonful of 
salt and a teasj)oonf"ul of pepper, set it o\'er a mod- 
erate fire and take off the scum as it rises. Aft/^i 



CHICKEN BROTH. 27 

three hours, take out the head, tnke the bones from 
it, cut the best of it in square pieces, skin the 
tongue aiul cut it in slices, and retiun it to the 
soup; now add the vegetal)les, which are tliese : 
one head of celery cut small, one leek sliced thin, 
one large, or two small carrots sliced thin and the 
edges neatly notched, and six equal sized small 
potatoes, pared and cut in halves; cover the pot 
for half an hour,* then work two tablespoonfiils of 
butter Avith the same of Hour and stir it into the 
soup. Make forcemeat balls of the brains, thus: 
scald them and chop them small, add a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and the same of wheat flour, season 
with pepper and salt, and make it in sr.iall balls; 
flour the outside of each, and drop them into 
the boiling soup about fifteen minutes before ii is 
done. 

The soup may be served without the meat, ex- 
cept the toi)gue and balls — the meat may, in such 
case, be chopped and seasoned with pepper and 
salt to taste; then tie it in a muslin bag and press 
it between two plates until cold ; serve sliced thin 
for sandwiches or supper — or make it a hash for 
breakfast. 

Chicken Broth. — Cut up a full grown chicken, 
put to it three pints of cold water, a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and half a teacup of pearl bailey (or 
rice if preferred) ; cover it close and let it simmer 
for an hour, then skim it clear, add j>epper to 
lasto ; take the chicken into a dish, put bits of 
sweet butter over, shake some j)epper over, and 
serve v/ith mashed potatoes — serve the soup in a 
tureen. 

The barley or rice may be omitted, and five oi 
six rolled crackers, with a tablespoonful of butter, 
substituted when the broth is nearly done. 



28 MUTTON BROTH. 

Veal Broth. — Boil gently a knuckle of veal in 
five pints of water ; put to it a tablespoonful of salt, 
and half a teacup of well-washed rice or pearl bar- 
ley ; let it sin:imer gently for nearly three hours, 
taking off the scum as it rises; add pepper to taste. 

Instead of pearl barley or rice, vermicelli or 
rolled ci^acker may be used, or bread toasted and 
cut small and put in the tureen. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Swell quarter of a pound 
of vermicelli in a quart of warm water, then add 
it to a good beef, veal, lamb or chicken soup or 
broth with quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; let 
the soup boil for fifteen minutes after it is added. 

To MAKE Egg Dumplings for Soup. — To half a 
pint of milk put two well-beaten eggs, and as much 
wheat flour as will make a smooth, rather thick bat- 
ter free from lumps ; drop this batter, a tablespoon- 
ful at a time, into boiling soup. 

Egg Balls for Soup. — Take the yolks of six 
hard boiled eggs and half a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour, rub them smooth with the yolks of two raw 
eggs and a leaspoonful of salt; mix all well togeth- 
er, make it in balls and drop them into the boiling 
soup a lew minutes before taking it up. 

IMaccaroni Soup. — To a rich beef or other soup, 
in which there is no seasoning other than pepper or 
salt, take half a pound of small pipe maccaroni, 
boil it in clear water until it is tender, then drain it 
and cut it in pieces of an inch length, boil it for fif- 
teen minutes in the soup and serve. 

Mutton Broth. — Take a scrag of mutton, 
cut it in thick slices, and rub each with pepper and 



STOCK KOR GRAVY SOUP. 2'J 

salt ; then put them into a soup-pot ; allow a quart 
of water to each pound of meat, and cover the pot 
close ; take off the fat and scum as it rises. ; after 
one hour add half a teacup of rice or pearl barley, 
one leek sliced thin, one turnip sliced, and any other 
vegetable which may be liked ; let it boil slowly for 
nearly an hour longer, then serve. 

Clam Soup. — Take fifty large or one hundred 
small sand clams, and their liquor from the shells ; 
strain the liquor ; add to it a quart of milk and water 
each; if the clams are large, cut each in two and 
put them into it ; set them over a moderate fire until 
the clams are tender ; (about one hour,) skim it 
clear; put to it half a pound of soda crackers l)ro- 
ken small, or half a pound of butter crackers rolled 
fine; cover the pot lor ten minutes, then add quarter 
of a pound of sweet butter, and serve hot. 

Savoy Soup. — Remove the outside leaves, cut 
in quarters and boil in clear water two small lieads 
of Savoy cabbage ; when tender drain off, and press 
all the water from them ; then put them to as much 
beef broth as will cover them : put it into a closely 
covered stew-pan or soup-pot over a moderate fire 
for one hour ; set on the tire a large frying-pan with 
a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; let it become 
hot ; shake flour from a dredging box over it, until 
the whole surface is white, then stir it until it be- 
comes brown, taking care not to burn it ; cut two 
large white onions into it, and fry them ; as soon as 
tliey are nicely colored, add it to the soup ; soak 
some crackers or sliced rolls in a quart of boihng 
milk or water and add it to the soup. 

Veal or chicken broth may be used for this soup. 

Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy. — Cut the 



30 VEGETABLE SOUP. 

meat from a knuckle of veal, and pnt it with a 
pound of lean beef, into two quarts of water ; add 
one tahlespoouful of salt, and a teaspoont"ul of pep- 
j)or; cover it close and let it stew until very tender, 
then strain it and use for soup or grav}'. 

Cabbage Soup. — Boil five pounds of corned or 
salt beef in five quarts of water, very gently for 
one hour, and skim it clear, then add two small 
heads of cabbage cut in quarters and well washed, 
(examine carefully, as insects are sometimes con- 
cealed between the leaves;) when it Is done tender, 
which it will be in about forty minutes, take out the 
largest pieces, and drain them in a cullender, put 
them in a covered dish, over a pot of boiling water 
to keep it hot; as soon as the meat is tender, take 
that up also, (try it by sticking a fork into it, if when 
you twist the fork the meat breaks, it is enough,) 
put it between two plates to press, and set it over a 
pot of hot water to keep hot ; add to the soup two 
or three turnips peeled and sliced; one large or two 
small carrots sliced or grated, and an onion or leek 
sliced also ; six or eight equal sized potatoes peeled 
ne.atly ; let it boil for half an hour when the vege- 
tables will be done ; stir into it a batter made of a 
tablespoonful of wheat flour and cold water; cover 
it for ten minutes and it is done. 

Then take the potatoes into a dish and serve the 
soup in a tureen. 

Thus you have a dish of meat, a tureen of soup, 
and potatoes and cabbage accompanying vegeta- 
bles. These constitute, with some simple dessert, a 
good family dinner. 

Vegetable Soup, (Summer.) — Take three or 
four young carrots, three 3'oung turnips, and one 
leek scrape the carrots and peel the turnips, and 



SOUP IN HASTE. 3J 

cut them in thin slices ; cut each slice of turnip in 
four ; put them in two quarts of broth seasoned 
with salt and pepper to taste; cover it, and let them 
boil for fifteen minutes, then add a head of white 
lettuce cut small, and a bunch of parsle}'- broken 
up ; cover it and let them boil for fifteen minutes 
longer, and it is done. 

Soup in Haste. — Chop some cold cooked meat 
very fine, and put a pint of it with some gravy or 
a bit of butter into a stew-pan ; season with pepper 
and salt ; dredge over an even tablespoonful of 
flour, then add a quart or more of boiling water ; 
cover it close, and set it over a moderate fire for 
half an hour; then strain it through a coarse cloth, 
toast some thin slices of bread delicately brown, 
cut them in small squares or diamonds, put them 
into a turfjen and pour the soup over. Tl)is soup 
may be made of uncooked meat in the same man- 
ner; a quart of water to a pound of meat makes a 
rich souj). 

Maccaroni or vermicelli boiled tender may be 
put to the soup ten or twelve minutes before taking 
it up ; carrots sliced thin and cut in stars, with tur- 
nips and new potatoes, boiled tender in clear water 
and added to the soup fifteen minutes before taking 
it up. Also a few stalks of celery with the delicate 
green leaves cut small, or a bunch of parsley put 
in at the same time, make a fine delicate soup. 

Browning for Soups and Gravies. — Put two or 
three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar into a frying- 
pan, set it on the fire to brown, stirring with e. 
spoon that it may not burn ; when sufficiently dark 
colored, stir into it about a pint of boiling water; 
when it is thoroughly incorporated, put it into a 
bottle, and when cold, cork it close. Use a table> 
spoonful or more as may be wanted to give color to 
gravies or soup. Or put wheat flour into a frying, 
pan and brown it carefully without burning. Keep 
it dry in a box. 



32 FISH. 



FISH. 



Introductory Remarks. — There aie generaJ 
rules for choosing fish of most sorts. 

If the gills are red and full, and the whole fish 
firm and stiff, it is good. 

If on the contrary, the gills are brownish, the 
eyes sunk, and the flesh flabby, they are stale. 

One who is not a judge of fish, had better not 
trust to their own choice, but deal with those on 
whose word they can rely. Let such choose for 
you, it will be to their interest to serve you honest- 

Great care must be taken to see that the fish be 
properly cleaned before dressing ; that is, they must 
be perfectly free from scales, and every particle of 
the inside scraped from the backbone ; but not 
washed beyond what is really necessary, as that 
diminishes the flavor of most fish. 

To boil fish, put it on the drainer of a fish-kettle 
and cover it with water just hot ; let it boil gently, 
otherwise the skin will break before the inside is 
done. 

Allow ten minutes for each pound of fish, unless 
it is very thick, then allow a few minutes longer. 
Small fish weighing a pound and a half or so will 
require about fifteen minutes. To try it, pass a 
knife blade next the bone ; if the flesh parts easily, 
and looks white, it is done. 

If fish is not taken from the water as soon as done 
it will become woolly ; if it is done before it is 
wanted, take it up, set the drainer crosswise of the 
kettle, and lay a folded napkin over the fish. 

A suitable kettle for boiling or stCAving fish is very 
necessary, and may be had from any of the hard- 
ware or furnishing stores. In the absence of a fish 
kettle, put the fish in a circle on a dinner plate, and 



BROILED FISH. S3 

tie a napkin over it, then put in a large kettle. When 
done take it up carefully by the cloth, drain off' all 
the water, take off' the napkin and slide the fish on 
a white napkin, neatly folded on a large dish ; gar- 
nish with sprips of parsley, and serve. 

Fresh shad, haddock, and wliiting are considered 
by some persons better for salting a night before 
cooking. 

Fresh water fish have often a muddy taste and 
smell, which may begot rid of by soaking in strong 
salt and watez". 

To Fry or Broil Fish Properly. — After the 
fish is well cleansed, lay it on a folded towel and dry 
out all the water. When well wiped and dry, roll it 
in wheat flour, rolled crackers, grated stale bread, or 
Indian meal, whichever may be preferred ; wheat 
flour will generally be liked. 

Have a thick-bottomed frying-pan or spider, with 
plenty of sweet lard salted ; (a tablespoonful of salt 
to each pound of lard,) for fresh fish which have 
not been previously salted ; let it become boiling 
hot, then lay the fish in and let it fry gently, until 
one side is a fine delicate brown, then turn the oth- 
er ; when both are done, take it up carefully and 
serve quickly, or keep it covered with a tin cover, 
and set the dish where it will keep hot. 

To Broil. — Have a clean gridiron, and a clear 
but not fierce fire of coals ; rub the bars with a bit 
of beef suet, that the fish may not stick; fish must 
be broiled gently and thoroughly; there are few 
things more offensive than underdone fish. 

For the broil, have ready a dish with a good bit 
of butter in which is worked a little salt and pepper, 
enough for the fish. Lay the fish upon it, when 
both sides are nicely done, and with a knife blade 
put the butter over every part; fish should be 



34 DRIED CODFISH. 

turned with a broad blade knife, or a pancake 
turner. 

All salt fish require to be soaked in cold water 
before cooking, according to the time it has been in 
salt. When it is hard and dry, it will require thir- 
ty-six hours soaking, before dressing; the water 
must be changed thiee or four times. When fish 
is not very salt or hard, twenty-four hours will be 
sufficient. 

For frying fish, beef suet or dripping or sweet 
oil may be used instead of lard ; butter is not good, 
it spoils the color and tastes strong. 

Fish have a fine appearance prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: clean and wash them, and wipe 
them dry with a nice soft towel; then wet them 
over with beaten egg, and dip them in bread crumbs 
or rolled crackers. If done twice over with the 
egg, and cracker or crumbs, it will have a finer ap- 
pearance. 

The largest sized pan fish, weighmg nearly or 
quite a pound each, should be scored or cut across 
each side from the head to the tail, nearly to the 
bone, and about an inch apart, that it may be 
well done. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. Have 
ready a thick bottomed frying pan, with plenty oi 
lard salted ; let it become boihng hot ; lay the fish 
carefully in, and let them fry gently, until one side 
is a rich yellow brown, then turn the other and do 
likewise : when both are done take them carefully 
up on a hot dish, and serve. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Dried Codfish. — This should always be laid 
in soak, at least one night before it is wanted ; then 
take off the skin and put it in plenty of cold water; 
boil it gently, (skimming it meanwhile) for one hour, 
or tie it in a cloth and boil it. 



COLD BOILED COD. 35 

Serve with egg sauce ; garnish with hard boiled 
eggs cut in sUces, and sprigs of parsley. Serve 
plain boiled or mashed potatoes with it. 

Stewed Salt Cod. — Scald some soaked cod 
by putting it over the fire in boiling water for ten 
minutes ; then scrape it white, pick it in flakes, and 
put it in a stew-pan, with a tablespoonfal of butter 
worked into the same of flour, and as much milk as 
will moisten it ; let it stew gently for ten minutes ; 
add pepper to taste, and serve hot ; put it in a deep 
dish, shoe hard boiled eggs over, and sprigs ol 
parsley around the edge. 

This is a nice relish for breakfast, with coffee and 
tea, and rolls or toast. 

Codfish Cakes. — First boil soaked cod, then 
chop it fine, put to it an equal quantity of potatoes 
boiled and mashed ; moisten it with beaten eo;2:sor 

. Co 

milk, and a bit of butter and a little pepper ; form 
it in small, round cakes, rather more than half an 
inch thick ; flour the outside, and fry in hot lard or 
beef drippings until they are a delicate brown : like 
fish, these must be fried gently, the lard being boil- 
ing hot when they are put in; when one side is 
done turn the other. Serve for breakfast. 

To MAKE A Dish of Cold Boiled Cod. — Chop 
fine some cold boiled cod, put to it an equal quan- 
tity or more of boiled potatoes chopped or mashed ; 
add a good bit of butter and milk to make it moist, 
and put it in a stew-pan over a gentle fire ; cover 
it, and stir it frequendy until it is thoroughly heated; 
taking care that it does not burn; then take it up, 
make it in a roll or any other form, mark the sur- 
face, take a pinch of ground pepper between your 
finger and thumb, and put spots at equal distances 



3^8 FRIED CODFISH STEAKS. 

over it; or wet it over with melted butter, and 
brown it in an oven before the fire. 

Fresh Cod. — Fresh cod when good, arc firm, 
and the gills red, and the e^-es are full ; if at all 
soft or llabb}'^ it is not good. A fine fish is thick at 
the back ; the shoulder or piece near the head of a 
larije cod is better lor boilinjT than a small fish. 

To Boil Fresh Cod. — If 3'ou have not a fish 
kettle, after cleaning the fish carefully, lay it on a 
plate in a circle, and tie a clean towel about it ; to 
a gallon of hot water put a tablespoon ful of salt 
and a gill of vinegar ; put in the fish and boil ac- 
cording to its weight. 

Serve with plain boiled potatoes and drawn but- 
ler, parsley, or egg sauce. 

Garnish with sprigs of parsley ; lay a folded 
napkin on the dish under the fish. 

Broiled Fresh Cod. — Split a fresh codfish 
from head to tail by the backbone ; cut each side 
into pieces about three inches wide ; dip each piece 
in flour and broil it over a clear brisk fire of coals ; 
lay the inside to the fire first. Have ready a steak 
dish, with a quarter of a pound of butter, in which 
is worked of salt and pepper each a teaspoonful ; 
lay the pieces of fish on as they are done; turn 
them two or three times in the butter and serve. 
Or let the fish be cut across in steaks, of an inch 
in thickness, and finish in the same manner. 

Fried Codfish Steaks. — Cut the fish in steaks 
of about one inch thickness: or it may be, split as 
for broiling ; dip each piece in wheat flour, or rolled 
cracker, or Indian meal; have some lard, (which is 
salted in proportion, a tablespoonful of salt to a 



FRIED SHAD. 37 

pound,) let it become boiling hot in a frying-pan ; 
lay in the steaks; let them fry gently, without stir- 
ring them, until one side is a fine brown, then turn 
each steak carefully with abroad knife ; when both 
sides are done, serve hot, with sprigs of parsley 
over it. 

Baked Cod. — Clean a good sized fish, weighing 
four or five pounds; wash it and dry it well in a 
cloth ; rub it inside and out with a mixture of pep- 
per and salt ; cut a shoe from a loaf of bread, spread 
it thickly with butter ; moisten it with hot water, 
and fill the body of the fish ; tie a thread around it 
to keep the dressing in, then put bits of butter, the 
size of a hickory nut, all over the surface; dredge 
flour over it until it looks white ; then lay a trivet or 
sorr\e muffin rings in a dripping-pan, and lay the fish 
on ; put in a pint of water to baste with, then put it 
in a hot oven and baste frequently ; in one hour it 
will be done. Take it up on a hot dish, add a gill 
of vinegar to the grav}^, or a lemon cut in very thin 
slices ; dredge in a little flour; let it boil up once ; 
stir it well; add a very little hot water if necessary, 
then strain it into a gravy boat, lay the sliced lem- 
on over the fish, and serve. 

Haddock. — These are chosen and dressed the 
same as cod. 

Shad. — These are in season from the last of 
March until May; they are chosen by the same 
rules as other fish. 

These fish may be fried, baked, boiled, or salted. 

Fried Shad. — Scale the fish, and cut off the 
head, then split it open down the back, at the side 
of the backbone ; take out the entrails ; keep the 



38 BROILED AND BAKED SHAD. 

roe or eggs to be fried with the fish ; then cut it in 
two from head to tail, and cut each side in pieces, 
two or three inches wide ; rinse them in cold wa- 
ter, wipe them dry, and dip each in wheat flour, and 
fry in salted lard ; when the inside, which must 
always be cooked first, (of any fish) is done a fine 
brown, turn the other ; the fat must be boiling hot 
when the fish is put in, and then fried gently, that 
it may not be too dark colored. 

The soft roe is much liked by some ; fry it in the 
same manner, as also the eggs ; these last must be 
well done. 

Broiled Shad. — Cut the fish the same as for 
frying, or merely split it in two ; lay it on a gridiron 
over a bright steady fire of coals ; let it broil gently ; 
put the inside to the fire first, that it may be done 
through; have ready a steak dish with nearly a 
quarter of a pound of sweet butter, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and pepper each, worked into it: when 
both sides of the fish are done, lay it on the dish, 
turn it several times in the butter, cover it with a 
tin cover, and set the dish where it will keep hot, 
until ready to serve. 

Baked Shad. — Scale the shad clean, cut ofi'the 
head, and split the fish half way down the 
back; scrape the inside perfectly clean; make a 
stuffing thus : cut two slices of a baker's loaf 
of wheat bread, spread each thickly with but- 
ter ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and a little 
pounded sage if liked ; moisten it with hot water ; 
fill the belly with this; wind a cond around it to 
keep in the stuffing; dredge the outside well with 
flour ; stick bits of butter, the size of a hickory nut 
all over the outside ; mix a teaspoonful each of salt 
and pepper together, and sprinkle it over the whole 



FRIED BLACK FISH. 39 

surface ; then lay the fish on a trivet or muffin rings 
in a dripping pan; put in a pint of water to baste 
with, and keep the gravy from burning; if this all 
wastes before the fish is done, add more hot water; 
bake for one hour in a quick oven ; baste frequently. 
When done take the fish on a steak dish ; if there 
is not enough grav^'- in tlie pan, (there should be at 
least half a pint,) add more hot water; dredge in 
a heaping teaspoonful of flour, then put to it a bit 
of butter, and, if liked, a lemon sliced thin, and 
the seeds taken out. Stir it smooth with a spoon, 
and pour it through a gravy strainer into a gravy 
boat ; lay the slices of lemon over the fish, and 
serve with mashed potatoes. 

Sea Bass. — These fish may be fried or boiled. 
If fried, gai'nish with fried parsley. The largest 
of them for frying, weighing nearly a pound each, 
must be scored as directed in introduction to this 
chapter. 

For boiling, serve with plain boiled potatoes, and 
drawn butter, or parsley, or lemon sauce. 

Black Fish. — These fish may be boiled, fried, 
stewed, or broiled. 

To Fry Black Fish. — Scale the fish, and scrape 
the inside clean to the back bone ; wash it in water, 
with a little vinegar ; wipe it dry with a clean 
towel ; then dip it in wheat flour, or rolled crack- 
ers. Have in a thick-bottomed frying-pan plenty 
of lard salted, (a large tablespoon of salt to a pound 
of lard) ; let it become boiling hot ; then lay in the 
fish, and fry it gently, until one side is a fine brown ; 
then turn it carefully. When both sides are done, 
take it up and serve. 

Fried fish may be garnished or ornamented with 



40 STEWED BLACK FISH. 

sprigs of green or fried parsley, or thin slices of 
lemon, fried. 

Stewed Black Fish. — Put a fish weighing 
about five pounds on a fish-drainer ; after having 
properly cleansed it, put it into the fish-keltle with 
hot water to cover it ; add to it a few blades of 
mace, a lurge teaspoonful of salt, and a wineglass 
of port wine ; let it simmer or boil gently for 
half an hour ; then skim it clear ; work iulf) a 
smooth mass quarter of a pound of sweet butter, 
and a lieaping tablespoon ful of wheat flour ; take 
from the fish part of the water in which it was 
boiled, leaving it scarcely covered ; then add the 
flour and butter, with a teaspoonful of pepper; dip 
a buhch of parsley into boiling water, cut it small, 
and add it to the stew ; cover it close for twenty 
minutes, and let it simmer gently; then take the 
fish up on a dish, and serve with the gravy or sauce 
over. A, sliced lemon without the pits may be add- 
ed with the parsley by those who like it. Serve 
with plain boiled or mashed potatoes. 

Black-fish dressed in this manner is very deli- 
cious. 

To stew smaller fish, lay them in a dripping-pan 
with enough hot water to cover them ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two or three blades of mace, 
and half" a wineglass of vinegar or Madeira wine ; 
set it in an oven, or over a fire ; cover the pan, and 
let them boil gently for fifteen minutes ; then add, 
for four or five pounds of fish, quarter of a pound 
of butter, with a tablespoonful of flour worked into 
it, or rolled crackers, a bunch of parsley, scalded 
andcutsmall,anda teaspoonful of pure fine pepper; 
let them simmer for ten minutes after the seasoning 
is added, and they are done. Serve with the sauce 
over, and plain boiled or mashed potatoes. 



PERCH HALIBUT SALMON. 41 

To Boil Black Fish. — See directions for fresh 
codfish. Serve with drawn butter, or parsley sauce. 

Perch. — Clean these fish well, wash, and wipe 
them dry, then fiy them as directed. See p. 33-34. 

Striped Bass. — These fish are best fried or 
boiled. See directions for boiling or frying fish. 

Halibut. — This fish is fine, whether cut in 
steaks, and broiled, or fried ; or the thick part 
boiled. Fry or broil as directed for codfish. Steaks 
or fillets cut from the tail part are very fine, and 
may be fried or broiled more nicely than any. other. 

To Boil Halibut. — Take a piece weighing four 
or five pounds, scrape the skin'clean, dredge flour 
over it, and boil according to its weight, — ten min- 
utes to a pound. Serve with plain boiled potatoes, 
and drawn butter, or egg, or parsley sauce. Cold 
boiled halibut may be served the same as codfish ; 
any of the sauce which may remain may be put 
with the cold fish. 

Salmon. — When salmon is fresh and good, the 
gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, 
and the fish stiflT. When first caught there is a 
whiteness between the flakes, which, by keeping, 
melts down, and the fish becomes richer. 

Salmon requires to be well boiled. When under- 
done it is unwholesome. 

Boiled Salmon. — Run a long needle with a 
packthread through the tail, centre, and head of a 
fish, to bring it in the form of a letter S. Put it in 
a fish-kettle, wi'th hot water to cover it, and a small 
teaspoonful of salt (cut three or four slanting gash- 



42 SALMON. 

es in each side of the fish before making it into the 
form, otherwise the skin will break and disfigure 
it) ; allow ten minutes gentle boiling for each pound 
of fish. Or a piece of a large fish may be boiled. 
Serve with lobster, or anchov}^, or drawn butter 
sauce, and plain boiled or mashed potatoes. 

Broiled Salmox. — Cut some slices about an 
inch thick, and broil them over a gentle, bright fire 
of coals, for ten or twelve minutes. When both 
sides are done, take them on to a hot dish ; butter 
each slice well with sweet butter; strew over each 
a very little salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

Baked Salmon. — Clean the fish, rinse it, and 
wipe it dry ; rub it well outside and in, with a mix- 
ture of pepper and salt, and fill it with a stuffing 
made of slices of bread, buttered freely, and moist- 
ened with hot milk or water (add sage or thyme to 
the seasoning if liked) ; tie a thread around the 
fish, so as to keep the stuffing in (take off the 
thread before serving); lay muffin rings, or a trivet 
in a dripping-pan, lay bits of butter over the fish, 
dredge flour over, and put it on the rings ; put a 
pint of hot water in the pan, to baste with ; bake 
one hour if a large fish, in a quick oven ; baste fre- 
quently. When the fish is taken up, having cut a 
lemon in very thin slices, put them in the pan, and 
let them fry a little ; then dredge in a teaspoonful 
of wheat flour; add a small bit of butter; stir it 
about, and let it brown without burning, for a little 
while ; then add half a teacup or more of boiling 
water, stir it smooth, take the slices of lemon into 
the gravy-boat, and strain the gravy over. Serve 
with boiled potatoes. The lemon may be omitted 
if preferred, although generally it wall be hked. 



SALMON. 43 

Salmon Trottt. — Dressed the same as salmon. 

Spiced Salmon (Pickled). — Boil a salmon, and 
after wiping it dry, set it to cool ; take of the water 
in which it was boiled, and good vinegar each 
equal parts, enough to cover it ; add to it one dozen 
cloves, as many small blades of mace, or sliced nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful of whole pepper, and the 
same of alspice ; make it boiling hot, skim it clear, 
add a small bit of butter, (the size of a small egg,) 
and pour it over the fish ; set it in a cool place. 
When cold, it is fit for use, and will keep for a long 
time, covered close, in a cool place. Serve instead 
of pickled oysters for supper. 

A fresh cod is very nice, done in the same man- 
ner ; as is also a striped sea bass. 

Dried or Smoked Salmon. — Cut the fish down 
the back, take out the entrails, and roe, scale it, and 
rub the outside and in with common salt, and hang 
it to drain for twenty-four hours. 

Pound three ounces of salt-petre, two ounces of 
coarse salt, and two of coarse brown sugar : mix 
these well together, and rub the salmon over every 
part with it ; then lay it on a large dish for two 
days ; then rub it over with common salt, and in 
twenty-four hours it will be fit to dry. Wipe it 
well, stretch it open with two sticks, and hang it 
in a chimne}^ with a smothered wood-fire, or in a 
smoke-house, or in a dry, cool place. 

Shad done in this manner are very fine. 

Smoked or Dried Salmon, Broiled. — Rinse 
some smoked salmon in cold water, wipe it dry, and 
lay it on a clean gridiron, over a bright fire of coals. 
Turn it, and when it is thoroughly heated through, 



44- EELS. 

take it on a dish, butler it well with sweet butter, 
add pe])per to taste, and serve hot. 

This is a fine relish for breakfast or supper. 
Broil smoked shad in the same manner. The in- 
side of any fish must be put to the fire first. 

A Dish of Salt Salriojst. — Salmon is often put 
down in brine. It is to be soaked and boiled, as 
directed for salt codfish, or it may be boiled for 
breakfast. Or pull off the skin, and pick in flakes 
the thick side of a salmon ; pour scalding hot water 
over it, let it stand for a few minutes ; then pour it 
off; add to it enough milk or hot waterto moisten it ; 
put it over the fire, and let it simmer for five min- 
utes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, shake 
over a little wheat flour and pepper to taste, stir it 
for a few minutes, and it is done. A fine relish 
for breakfast or supper. 

Eels. — Eels to be good, must be as fresh caught 
as possible ; skin them, cut off the heads, cut them 
open and scrape them clean to the back bone. 

For frying or broiling, the middle sized fat ones 
are best ; those caught in fresh water have a muddy 
taste, and should be put in salted water for a short 
time before cooking. Eels may be boiled and 
served with drawn butter or parsley sauce, and 
boiled potatoes. 

Baked Eels. — After skinning and cleaning eels, 
take a shallow pan, cut them in lengths the depth 
of the pan, and stand them upright into it. The 
pan must be filled ; put in water nearly an inch 
deep ; strew salt and pepper over ; put bits of but- 
ter the size of a hickory nut over the whole surface; 
dredge flour over until they look white, also a 



DRIED MACKEREL. 46 

bunch of parsley cut small, and an onion chopped 
if liked; set ihem in a moderate oven to bake for 
nearly an hour; when done, take them from the pan, 
add a wine-glass of vinegar, or a lemon sliced thin ; 
to the gravy dredge in a httle flour, add a bit of 
butter; stir it smooth ; give it one boil, then turn it 
over the lish ; if lemon is used, a little water may 
be neces3ar3^ 

Fricaseed Eels. — After skinning, cleaning, and 
cutting five or six eels in pieces of two inches in 
length, boil them in water nearly to cover them, 
until tender ; then add a good sized bit of butter, 
with a teaspoonful of wheat flour or rolled cracker 
worked into it, and a little scalded and chopped 
parsle}'^ ; add salt and pepper to taste, and a wine- 
glass of vinegar if liked ; let them simm.er for ten 
minutes and serve hot. 

Fried EELS.-^After cleaning the eels well, cut 
them in pieces two inches long ; wash them and 
wipe them dry; roll them in wheat flour or rolled 
cracker, and fry as directed for other fish, in hot 
lard or beef dripping, salted. They should be 
browned all over and thoroughly done. 

Eels may be prepared in the same manner and 
broiled. 

Fresh Mackerel. — These fish to be good must 
be cooked as soon as possible after they are caught. 

They may be broiled, fried, or baked the same 
as shad — also salted. 

Dried MACKEREL.-Take fresh caught mackerel, 
scale them and cut them down the back to the tail, 
leave the heads on; then hang them by the tail in 
a cool place to drain ; strew some salt on the hot- 



46 TROUT. 

torn of a pan ; sprinkle the fish, plentifully with it^ 
and lay them two by two, the insides together in 
the pan; let them lie twelve hours, then rinse ofi 
the salt, and hang them to drain for half an hour, 
after which pepper the insides a little, and lay them 
on stones, aslant toward the sun, to dry ; take care 
never to put them out when the sun is not hot on 
them, nor until the stones are heated and dry ; lay 
the insides to the sun — they will be perfectly cured 
m one week ; stretch them open with two sticks. 
Or instead of drying, after having prepared them 
in this manner, smoke them. 

Salt Mackerel. — Split fresh caught mackerel 
down the back, scrape the insides clean, spread 
them open on a board, and strew them plentifully 
with salt ; then strew salt over the bottom of a tub; 
lay the fish two by two, the insides together, and lay 
them in the tub; strew salt between each la\'er; 
half coarse and half fine salt ; then cover them 
close — put plenty of salt above the last layer offish. 

To DRESS Salt Mackerel. — Take mackerel 
from the salt, and lay them inside downwards in a 
pan oi cold water for two or three days change 
the water once or twice, and scrape the fish clean 
without breaking it. When fresh enough, wipe one 
dry and hang it in a cool place ; then fry or broil, 
or lay one in a shallow pan, the inside of the fish 
down ; cover it with hot water, and set it over a 
gentle fire, or in an oven for twelve or fifteen min- 
utes ; then pour off the water, turn the fish ; put bits 
of butter in the pan, and over the fish ; sprinkle with 
pepper, and let it fr}' for five minutes, then dish it. 

Trout. — These ma}'^ be stewed, fried, broiled or 
baked, 



CHOWDER. 47 

Pike or Pickrel. — These may be stewed, 
fried, or broiled. 

There are many more fine fish not mentioned 
herein, but as the process of stewing, boiling, broil- 
ing, and frying is very nearly the same for all sorts 
of fish, it does not seem necessary to mention more. 

Herrings. — These are eaten in three varieties— 
firesh, salted, and smoked or red herrings. 

Salted herrings are to be soaked in clear water 
before boiling, the same as mackerel. 

Red herring are to be skinned, split in two, and 
the insides and backbone taken out ; or they may 
first be broiled, then skinned. 

To cook fi-esh herrings, scale and prepare them 
the same as any other fish. 

To Boil Fresh Herring. — Dry them well; 
rub them over with a little salt and vinegar, and 
skewer their tails in their mouths ; lay them on a 
fish plate and boil for ten or twelve minutes in 
water slightly salted. Serve with plain boiled po- 
tatoes and drawn butter. 

Chowder. — Slice some fat salt pork very thin ; 
strew it over with onions chopped small, and some 
fine pepper; then cut a haddock, fresh cod, or any 
other firm fish, in thin steaks; take out the bones; 
lay some of the sliced pork at the bottom of the 
kettle, with some of the seasoning; then put alayer 
of fish, then put over some soaked crackers or bis- 
cuit ; then another layer of the seasoned pork, after 
which fish and crackers, and a few bits of butter, 
and so on alternately pork, fish and crackers, until 
the kettle is two-thirds full, then put in about a pint 
of water and cover the pot with a thick iron cover 
with a rim ; set it over a gentle fire ; put coals and 
ashes on the cover, and bake two or three hours or 
more, if the pot is large. When done, turn it out 
on a dish and serve with pickles. It may be baked 
in an oven. 



SHELL FISH. 

To Choose Lobsters. — These are chosen more 
by weight than size, the heaviest are best; a gooci 
small sized one will not unfrequently be found to 
weigh as heavily as one much larger. If fresh, a 
lobster will be lively and the claws have a strong 
motion when the eyes are pressed with the finger. 

The male is best for boiling ; the flesh is firmer, 
and the shell a brighter red ; it may readily be dis- 
tinguished from the female; the tail is narrower, 
and the two uppermost fins within the tail are stiff 
and hard. Those of the hen lobster are not so, and 
the tail is broader. 

Hen lobsters are preferred for sauce or salad, on 
account of their coral. The head and small claws 
are never used. 

To Boil Lobster. — Put into a large kettle 
water enough to cover the lobster, and salt, a des- 
sert spoonful to a quart of water ; when it boils fast, 
put in the lobster, head first, which kills it instant- 
l}''; keep it boiling briskly for half an hour, then 
take it from the water with the tongs, and lay it to 
drain ; wipe off all the scum from it, and rub it over 
with a bit of butter tied in a cloth, or some sweet 
oil; break off the large claws, and crack each shell 
without shattering, but so that they may come eas- 
ily to pieces ; lay a napkin on a large steak dish ; 
with a sharp knife split the body from head to tail, 
and lay it open on the napkin ; put a large claw at 
either end, and serve with melted butter SBUce. 

Or else take out all the meat from the shells, and 
lay it neatly on a dish, and serve with melted but- 
ter, or a sauce made thus — 

Sour Sauce for Boiled Lobster. — Put of 
water and vinegar each a gill into a stew-pan, and 
set it over the fire ; when it is boiling hot take it 
off, put to it quarter of a pound of sweet butter and 



BUTTERED LOBSTER. 49 

a teaspoonful of made mustard, and, if liked, the 
green inside of the lobster ; add a saltspoonful oi 
ground pepper; stir it until ihoroiigldy l)lended, 
and serve in a gravy boat ; servo lettuce with lob- 
ster. 

Broiled Lobster. — After having boiled the lob- 
ster, split it from head to tail; take out what is 
called the lady ; lay it open ; put bits of butterover 
the meat; sprinkle a little pepper over it, and set 
the'shells on a gridiron over bright coals, until nice- 
ly heated through — fifteen or twenty minutes does 
them. Serve in the shells. 

Buttered Lobster. — Boil a lobster, then take 
the meat from the shell, and mince or chop it small ; 
put the coral and green inside if hked, (leave out 
what is called the lady,) to a wine-glass of vinegai 
or hot water, and a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter ; add a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and 
made mustard, if 'liked; and put it with the lob- 
ster in a stew-pan over a gentle fire ; stir it until it 
is thoroughly heated throughout. Serve hot — serve 
with it lettuce in a salad bowl ; garnish with hard 
boiled egg; serve rolls with it. — P^or supper or a 
second course dinner dish. 

Lobster Salad. — Break apart one or two heads 
of white heart lettuce, lay the leaves in cold water, 
rinse them well, then shake the water from each 
leaf, and lay them, the largest first, in a salad bowl, 
the stalk inwards. Lay the delicate small leaves 
around the edge; or cut it all small before putting 
it in the bowl. 

Having boiled a hen lobster, take the meat from 
the shell and cut it small ; rub tlie coral to a smooth 
paste, with the green inside if liked, and a table- 
spoonful of oil or melted butter; add to it a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, and a saltspoonful ot 
black pepper; add a gill of sharp vinegar; stir it 
^ C 



50 SOFT SHELL CLAMS. 

smooth, then mix it with the minced lobster and sa- 
lad, and serve with cold butter and crackers or 
rolls. The lobster and dressing must not be put 
with the lettuce until ready to serve. 

To Choose Crabs. — If fresh, the joints of the 
claws will be stiff', and the inside have an agreeable 
smell ; the heaviest for their size are best, — light ones 
are water3^ Crabs are stale when the eyes look dull. 

To Boil Crabs. — Have a pot of boiling water 
in which is salt, (a tablespoonful to the quart) throw 
the crabs in, and keep them boiling briskly for 
twelve minutes, if large ; then take them out, wipe 
the shell clean, and rub them over with a bit of 
butter ; break off the small claws ; spread a nap- 
kin on a large dish, and lay the crabs on it in reg- 
ular rows, beginning at the outside. Serve with 
cold butter and rolls. 

To Boil Scollops. — Wash them clean, then 
put them in a pot, the edges downwards. When 
all are in, put to them a pint of water, cover it 
close, and set it over a hot fire ; when the shells are 
wide open and the inside loosens, they are done; 
then take them out and trim them clean ; add pep- 
per and salt, and a good sized bit of butter, and 
some of the liquor in which they were boiled ; 
dredge over a little flour, and put the whole into a 
stew-pan, over the fire for ten minutes. Have some 
thin slices of bread nicely toasted, cut it small, put 
it in a deep dish, and pour the scollops over. 

Soft Shelled Clams. — These are very fine if 
properly prepared. They are good only during cold 
weather and must be perfectly fresh. 

Soft shelled clams may be boiled from the shells, 
and served with butter, pepper, and salt over. 

To Boil Soft Shell Clams. — Wash the shells 
clean, and put the clams, the edges downwards, in 
a kettle ; then pour about a quart of boiling water 
over them ; cover the pot and set it over a brisk 



HARD SHELL CLAMS. 61 

fire -for three quarters of an lionr ; pouring boiling 
water on them causes the shells to open quickly 
and let out the sand which may be in them. 

Take them up when done ; take off the black 
skin which covers the hard part, trim them clean, 
and put them into a stew-pan ; put to them some ot 
the li<]uor in which they were boiled ; put to it a 
good bit of butter and pepper ^and salt to taste; 
make them hot; serve with cold butter and rolls. 

Stewed Soft Shell Clams. — Get fifty clams 
taken from their shells, and freed from the black 
skin; wash them well in clear water and put them 
in a stew-pan with very little water ; cover and set 
it over a gentle fire for half an hour ; then add to 
them a bit of butter the size of a large egg or lar- 
ger; dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and salt 
and pepper to taste ; stir it in them ; cover the stew- 
pan for ten minutes, then serve hot. Many persons 
like the addition of a wine-glass of vinegar. 

To Fry Soft Clams. — Get them taken from the 
shell, as they are very troublesome to clean. Wash 
them in plenty of water, and lay them on a 
thickly folded napkin to dry out the water; then 
roll a few' at a time in wheat flour, until they 
will take up no more. Have a thick-bottomed 
frying pan one third full of boiling hot lard, and 
salted; (in proportion, a tablespoonful of salt to a 
pound of lard,) lay the clams in with a fork, one at 
a time ; lay them close together and fry gently, 
until one side is a delicate brown, then turn care- 
fully and brown the other ; then take them off' on 
a hot dish. When fried properly, these clams are 
very excellent. 

Hard Shell Clams. — ^Hard shell clams may 



52 FRIED HARD SHELL CLAMS. 

be prepared for table in a variety of way?. The 
sand clam?, either large or small, are preferable to 
any other, being whiter and more tender. Those 
called Quaho£s are least dehcate eatins; of all. 

To Boil, Hard Shell Clams. — Wash the 
shells until they are perfectly clean, then put them 
into a kettle, with the edges downwards; add a 
pint of water, cover the pot and set it over a brisk 
fire ; when the shells open wide they are done. 
Half an hour is generally enough for them ; if a 
strong taste to the juice is not liked, put more than 
a pint of water to them. When done, take the 
clams from the shells into a deep dish ; put to them 
some of the juice, a good bit of butter, and some 
pepper; or toast some thin slices of bread, butter 
them and cut them small, and put them in the dish 
before putting in the clams and juice. 

Stewed Clams. — Take fifty large sand clams 
from their shells, and put to them their own liquor 
and water in equal parts, nearly to cover them ; put 
them in a stew-pan over a gentle fire for half an 
hour ; take off any scum as it rises, then add to 
them a teacup of butter, in which is worked a ta- 
blespoonful of wheat flour, and pepper to taste; 
cover the stew-pan, and let them simmer for fifteen 
minutes longer, then serve. Pour it over toast tf 
preferred. 

Substituting milk for water makes them more 
delicate and white. 

Any other than sand clams, require one hour 
to stew; that is, three quarters of an hour before 
putting in the seasoning. 

Fried Hard Shell Clams. — Get the large 
sand clams ; wash them in their own liquor ; dip 



CLAM FRITTERS PIE. 53 

them in wheat flour or rolled crackers as may bo 
preferred, and fry in hot lard or beef dripping, with- 
out salt ; or dip each one in batter made as for 
clam fritters. 

Clam Fritters. — Take fifty small or twenty- 
five large sand clams from their shells ; if large, 
cut each in two, lay them on a thickly folded nap- 
kin; put a pint bowl of wheat flour into a basin, 
add to it two well-beaten eggs, half a ])int of sweet 
milk, and nearly. as much of their own liquor; beat 
the batter until it is smooth and perfectly free from 
lumps; then stir in the clams. Put plenty of lard 
or beef fat into a thick-bottomed frying pan, let it 
become boiling hot; put in the batter by the spoon- 
ful; let them fry gently; when one side is a deli- 
cate brown, turn the other. 

Omlet of Hard Shell Clams. — Make a bat- 
ter of two well-beaten eggs, to a pint of milk and a 
gill of the liquor from the clams, with a pint bowl of 
wheat flour; beat it until it is smooth and perfect- 
ly free from lumps ; then stir into it fifty small sand 
clams, or twenty-five large ones, chopped small; 
have a small frying-pan, put into it a teacup of lard 
or beef fat; make it boiling hot, put in the batter 
half an inch deep, and set the pan over a gentle 
heat until one side is a fine brown; pass a knife 
blade around the edges and under it occasionally 
to loosen it from the pan ; then turn the other side. 
When both are done turn it into a dish. This 
quantity of batter will make several omlets. 

Clam Pie. — IMake a paste as follows : Rub half 
a pound of sweet lard into a pound of wheat flour, 
with a teaspoonful of salt, until it is all incorpora- 
ted, then add enough cold water to wet it into a 



64 CLAM POT PIE. 

paste or dough, and work it smooth. Dip your 
hands in flour to prevent its sticking to them ; flour 
a paste-board and cut the crust to nearly half an 
inch thickness. Take a deep tin basin, and having 
rubbed the inside over with butter, line the bottom 
and sides v/ith the paste ; (first line the bottom, then 
the sides, pressing it together at the bottom,) put 
into it twenty-five large or fifty small clams, nicely 
taken from their shells; dredge in wheat flour until 
the whole looks white ; add bits of butter the size 
of a hickory nut over the whole surface ; sprinkle 
over nearly a teaspoonfulof fine pepper, then nearly 
fill the basin with clam juice and water in equal 
parts ; lay skewers across the basin to support the 
top crust ; roll out the paste, cut several small slits 
each side of the centre, and lay it carefully over 
the pie ; trim it off" at the edges neatly with a knife, 
dip your fingers in flour, and pinch the side and 
upper crust together. Bake one hour in a quick 
oven. 

The top crust may be made of puflT paste. In- 
stead of lard or beef dripping, the same quantity 
of finely chopped beef suet may be used. 

Clam Pot Pie. — Make a crust as for clam pie, 
or thus: Put two pounds of wheat flour into a 
bowl ; make a hollow in the centre of it ; put into 
it a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint of butter-milk 
or sour milk ; measure a small teaspoonful of dry 
saleratus with it, a little hot water, when all is dis- 
solved and a little cooled, put it to the sour milk 
or buttermilk, then proceed to make it into a soft 
dough with as much cold water as may be neces- 
sary; dip your hands in dry flour to prevent the 
dougli sticking to them. Rub over the sides of an 
iron dinner pot with a bit of butter, and fine the 
sides onlj' ; with the paste made in the hands not 



CLAM CHOWDER. 55 

more tlinn half an inch tliick, press it closely against 
the pot, then put into the bottom fifty large claniSj 
quarter of a pound of sweet butter cut small, a 
small leaspoonful of ground pepper strewed over, 
and half a small nutmeg, grated, if liked; dredge 
wheat Hour over until it looks white ; put of clam 
juice and water enough to nearly raach the lop of 
the paste ; lav skewers across ; roll out a crust for 
the top, and whatever paste remains, cut it in small 
squares, and drop it in before putting on the crust ; 
cut a slit in the centre, cover the pot close and set it 
over a gentle lire for one hour ; then take it up and 
serve as soon as done. The crust becomes heavy 
by standing. 

This is a dish much liked by those who are fond 
of clams. The paste directed in this receipt is de- 
licate and far more healthful than any other. 

Pickled Clams. — Boil them from the shells, 
then take them with a skimmer into a basin or stone 
pot, take of their own liquor half enough to cover 
cover them, and the same quantity of strong vine- 
gar; whole pepper, alspice and mace each a tea- 
spoonful ; make this hot and pour it over the clams. 
After twenty-four hours they are fit for eating, and 
will keep good for a long time. 

Sea Clams. — These are cooked the same as 
soft shell clams. 

Clam Chowder. — Butter adeep tin basin, strew 
it thickly with grated bread crumbs, or soaked 
ci acker ; sprinkle some pepper over and bits ot 
butter the size of a hickory nut, and, if liked, some 
finely chopped parsley ; then put a double layer of 
clams, season with pepper, put bits of butter over, 
then another layer of scaked cracker; after that 



66 OYSTER FRITTERS. 

clams and bits of butter; sprinkle pepper over ; add 
a cup of milk or water, and lastly a layer of 
soaked crackers. Turn a plate over the basin, and 
bake in a hot oven for three quarters of an hour ; 
use half a pound of soda biscuit, and quarter (/f a 
pound of butter with fifty clams. 

Scolloped Clams. — Put six rolled crackers to 
twenty-five small clams, and a piece of butter the 
size of a large egg', add a small teacup of water ; 
cut the butter small", and" mix all together with a 
saltspoonful of ground pepper ; butter a scolloped 
tin plate, put the mixture in, and bake for one 
hour in a hot oven. When done turn it out on a 
dish. 

Oysters. — Oysters must be fresh and fat to be 
good. They are in season from September to May. 

The small ones, such as are sold b}'- the quart, 
are good for pies, fritters, or stews; the largest of 
this sort are nice for frying or pickling for family 
use. 

The largest oysters are bought for broiling, fiy- 
ing, stewing, or pickling. These have a finer ap- 
pearance, but are no better to tha taste. 

To Feed Oysters. — Put oysters in water and 
wash them with a broom until they are perfectly 
clean; then lay them, the largest shell cjiownwards, 
in a tub ; sprinkle well with Hour or oat-meal ; wet 
them with water : repeat this operation daily, and 
they will fatten. 

Oyster Fritters. — Take a quart of oysters 
from their own liquor, strain it and add to it half a 
pint of milk and two well beaten eggs ; stir in by 
degrees flour t nough to make a smooth but rather 



FRIED OYSTERS. 57 

thin baiter ; when perfectly free from lumps pui the 
oysters lo it, have some lard or beef dripping m;ide 
hot in a frying pnn, salt it a little, and when it is 
boiling iiot put in the batter with a large spoon, hav- 
ing one or more oysters in erich ; hold it over a 
gentle fire until one side is a delicate brown — turn 
each fritter separately. When both sides are done, 
take them on a hot dish, and serve for breakfast or 
supper. 

Fried Oysters. — Take large oysters from their 
own liquor onto a thickly folded napkin to dry them 
off; then make a tablespoonful of lard or beef fat 
hot, in a thick-bottomed frying pan, add to it half a 
saltspoonful of salt; dip each oyster in wheat flour, 
or cracker rolled fine, until it will take up no more, 
then lay them in the pan, hold it over a gentle fire 
until one side is a delicate brown ; turn the other by 
sliding a fork under it; five minutes will fry them 
after they are in the pan. Oysters mny be fried in 
butter, but it is not so good ; lard and butter half 
and half is very nice for frving. Some persons like 
a very little of the oyster liquor poured in the 
pan after the oysters are done, let it boil up, then 
put it in the dish with the oysters ; when wanted 
for breakfast, this should be done. 

Oysters to be fried, after drying as directed, may 
be dipped into beaten egg first, then into rolled 
cracker. 

Fried Oysters ( in batter. ) Take 

two well beaten eggs, half a pint of milk, and as 
much wheat flour, or rolled cracker, as will make a 
nice batter; drv the oysters on a napkin, put a fork 
through the ear or hard part, and dip each oyslei 
into the batter, then fry as before directed. 

Oysters fried in buttei are apt to be too dark 
colored, and taste strong. C* 



I>S 



BOILED OYSTERS. 



Broiled Oysters. — Take the Inrijpst oysters 
from ilieir own liqiuir, lay them on a fold eel napkin 
to dry ott' the fnoistnre, then dip each one in wheat 
flour or rolled cracker, or first into beaten egg and 
then into rolled cracker; have a gridiron made of 
coarse wire, put it over a bright but not fierce fii^e 
of coals, lav the oysters carefully on, when one side 
is done turn the other, put some sweet butter on a 
hot plate, sprinkle a little pepper over, lay the oys- 
ters on, and serve with crackers. 

To Fry Small Oysters, — Take them singly 
from their own liquor, by the ear with a fork, dip 
each one in whear flour or rolled cracker, and fry in 
hot lard or beef dripping as before directed ; when 
all are cooked, pour a little of the liquor or o3'Stei 
iuice into the pan, let it boil up once, then put it in 
the di>h with the oysters; this is not generally done, 
but will be much liked. 

Oysters Roasted. — Wash the shells perfectly 
clean, wipe them dr}^ and lay them on a gridiron, 
the largest side to the fire ; set it over a bright bed 
of coals, when the shells open wide and the oyster 
looks wdjite, they are done ; fold a napkin on a large 
dish or tray, lay the oysters on in their shells, 
taking care not to lose the juice : serve hot. 

When oysters are ser\ed roasted at supper, 
there must be a small tub between each two chairs, 
to receive the shells, and large coarse napkins 
called oyster napkins. Serve cold butter and rolls 
or crackers with roasted oysters. 

Boiled Oysters. — Wash the shells nicely, and 
put them into a j)ot or pan, with the edges down- 
wards ; put a pint or little less of water to them, 
and put them over a brisk fire. As soon as the 



TICKI.ED OYSTERS. 59 

shells open wide, take them off and take out the 
shells; then take up the 03'sters with a skiinmer 
into a deep dish ; put to them some of the liquor 
which boiled from them, add to it butter and pep- 
per to taste, and serve with rolls, crackers or toast. 
For persons in delicate health, this manner of 
preparing oysters is both light and healthful. 

Fricaseed Oysters. — Wash fifty large oysters 
in their own liquor, then strain it over ihem, and 
put them into a stewpan over a gentle fire. Work 
a heaping teaspoonful of wheat Bour or rolled 
cracker into a teacup of sweet butter, add a salt- 
spoonful of pepper and the same of ground mace 
if liked ; when the oyslers are hot, skim them clear, 
add the seasoning, and cover close for five minutes, 
or until the oysters are plump and white. 

Serve with dressed celery, and bread and butter 
sandwich or crackers. 

Oysters Stewed with Milk. — Take a pint of 
fine ovsters, put them with their own li(|Uor, and a 
gill of milk into a stew-pan, and if liked, a blade 
of mace ; set it over the fire, take off any scum 
which may rise ; when they are plump and white 
turn them into a deep plate; add a bit of butter, 
and pepper to taste. 

Serve crackers and dressed celery with them. 
Oysters may be stewed in their own liquor without 
milk. 

Pickled Oysters, No. 1. — Take fine large 
oysters, put them over a gentle fire with their own 
liquor; add to them a small bit of butter the size of 
a hickory nut, to one hundred, let them simmer 
gently, stir ihera carefully that they may not burn. 
When they are plump and white, take them from 



60 ' PICKLED OYSTERS. 

their liquor with a skimmer, into a flat dish; have 
a laro^e table covered with a thicklv folded cloth, 
then spread out and nicely smooth each oyster, and 
lay them on ; let them remain until they are cold 
and firm. 

Take of tljeir own liquor half enough to cover 
them, add to it as much good vinegar, make it hot ; 
have ready a stone pot or tureen, put into it a layer 
of oysters, over thern strew a saltspoonful of ground 
mace, and a dozen cloves, alspice, and whole pep- 
per. Then another laj^er of oysters, and spice and 
oysters alternately, until all are used ; then pour 
over the vinegar and juice, and set them in a cold 
place. They will be fit for use the next day, and 
will remain good for months In. a cold place. They 
may be put in glass jars or bottles : a little sweet 
oil put in the top of each and stopped and sealed 
tight, they will keep good for a year. A bit of cot- 
ton applied to tFie top of a bottle after drawing the 
cork, will absorb the oil. 

There can be no better mode of pickling oysters. 
Pickled in this manner they have been eaten by 
epicures and pronounced delicious ! 

To Pickle Oysters, No. 2. — Take one hund- 
red large oysters from their own liquor, rinse them 
in clear water, then put them into a stew-pan, 
add a quart of water and a tablespoonful of salt, 
and set it over a gentle fire until the}^ are plump and 
white ; then take them from the water with a skim- 
mer into a large dish, and set them in the cold. Put 
to the liquor in which they were boiled, an equal 
quantity of good vinegar, a tablespoonful of whole 
pepper, and the same of cloves, alspice, and mace. 
When the oys'.ers are perfectly cold pour the pickle 



over. 



This receipt was obtained from a professor of the 



OYSTER CHOWDER. 61 

art of picldlng, and otherwise rendering oysters ir- 
resistible, as was also receipt number 1, which is 
unquestionably the best. In number 2, the oyster 
is more agreeable to the eye, being whiter, and 
the liquor more clear. 

To Serve Pickled Oysters. — Take them from 
the liquor into a glass dish, ornament the edge with 
a wreath of the most delicate leaves of celery or 
parsley, and serve with bread and butter sandwich. 

To Pickle Small Oysters. — Put them over 
the fire in their own liquor until they are plump and 
white ; take off the scum ; then take them up with 
a skimmer, spread them on flat dishes and set them 
in the cold ; put to their own liquor an equal quan- 
tity of vinegar; alspice, cloves, whole pepper, and 
mace, mixed — a tablespoonful to a quart of the 
pickle ; when the oysters are firm and cold, pour it 
over them whilst it is warm. Set them in a cold 
place, and they will be fit for use the next day ; if 
you wish to keep them, put them in glass jars or 
wide mouthed bottles, and cork and seal them. 

Oyster Chowder. — Butter a two quart tin ba- 
sin ; cover it with soaked crackers, strew bits of 
butter, the size of a nutmeg, over, then put in a 
double layer of oysters, sprinkle a little fine pepper 
over, and a little finely chopped parsley, if liked ; 
then put a layer of soaked crackers and bits of 
butter as before ; then another layer of oysters and 
seasoning, and lastly soaked crackers and butter, 
and a pint of the oyster liquor, and milk or water. 

Bake forty minutes in a hot oven ; when done, 
turn it out on a dish. A quarter of a pound of 
sweet butter, and half a nound of crackers soaked 



62 OYSTER PIE. 

nearly soft in milk or water, to three pints of oysters 
and pepper to taste. 

This is a Native American receipt, and will be 
found none the less delicious on that account. 
Small sand clams may be done in the same man- 
ner. Most persons would prefer this to oyster pie. 

Oyster Pie. — For the paste see clam pie, or 
use puff paste. .Butter a deep tin two quart bnsin, 
line the bottom and sides with the paste, rolled to 
about half an inch thickness ; take a qunrt or three 
pints of oysters from their own liquor and put them 
into the pie ; cut a quarter of a pound of sweet 
butter in bits the size of a hickory nut, strew these 
over the oysters; sprinkle over a teaspoonful of 
ground pepper, and dredge them white with wheat 
Hour, then strain the oyster h(]uor over ; add to it 
enough milk or water very nearly to reach the top 
nf the paste; lay some skewers across; roll some of 
the paste to nearly half an inch thickness, make 
an aperture in the centre to allow the steam to es- 
cape, or several small incisions with a knife on either 
side of the centre ; cover the pie; dip your fingers 
m flour, and pinch the top and side pnste neatly 
together. Bake nearly an hour in a quick oven ; 
draw out the skewers before sending to the table. 

The edge of an oyster or meat pie may be orna- 
mented with a wreath of leaves cut with a tin cut- 
ter from a sheet of paste rolled thin, on a well- 
floured slab. Wet the under surface as a'ou put 
them on, to make them stick; the slit in the centre 
may be ornamented in the same manner, or with a 
paste flower. The ornament for the edge may be 
varied as the taste of the artist may direct. Strips 
of paste braided, or made a chain of, or a row of 
shells cut of the paste and moulded like wax, are a 
neat ornament. 



SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 63 

The upper crust may be wet over with a feather 
dipped lightlv in the yolk of an egg, beaten with a 
little milk. This is called gilding. 

To Serve Oyster, Meat or Chicken Pies. 
—When ready to serve, lay a fringed doyle or small 
napkin on a plate, larger than the basin in which 
the pie is baked ; set the pie on it, then turn the 
edges of the napkin up against the basin, and put 
sprigs of parsley, or green leaves of celery or deli- 
cate vine leaves on the edge of the plate, under the 
napkin so as to keep it in its place; — or any other 
tasteful arrangement which may render the dish 
ornamental. 

Oysters Stewed with Wine. — (Receipt one 
hundred 3'ears old.) Rub over the bottom and sides 
of a silver or any other chafing dish; hi}'' som.e 
oysters in it, strew over them a little pepper and 
minced parsley; then put to them half a glass of 
Champagne wine, cover them with slivers of butter, 
cut very thin ; strew grated bread or rolled crack- 
ers over ; put a cover over the dish, and set them 
cooking, with fire over and under, until they are a 
fine brown; then take off" all the fat, wipe the rim 
of the dish, and serve hot. This may be done in 
an oven instead. 

Oysters au Parmesan. — Instead of grated 
bread or crackers, as in the f)regoing receipt, use 
grated parmesan or English cheese. 

Scolloped Oysters — Butter some small scol- 
loped tin pans ; strew grated bread or rolled 
crackers over, and strew thin slices of but- 
ter over ; then put in oysters nearly to fill the 
pans ; strew them thickly with rolled crackers or 



64 STEWED MUSCLES. 

bread cruiaLs ; sprinkle pepper over and bits of 
butter ; add a little of the oyster liquoi ; put bits of 
butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick 
oven lor three quarters of an hour; then turn them 
out on a dish and serve. They should be nicely 
browned. 

Muscles. — Wash the shells clean, and put them 
m a kettle with a little water ; set them over the 
fire until the shells are ail open ; then take them up, 
take out the beard from each one ; put them in a 
deep dish, put butter, pepper, and salt over, and 
serve with catsup, and vinegar in a castor. 

Stewed Muscles. — Having boiled them from 
the shells, take the beard out and put them in a 
stew-pan, with a little of the liquor in which they 
were boiled ; strain it to them ; add some cream or 
milk, and a bit of butter, and pepper and salt to 
taste ; dredge flour over ; stir them with a spoon, 
and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Serve 
hot with toast. 



CHOICE OF BEEF. 65 



MEATS. 

DIRECTIONS FOR BUYING AND DRESSING BUTCHERS* 
MEAT. 

Any but experienced judges of nneat are recom- 
mended to buy of none but such butchers as nei- 
ther kill or sell inferior stock. 

Buy of some one particular butcher, and let him 
choose for you, only telling him what you want ; 
take such as he recommends, and his own interest 
will cause him to deal honestly, if he has no higher 
motive ; none will be likely to risk losing a good 
customer by selling inferior pieces ; you will find a 
uniformity of prices for the same cuts of the best 
stock, go where you will in the same city. 

To Choose Beef. — When beef is good it may 
be known by its texture and color ; the lean will 
have a fine open grain of a deep coral or bright car- 
nation red ; the fat rather inclining to white than 
yellow ; and the suet firm and white. Very yellow 
fat is generally considered sufficient proof of infe- 
rior beef. 

If you wish to keep beef two or three days in hot 
weather, do not salt it, but dry it well in a clean 
cloth, rub ground pepper plentifully over ever}'' part 
of it first, then flour it well, and hang it in a cool 
dry place where the air will come to it ; be sure 
always that there is no damp place about it ; when 
you find any, dry it with a cloth ; pepper will secure 
i"neatfrom flies. 

The best roasting pieces of beef are the Prime 
ribs, sirloin, and what is known as porter-house 
piece ; it may be recognised by the bone. 

The best steaks are cut from the sirloin and por- 



66 BEEF, SALTED OR CORNED. 

ter-house. The last mentioned cut probably took 
its name from having bf^en the mosT highly esteem- 
ed steak, and so dished for the palate of' the eoicure 
at porter-houses, which were formerly the only eat- 
ing houses. Fine steaks ma}' be cut from between 
the ribs. 

The round of tender, fat beef, cuts very good 
steaks, as does also the cross-ribs, but these are 
juicelcss compared with the other pieces. The 
lean of fat beef is the most juicy and tender. 

The neck, shin, or marrow bone, leg or head, 
make good soups. 

Beef skirts are good for sausage meat, stewing, 
hashes, or for mince pie meat ; or they may be 
broiled or li'led. 

To keep beef, take out the kernels from the neck 
pieces where the clod is t;iken off", t^^■o from each 
round of beef, one in the middle, the other in the 
flap, and one in the thick flank, in the middle of the 
fat; if these are not taken out, pnrticulaily in sum- 
mer, it cnnnot be kept sweet, even for salting; 
there is also another kernel between the rump and 
edge bone. 

Beef Salted or Corned, Red, to Jrccp for 
years. — Cut up a quarter of beef For eacfi hun- 
dred weight take half a. peck of coarse salt, quar- 
ter of a pound of saltpetre, the same weight of 
saleratus, and a fjuart of molasses, or two pounds 
of coarse brown sugar. Mace, cloves and alspice 
may be added for spiced beef 

Strew some of the salt in the bottom of a pickle 
tub or barrel ; then put in a layer of nieat, strew 
this with salt, then add anotlier laver of ujcat, and 
salt and meat alternately, until all is used. Let it 
remain one night. Dissolve the saleratus and salt- 
petre in a little warm water, and put it to the mo- 



BEEF, SALTED OR COKXED. 67 

lasses or sugar ; then put it over the inent, add 
water enough to cover the meat, hiy a board on it 
to keep it under the brine. The meat is tit for use 
after ten da^^-s. This receipt is for winter beef. — 
leather more salt mav be used in warm weather. 

Towards .^:)ring take the brine from the meat, 
make it boiling hot, skim it clear, and when it is 
cooled, retin-n it to the meat. 

Beef tongues and smoking jn'eces are fine pickled 
in this brine. Beef liver put in this brine for ten 
daN's, and then wiped dry and smoked, is very fine. 
Cut it in shces, and fry or broil it. The biisket of 
beef, after being corned, may be smoked, and is 
very fine for boiling. 

Lean pieces of beef, cut properly from the hind 
qua.'ter, are the proper pieces lor being smoked. 
There may be some fine pieces cut from tlie fore 
quarter. 

After the I)eef has been in brine ten davs oi 
more, wipe it diy, and hang it in a chimney where 
wood is burnt, or make n smothered fire of sawdust 
or chips, and keep it smoking for ten davs ; then 
rub fine black pepper over every part, to keep the 
flies from it, and hang it in a dry, dark, cool place. 
After a week it is fit for use. A strong, coarse 
brown paper, folded around beef, and fastened 
with paste, keeps it nicely. 

Tongues are smoked in the same manner. Hang 
them by a string put through the root end. Spiced 
brine for smoked beef or tongues will be generally 
hked. 

For convenience make a pickle as mentioned for 
beef, keep it in the cellar, ready (nr pickling beef 
at anv time. Beef may remain in three or four or 
more (Uiys. 

Beef Salted. ybr immediate iisc. — Take a piece 



68 PICKLED BEEF CLEANING TRIPE. 

of beef weighing five or six pounds (it should not 
weigh more) ; mix together a gill of fine salt, the 
same of coarse brown sugar, and a teaspoonful of 
powdered saleratus. Rub this mixture well over 
the meat ; then take a thick, coarse cloth, flour it 
well, put the meat into it. Mid fold it close ; pin it 
or tie it securely, put it into a pot of hot water, and 
keep it boiling gently, allowing fifteen minutes for 
each pound of meat. 

This very nearly resembles corned beef. Beef 
tongues may be boiled in the same manner. 

Pickled Beef. — Take a piece of beef weighing 
five or six pounds ; rub it well over with pepper and 
salt, stick it full of cloves, cover it with vinegar, 
and turn it ever}'^ day for a fortnight. As the vine- 
gar wastes, add more ; then put it down in a stew- 
pot, with vinegar and water, equal parts ; cover it 
close, add a few blades of mace, and when it is 
tender put in a pound of butter, cut small, dredge 
in a teacupful of browned flour; put to it a leek, 
and a bunch of parsley, cut small, and let it con- 
tinue to stew slowly for half an hour, until the gra- 
vy is brown and rich. Take it up, and serve with 
the gravy over, the same as a-la-mode beef. 

Or take it up when it is boiled tender, before the 
seasoning is put in ; slice it thin for supper or sand- 
w^iches. Beef tongue may be done in the same 
manner. 

Beef Tripe. — Beef tripe may be dressed in a 
variety of ways, by which to recommend it to the 
palate. It may be fried, stewed, or broiled. It is 
to be cleaned and boiled tender before dressing in 
any other manner. 

To Clean Tripe. — Empty it, and rinse it clean 



FRYING TRIPE KOLLA-CHEESE. 69 

in cold water ; then sprinkle fine lime all over it, 
put it in a tub, and cover with warm water; let it 
remain three or four hours, then scrape it clean with 
a knife, and if the dark does not all come ofl'easily, 
sprirdde more lime on, and let it lay an hour longer: 
then scrape it again, take it out, and wash it well 
in clean cold water, and put it in weak salt and 
water for one night and da}-^; then change the wa- 
ter and let it lay another night. Keep it for three 
or four days in salt and water, changing it every 
day ; it will then be white and clean. Take it out, 
cut it in pieces about twelve inches long, and six 
wide, and if 3'ou please lay it in buttermilk, or sour 
milk, part of a da}"-, to whiten it ; then rinse it^n 
clear water, boil it tender. When cold, dress it as 
you like ; keep it in weak vinegar, or vinegar and 
water. 

In New-York markets, tripe may be bought 
cleaned and boiled. 

To Fry Tripe. — Take prepared tripe, lay it in 
water, with a little salt, over night ; in the morning 
scrape the rough side clean, wipe it dry; then dip 
it in wheat flour or rolled crackers. 

Have a thick-bottomed frying-pan, put into it a 
cup of lard or beef dripping, let it become boiling 
hot ; then lay the tripe in, the rough side down first, 
let it fry gently ; when this side is a delicate brown 
turn the odier and do likewise ; then take it from 
the pan, add to the fat in which it was fried a wine- 
glass of vinegar, let it boil up once, then pour it in 
the dish with the tripe, or you may use water in- 
stead of vinegar. 

Rolla-Cheese. — Take the skirts of beef, cut it 
in narrow strips, and lay it, fat and lean, on pieces 
of prepared tripe, the rough side in, season with 



70 ■ BEEF LIVER. 

pepper and salt (pat about a large tcaspoonful of 
salt, niul half (jf a small one of rine pepper to each 
pound of meat) ; roll each piece of tripe up, with 
a portion of the meat in it ; do not fill it quite full; 
draw the edges together, and sew them with a 
strong thread, making them in rolls; sew up the 
ends; after all are made, drop them into a pot of 
hot water, and let them boil gently, until a straw 
will easily penetrate them ; then take them from 
the water, and lay them in a vessel or tub side by 
side, lay a board and weight over them, to press 
them flat; when c;old keep them in vinegar and 
water. Cut them in thin slices, for breakfast, sup- 
ply, or luncheon. 

Fricaseed Tripe. — Cut a pound of tripe In nar- 
row strips, y)ut a smnll cup of water or milk to it. 
add a bit of butter the size of an e<2;g, dredge in 
a. large te;ispoonful of flour, or work it with the 
butter; season with pepper and salt, let it simmer 
gently for half an hour, serve hot. A Inmch of 
parsley cut small and put with it is an improve- 
ment. 

Broiled Tripe. — Prepare tripe as for frying, lay 
it on a grixliron over a clear tire of coals, Ist it broil 
gently; when one side is a fine brown, turn the 
other side (it must be nearly done through before 
turning) ; take it up on a hot dish, butter it, and if 
liked, add a little catsup or vinegar to the gravy. 

Beef Liver. — Cut the liver in thin slices, dip 
each slice in wheat flour or rolled crackers, and fry 
in hot lard or beef dripping ; season with pepper 
and salt. It must be thoroughh'' cooked, and a line 
brown. 

Some persons prefer liver fried with onions, — if 



POTTED HEAD. 71 

SO, peel and cut in slices a sufficient number of 
onions ; i'ry them in hot lard or beef (hip[)ing, to a 
nice brown ; season with pepper and salt. Serve 
in a dish with the liver. 

Beef Steak with Onions. — Take on inferior 
beef steak from the round or cross-rib ; iVy it with 
beef fat ; season with pej>per and salt ; iVy some 
onions also, and serve in the dish with the steak. 

Beef Head-Cheese. — Split a beef head in two, 
take out the eyes, crack the sitle bones, and lay it 
in water tor one night, to draw out the blood, then 
put it in a kettle with sufficient water to cover it, 
let it boil gently, skimnjing it often ; when the meat 
loosens from the hones, take it from the water with 
a skinjtner into a bowl or tray; take out every par- 
ticle of bone ; season with a small teacu[)ful oi fine 
salt, and half as much pe])per; chop it fine ; add a 
tablespoontlil of powdcj'ed thyme or sage, tie it in 
a cloth, and press it by laying a gentle weight on it. 
When cold, it may be cut in slices for luncheon or 
supper. 

Potted Head. — Thoroughly clean an ox head, 
split it in two, take out the eyes and brains, then boil 
it gently, in sufficient water to cover it ; skim it 
clear, when the bones loosen it is done enough 
then take it up, take out every particle of bone 
strain the liquor in which it was boiled, add pt^p- 
per and salt to taste, and put it with the meat in a 
stew-pan or dinner-pot over a gentle fire, and let it 
simmer until the water is nearly all done away, 
then put it in a stone pot, press it down and let it 
become cold* 

To be eaten sliced foi luncheon or supper. 



72 STEWED ROUND OF BEEF. ' 

Beef Skirts. — This part of beef may be broiled 
and well buttered, made in a pie or stewed with 
02iions and potatoes. 

Beef Stewed (ragoo.) — Cu< two pounds of 
beef in neat square pieces, sea&on with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
put it in a stew-pan, with water scarcely to cover 
it; set it where it will simmer slowly; cut two 
small carrots quarter of an inch thick, cut the edge 
of each slice in notches, and put them in hot water 
over the fire for ten minutes, then add to them five 
or six small potatoes, pared and sliced in the same 
manner ; then cover the stew-pan for ten minutes 
longer, when these vegetables will be done enough. 
Dip a bunch of parsle}'' into boiling water and cut 
it small ; cut a leek or white onion very small, — 
now skim the meat ; take a piece of butter, the 
size of a large egg, work a tablespoonful of wheal 
flour with it and stir it with the meat; then put in 
the prepared vegetables; cover the stew-pan, and 
set it where it will simmer for fifteen minutes ; then 
take it from the fire ; put the meat in the centre oi 
the steak dish, put the sliced carrots and potatoes 
around it and turn the gravy over. A tablespoon- 
ful of tomato catsup may be added to the gravy, 
or serve catsup with it. 

To Stew a Round of Beef. — Boil the beet 
until it is rather more than half done ; gash it with 
a sharp knife, then rub it over with salt and pepper 
and sweet herbs chopped small ; one sliced cariot ; 
also a leek or onion cut small ; dredge it white with 
flour; strew bits of butter over, and put it into a 
dinner [)ot with a pint or more of the water in which 
it was boiled ; cover it close, and let it bake or stew 



BEEF HARD BAKED OR ROASTED. 73 

slow]}'- for two hours ; add a little hot water when 
it may be necessary to keep it from burning ; turn 
it once ; when it is nicely browned, take it up, add 
a little boiling water to the gravy, stir it well togeth- 
er, let it boil up once, and then pour it over the 
meat. 

Beef Bouilli. — Take a round of beef or a part 
of one, take out the bone and tie it to2;ether in a 
neat form with a strong cord ; put with it any odd 
bits of butchers' meat, whether beef, veal, or lamb, 
or the giblets of game or poultry ; put it in a din- 
ner-pot, with water to cover it, over a moderate fire, 
when it boils skim it clear ; when it is tender, (al- 
low fifteen minutes to each pound of meat,) put in 
some salt and pepper ; add one or two carrots sUced 
and an onion or leek cut small, also a bunch of 
parsley ; then put in a teacup of browned flour and 
the same of butter; cover it for twenty minutes, 
then take up the meat, add a wine-glass of wine, 
or catsup to the gravy, then strain it over the meat. 

Beef Heart Baked or Roasted. — Cut a beef 
heart in two, take out the strings from the inside ; 
wash it witii warm water, rub the inside with pep- 
per and salt, and fill it with a stuffing made of bread 
and butter moistened with 'water, and seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and, if liked, a sprig uf thyme 
made fine ; put it together and tie a string around 
it, rub the outside with pepper and salt; stick bits 
of butter on, then dredge flour over, and set it on a 
trivet, or muflin rings, in a dripping pan ; put a 
pint of water in to baste with, then roast it before 
a hot fire, or in a hot oven ; turn it around and baste 
frequently. One hour will roast or bake it ; when 
done, take it up, cut a lemon in thin slices, and put 
it in the pan with a bit of butter; dredge in a tea- 



74 BEEF KIDNEYS. 

spoonful of flour ; let it brown; add a snnnll tea- 
cup of boiling water, stir it smooth, and ser\e in a 
gravy tureen. 

Beef Heart Stewed. — Wash a beef lieart in 
warm wuter ; take the strings fi-om the inside, and 
fill it with a stuflini]; made of bread buttered, and 
sprinkled with pej)per and salt, and moistened with 
hot water. An onion finely minced, or a. sprig of 
thyme may be added, if liked; then put it in an 
iron dinner-pot orbake-pan, with three j)ints of hot 
water; cover it and let it boil slowly, until it is ten- 
der ; skim it clear ; then if the water is not nearly 
boiled away, take out all but about half a pint ; add 
to it a (juarter of a pound of butter ;' cut small, 
dredge in a heaping tablespoonful of wheat flour, 
sprinkle over a small teaspoonful of fine pepper, 
and a large one of salt: cover the pot, and set it 
over a moderate fire to finish. Wlien the lower 
side begins to brown turn the other, and brown 
that also — take care not to let it burn. Then lake 
it up, add a cup of hot water or wine to the gravy ; 
let it boil up once, stir smooth, then pour it over the 
heart, and serve with plain boiled or mashed pota- 
toest Tomato catsup may be put in the gravy, 
instead of wine — or served with it. 

Beef Kidneys. — These may be split and fried, 
or broiled, or they may be chopped small, and 
made a hash or stew. Cut them in h'df, or mince 
them, and p.ut them in a stew-pan, with enough hot 
water to moisten them ; then cover them close, and 
let them simmer gently until tender; add a good 
bit of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and some 
browned flour; a wine-glass of wine or catsup may 
be added, if liked. Let them simmer for ten 
minutes longer. Toast some thin slices of bread 



rOTATO AXD BEEF HASH. 75 

delicnleU' brown, take off the crust, and la}^ tliem 
in a dish, and put the stew or liash over. A finely 
chopped onion or leek may be added to it, if liked. 

Smoked Beef. — After the beef hns been in the 
brine ten days or more, hang.it in a chimney over 
a wood or sawdust fire — it must be a smothered fire 
if made of wood. Keep it smoking for ten days 
or a fortnight ; then rul) tlie outside over every part 
with black pepper, and hang it in a cool dry place. 
To serve it, cut off some of the outside, and chip it 
thin with a sharp knife tor tea. After it is cut, keep 
a thick paper folded about it. 

Hashed Beef. — Take some ver}^ rare done or 
uncooked beef, chop it small, one-fourth as much 
fat as lean, and moisten it with water or gravy ; if 
with water, adil a bit of butter rolled in flour ; put 
it in a closely covered stew-pan, over a gentle fire, 
for half an hour ; then dredge in a little browned 
flour, add salt and pepper to taste, and cover it for 
fifteen minutes, and serve. Or cut some thin sli- 
ces of toast in neat squares, put them in the dish, 
and put the hash on it ; or serve it on boiled rice. 

Some persons like a teaspoont'ul of made mustard 
or catsup put to it before dishitigit. 

Potato and Beef Hash. — Mince some cold 
beef, a little fat with the lean, put to it as much cold 
boiled potatoes chopped as you like, (the quantity 
as of meat or twice as much,) season with pepper 
and salt ; add as much gravy or hot water as will 
make it moist, then put in a stew-pan over a gentle 
fire; dredge m.a small quantity of wheat flaur ; 
stir it about w iih a spoon, cover the stew-pan, and 
let it simmer for half an hour — take care that it 
does not burn. Dish it with or without a slice of 



76 BROILED CEEF STEAK. 

toast under it ; for breakfast. This hash may be 
made without potatoes ; if water is used instead of 
gravy, a bit of butter may be added, more or less, 
iiccordlng to the proportion of fat with the lean 
meat. 

Beef Cakes. — Chop fine some underdone beef, 
lean, with such a proportion of fat as you like, add 
to it a chopped leek or onion, if liked, season with 
pepper and salt; a small teaspoonful of salt and a 
s;dt-spoonful of pepper, mix well ; flour your hands 
and make the mince in small cakes of about half 
an inch thickness, and fry them in hot beef drip- 
ping or lard ; if you '.ike, fry a few sprigs of parsley 
with them. 

These cakes maybe made with boiled potatoes, 
mashed with one-third (or more) as nmch finely 
minced beef, season as before, moisten slightly with 
water or gravy, and finish as before directed. 

Beef Steaks. — Sirloin, and what is known in 
New-York markets as porter-house steaks, are the 
choicest cuts. If the beef is not very tender and 
young, it may be improved bv beating gently with 
a rolling pin or potato beetle before cooking , the 
steaks sliould be nearly the thickness of an inch : 
beefsteaks must on no account be washed. By 
keeping beef as long as possible without tainting, it 
may be improved in flavor, and will eat more ten- 
der ; broiling is by far the best manner of cooking 
beefsteaks. 

Broiled Beef Steak. — Have a bright clear 
fire of coals, rub the gridiron bars with a bit of suet, 
lay on the steak, and let it broil gently until one 
side is done, then take the steak over the steak-dish 
to catch the blood before turning it, then lay the 



BEEF STEAK PIE. 77 

upper side to the fire. For a fine steak, (weighing 
about two pounds and a half,) take quarter, of a 
pound of sweet butter on the dish, work a small 
teaspoonful of fine pepper and a large one of salt 
uito it ; when the steak is done, put it on the butter, 
when it melts a little turn the steak ; repeat the 
turning once or twice, then put a tin cover over and 
serve quickly ; the dish must be hot. 

Beef steaks are generally preferred broiled so 
that the middle will be slightly red. Tomato cat- 
sup to be served with beef steak. 

Beef Steaks fried, to taste like a broil. — Have 
ready a bright quick fire, put a bit of butter in a 
pan, and when it is hot, lay the steak evenly in, let 
it fry quickly, turn it once or twice to retain the 
juice ; work some butter, pepper, and salt together 
as for a broiled steak, make a steak dish hot, and 
when the steak is done to taste, lay it on the dish, 
then put the butter on it, turn it once or twice on 
the dish and serve hot. Steaks done in this manner 
ai'e pronounced by epicures as fine as broiled. 

Fried Beef Steaks. — Cut some of the fat from 
the steak, and put it in a frying pan and set it over 
the fire ; if the steaks are not very tender, beat 
them with a rolling pin, and when ;he fat is boil- 
ing hot, put the steak evenly in, cover the pan and 
let it fry briskl}^ until one side is done, sprinkle a 
little pepper and salt over, and turn the other ; let 
it be rare or well-done as may be liked ; take the 
steak on a hot dish, add a wineglass or less of boil- 
ing water or catsup to the gravy ; let it boil up 
once, and pour it in the dish with the steak. 

Beef Steai Pce. — Take some fine tender 
steaks, beat them a little, season with a salt-spoon- 



78 BEEF AND ONION" STEW. 

ful ot popper and a teaspoonful of salt to a two 
pound steak ; put l)its of butter, the size of a liiek- 
ory nut, (iver the whole surface, dredge a tahle- 
sj)oonful of Hour over, then roll it up and cut it in 
pieces two inches long ; put a rich pie paste around 
the sides and bottom of a tin basin ; })ut in the 
pieces of steak, nearly fill the basin with water, add 
a piece of butter the size of a large e^rg, cut small, 
dredge in a teaspoonful of flour, add a little pep- 
per and salt, lay skewers across the basin, roll a 
top crust to half an inch thickness, cut a slit in the 
centre ; dip your fingers in flour and neatly pinch 
the top and side crust together all around the edge. 
Bake one hour in a quick oven. 

Beef Steais; Pudding. — Beat a beef steak 
well, make a paste in this manner ; take two 
pounds of flour and a teaspoonful of salt, rub into 
it a teacup of lard or beef dripping to half a pint 
of sour milk ; put the same quantity of water ; dis- 
solve a small teaspoonful of saleratus in it. and 
make a paste of the flour with it ; use as much as 
may be necessary to make a nice dough ; then flour 
a cake board and rolling-[)in, and roll the paste to 
less than half an inch thickness ; lay on the steak , 
let the paste be two inches larger every way than 
the steak ; then roll it up ; flour a pudding cloth 
and wrap the pudding in it; secure the ends, and 
put it into a pot of boiling water, and set it over 
the fire ; let it boil two hours ; then take it from the 
cloth and serve with melted butter. To be cut in 
slices across. 

Beef and Onion Stew. — Cut two pounds of 
meat in pieces the size of an egg, and put it in a 
stew-pan with enough warm water nearly to cover 
it; cover liie stew -pan, and let it simmer slowly 



FRIKD BEEF STEAKS WITH GiJAVV. Ti' 

for half an hour ; then skim it clear, peel five or six 
small oiHons and cut them in thick slices; paiehalf 
a dozen large potatoes and cut them in half, or 
quarters; add a small tablespoonful of salt, and a 
small teaspoonful of pepper to the ste-ved meat ; 
then put in the potatoes and onions. If the meat is 
lean, (it is best to have a small proportion of fat,) 
add a bit of butter the size of a large egg ; shake 
over it a tablespoonful of wheat flour, or work it 
into the butter ; cover the stew-pan close, and let 
it stew gently that it may brown witljout burning ; 
one hour is required for making this stew. If the 
potatoes are cut smaller than halves, they should 
be put in twenty minutes beff^re it is done ; half an 
hour will be required to cook them if cut in two. 

Fried Beef Steaks, with Gravy., — Take a 
round or cross rib steak ; if it is not tender, beat it 
with a rolling pin ; cut off some of the fat, and put 
it in a ftying-pan ; add to it for each pound of meat 
a small teaspoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of 
pepper; then put in the steak; cut it so that it 
will lay flat; cover the pan, and let it frv as quick 
as possible without burning ; when one side is done, 
or browned, turn tlie other, and when that is done, 
more or less rare according to taste, take the pan 
from the fire ; take the steak on a hot dish ; then 
dredge in to the pan a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour, stir it around, and when it is brown, (unless 
there is plenty of flit,) add a bit of butter and a 
teacup of boiling water; stir it smooth, taste it, and 
if it is not seasoned to taste, add a little more of 
salt and pepper ; then pour it through a gravy 
strainer over the steak, and serve with catsup in 
the castor. This gravy does not require to be i'at, 
but well seasoned and a fine brown. 



80 TO ROAST BEEF. 

Minced Beef.. — Chop some cold under-done 
beef very fine; put to each pound of meat a small 
teaspoonful of salt, and an even filled saltspoon of 
pepper ; add to it enough hot water or grav}'^ scarcely 
to moisten it, and put it into a stew-pan ; cover it 
close, and set it over a gentle fire for half an hour ; 
stir the mince occasionally ; toast one or tvi^o thin 
shces of bread a fine brown ; cut off the crust and 
lay it on a dish, and put the mince over. Or in- 
stead of toast^ boil some rice as follov^'s : — To a 
small teacup of well washed rice, put a quart of hot 
water, and a teaspoonful of salt ; put it in a stew- 
pan ; cover it, and set it over a gentle heat for tjjree- 
quarters of an hour ; do not stir the rice ; then take 
it from the fire ; take off the cover and set it before 
the fire for five minutes to grain; then put it on a 
flat dish, and put the mince on it — if you please, 
reserve part of the rice, to be eaten with butter and 
sugar, or wine sauce. This may be served for 
breakfast, or a side dish at dinner. 

To Roast Beef. — Have a bright clear fire be- 
fore putting down the roast; if it is large, have a 
fire according; let it be a clear steady fire, with a 
bed of coals at the bottom — this is for a wood fire ; 
for a coal fire, make one large enough to last the 
length of time required for the roast, (fifteen minutes 
for each pound of meat ;) make the front of the fire 
clear from ashes, and brush up the hearth ; rinse 
the meat in cold water, wipe it dry, mix salt and 
pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of 
pepper, for each pOund of meat ; rub it over every 
part, then put it evenly on the spit, taking care not 
to run it through the best parts, or if it is done 
in a reflef tor, set it on a trivet or muffin rings, and 
turn the pan al)out as occasion may require;) 
then put it down at a little distance from the fire, 



TO ROAST EEF.l^. 81 

that the outside may not be too much done hefon? 
the inside is cooked ; put at least a pint ot" wjitcr 
in the dripping-pan, with which to baste ; replenish 
with boiling water, so that there shall not be less 
than a pint of gravy, when the meat is done, for a 
piece weighing five or six pounds ; when about 
half done, clear the front of the fire, and set it a 
little nearer ; turn the meat so that all sides may be 
done evenly ; fifteen minutes before it is done, if 
\"ou please, dredge with the fat of the meat wheat 
flour until it looks white ; baste it freel}', and set it 
to finish ; when done, take it on to a large dish, and 
cover with a tin cover ; set the dripping over the 
fire, dredge in a small tablespoon of flour, stir it 
smooth ; when it is a fine brown, add a teacup of 
boiling water ; let it boil up, stirring it meanwhile ; 
then pour it through a gravy strainer into a tureen; 
if there is much fat, skim nearly all of it off: or, 
instead of dredging in flour, make a thin smooth 
batter of a tablespoonful of flour, and a small cup 
of cold water ; let the gravy in the pan become 
boiling hot before stirring it in ; then stir it smooth, 
and when it is a fine rich brown, strain it into the 
tureen, and serve with the meat. 

The vegetables most proper with roast beef are, 
plain boiled or mashed potatoes, with boiled spi- 
nach, beets or dressed celery, and turnips mashed, 
or squash. If you please, pickles, or grated horse- 
radish, may also be served with roast beef instead 
of spinach or celery, with made mustard and catsup 
in the castor. 

In roasting meat it should be so placed as to bring 
the largest, or thickest part, nearest the fire. In 
roasting beef its juiciness depends on the frequency 
of basting it, after it has fairly begun to roast. 

Baked Beef.— A fine roasting piece of beef 



S2 BEEP A-LA-MODE. 

may, if properly manngcd, be baked in a stove 
oven, so nearly to resemble a roast, as to be mista- 
ken for it : — 

Prepare the meat as for roasting ; lay some muf- 
fin rings or a trivet in a dripping-pan, set the meat 
on, and put a pint or more of hot water in the drip- 
ping-pan to baste vv^ith ; make the oven hot — then 
put in the meat : close the oven, and when it be- 
gins to roast or bake, baste freely, (do not draw out 
the pan, but use a long-handled spoon,) every fif- ' 
teen minutes until it is done. Should the meat 
seem like to burn, leave open the oven door ; add 
hot water to the pan as it wastes, that the gravy 
may not burn ; allow fifteen minutes for each pound 
of meat to cook, unless you wish to have it very 
rare ; about fifteen minutes before it is done, dredge 
wheat flour over until it is white ; then baste it 
freely and finish. If there is much fat in the pan, 
take some out; take out the rings or trivet, shake 
from the dredging-box a tablespoonful of flour, stii 
it thoroughly into the gravy ; then add a teacup of 
boiling water ; let it boil up once, then strain it 
through a gravy strainer into the tureen. Serve 
the same vegetables as with roast beef. 

Beef A-la-Mode. — Take a piece of the round 
or any lean piece of beef; take out the bone, and 
fill it with a stuffing made of bread, made moist 
with hot water, and seasoned with pepper and salt 
and a bit of butter or chopped suet ; make a mix- 
ture of a tablespoonful of pepper, same of salt, and 
of sweet herbs finely powdered ; rub the seasoning 
well into the meat ; stick cloves over the whole 
surface; tie a tape around it to keep it in shape ; 
then put it in a bake-pan or dinner-pot, with water 
nearly to cover it, over a gentle fire ; cover the pot as 
closely as possible , let it simmer, or boil gently, 



ROUND OF BEEF. 83 

according to its weight, allowing fifteen minutes for 
each pound of meat. When the meat is tender, 
and the water nearly out, dredge flour over until it 
is white, then turn it over, add a teacup of butter, 
and a minced onion or leek ; cover the pot, and set 
it nearer the fire, to brown the meat ; scrape a car- 
rot and cut it in slices a quarter of an inch thick ; 
notch the edge of the slices neatly, and put them 
in a stew-pan with boiling water, and set it over 
the fire ; when it is lender, take it up with a skim- 
mer; dip a bunch of parsley into boiling water, 
cut it small and add it and the sliced carrot to the 
meat : after having turned them again, let them 
stew for a few minutes ; then take the meat on a 
dish, take off" the tape, dredge a little flour to the 
gravy, add a small teacup of boiling water, stir it 
smooth ; then pour it over the meat, and serve. A 
glass of wine or vinegar may be put to the gravy 
instead of the water, or a large tablespoonful of 
tomato catsup. 

Round of Beef — {French Receipt.) — Parboil a 
.round of beef, in a little water, for half an hour ; 
then take it up and put it into a deep dish ; cut 
gashes into the sides of the meat, that the gravy 
may come out ; put salt and pepper into every 
gash ; put it into a deep dish ; fill up the dish with 
claret wine ; set it over a chafing dish of coals ; add 
two or three blades of mace ; cover it, and let it 
stew for an hour and a half; turn the meat several 
times ; add a handful of pickled capers or nastur- 
tion buds, with two or three white onions or leeks, 
cut small, and a bunch of parsley minced fine ; 
stew all together until the meat is very tender; 
toast some slices of bread nicely, cut it small, put 
the meat on them and pour the gravy over. 



84 VEAL. 

A NICE WAY TO SERVE CoLD BeEF. Cut Cold 

roast beef in slices, put gravy enough to cover 
them, and a wineglass of catsup or wine, or a lemon 
sliced thin ; if you have not gravy, put hot water 
and a good bit of butter, with a teaspoonful or 
more of browned flour ; put it in a closely covered 
stew-pan, and let it simmer gently for half an hpur. 
If you choose, when the meat is down, cut a leek 
in thin slices, and chop a bunch of parsley small, 
and add it; serve boiled or mashed potatoes with it. 
This is equal to beef a-la-mode. 

Or, cold beef may be. served cut in neat slices, 
garnished with sprigs of parsley, and made mus- 
tard, and tomato catsup in the castor; serve mashed, 
if not new potatoes, with it, and ripe fruit, or pie, 
or both, for dessert, for a small family dinner. 

Veal. — Veal should not be kept long before 
dressing, as it by no means improves by keeping. 
The loin is apt to taint under the kidney. When 
soft and slimy it is stale ; it will be cool and firm 
and have an agreeable smell when fresh. 

In the shoulder, if the vein is a clear red, it i^ 
good. When there are any yellow or dark spots 
it is stale. The breast and neck when good look 
white and clear. Veal must always be well cooked. 

Such as are not judges of butchers' meat, had 
better buy of one person on whose judgment and 
honesty one may rely. Be willing to pay a fair 
price. — You will soon find that the best articles of 
marketing have a uniform price, according to the 
season of it. That is, the same cuts of the best 
stock will be found to sell at the same price at the 
same season. The prices of poultry, lamb and 
veal varies according to the earliness of the season. 

The leg of veal is generally boiled or made soup 
of. The loiu alsc may be boiled, but is best roast- 



calf's head. 86 

ed, or cut ir. chops and broiled or fried. The 
shoulder may be roasted, — it may be boned and 
stuffed and then roasted, or it may be spHt, after 
having been boned, and fried or broiled. 

The breast may be roasted, stewed or broiled, 
or made a pie. 

Steaks are cut from leg or shoulder. The neck 
or scrag may be cut in chops or fried, broiled or 
stewed; or a dish of soup may be made of it. 

Gait's liver is cut in steaks, and fried Hke beef 
liver, or it may be broiled and buttered. 

Veal sweet-breads are roasted with the breast, 
or they«may be fried or stewed. 

Calf's head may be boiled and served with a 
sauce, and a soup made of the liquor in which it is 
boiled. 

The head and feet are used for making jellies. 

To Boil Veal. — Put it in hot water, (not boil- 
ing,) to cover it, put to it a tablespoonful of salt, 
cover the pot, and let it boil very gently, taking off 
the scum as it rises ; allow fifteen minutes for each 
pound of meat ;" four pounds of meat will require 
one hour gentle boiling. Serve boiled veal with 
drawn butter, or oyster, or lemon, or parsley sauce, 
and plain boiled potatoes, with pickles, or lettuce, 
or celery. Boil the loin and serve with egg sauce. 

Calf's Head. — Clean |it very nicely, and soak 
it in salt and water, that it may look white, (clean 
as directed for beef tripe,) take out the eyes, take 
out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little 
dish ; boil the head very tender, and serve with a 
sauce, or take it up, put bits of butter all over it, 
dredge with flour, and season with pepper and 
finely sifted sweet herbs, if liked ; set it in a hot 
oven or before the fire; baste with some of the 



86 calf's head. 

water in which it was boiled, or squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over; roast it a fine brown ; then take 
it on a hot dish and put a tin cover over; add a 
piece of butter, the size of- an egg, to the gravy; 
cut a small lemon in thin slices, and make the gravy 
ooiling liot ; add them to it ; let them fry bi'own, 
then put a teaspoonful of browned flour, and a 
teacup of boil ng water to the gravy, and serve, 
with the meat. The lemon may be dispensed with 
if preferred — it will generally be liked. 

To Make a Dish of Calf's Brains. — Wash 
them in salt and water, then boil them tender, and 
take them in a dish ; put butter and pepper over, 
and serve. 

Or, after washing -the brains in salt and water, 
wipe them dry, and dip them in wheat flour, or into 
beaten egg, and then into bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard or beef dripping ; season with pepper and 
salt, and slices of lemon fried, if liked. 

Calf's Head Cheese. — Boil a calf's head in 
water enough to cover it, until the meat leaves the 
bones, then take it with a skimmer into a wooden 
bowl or tray ; take irom it every particle of bone ; 
chop it small ; season with pepper and salt, a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pep- 
per will be sufficient ; if liked, add a tablespoonful 
of finely chopped sweet herbs ; lay a cloth in a 
cullender, put the minced meat into it, then fold the 
cloth closely over it, lay a plate over, and on it a 
gentle weight. When cold it may be sliced thin 
for supper or sandwiches. Spread each slice with 
made mustard. 

Calf's Head (a fne Dish.) — Boil a calf's head, 
(after having cleaned it,) until tender, then split it in 



VEAL SWEETBREADS. 87 

two, and keep the best half; (bone it if you Uke) 
cut the meat from tlie other in uniform pieces, the 
size of an oyster ; put bits of butter, the size of a 
nutmeg, all over the best half of the head ; sprinkle 
pepper over, and dredge on flour until it looks 
white, then set it on a trivet or muftin rin^s in a 
dripping pan : put a cup of water into the pan and 
set it in a hot oven or before a hot fire ; turn it that 
it may brown evenly ; baste once or twice. Whilst 
this is doing, dip the prepared pieces of the head 
in wheat flour or batter, and fry in hot lard or 
beef dripping, a delicate brown ; season with pep- 
per and salt and slices of lemon, if liked. When 
the roast is done put it on a hot dish, lay the fried 
pieces around it and cover it with a tin cover ; put 
the gravy from the dripping pan into the pan in 
which the pieces were fried, with the slices of lem- 
on, and a teaspoonful of browned flour, and, if ne- 
cessary a little hot water. Let it boil up once, 
then strain it into a gravy boat and serve with the 
meat. 

The water in which the head was boiled, will 
make a dish of soup, by adding seasoning and veg- 
etables. 

Veal Sausages. — Take equal quantities of veal 
and fat salt pork, chop it smafl, season with pepper 
and finely chopped herbs if liked ; mix the season- 
ing well together with the meat, tie it in a cloth, 
and hang it in a cool dry place. ■ When wanted 
for use flour 3-our hands, make the preparation in 
small cakes, and fry in a little hot lard. Serve 
with boiled vegetables. 

Veal Sweetbreads. — Wash ihem in warm 
water, then put them in a stew-pan with a little 
salt and pepper, and pour boiling water over to 



SS VEAL CHOPS. 

cover them ; let them boil for five minutes, then 
take them up, wipe them dry, and dip them in 
rolled cracker, or egg batter, or wheat flour, and 
fry them in hot lard or beef dripping. Or, instead, 
wet them over with beaten eg^, then dip them in 
rolled cracker until they will take up no more, then 
fry tliem or broil on an oyster gridiron, (made of 
coarse wire.) 

Veal Chops. — Cut veal chops about an inch 
thick-; beat them flat with a rolling-pin, put 
them in a pan, pour boiling water over them, 
and set them over the fire for five minutes ; then 
take them up and wipe them dry ; mix a table- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper for 
each pound of meat ; rub each chop over with this, 
then dip them, first into beaten egg, then into rolled 
crackers as much as they will .take up ; then finish 
by frying in hot lard or beef dripping ; or broil 
them. For the broil have some sweet butter on a 
steak dish; broil the chops until well done, over a 
bright clear fire of coals ; (let them do gently that 
they may be well done,) then take them on to the 
butter, turn them carefully once or twice in it, and 
serve. Or dip the chops into a batter, made of one 
egg beaten with half a teacup of milk, and as much 
wheat flour as may be necessary. Or simply dip 
the chops without parboiling into wheat flour ; make 
some lard or beef fat hot in a fiying-pan ; lay the 
chops in, and when one side is a fine delicate brown, 
turn the other. When all are done, take them up, 
put a very little hot water into the pan, then put it 
in the dish with the chops. 

Or make a flour gravy thus : After frying them 
as last directed, add a tablespoonful more of fat to 
that in the pan, let it become boiling hot ; make a 
thin batter, of a small tablespoonful-of. wheat flour 



VEAL STEWED WITH VEGETABLES. 89 

and cold water ; add a little more salt and pepper 
to the gravy, then gradually stir in the batter, stir 
it until it is cooked and a nice brown ; then put it 
over the meat, or in the dish with it; if it is thicker 
than is liked, add a little boiling water. 

Veal Chops Stewed. — Rinse the chops in 
cold water, and rub them over with a seasoning of 
salt and pepper, then put them into a stew-pan 
with hot water nearly to cover them ; cover the 
pan, and set it over a gentle fire for fifteen minutes- 
then take off any scum which may have risen ; 
add to the stew a piece of butter with flour worked 
into it — in proportion, a tablespoonful of flour, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter to three pounds of 
meat. Dip a bunch of parsley into boiling water ; 
cut it small, then add it to the stew ; stir it, in 
cover it and let it simmer for half an hour and it is 
done. The breast of veal cut small with a bone 
in each piece, may be stewed in this way. 

Veal Stewed Broavx. — Cut three pounds of 
neck, or scrag, or loin, into pieces with a bone in 
each ; or leave it whole. Rub each over with a 
mixture of pepper and salt, and put them into a 
dinner pot or stew-pan, with nearly enough water to 
cover them ; set it over the fire, and let it boil gent- 
ly until the meat is tender; then skim it clear, add 
to it quarter of a pound of butter cut small ; dredge 
in a tablespoonful of browned flour, and set it over 
a fire ; let it brown nicely without burning ; stir it 
occasionally. When it is so, add a teacup of boiling 
water ; let it boil up once, then serve with the gravy. 
About one hour will be required to make this stew. 

Veal Stewed with Vegetables, {Ragoiit.) — 
Wash three pounds of veal in cold water, then cut 



90 ROAST VEAL. 

it small and put it in a stew-pan, with water nearly 
to cover it ; add a. tablespoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper ; cover the stew-pan and let it 
simmer for twenty minutes, rhen skim it clear. 
Whilst the meat is stewing, scrape one large or two 
small carrots and cut them in thin slices, quarter 
of an inch thick, notch the edges and put them in 
a stew-pan with boiling water to cover them and set 
it over the fire until they are tender ; dip a buncli 
of parsley into boiling water, and mince it fine ; 
cut 'a leek in thin slices ; pare and cut six small 
potatoes in halves or quarters, then take the carrot 
from the water with a skimmer; put quarter of a 
pound of sweet butter to the meat; dredge over it 
a tablespoonful of browned flour and add the veg- 
etables ; cover the stew-pan and let it stew gently 
for half an hour; then take the meat on a dish, put 
the vegetables around it, pour the gravy over, and 
serve. 

To Roast Veal. — Rinse the meat in cold water, 
if any part is bloody, wash it ofi' ; oiake a mixture 
of pepper and salt, allowing a. large teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper for each pound of 
meat ; wipe the meat dry ; then rub the seasoning 
into every part, shape it neatly, and fasten it with 
skewers, and put it on a spit, or set it on a trivet 
or muffin rings, in a pan ; stick bits of butter over 
the whole upper surface; dredge a little flour over, 
put a pint of water in the pan to baste with, and 
roast it before the fire in a Dutch oven or reflector, 
or put it into a hot oven ; baste it occasionally, turn 
it if necessary that every part may be done; if 
the water wastes add more, that the gravy may 
not burn ; allow fifteen minutes for each pound of 
meat ; a piece weighing four or five pounds will 
then require one hour, or an hour and a quarter. 



VEAL IIASHEP. 91 

When it is nicely browned and done, take it up ; 
add a bit of butter the size of a lar^je egg to the 
gravy, dredge in a tablespoon ful of flour, stir it 
smooth, let it brown, add a cup of boiling water to 
ii ; then strain it into a gravy-boat, and serve with 
t'je meat; serve plain boiled or mashed potatoes with 
the meat, with such green vegetables as may be 
hi^ed. 

Veal Roasted, to look like a duck. — Bone a fine 
shoulder of veal, rinse it in cold w^ater, and rub* it 
all over, inside and out, with a mixture. of salt and 
pepper ; then make a stuffing as follows : cut some 
slices of wheat bread, and butter them freely ; 
sprinkle salt and pepper over, and make them moist 
with hot water; with this fill the place of the bone, 
then draw the edges of the meat together under, so 
as to form it in the shape of a duck or fowl, and 
secure it with skewers. Then set it on a trivet or 
muffin rings, in the dripping-pan, put bits of butter 
all over the surface, put a pint of boiling water in 
the pan, to baste with, and make the gravy. Then 
put it in a Dutch-oven, or a reflector, before the 
fire, or in a hot stove oven. Baste frecjuently, that 
it may not burn; turn it about, that all sides may 
be nicely browned. Just before it is done, dredge 
a little wheat flour over, put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter into the pan, and baste freely with it to finish. 
Then take it on a dish, cover it with a tin cover. 
Dredge a tablespoonful of flour to the gravy, stir it 
smooth ; then add a teacup of boiling water, let it 
boil up once, stirring it. Then strain it into a tu- 
reen and serve with the meat. A lemon sliced 
thin, and fried in the pan after the meat before 
making the gravy, may be served in the dish with 
flie meat or gravy. 

Plain boiled or mashed potatoes, with any other 



92 VEAL PIE. 

vegetable which may be liked, may be served with 
roast veal : also, pickles of any kind. 

Veal Hashed. — Cut a pound of cold veal small, 
season it to taste with pepper and sail, dredge a 
large tea spoonful of wheat flour over it, add a bit 
of .butter the size of an egg, put it in a stew-pan, 
put water enough to make it moist ; then cover it 
close and set it over a gentle fire for half an hour ; 
stir- it occasionally ; if liked, a bunch of parsley 
may be cut small and added lo it; when half done, 
toast some .thin slices of bread delicately brown, 
cut it in small squares or diamonds, and serve the 
hash on it ; for breakfast. A glass of wine may be 
added. 

Veal Minced with Potatoes. — Chop some 
cold veal very fine, put to it an equal quantity, or 
more if you choose, of cold boiled potatoes, chop- 
ped ; also season with pepper and salt to tnste ; add 
to it veal gravy or hot water to moisten it, and a 
good bit of butter ; dredge a little flour over, stir it 
all togedier, and put it in a stew-pan, over a mod- 
erate fire, cover it close for half an hour, stirring it 
occasionally ; when thoroughly heated it is done. 

Veal Pie. — Cut a breast of veal small, and put 
it in a stew-pan, with hot water to cover it ; add 
to it a tablespoon ful of salt, and set it over the fire ; 
take off the scum as it rises ; when the meat is ten- 
der, turn it into a dish to cool : take out all the 
small bones, butter a tin or earthern basin or pud- 
ding-pan, line it with a pie paste, (see clam pie,) 
lay some of the parboiled meat in to half fill it ; 
put bits of butter the size of a hickory nut, all over 
ihe meat ; shake pepper over, dredge wheat flour 
over until it looks white ; then fill it nearly to the 
top with some of the water in which the meat was 



VEAL rOT PIE. 93 

boiled ; roll a cover for the top of the crust, puff* 
paste it, giving it two or three turns, and roll it to 
nearly half an inch. thickness ; cut a slit in the cen- 
tre, and snake several small incisions on either side 
of it ; lay some skewers across the pie, put the 
crust on, trim the edges neatly with a knife ; bake 
one hour in a quick oven. A breast of veal udll 
make two two quart basin pies ; half a pound of 
nice corned pork, cut in thin slices and parboiled 
with the meat, vi'ill make it very nice, and very lit- 
tle, if any butter, will be required for the pie ; when 
pork is used, no other salt will be necessary. 

Potato and Veal Pie. — Peel and cut small 
some cold boiled potatoes ; cut some cold veal 
small ; put some of the meat in the bottom of a 
baking-dish or tin basin ; put on it a layer of pota- 
toes, sprinkle pepper and salt over and bits of but- 
ter; then another layer of meat, and potatoes, and 
seasoning, and so continue until the pan is nearly 
full ; then add to it water or gravy to moisten it ; 
cover it with a pie crust, and bake in a quick oven 
for three quarters of an hour. 

Veal Pot Pie. — Cut a breast or scrag of veal 
in chops or small pieces and put it in a dinner-pot 
with water to cover it ; add half a pound of salt 
pork, cut in thin slices, or a tablespoonful of salt ; 
let it boil gently, taking off the scum as it rises, un- 
til the meat is tender, then take it, and the water in 
which it was boiled, into a dish to cool ; then make 
a common pie-crust, or a more healthful one as 
follows : — Put two pounds of wheat flour into a deep 
dish, make a hollow in the centre, put into it a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and the same of saleratus, pow- 
dered fine and dissolved in a cup of water ; then 



94 calf's feet roasted. 

make it into a soft dough with buttermilk or sour 
milk ; use as much as may be necessary ; wipe the 
dinner-pot dry ; make the dough half an inch thick, 
and line the sides only, of the pot, with the crust;, 
press it close against the sides of the pot ; put the par- 
boiled meat in the bottom ; roll out the paste, reserve 
enough to cover the top of the pot pie, and cut the 
remainder in small S(|uares ; strain the water in 
which the meat wus boiled, and put it in the j)ot ; 
if there is not enough nearly to reach the top of the 
side crust, add water ; drop in the bits of paste or 
dough, dredge in a tablesnoonful of wheat flour ; 
add quarter of a pound of butter, cut small, unless 
pork is stewed with the meat, when half as much 
butter is enough ; put in a large teaspoontul of pep- 
per ; then lay some skewers across, from one side 
crust to the other, and put on the top crust; make 
a slit in the centre to let out the steam ; cover the 
pot close, and set it over a moderate fire ; three 
quarters of an hour will bake it ; take care that the 
fire is not so great as to burn it. Half a dozen small 
potatoes, nicely peeled, may be put into the pie with 
the meat. 

In dishing the pot-pie, take the top crust up first, 
then take up the meat and gravy on another dish, 
and lastly, the brown crust from the sides, on a 
dish with some of , the gravy over. Or, take the 
meat into the centre of the dish, put the crust around 
it, and turn the gravy over. 

Calf's Feet Roasted. — Clean calf's feet, and 
boil them just tender, then let them cool. When 
cold, rub them over with a mixture of salt and pep- 
per, and tie them on a spit; baste wMih a cup of 
hot water, in which is melted two ounces of butter, 
when nearl}^ done dredge them white with flour 
baste freely, and let them finish. When nicel^i 



PORK, HAMS, &.C. 95 

brown, taKe them up, add a cup of water to the 
gravy in the dripping-pan, put to it a tablespoonful 
of browned flour and a piece of butter the size of 
an egg ; stir it smooth, then strain it and serve in a 
tureen ; or instead of water, use port wine in the 
gravy. 

Calf's Feet Stewed. — Clean the feet ; divide 
each one in two, cover with water and boil till ten- 
der, then finish as directed for veal stew. 



PORK, HAMS, &c. 

To Choose Pork. — If the rind of pork is tough, 
and thick, and cannot easily be impressed with the 
finger, it is old. 

If fresh, the flesh will look cool and smooth ,' 
when moist or clammy it is stale. The knuckle is 
the first to become tainted. 

Pork is often what is called measly, and is then 
almost poisonous ; measly pork may easily be de- 
tected ; the fat being full of small kernels. Swill 
or still-fed pork is not fit for curing; either dairy or 
corn fed is good. 

Fresh pork is in season from October to April. 

In cutting up a large hog, it is first cut in two 
down the back and belly. The chine or back- 
bone should be cut out from each side the whole 
length, and is either boiled or roasted. The chine 
is considered tlie prime part. The sides of the 
hog are made into bacon, and the inside or ribs is 
cut with very little meat ; this is the spare rib. 



96 SPARE-RIB. 

There is a large spare-rib on either side, which 
is generall}'^ divided in two, called a sweet-bone 
and a blade-bone, these are served broiled. 

The bacon is one whole side, and contains a fore- 
leg, and a ham, which is the hind leg, and if left 
with the bacon, is called a gammon. 

Hogs' lard is made of the inner fat of the bacon 
bog. 

Pickled pork is generally made of the flesh of 
hogs, as is also bacon ; porkers are not as old as 
hogs, their flesh is whiter and less gross, but not 
equally tender. 

A porker is usually divided into quarters ; the 
fore-quarter consists of the springer fore-leg. The 
fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib, and griskin. 

The hind quarter consists of the leg and loin. 
The feet and ears may be used in a variety of ways, 
and should be cut off before the legs are cured. 
The head may also be made use of to advantage, 
either pickled for boiling or smoking, or roasted, or 
baked, or made head-cheese of. 

The bacon hog is sometimes scalded to take off 
the hair, and sometimes singed. The porker and 
roasting pig is always scalded, and the hair scraped 
off. 

Fresh pork must always be well cooked, it is 
unpalateable otherwise. 

Spare-Rib. — Broil the blade-bone and spare-rib 
nicely over a bright clear fire of coals ; let it be 
well done. It is best to cover it whilst on the grid- 
iron, as by so doing it is sooner done and the 
sweetness is kept in. Put the inside to the fire first, 
and let it be done nearly through before turning it ; 
when done, take it on a hot dish, butter it well, 
season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. 



HEAT) ClIEKSE. 97 

Head Cheese. — Having tlioioiighly cleaned a 
hog's head or pig's head, split it in two with a sharp 
knife, take out the eyes, take out the brains, cut oflf 
the ears, and pour scalding water over them and 
the head, and scrape them clean. Cut off any part 
of the nose which may be discolored ^o as not to 
be scraped clean ; then rinse all in cold water, and 
put it into a large kettle with hot, (not boiling) wa- 
ter to cover it, and set the kettle (having covered it) 
over the fire ; let it boil gently taking off the scum 
as it rises ; when boiled so that the bones leave the 
meat readily, take it from the water with a skimmer 
into a large wooden bowl or tray, take from it every 
particle of bone ; chop the meat small and season 
to taste with salt and [)epper, and if liked, a little 
chopped sage or thyme ; spread a cloth in a cullen- 
der or sieve ; set it in a deep dish, and put the meat 
in, then fold the cloth closely over it, lay a weight 
on which which may press equally the whole sur- 
face, (a safficientty large plate will serve.) Let 
the weight be more or less heavy, according as you 
may wish the cheese to be fat or lean ; a heavy 
weight by pressing out the fat, will of course leave 
the cheese lean. 

When cold, take the weight off; take it from the 
cullender or sieve, scrape off whatever fat may be 
found on the outside of the cloth, and keep the 
cheese in the cloth in a cool place, to be eat^i sliced 
thin, with or without mustard, and vinegar, or cat- 
sup. 

After the water is cold in which the head was 
boiled, take off the fat from it, and whatever may 
have drained from the sieve, or cullender, and cloth ; 
put it together in some clean jvater, give it one boil ; 
then strain it through a cloth, and set it to become 
cold ; then take off the cake of fat. It is fit for any 
use. 7 E 



98 CURING HAMS. 

Pork Cheese, Soused. — Clean and split a pig's 
head and boil it, till the hones are loose ; then take 
it up, take the bones carefully from it, make a sea- 
soning of salt, pep[)er, chopped sage, and a little 
ground alspice, and mace, if liked ; cut the boned 
meat in slices, sprinkle each with the seasoning, and 
lay them together in a cloth. When all are in, fold 
the cloth closely around the meat and lay it under 
a gentle weight. 

Take of the water in which the head was boiled 
and vinegar, equal parts. Mix them together, and 
put it over the meat, to cover it. This will keep 
good for months. It is best to keep the cloth folded 
about it. Slice it thin, for breakfast, luncheon, oi 
supper. 

Farmer's way of Salting Pork. — Cut up the 
pork, strew salt on the bottom of the pork barrel ; 
then put in a layer of pork, edgeways down, strew 
it plentifully with salt ; then another layer of pork, 
salt it plentifully, and so continue until all is in, 
strewing' the top plentifully with salt ; let it lie 
three or four days ; then make a salt and water 
brine, strong enough to float an egg, and pour it 
over the meat, and lay a weight on it, to keep it 
under the brine. 

To Cure Hams. — ^Take one ounce of saltpetre 
for a fourteen pound ham ; make it fine, and dis- 
solve it in a little molasses ; rub it well over the cut 
side of the meat, and around the bone, and over 
{.he whole ham. Then pack them, the small end 
down, into a barrel with fine salt sprinkled between 
and over them ; let them remain for two or throe 
days ; then make' a cold brine of salt and water, 
which will bear an egg, and cover the hams with 
it. After three weeks they are fit to smoke, or they 



PORK PICKLE. 99 

may remain in the brine three months without in- 
jury. 

Hams cured in this way are delicious, and keep 
well, and have a fine red color when cooked. 

Any part of pork may be salted in this manner. 
The cheeks or head split in two, or any other 
pieces for boiling or smoking, are much finer in this 
than any other way of curing. Beef tongues may 
also be done in this manner. This pickle will 
keep pork good for two years if necessary. '' 

To Smoke Hams or Tongues. — Hang hams by 
a string through the small end, in a smoke-house, 
or chimney where wood is burnt, or over a smoth- 
ered fire of sawdust or chips. Let them hang for 
ten days. 

» Hams, Dry Salted. — For each small ham of 
seven pounds' weight, take a large tablespoonful of 
finely pounded saltpetre, and a tablespoonful of 
molasses. Mix these well together ; then rub it 
well over the cut or inside of the ham, and around 
the bone ; make a place with your finger, and in- 
sert as much as 5^ou can of the mixture ; then 
rub the ham well over with fine dry salt; repeat 
the salt every fine day, until it has been done 
four times ; then rinse it in cold water, and smoke 
it for ten days. Then rub black pepper around 
the bone, and ^11 over the cut side, to keep the 
flies from it, and hang the hams in the smoke- 
house, or cover them with coarse canvass ; sew it 
tightly, and whitewash them. Let them dry ; then 
hang them in a cool, dark place. 

An Excellent Pickle forPokk. — Nine pounds 
of salt, coarse and fine equal parts, to six gallons 
of water, two pounds of brown sugar, or a quart 



100 PORK SAUSAGES. 

of in(j]asses, two ounces of saltpetre, and one 
ounce of saleratus. Dissolve the Sfiltpetrr and 
saleratus in the water; then add the salt, and put it 
in a kettle, and boil and skim it clear; then put it 
in your pickle tub ; when cold it is fit for use. 

Always keep the naeat under the brine, by means 
of a suitable bit of board, and a weight. 

Pork for boiling should be laid in this brine for 
a few days. 

'Beef may be put in the brine in which pork has 
been, but it will not do to put pork in beef brine ; 
the blood from the beef will cause the pork to spoil. 

Hog's Head, Pickled. — Put a head in the 
pickle above mentioned, for three or four days ; 
then take it out, wash and scrape it ; then boil it, 
and finish as directed for head-cheese, without the 
salt, or like soused head. 

Sausage Meat. — Take of pork three-quarters, 
and one of beef, chop it fine, put fourouncesof fine 
salt, and one of pepper, to every ten pounds of 
meat : mix the seasoning well into the meat ; then 
put it in 'small muslin bags, tie them close, ana 
hang them in a dry, cool cellar. When wanted for 
use, cut it in slices, or form it in small cakes, flour 
the outside of each, and fry in hot lard. Let them 
be nicely browned. Serve with boiled vegetables. 
Fine hominy may be boiled, and sensed with them 
for breakfast. 

Pork Sausages. — Take such a proportion offal 
and lean pork as you like ; chop it quite fine, and 
for every ten pounds of meat take four ounces of 
fine salt, and one of fine pepper ; dried sage, or 
lemon thyme, finely powdered, may be added if 
liked ; a teaspoonful of sage, and the same of 



PORK SAUSAGE. 101 

ground alspice and cloves, to each ten pounds of 
meat. Mix the seasoning through the meat ; pack 
it down in stone pots, or put it in muslin bags. Or 
fill the hog's or ox's guts, having first made them 
perfectly clean, thus, empty them, cut them in 
lengths, and lay them three or four da^^s in salt and 
water, or weak lime water ; turn them inside out 
once or twice, scrape them ; then rinse them, and 
fill with the meat. 

If yon do not use the skins or guts, make the 
sausage meat up the size and shape of sausages, 
dip them in beaten egg, and then into wheat flour, 
or rolled crackers, or simply into wheat flour, and 
fiy in hot lard. Turn them, that every side may 
be a fine color. Serve hot, with boiled. potatoes or 
hominy ; either taken from the gravy, or after they 
are fried, pour a little boiling water into the gravy 
in the pan, and pour it over them ; or first dredge 
in a teaspoonful of wheat flour, stir it until it is 
smooth and brown ; then add a little boiling water, 
let it boil up once, then put it in the dish with the 
sausages. 

Chopped onion and green parsley may be added 
to the sausage meat, when making ready to fry. 

Or sausage meat may be tied in a muslin bag, 
and boiled, and served with vegetables; or let it 
become cold, and cut in slices. 

Pork Sausage {to eat cold.) — Take of fat and 
lean equal quantities, and put them in a pickle or 
brine, for six days. Then take it up, chop it fine, 
have some leek or onion chopped fine, and put it 
to the meat, with one ounce of fine pepper to ten 
pounds, and alspice to taste. Have ready an ox 
gut, cleaned 'as directed (they may be kept m salt 
and water until wanted, when they must be soak- 
ed), fill it with the meat, tie both ends, wrap it in 



102 PIG S HEAD FOR BAKING. 

a fold of muslin, and hang it to smoke, the same as 
a ham, for ten days or a fortnight. It is eaten 
sliced thin, with or without first having boiled it. 
Rub ground ginger or pepper over the outside of 
them, and hang in a cool, dry place. 

To Make Bologna Sausage. — Take of lean 
beef and pork, each three pounds, two pounds of 
fat pork or bacon, and a pound and a half of beef 
suet ; put hot water to the lean meat, and set it 
over the fire for half an hour ; then cut it small, 
each sort by itself, shred the suet, and pork or ba- 
con, each by itself. Season with fine pepper 
thyme, and ground mace ; fill ox skins with it, tie 
them in eight inches lengths, and put them in a 
beef brine for ten days ; then smoke them the same 
as ham or tongue. Rub ground ginger or pepper 
over the outside, after they are smoked, and keep 
them in a cool, dry place. 

Or rub them over with sweet oil, and the ashes 
of vine twigs. 

To Prepare a Pig's Head for Baking. — 

Clean the head, and split it open ; take out the 
brains and eyes, wash it, and rub it outside and in 
with a mixture of salt and pepper, and lay it on a 
trivet or muffin rings (the cut side of the head 
down), in a dripping-pan ; put a pint of water 
with a teaspoon ful of salt, and a saltspoonful of 
pepper, and set it in a hot oven. Wh"en it begins 
to bake, baste it with the water, which must be re- 
plenished according as it wastes. When nearly 
done, baste with butter, and finish (about one hour 
will be required for it). Take it up, dredge a ta- 
blespoon ful of flour to the gravy, let it boil up once, 
then strain it, and serve with the meat. Serve 
plain boiled or mashed potatoes, and pickles, and 



ROASTIXG PIG. 103 

Stewed apples, or cranberries with it. Or if baked 
in a briclv oven, put bits of butter over, and dredge 
it qnite white with flour, before putting it in ; have 
plenty of water in the pan ; let it remain in the 
oven one hour; then make the gravy, and serve. 

To ROAST A Pig. — Thoroughly clean the pig, 
then rinse it in cold water, wipe it dry; then rub 
the inside with a mixture of salt and pepper, and 
if liked, a little pounded and sifted sage ; make a 
stuffing thus : cut some wheat bread ia slices half 
an inch thick, spread butter on to half its thickness, 
sprinkled with pepper and salt, and if liked, a little 
pounded sage and minced onion ; pour enough hot 
water over the bread to make it moist or soft, then 
fill the body with it and sew it together, or tie a 
cord around it to keep the dressing in, then spit it ; 
put a pint of water in the dripping-pan, put into it 
a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper, 
let the Are be hotter at each end than in the middle, 
put the pig down at a little distance from the fire, 
baste it as it begins to roast, and gradually draw it 
nearer, continue to baste occasionally, turn it that 
it may be evenly cooked ; when the e3'es drop out 
it is done ; or a better rule is to judge by the weight, 
fifteen minutes for each pound of meat, if the fire 
is right. 

Have a bright clear fire, with a bed of coals at 
the bottom, first put the roast at a little distance, 
and gradually draw it nearer; when the pig is 
done stir up the fire, take a coarse cloth with a good 
bit of butter in it, and wet the pig all over with it, and 
when the crackling is crisp take it up ; dredge a 
little flour into the gravy, let it boil up onre, and 
Having boiled the heart, liver, &c., tender, and 
chopped it fine, add it to the gravy, give it one boil 
then serve. 



104 SAUCES TO PIG OR PORK 

To Bake a Pig. — Prepare a pig, as for roasting, 
and lay it on a trivet or on muffin rings in a drip- 
ping pan, stick bits of butter all over it, sprinkle 
pepper and salt over, and dredge some flour overt 
put a pint or more of water in the pan, then set it 
in a quick or hot oven, baste frequently, v^'hen nearly 
done baste with a spoonful of butter, and close the 
oven to finish ; then take it up, dredge a table- 
spoonful of flour to the gravy, set it over the fire to 
brown, stir it smooth and if necessary, add a litlie 
hot water, let it boil up once then strain it and serve 
with the pig- 
Pig to roast or bake may be stuffed with boiled 
potatoes, seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, and 
made soft with a cup of milk. 

To MAKE A DISH OF THE Harslet. — Having 
boiled the heart, liver, &c., in water, with a little 
salt till tender chop them small, add a good bit of 
butter or the gravy from the pan, put it in a stew- 
pan over a gentle fife, season high with pepper and 
salt, dredge in a large teaspoonful of flour, stir it and 
let it simmer gently until it is hot, then serve in a 
side dish with the pig. 

Roast or baked pig may be served whole it 
small, or lay it on a dish, cut of the head, and be- 
fore drawing out the spit, split the body in two 
from head to tail, lay the two halves together on 
the dish, split the head and lay a half on either side 
of the body with the ears. A quarter of a large pig 
may be roasted in the same manner. 

Sauces to serve with roast Pig or Pork. — 

Mashed potatoes, boiled onions, turnips maLhed. 

pickled beets, mangoes or cucumbers, or drtssed 

celery and cranberry sauce, stewed apples, oi our 

rant jelly. 



STEWED FRESH PORK, 105 

To Roast Pid- like Laiib. — Take tnc fore- 
quarter of a large roasting pig, skin it, rub it well 
over willi a seasoning of salt and pepper, and chop- 
ped mint if liked, then roast or bake it, dredge a 
little flour over, and baste with a little butter about 
fifteen minutes before taking it up — served with 
mashed potatoes, etc., as for roast pig. 

To Roast a Loin. — Take a sharp pen-knife 
and cut tlic skin across, then cut over it in the op- 
posite direction so as to form small squares or dia- 
monds; rub every part of it with a mixture of salt 
and pepper, put bits of butter the size of a hickory 
nut over the skin side, and roast or bake it — serve 
with the gravy, boiled potatoes mashed, turnips 
mashed, and dressed celer}^ or pickles, and tart 
apples stewed without sugar. 

Leg of Pork. — Prepare it the same as a loin, 
and roast or bake it. 

Pork Tender Loin. — This part of pork is the 
most delicate ; it may be got where pork is cut 
up for packing or salting. It may be fried or broiled, 
if it is too thick, split it in two. Steaks cut from- 
the tender-loin are nice, but not equal to the tender- 
loin, which is cut with the grain ; steaks are cut 
across it. The chine of pork may be roasted ? 

To Stew Fresh Pork. — Cut the spare-rib or 
.any other lean part in chops, and put them in a 
stew-pan with water nearly to cover them ; season 
with pepper and salt ; let them simmer gently for 
half an hour, then skim them, dredge in a table- 
spoonful of flour to about two poundsof meat ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt and a small one of pepper, 
with a bit of butter the. size of an egg ; stir the 

seasoning well into the stew, cover it, and let it 

E* 



103 pigs' feet soused — pie. 

simtncr for fifteen minul(^s, or until the meat is very 
tender. Serve with pWm boiled potatoes, and pic- 
kles or dressed celery. 

Or potatoes may be pared nnd cut in quarters, 
and stewed with the meat ; put them in with the 
seasoning, and cover for twenty minutes. 

Pigs' Feet Soused. — Scald and scrape clean 
the feet ; if the covering of the toes will not come 
off without, singe them in hot embers, until thev 
are loose, then take them off. Many persons lay 
them in weak lime water to whiten them. Hav- 
ing scraped them clean and white, wash them and 
put them in a pot of hot (not boiling) water, with a 
little salt and let them boil gently, until b}' turning 
a fork in the flesh it will easily break, and the bones 
are loosened. Take off the scum as it rises. When 
done, take them from the hot water into cold vine- 
gar, enough to cover them ; add to it one-third as 
much of the water in which they were boiled ; add 
whole pepper and alspice, with cloves and mace if 
liked, put a cloth and a tight fitting cover over the 
pot or jar. 

Soused feet may be eaten cold from the vinegar, 
split in two from top to toe, or having split them, 
dip them in wheat flour and fry in hot lard, or broil 
and butter them. In either case, let them be nicely 
browned. 

Pigs' Feet Pie. — Boil the feet then take out all 
the large bones, cut the flesh in half, Hne a buttered 
tin basin with pie-crust, and put it half or one-third 
full of the meat ; season with salt and pepper, and 
bits of butter the size of a liickory nut over the 
whole surface ; dredge flour over, until it looks white, 
and fill nearly to the top with water ; cover with a 
pie or puff paste crust ; cut a slit in the middle ; 



BOILED HAM. 107 

pinch the top and side crust neatly together at the 
edge, and hake one hour in a hot oven. 

Serve pickles and mashed potatoes with thre pie. 
A fine jiot-pie may be made of" pigs' feet in the same 
manner 

To Choose Hams. — Run a knife or skewer in 
at the knuckle, and at the thickest part of the ham 
next the bone, if it comes out clean and smells 
sweet, the ham is good. If, on the contrary, the 
blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank or 
stronc:, it is not OTod. 

To Boil Ham. — Wash the fiam in cold water 
two or three times, and put it in a kettle of hot (not 
boiling) water to cover it ; let it boil gently, accor- 
ding to its weight (fifteen minutes toench pound) it 
must be kept slowly boiling nil the time; keep the 
pot covered exce[)t to lake off the scum as it rises j 
if it is like to boil over, take the lid partly ofl". 

Putting meat down to boil in cold water draws 
out its juices. Hard or fast boiling makes it tough 
and hard. 

When it is done, take off the skin, trim off the 
under side neatly, and put spots of pepper and stick 
cloves at regular intervals over the whole upper 
surface. Or dredge it well with wheat flour or 
rolled crackers, and brown it in a hot oven, or be- 
fore a hot fire. Serve hot with the gravy from it, 
and boiled vegetables ; or it may be served cold. 
Trim the bone with parsley, or the delicate leaves 
of celery, and put sj)rigs of the same around it on 
the dish ; lemon sliced and dipped in flour, or bat- 
ter and fried, may be laid over the ham and on the 
dish. Mashed potatoes, stewed apple, or cranberry, 
dressed celery, or boiled spinach, or cauliflower and 
mashed turnips are served with hot ham 



108 STEW OF SMOKED MEAT. 

With cold ham serve pickles or dressed celery, 
or both, and bread and butter sandwich. 

To Boil a Leg of Pork. — Take a leg of pork 
which has been in pickle for three or four days, 
soak it for half an hour in cold water to make it 
*ook white, then tie it in a nicely floured cloth, and 
put it in hot water to cover it. Boil the same as 
ham. When done, take a small sharp knife, and 
cut through the skin in a straight line about a quar- 
ter of an inch apart ; put spots of pepper over and 
serve with the same vegetables as for ham ; or 
with mashed potatoes, turnij)s mashed, and pickles 
or tart apples stewed without sugar. Currant jellv 
or cranberries may be served with ham or leg of 
pork. 

Pig's Cheek — Is smoked and boiled like ham 
with vegetables; boiled cabbage or fried parsnips 
may be ser\'ed with it. 

To Make a Stew of Smoked Meat. — Cut 
slices from the thin part of a smoked shoulder, or 
from the cheel; — and having washed them in cold 
water, put them in a dinner-pot, with water nearly 
to cover it; scrape two parsnips and cut them in 
slices an inch thick; pare some potatoes and cut 
them in two, then put parsnips and potatoes with 
the meat, and add pepper to taste ; cover the pot, 
and set it over a moderate fire, that it may brown 
nicely without burning ; when done take up the 
meat and vegetal)les, dredge in a little wheat flour, 
stir it about until it is brown, then add a little hot 
water ; stir it smooth, and serve wiih the meat and 
vegetables. 

Corned or pickled pork may be slewed in the 
same manner. 



BROILED POKK AND BACON. 109 

Pork Chops, Steaks and Cutlets. — Fry or 
slew pork chops, after taking off the rind or skin, 
the same as for veal. 

Cutlets and steaks are also fried, broiled, or 
stewed, the same as veal. 

To Fry or Broil Salt Pork and Bacon. — 
Cut some slices from corned pork, or streaked ba- 
con, (fat and lean,) put them in a pan, pour boiling 
water over, set it over the fire, and let it boil up 
once; then pour the water off, and" fry them in 
their own fat; sprinkle with pepper, and if liked, a 
little dried sage, or thyme, pounded fine ; when 
both sides are nicely browned, take them up, put 
a little hot water or some vinegar in the pan, let it 
boil up once, and put it in the dish with the meat. 
Or, having fried the meat, dredge a teaspoonful of 
flour into the gravy ; while it is hot, stir it about ; 
then add a little hot water, stir it smooth, and pour 
it into the dish with the meat. 

To Broil. — After having parboiled the slices 
with plenty of water in the pan, lay them on a 
gridiron, over a bright fire of coals ; sprinkle a lit- 
tle pepper over ; when both sides are done, put 
them on a hot dish, put a little butter over and 
serve. Or, whilst broiling, dip the slices several 
times into a dish of hot water. 

Salt pork is very nice fried thus : — Cut it in thin 
slices, put them in the frying-pan, with hot water 
to cover them, set it over the fire, let it boil up once, 
then pour off the water, shake a little pepper over 
the meat, and fry it nicely, in its own fat, both 
sides; then take it up, add to the gravy a Irrge 
teaspoonful of flour, stir it smooth ; then put to it 
a cup of milk, stir over the fir** for a few minutes, 



110 BROILED HAM. 

shake pepper over, then put it in the flish \vith the 
meat. 

Cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin, may be fried in 
the pan, after pork or bacon, and served with it ; 
parsnips boiled, cut in thin slices and fried, may 
also be served with fried salt ineat. 

Or, having boiled some cabbage or spinach, and 
pressed all the water from it, cut it small, put it on 
a steak dish, lay the fried meat on it, and pour the 
gravy over. Vinegar is generally eaten with the 
vegetable. 

To Fry Ham. — Cut some fine slices from the 
large end of the ham, take off the skin, put them 
in a frying-pan, and pour hot water over ; set it 
over the fire, and let it boil up once, then poufthe 
water off, take the slices up, put a spoonful of l;ird 
in the frying-pan, and let it become iiot ; dip the 
sliv'ies in rolled cracker, or wheat flour, and fry them 
a nice brown ; when one sitle is done, turn the other, 
then take them on a dish, j)ut a very little water in 
the pan, let it boil up once, put it over the ment. — 
Or, if a Hour gravy is wanted, make a thin batter 
with a teaspoonful of flour, and cold water, and 
stir it into the gravy in the pan ; let it brown, and 
if too thick, put a little hot water to it ; stir it smooth 
and serve with the meat. 

To Broil Ham. — Cut some slices of ham, quar- 
ter of an inch thick, lay them in hot water for half 
an hour, or give them a scalding in a pan over the 
fire ; then take them up, and lay them on a gridi- 
ron, over bright coals ; when the outside is brown- 
ed, turn the other ; then take the slices on a hot 
dish, butter them freely, sprinkle pepper over and 
serve. 

Or, after scalding them, wipe them dry, dip each 



TO MAKE LARD 11 J 

slice in beaten egg, and then into rolled crackers, 
and fry or broil. 

Ham Gravy. — When a ham is almost done with, 
cut od' what meat remains on the bone, break or 
saw the bone small, and put it in a sauce-pan with 
hot water to cover it; set the stew-pan over the fire, 
and let it simmer gently ; then strain it, add a lit- 
tle pepper, and fine sage if liked, dredge in a lable- 
spooniul of browned flour, and add a bit of butter, 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes ; then having 
toasted some slices of bread, a nice brown, lay 
them in a dish, and serve the gravy over. 

Or, serve ham gravy with boiled vegetables. 

To^Make Lard. — Take the leaf fat from the 
inside of a bacon hog, cut it small, and put it in an 
iron kettle, wliich must be perfectly free from any 
musty taste, set it over a steady, moderate fire, un- 
til nothin|^ but scraps remain of the meat ; the heat 
must be kept up, but gentle, that it may not burn 
the lard ; spread a coarse cloth in a wire sieve, 
and strain the liciuid into tin basins, which will hold 
two or three quarts ; squeeze out all the fat from 
the scraps. 

When the lard in the pans is cold, press a piece 
of new muslin close upon it, trim it off* at the edge 
of the pan, anil keep it in a cold place. Or it may 
be kept in wooden kegs with close covers. 

Lard made with one-third as much beef suet as 
fat, is supposecf by many persons, to keep better ; 
it is better, made in this way, cooking. 



112 SOUR KRAUT. 



DIRECTIONS. 

For Boiling and Serving Meat with Vegetables, for 
Malcintr Succatash, Sour Kraut, Cookino; i^orkand 
Beans, ^'c. C{c. 

Salt Codfish and Potatoes. — Take soaked 
dried codfish, a quarter of a fish ; take off the skin 
and hang it to dry — pare a dozen or more fine 
large potatoes, wash tliem two or three times in 
cold water, and put them into a dinner pot, lay 
such a portion of the codfish as you wish, on them, 
with or without first trying it in a cloth, put hot 
water enough to cover all ; cover the pot close, and 
let it boil for three quarters o^ an hour ; talijp the 
potatoes with a skimmer into a covered dish, take 
the fish on to a steak dish, and garnish vi^ith hard 
boiled eggs cut in slices, and sprigs of green pars- 
ley ; serve with parsley or egg sauce ov^r the fish 
and in a tureen — serve with potatoes and pickles. 
Or the dish may be served in this manner: mash 
the potatoes, make them very moist with hot milk 
and a large bit of butter; pick all the bones from 
the fish and chop it fine, then put them together, 
and pepper to taste ; make it in a roll or an}'^ other 
form, put spots of black pepper over, lay slices of 
hard boiled eggs over, and sprigs of parsley around 
it on the dish, and serve with pickles. — Or wet the 
surface over with a little butter melted in hot milk, 
and brown it in an oven or before the fire. 

To MAKE Sour Kraut. — Have ready a vine- 
gar or white wine cask, about four inches from the 
bottom have a vent peg. Take a number of the 
best white cabbages, strip off all the outside leaves 
^nd slice the heads transversely or across, as thin 



"> SOUR KRAUT. 113 

as possible, until you have as much as you require, 
then lay over the bottom of the cask vine twigs, to 
the height of the peg ; on these put a layer of 
sliced cabbage three inches deep, strew it plenti- 
fully with fine salt, use one pound of salt to fifty of 
the cabbage ; then put another layer of cabbage, 
and salt and cabbage alternately until the cask is 
two-thirds full; let the last layer be of salt, put 
cabbage leaves all over, cover them with a cloth 
and a piece of wood which will fit the inside of the 
cask, and place a heavy stone upon it. 

After four or five days, draw out the peg, and let 
the brine run off, rinse the cloth, wasn the board 
and stone, add more salt over the top, and replace 
cloth, board and weight. 

Repeat this operation at intervals of not more 
than a month, so that what flows from the cask is 
clear and free from smell. 

Keep the cask in a moderate temperature during 
the wkole year. Take it from the cask with a 
wooden spoon or fork. 

To SERVE Sour Kraut. — Take out as much 
sour kraut as you wish from the cask, and soak it 
for at least two hours in cold water, then take it into 
a cullender to drain ; put it into a large stew-pan or 
dinner-pot, put on it a piece of corned pork or bacon, 
and put hot water over nearly to cover it ; cover the 
pot and set it over a moderate fire for an hour or 
more until the pork is done — serve with the meat 
on it. Or cut the bacon or pork in slices, strew pep- 
per over them, lay the sour kraut on, put hot water 
nearly to cover it, cover the pot close and set it over 
a moderate fire for an hou?: and a half. Or it may 
be boiled with water, and fried sausages put over 
it and served ; or the sausages mrj}' be boiled with 
it, and the skins talcen o'dj before serving. 



114 rOACHED EGGS WITH HAM. 

Ham and Eggs fried. — Cut some nice slices 
of ham, put them in a frying pun, cover them with 
hot water, antl set the pan over the fire, let it l)oii 
up once or twice, then take out the shces and throw 
out the water, put a bit of htrd in the j)an, dip the 
shces in wheat Hour or finely rolled crackers, and 
when the fat is hot ])ut them into the pan, sprinkle 
a little pej)per over; when both sides are a. tine 
brown take them on a steak dish, put a little boil- 
ing water into the pan, and put it in the dish with 
the meat. 

Now put a bit of lard the size of a large egg into 
the pan, add a saltspoonful to it, let it become hotj 
break six or eight eggs carefully into a bowl, tlien 
slip them into the hot lard, set the pan over agentle 
fire; when the white begins to set, pass a knife 
blade so as to divide an equal quantity of white to 
each yolk, cut it entirely through to the pan that 
they may cook the more quickly; when done take 
each one up with a skimmer spoon, and lay them 
in a chain arountl the edge of the meat on the 
dish. Fried eggs should not be turned in the pan. 

Sj>inach boiled and pressed free from water und 
chopped small, may be put on the centre of a 
steak dish, lay the fried ham on it, pour the gravy 
over, place the fried eggs around it. Vinegar may 
be eaten with the spinach. 

Poached Eggs with fried Ham. — Fry the 
ham as above directed,, take a clean frying or 
omlet-pan, nearly fill it with boiling water, set it 
over a gentle fire, break the eggs singly into a cup 
and slip each into the boiling water, cover the pan 
tor four or live minutes — when done, take them up 
with a skimmer on to a dish, sprinkle ;i little pej)- 
per and salt over, add a small bit of bultei, and 
^erve in a dish or over the ham. 



HAM WITH VEGETABLES. 115 

Pork and Beans. — Take two quarts of dried 
white beans, (the small ones are best,) pick out 
anv imperfections, .and put lliem to soak in cold 
water, more than to cover them, let them remain 
one night ; the next day, about two hours before 
dinner time, throw off the w^ater ; have a pound of 
nicely corned pork, a rib piece is best ; put the 
beans in an iron dinner-pot ; score the rind or skin 
of the pork, in squares or diamonds, and lay it on 
the beans, put in hot (not boihHii) water to cover 
them, add a small dried red pepper, or a saltspoon- 
ful of cayenne ; cover the pot close, and set it over 
a gentle tire for one hour; then take a -tin basin, 
or earthen pudding-pan, rub the inside over with a 
bit of butter, and nearly fill it with the boiled beans, 
lay the pork in the centre, })ressing it down a lit- 
tle ; put small bits of butter over the I)ean3, dredge 
a little Hour over them, and the pork, and set it in 
a moderately hot oven, for nearly one hour. 

Serve in the dish in which it was baked, thus : — 
Lay a nicely fringed small napkin on a dinnei' 
plate ; set the basin or pan on that, turn the cor- 
ners of the napkin up against it, and keep it in place 
by sprigs of green parsley or celery leaves on the 
plate under it, and so continue a wreath around the 
dish, concealing the pan entirely. Serve pickles 
and mMshed potatoes with it. 

If liked, the beans and pork may be boiled for 
half an hour longer, and served without baking; 
if there remains any over, they raav be baked an- 
other day, or they may be served cold. 

Ham with Vegetables — {a fam'ihj dinner.)—' 
After boiling a small ham, or part of a large one, 
take it up, skin it and set it in a dripping-pan, or 
dish ; sprinkle pepper (^ver, dredge Hour over, and 
browr it in a hot oven, or before a fire. Boii such 



116 SUCCATASH. 

vegetables as yoii wish to serve with it, in the liquor 
in which it was boiled, first skiminint]^ off the fat if 
there is much, as it will then be fit for frying po- 
tatoes, parsnips, or other vegetables; if cabbage or 
turnips are served with boiled meat, they may be 
boiled together in the water ; if spinach or parsnips 
are served, it is best to boil the potatoes in fair wa- 
ter separately ; parsnips giv^e out their flavor too 
much, and spinach discolors. <>»• 

If parsnips are nsed, after boiling them tender, 
take oft' the skins, cut them in thin slices, across oi 
lengthwise, and fry them in hot fat to a nice brown; 
when one side is done, turn the other ; the potatoes 
also, may be fried ; or, having been boiled done, 
put them in the pan with the meat, and brown them 
whole ; or mash them with milk and butter ; make 
them in a neat form, and brown the outside before 
the fire, or in an oven. 

Potatoes to serve with ham or tongue, may be 
boiled, and fried in slices, or whole, thus : — Put 
some fat in the pan, and let it become hot, or fry 
some slices of fat pork, put in small sized boiled 
potatoes, sprinkle a little pepper over ; cover the 
pan, and let them fry rather quickly, turn thetii 
when one side is done, or cut them in slices before 
Oying. Serve them around the meat, on the same 
dish, or separately. 

The appearance of a boiled dinner may be great- 
ly improved, by the manner of serving up the vege- 
tables. 

SuccATASH. — Take of dried sweet corn and 
white beans — one quart of dried sweet corn, to one 
or two of beans. 

Put the beans to soak in a" basin, with w^ater to 
cover them ; rinse the corn in co!d water, and put 
them in a basin with water to cover it, let them re- 



^^ 



BOILED CORXED PORK WITH VEGETABLES. 117 

main until the next daj ; within two hours of din- 
ner time, pour the water from the beans, pick out 
any imperfections, and put them with the corn, with 
tlie water in which it is soaked, into a dinner-pot; 
cut a pound of nicely corned poik in ^in shces, 
put it to the corn and beans, and put over them hot 
water, rather more than to cover them ; add a very 
small red pepper, or a saUspoonful of cayenne, and 
cover the pot close ; set it where it will boil very 
gently, for an hour and a half, then put it in a deep 
dish ; add a bit of butter to it and serve. 

The pork may be scored, and not cut up, if pre- 
ferred, and served in a separate dish. 

Dried corn and beans may be soaked and cooked 
in this manner, without the pork ; when taken up, 
add plentv of sweet butter, season with salt and 
pepper, aiid serve. Lima beans are the best. The 
small white kidney bean next. 

Fried Sausages, or sausage-meat, spinach, or 
other vegetable. — INIake liot some fat salt pork slices, 
or lard, in a frying pan, and fry the sausages, or 
meat, a nice brown ; have some nicely boiled 
spinach or cabbage, pressed free from water, chop 
it fine, and lay it on a steak dish ; lay the fried 
sausages in it, put a very little hot vinegar to the 
gravy in the pan, and pour it over. 

Water may be used instead of vinegar ; the vege- 
table is most generally eaten with vinegar. 

Or, serve with mashed potatoes, instead of spinach 
or cabbage. Sausage-meat may be fried, and serv- 
ed in the same manner as sausages. 

Hominy boiled, (see p. 192.) may be served with 
fried sausages. This is a favorite Southern dish. 

To Boil Corned Pork with Vegetables. — 
Take a side or rib piece of corned pork, put it in a 
kettle of hot (not boiling) water, and boil it gently, 



Its CORNED PORK WITH VEGETABLES 

according to its weiclit, fifteen minutes to each 
pound ; cover the pot. Cut a hw^re white heart 
cabbage in four, take off' the outside leaves, and 
cut the stalk close down to the head ; wash the 
quarters in cold water; examine between the leaves 
that there are no insects secreted ; half an hour 
before the meat' is done, take off" tlie cover, skim it 
clear, and put the cabbage in, with a small red 
pep[)er, or a saltspoonful of cayenne ; press the 
cabbage down; pare a dozen fine potatoes of equal 
size, and wash them in two or three waters, and 
put them in the pot; cover it and let it boil for half 
an hour, then takeout the meat, cut the skin across 
in squares or diamonds, and set it where it will keep 
hot ; or dredge flour over it and set it before the 
lire, or in an oven to brown. Let the vegetables 
boil for quarter of an hour longer ; when they are 
done, take the potatoes in a deo[) covered dish, put 
the cabbage into a cullender and press out all the 
water, and lay it on a large dish, njaking a plat- 
form, and lay the [)orkon it; or serve it on a deep 
dish, and the pork on an oval dish. 

If the pork is very salt, put it to soak in cold 
water one night before boiling. Savoy cabbage or 
spinach may be used instead of white cabbage; 
fifteen minutes fast boilin2; will be enouij'h for either 
of these. 

Potatoes should not be boiled with spinach, as if 
colors them green ; it requires so short tiine boiling 
that the potatoes may be boiled l^efore it is put in. 

Bacon or smoked chops or shoulder maybe boiled 
in the same manner. 

A pickled or corned tongue may be boiled in this 
manner. Skin it when done; s[)rinkle pepper over 
it ; dredge ilour over ; put bits of butter over, and 
eet it in an oven for half an hour. 



CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 119 

To Boil Salted or Corned Beef. — Wash the 
orine from a piece of corned beef, and put it into a 
pot of hot (not boiling) water; take off the scum as 
it rises ; allow fifteen minutes for each pound of 
meat ; then try if it is tender ; let it boil gently. 
When it is done, take it up and press it between 
two plates. 

Cabbage, or spinach, or some other greens, are 
generally boiled with salt beef; put down the beef 
in time that it may be done before it is time to boil 
the vegetables, and set it to press whilst the vege- 
tables are boiling. 

To Prepare the Cabbage. — Take off the dis- 
colored outside leaves, and cut each head in four; 
look well between the leaves to see that no insects 
are secreted ; wash the quarters, and put them in 
the water in which the meat was boiled ; set it 
over the fire and let it boil fast f()r three quarters of 
an hour; if you wish the potatoes boiled with it, 
choose large equal sized ones, and put them in with 
-^he cabbage ; when they are done take the potatoes 
into a covered dish ; put the cabbage into a cullen- 
der; press out all the water. If you wish to have 
the meat hot, after pressing it, put it into the pot 
ten minutes before taking up the vegetables. Serve 
the cabbage and potatoes in covered dishes, and 
the meat on an oval dish. 

- The Yellow or ruta-baga turnip is much liked 
instead of cabbage ; pare off the thick outside, cut 
them in halves, or if very large, quarter them. Boil 
same length of time as for cabbage. Take them 
up and serve as directed for cabbage ; or mash 
them fine, and smooth with a bit of butter and a 
little pepper; mash the potatoes with a gill of hot 
milk, and a bit of butter the size of an egs:;. Put 
potatoes and turnips in covered dishes ; heap them 



120 PARSNIP STEW. 

high in the centre; smooth over the surface in flutes 
with a knife blade meeting in the centre, as a com- 
mon point. Take a pinch of fine pepper in the 
fingers and put it over the whole surface in spots. 
Put the meat on an oval dish, and vinegar and 
made mustard in the castor. 

Thus you have a nicely served family dinner, to 
which may be added some simple dessert. 

A boiled Indian pudding is both appropriate and 
healthful. 

Take a quart of sweet yellow cornmeal. stir it 
into boiling water, and a teasj)Oonful of lard, with a 
teaspoonful of salt, to make it so as to mould in the 
hands. Make it 'in balls the size of a teacup, 
drop them in the pot, and let them boil fast for 
half an hour. Serve with butter and sugar, or 
syrup. 

Or, put to the meal as much of the boiling water 
as will make a thick batter ; add a large teaspoon- 
ful of salt; stir it smooth, and tie it loosely in a 
. pudding bag, put it in the pot with the meat, or in 
fair water and boil for one hour. Serve with a 
sauce or syrup. 

Parsnip Stew. — Cut half a pound of fat salt 
pork in slices, and a pound of beef or veal in bits; 
put them in a dinner pot, 'v^ath veiy little water. 
Scrape some parsnips, and cut them in slices an 
inch thick ; wash and put them to the meat ; pare 
and cut six small sized potatoes in halves. Cover 
the pot close and set it over a bright fire for half an 
hour ; then dredge in a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour, add a small bit of butter, and a small tea- 
spoonful of pepper, stir it in, and set it over the fire 
to brown for fifteen minutes. Take the stew into a 
dish and serve. 



BROILED BUEAST OF LAMB. 121 



LAMB. 

To Choose Lamb. — The vein in the neck of a 
fore-quarter of lamb will be a fine blue, if it is 
fresh ; if it is of a green or yellowish color, it is 
stale. 

The hind-quarter becomes first tainted under the 
kidney. It is best to buy of a respectable butcher; 
let him choose for you, and you secure the best ar- 
ticle, at his recommendation. 

A fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and 
breast. 

A hind-quarter is the leg and loin. 

The pluck is sold with the head, liver, heart and 
lights. The melt is not used with us. 

The fry contains the sweet-breads, skirts, and 
.some of the liv°r. 

Lamb may be hashed, stewed, roasted, fried, or 
broiled, or made in a pie, the same as veal. 

Harslet Hashed. — Skin the head and boil 
it with the liver, heart, &c. When tender, cut the 
meat from the head, and chop it fine with the other; 
season with salt and pepper to taste ; dredge it 
white with flour, and put it to a cup of water, to 
keep it from burning ; put it over a mo(ierate fire, 
and stir it with a spoon until thoroughly heated ; 
then serve in a deep dish with boiled rice or hom- 
iny. A bit of butter may be added before taking 
it up. 

To Broil a Breast of Lamb. — Have a clear 
bright fire of coals ; when the gridiron is hot, rub 
it over with a bit of suet, then lay on the meat, the 
inside to the fire first ; let it broil gently ; when 
it is nearly cooked through, turn the other side ; let 



122 LAMB STEAKS AND CUllRAXT JELLY. 

it brown nicely ; put a good bit butter on a steak 
dish ; work a large teaspoonful of salt, and a small 
one of pepper into it ; lay the meat upon it ; turn 
it once or twice, and serve hot. 

The shoulder tnay be broiled in the same manner. 
Let the fire be clear and bright, but not scorching. 

Lamb Stewed with Peas. — Cut the scrag or 
breast of lamb in pieces, and put it in a stew pan 
with water enough to cover it. Cover the stew-pan 
close, and let it simmer or stew for fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes ; take off the scum, then add a table- 
spoonful of salt and a quart of shelled peas ; cover 
the stew-pan and let them stew for half an hour; 
work a small tablespoonful of wheat flour with a 
quarter of a pound of butler, and stir it into the 
stew ; add a small teaspoonful of peyiper ; let it 
simmer together for ten minutes. Serve witli new 
potatoes, boiled. A blade of mace may be added, 
if liked. 

Lamb Chop, like a Crown. — Cut a loin of lamb 
in chops ; rub them over with a mixture of pepper 
and salt, and, if liked, a very little grated nutmeg. 
Dip them in the beaten yolk of an egg, and then 
dip them in rolled cracker, and fry them in hot lard 
or beef dripping. When done, place them like a 
crown ; put a bit of butter in the pan ; add a little 
pepper, and a bunch of parsley cut small, or a le- 
mon sliced thin ; let it fry for a few minutes, then 
dredge in a tablespoonful of wheat flour; stir it 
about; then put to it a cup of boiling water; stir 
it over the fire for five or six minutes ; then pour it 
inside of the crown and serve. 

Lamb Steaks with Wine or Currant Jelly. 
— Ruh lamb steaks or cutlets over with a mixture ol 



QUARTER OF LAMB ROASTED. 123 

salt and pepper, llien dip them inlobenten eizg, and 
afterwards into rolled crackers or wheat Hour; put 
of \nvd and . butter each a tablespoonfnl into a fry- 
ing-pan ; when it is boiling hot, lay in the steaks or 
cutlets, and fry them gently to a nice brown. When 
one side is done, turn the other ; when done, 
take them up, add to the gravy in the pan a 
wine-glass of Port or Madeira wine, or a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly and a little hot water; let 
it boil up once, then pour it over the steaks or cut- 
lets and serve. Or the steaks may be broiled and 
the wine or Jelly made hot, with a bit of butter, and 
put over them. 

Quarter of TvAMB Roasted. — Wash a quarter 
of lamb with cold water; mix a large tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and a heaping teaspoon ful of pepper, 
and rub it well over every part of the meat ; then 
spit it or lay it on muffin r*ngs or a trivet in a drip- 
ping-pan ; put a pint of water in the pan to baste 
with ; set it before the fire in a dutch oven, or re- 
flector, or in a hot stove oven ; baste very often after 
it begins to roast ; la}'- it so that the thickest part 
inay be nearest the fire ; allow fifteen minutes for 
each pound of meat; baste with the water in the 
pan until nearly done ; add more as it wastes ; then 
put to it quarter of a pound of butter ; baste the 
meat with it ; dredge it white with flour ; stir up 
the fire to brown it. 

In roasting a piece of meat, set it at a little dis- 
tance from the fire at first, gradually drawing it 
nearer to finish ; take care not to scorch it. When 
done, take it out on a hot dish, and cover it with a 
tin cover. Set the dripping-pan over the fire, 
dredge a tablespoonful of wheat flour to it; stir it 
smooth, add a little boiling water if necessary ; stir 
the gravy over the tire for a few minutes, then strain 



124 QUARTER l)F LAMB FOR BOILING. 

it into the gravy tureen, rind serve with boiled new 
potatoes, stewed peas and lettuce. 

In making the gravy, a glass of Port or Madeira 
wine, or a large spoonful of red jelly dissolved in 
water maybe substituted for the water and flour. 

Lemon sliced thin and put in the dripping-pan, 
fifteen or twenty minutes before the meat is done, and 
served as a garnish for the meat, is much liked — the 
leaves of a bunch of green mint finely minced and 
moistened with vinegar, with the addition of a 
spoonful of sugar, is sometimes served with the 
lamb. 

Lamb may be baked in a hot oven nearly to equal 
a roast. Have the oven as hot as possible without 
burning, and baste frequently. 

To Prepare a Quarter of Lamb for Boil- 
ing. — Wash a quarter of lamb in cold water ; then 
rub it all over with a mixture of salt and pepper ; 
dredge well with wheat flour, and put it in a pot 
of hot (not boiling) water; cover the pot and let it 
boil gently, allowing fifteen minutes for each pound 
of meat ; take oflf the scum as it rises. Serve 
with boiled potatoes and parsley, or drawn butter 
sauce ; and mint sauce, and lettuce dressed. Break 
the leaves from some fine white heart lettuce 
and rinse each one in cold water ; then cut them 
small; put a teaspoon ful of made mustard with a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of oil, beat them 
together in a cup ; then add enough vinegar to fill 
a cup, and pour it over the lettuce. 



OBSERVATIONS ON MUTTON- 125 



MUTTON. 

Observations on Mutton. — The pipe which 
runs along the bone inside of a chine or saddle of 
mutton, must be-taken out. If it is to be kept any 
length of time, wipe the meat perfectly dry, and 
rub pepper over it, in every part. Whenever you 
find any moisture, wipe it dry, rub it with pepper, 
and dredge flour over. The kernels should be ta- 
ken out by the butcher. 

Mutton for roasting or steaks should hang as long 
as it will keep without tainting. Let it hang in the 
air in a cool dry place. Pepper will keep flies from 
it. The chine or rib bones should be wiped every 
day. The bloody part of the neck must be cut off. 
In the breast the brisket changes first. In the hind 
quarter, the part under and about the kidneys, is 
first to taint. 

Mutton for stewinsj or boiling should not be so 
long kept. It will not be so fine a color it it is. 

The lean of mutton should be a clear red, fine, 
close grain, and tender to the touch. The fat 
should be firm and white. 

Skewer a piece of letter paper over the fat of 
mutton whilst roasting. When nearly done, take 
it off. 

Steaks are cut frorr; the leg. Chops and cutlets 
are cut from the shoulder, breast, loin, and neck 
or scrag. 

The leg, loin, scrag, or breast, may be stewed. 

If the leg of mutton is roasted, serve with its own 
gravy, with a spoonful of currant jelly, or red wine, 
made hot in it. 

If boiled, serve drawn butter, parsley, or mock 
caper sauce, with tomatoes stewed, and plain boiled 



126 MOCK VENISON. 

potatoes. A leg of mutton is bL'ticr for boiling, it 
laid in a beef pickle, three or four days before it 
is wanted. 

To MAKE Mutton taste like Venison. — Take 
a fat hind quarter of mutton, let it hang several 
daj^s — to ten pounds of meat, take a quarter of a 
pound of brown sugar, rub it well into the meat, 
then pour over it half a pint of port wine, the same 
of vinegar ; let it lie in this four or five days, turn- 
ing it every day ; then wash it in cold water, and 
wipe it dry, and roast it ; or, cut it in steaks, or 
chops, and fry, or boil them, or make it a pie. 

Sugar gives a fin^r flavor to the meal, than does 
salt, which hardens the lean ; sugar is a great pre- 
servative. 

Mutton Pasty to eat like Venison. — Pre- 
pare the mutton as above directed ; take a loin, and 
after boning it, beat it well with a rolling-pin, then 
wash it, season with pepper and salt, and lay it in 
a deep dish. To ten pounds of meat, take one 
pound of sweet butter, spread it in small bits over 
the meat ; put a paste crust around the edge of the 
dish, put in with the meat a gill of water, and 
cover with a pie paste, an inch thick ; cut a slit in 
the middle, and bake in a quick oven, two hours 
and a half; cover the paste with writing paper, 
that it may not be scorched. 

Put the bones of the meat in two quarts of wa- 
ter, with a little salt, a few blades of mace, and 
whole pepper, let it boil slowly until it is half re- 
duced, then add to it a tablespoonful of browned 
flour ; let it boil up once, then strain it ; when the 
pie is done, raise the crust and put the gravy in. 

To make Mock Venison. — When the sheep is 



SHEEP HARSLET HASHED. 127 

killed, save the blood ; keep stirring it all the time 
until it is cold, that it may not congeal ; cut the 
sheep in two, take one side, cut the leg like a 
haunch, cut off the shoulder, loin, and neck, and 
breast, and steep them all in the blood, as long as 
the weather will permit ; then take the haunch, 
hang it in a cool dry place, as long as it will keep 
sweet, then roast it like venison. 

This is said to be very fine, if the weather is so 
that it may be kept several da3's. Take off the 
suet before putting it in the blood. Take the other 
parts, and lay them in a large deep pan, or tray ; 
lay the fat side downwards, mix half a pound of 
brown sugar, and a quart of vinegar, with a quart 
of red wine, pour it over, and let it lie twelve hours ; 
then take the neck, breast, and loin out of the 
pickle, cut them in chops, and broil or roast them, 
or make a pasty of them. 

If it will keep, let the shoulder remain in the 
wine, etc., for a week, then put it in a beef pickle, 
or brine, for ten days, and smoke it like beef To be 
eaten chipped fine. The leg or haunch ma}^ be done 
in the same manner, and very nearly resembles 
venison hams. 

Mutton Hams. — These are cut, corned, smoked 
and eaten, the same as smoked beef, or venison hams. 

Sheep Harslet Hashed. — When you cut up 
the sheep, take the heart, liver, and lights, wash 
them in cold water, then boil them tender, in plenty 
of water, and a tablespoon fu I of salt ; take off the 
scum as it rises; then c^op them fine, season with 
pepper, and sweet herbs, if liked, to taste ; add 
quarter of a pound of butter, cut small, and enough 
hot water to moisten the hash ; dredge in a table- 
spoonful of browned flour, and put the whole into 



128 HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

a stew-pnn, over 'a gentle fire, stir it frequent]}'', and 
when it is thoroughly heated, take it up ; three- 
quarters of an hour is about the time required for 
it. Serve with boiled vegetables and pickles. 

Haunch of Mutton. — Keep the haunch as long 
as you can, and have it sweet, wash it with a little 
vinegar and water, before dressing it. Before put- 
ting the meal to the fire, rub it all over with a mix- 
ture of pepper and salt ; make a stiff" paste of wheat 
flour and water, roll it thin, and put it over the 
meat ; have a large, bright fire, and set the meat 
at a little distance from it, (allow fifteen minutes 
to each pound of meat ;) when half done take off 
the paste, draw it nearer the fire, and baste freely, 
with water from the pan ; turn it so that every part 
may be done ; half an hour before taking it up, stir 
up the fire, put quarter of a pound of butter in the 
pan, baste uith it, dredge the meat white with 
flour, baste again, turn the meat over, baste freely, 
and dredge more flour over, and baste again ; the 
fire must be bright for finishing. When done, take 
it up, put the dripping-pan over the fire, cut a lem- 
on in thin slices into it, dredge in a large tablespoon- 
ful of browned flour, stir it smooth for ten minutes, 
then strain into a gravy tureen, and serve with the 
slices of lemon. Or, instead of a lemon, put a 
wineglass of port wine to the gravy. 

Boiled potatoes, asparagus, or spinach, dressed 
celery, and currant jelly, is served with roast mut- 
ton. 

Putting the paste over the meat, keeps in its 
iuices, and therefore makes it sweeter. A gravy 
may be made of a pound of the loin of mutton, cut 
small and simmered in a pint of water, till reduced 
to half; salt it a little, stir in a teaspoonful of brown- 
ed flour, and a little pepper ; let it boil up once, 



MUTTON CHOP FRIED. 129 

then strain it, and serve with the meat, and currant 
-jelly. 

Mutton Currie. — Take a fine loin of mutton, 
take off all the fat, cut the meat small, cut some 
onions small, and fry them in hot lard ; when near- 
ly done, put in the meat ; add a tablespoonful of 
curry powder, to each pound of meat, and a small 
teaspoonful of salt, fry gently ; when nicely browned, 
put to it half a pint of hot water, and put it into a 
stew-pan ; cover it close, and let it simmer for an 
hour ; then serve with rice, boiled dry, in the dish 
under it, or in a separate dish. 

A curry may be made the same as a stew, add- 
ing a tablespoonful of the powder for each pound 
of meat, or less, if preferred. 

A Shoulder of Mutton. — Broil a shoulder ot 
mutton over a clear bright fire of coals, let it broil- 
gently, putting the inside to the fire first, cover it 
with a tin ; when nearly done through, turn it ; let 
it brown nicely ; when it is done, take it on to a 
hot steak dish, sprinkle a small tablespoonful of 
salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper over ; butter it 
freely, turn it once or twice in the seasoning, turn 
the inside down, cover it with a tin cover, and serve 
hot, with boiled hominy, or potatoes, for breakfast. 
The shoulder may be boned, before broiling. 

To Broil a Breast of Mutton. — Parboil a 
Dreast of mutton, then wipe it dry, and broil it as 
directed for shoulder. 

Mutton Chop Fried. — Cut some fine mutton 
chops without much fat, rub over both sides with 
a m.ixture of salt and pepper, dip them in wheat 
flour or rolled crackers, and i^v in hot lard or beef 



130 LEG OF MUTTON BOILED. 

drippings, when both sides arc a fine brown, take 
them on a hot dish, put a wine-glass of hot water 
in the pan, let it become hot, stir in a teaspoonful of 
browned flour, let it boil up once, and serve in the 
pan with the meat. A tablespoonful of currant 
jelly may be stirred into the gravy, or a wine-glass 
of port wine instead of water. Or cut a lemon in 
thin slices, take out the pits, and fry them brown 
with a bit of butter in the pan, dredge in a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour, add a wine-glass of hot 
water, stir it for a few minutes over the fire, then 
serve in the dish with the meat. 

To Broil Mutton Chop or Steak. — Rub 
each over with a mixture of pepper and salt, lay 
them on a hot gridiron over a bright fire of coals ; 
when done, and both sides a fine brown, take them 
on a dish, butter them freely, turn them once or 
twice on the dish, and serve hot. Or before put- 
ting the chops or steaks to the fire, dip them first 
into beaten eggs, then into rolled cracker; broil 
very gently ; put pepper and salt with some butter 
on a dish, lay the broil on, turn it once or twice in 
the butter, and serve. "" 

Leg of Mutton Boiled. — Wash a les^ of mut- 
Ion, dredge it well with flour, and wrap it in a 
cloth, then put it in a pot of hot water, and boil 
according to its weight. Serve with drawn butier 
or parsley sauce, with boiled vegetables and 
pickles. 



VENISON STEAKS FRIED. 131 



VENISON. 

The choice of venison is regulated by the fat, 
which when young is thick, clear and close. As 
it always begins to taint first towards the haunches, 
run a knife into that part, if it is tainted you will 
perceive a rank smell, and it will have a greenish 
'appearance. If you wish, you may keep it a long 
time by careful management — wash it well in milk 
and water, wipe it perfectly dry, till there is not 
the least damp remaining on it, then rub ground 
pepper or ginger over every part, and hang it in a 
dry, airy, cool place ; pepper or ginger is a good 
preservative against the fly. 

When to be dressed, wash venison, thus kept in 
lukewarm water, and wipe it dry. The longer 
venison is kept without tainting, the sweeter it "is. 

Venison Steaks Fried. — Cut venison steaks 
from the leg or loin, half an inch thick, dip them in 
rolled crackers or wheat flour; make of lard and 
sweet butter equal parts, or beef drippings, half the 
size of an egg, hot in a frying-pan, rub the steaks 
over with a mixture of pepj^^er and salt, cover the 
pan and let them fry quickly, until one side is a 
fine brown, then turn the other, and finish frying 
without the cover ; take care that they are not over 
done, then add to the gravy a glass of red wine, or 
a wine-glass of hot water, Avith a tablespoonful ot 
currant jelly, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, 
then put it in the dish with the meat, and serve as 
hot as possible. Steak dishes of block tin, with 
heaters, are used for beef or venison. Lean steaks 
of iat beef cooked in this way, are equal to venison, 
for which the beef should be kept till ready to 



i32 VEXISON ROASTED. 

taint, ihen rinse them in cold water, wipe them 
dry, and finish as directed ; the steaks should be 
cut small like venison. 

To Broil Venison Steaks. — Let the grid iron be- 
come hot, rub the bars with a bit of suet, then lay on 
the steaks, having dipped them in rolled crackers or 
wheat flour, and set it over a bright, clear, but not 
fierce fire of coals ; when one side is done, take the 
steak carefully over the steak dish, and hold it so 
that the blood may fall into the dish, then turn them 
on the gridiron, let it broil nicely ; set a steak dish 
where it will become hot, put on it a bit of butter 
the size of an egg for each pound of venison, put to 
it a saltspoon of salt, and the same of black pep- 
per, put to it a tablespoonful of current jelly, made 
liquid with a tablespoonful of hot water or wine, 
lay the steaks on, turn them once or twice in the 
gravy, and serve hot. Or they may be simply 
broiled, and served with butter, pepper, and salt ; 
or having broiled one side, and turned the steaks, 
lay thin slices of lemon over, and serve in the dish 
with the steaks. 

To Stew Venison. — Cut the venison in steaks, 
put some bits of butter in a chafing dish or tin pan, 
over hot coals or a lamp; when it is hot lay the 
steaks in season with a little pepper and salt, strew 
rolled cracker or bread crumbs over, add to it a 
wine-glass of port wine, cut a tablespoonful of cur- 
rent jelly in bits, and lay it over the steaks, cover it 
with a tin plate, put fire on it ; when the steaks are 
nicely browned, take off the cover and serve. 
This may be done at table. 

Venison Roasted. — To dress a haunch ; chop 
off the shank, take off the skin, but none of the fat^ 



VENISON PASTRY. 133 

then put it evenly on a spit, make a paste of flour 
and water, roll it thin, and fold it around the veni- 
son, put letter paper over it, and secure it with a 
packthread ; have a bright steady fire, and set the 
roast at a little distance from it ; put a pint of wa- 
ter in the pan, and baste occasionally, (allow fifteen 
minutes for each pound of meat,) turn it so that the. 
fire may act with equal force on every part, put 
the largest part nearest the fire ; when half done 
take off the paste and paper, draw it nearer tne 
fire, put quarter of a pound of butter in the pan, 
with a glass of port or claret wine, add pepper and 
salt, and baste the meat freely, turn it that every 
part may be well done ; when yearly done, dredg% 
it with wheat flour, baste and dredge again ; baste 
it and finish roasting ; when done, add currant jel- 
ly to the gravy, and serve with the meat. 

Venison may be roasted, and served the same 
as beef, or with a spoonful of jelly in the gravy. 

Venison Pasty. — Bone a neck and breast of 
venison, season with pepper and salt, cut the breast 
in two or three pieces, lay the breast and neck end 
first ; then the best end on the top ; make a good 
puff paste, line the edge of a baking-dish, lay the 
meat in, put in half a pound of butter, cut small, 
and half a pint of water ; then put an inch thick 
pa?te crust over, cut a slit in the centre, lay a sheet 
of letter paper over, and bake two hours in a quick 
oven ; whilst the pie is baking, put the bones in a 
stew-pan, with two quarts of v%^ater, and let it boil 
gently down to half that quantity, season with a 
blade of mace, and whole pepper ; when nearly 
done, add a large tablespoonful of^ browned flour, 
Btir it together for a few minutes, then strain it; 
oalf an hour before the pie is done, take it out 
raise the crust, put the gravy in, ynd replace the 



134 VENISON SAUCE. 

crust; cut some leaves of paste rolled thin, orna- 
ment the e(]ge and slitfin the centre, with a wreath 
of these, or put a paste flower in the centre, and 
finish baking. Serve currant jelly with it. 

Venison pie may be made the same as directed 
For veal, and baked in the same manner. 

A Pretty Dish of Venison. — Cut a breast of 
venison in steaks, make quarter of a pound of but- 
ler hot, in a pan, rub the steaks over with a mix- 
ture of a little salt and pepper, dip them in wheat 
flour, or rolled crackers, and fry a rich brown ; 
when both sides are done, take them up on a dish, 
^.nd put atin cover over; dredge a heaping teas])oon- 
ful of flour into the butter in the pan, stu* it with a 
spoon until it is brown, without t^urning, put to it 
a small teacup of boiling water, with a tablespoonful 
of currant jelly dissolved into it, stir it for a few 
minutes, then strain it over tlie meat and serve. 

A glass of wine, with a tablespoonful of white 
sugar dissolved in it, may be used for the gravy, 
instead of the jelly and water. 

Venison may be boiled, and served with boiled 
vegetables, pickled beets, etc., and sauce. 

Venison Sauce. — Haifa pint of port wine made 
hot, with a tablespoonful of white sugar, the same 
of currant jelly, and a bit of butter, the size of a 
large egg. 



ROAST CHICKEN. 135 



POULTRY, GAME, &c. 

In choosing poultry, the best way to determine 
whether it is young, is to try the skin under the 
leg or wing ; if it is easily broken, it is young ; or, 
turn the wing backwards ; if" the joint yields readily, 
it is tender; a fat fowl is best for any purpose. 

After a chicken or fowl is killed, plunge it into 
a pot of scalding hot water ; then pluck off the 
feathers, taking care not to tear the skin ; when it 
is picked clean, roll up a sheet of white wrapping 
paper, set fire to it, and singe off all the hairs.— ^ 
Poultry should be carefully picked, and nicely 
singed. 

If a fowl is fresh killed, the vent will be close, 
and the flesh have a pleasant smell. 

For Roasting. — Bruise the bone of the leg close 
to the foot, and draw out the string from the hips ; 
cut a slit in the back of the neck, pass your finger 
around the front, and draw out the crop, turn back 
the skin, and cut ofi' some of the neck, leave skin 
enough to turn over and fasten at the back. Cut 
off the vent, cut a slit from the end of the breast 
bone to it, and draw out the entrails, taking care 
not to break the gall ; no washing will take uif the 
6itter where it has touched ; cut the entrail at the 
vent loose ; break the back bone that it may lay 
flat on the dish w^ien served ; rinse the chicken in- 
side with cold water, and wipe it dry, then rub it 
over with a mixture of salt and pej^per. Prepare 
the stuffing as follows : 

Cut two or three slices of whe'at bread, spread 
It thickly with butter, season with pepper and salt, 
and if liked, a little powdered thyme, make it wet 



136 BOILED FOWL OR CHICKEN. 

with milk or water, and fill with it ; take two or 
three stitches with a coarse thread and needle to 
draw the slit together and keep the dressing in, 
turn tiie legs close to the sides and run a wire 
skewer through ; run another skewer through the 
joint of the wing, and through the body to the other 
wing, and after taking the gall from the liver, and 
the inside from the gizzard, wash them and put 
them between the pinions and body ; or parboil 
them and chop them fine for the gravy. The 
chicken or fowl is now trussed for roasting. Black 
footed poultry should never be chosen for boiling ; 
for roasting they are as good. 

For Boiling. — The apron or lower part of the 
body must be slit at the sides, and the legs put 
through ; cut a sHt across to take out the entrails 
and take out the crop, take care that it does not 
break, and so part of it remain in, to your lasting 
disgrace ; turn the wings over against the back. 
To the stuffing of a fowl for boihng, may be added 
half a pint of small oysters ; season well with but- 
ter, pepper and salt ; or a bunch of parsley chopped 
may be put to the dressing. A full grown fowl is 
best for boiling. 

Boiled Fowl or Chicken. — Having trussed 
und stuffed a fowl, dredge it well with wheat flour, 
then put it into a pot of hot water, cover it close, 
and let it boil gently, according to its weight and 
age ; an old fowl may boil twice as long as a young 
one ; allow fifteen minutes to the pound for a full 
grown fowl ; take off the scum as it rises. Serve 
with plain boiled or mashed potatoes, and drawn 
butter, parsley or o3^ster sauce. 

Pickles and dressed celery are served with 
boiled fowls ; also mashed turnips, boiled aspara- 



ROAST FOWL OR CHICKEN. 137 

gus, and cauliflower. Boiled ham or tongue, or 
corned beef, is generally served with boiled fowls. 
An old fowl is fit for nothing but soup. 

To Roast a Fowl or Chicken. — Have a 
bright, clear, and steady fire for roasting poultry; 
prepare it as directed; spit it, put a pint of hot 
water in the dripping pan, add to it a small table- 
spoonful of. salt, and a small teaspoonful of pepper; 
baste frequently, and let it roast quickly, without 
scorching ; when nearly done, put a piece of butter 
the size of a large egg to the water in the pan, when 
it melts, baste with, it, dredge a little flour over, 
baste again, and let it finish; half an hour will 
roast a full grown chicken, if the fire is right. 
When done take it up, let the giblets (heart, liver, 
and gizzard,) boil tender, and chop them very fine, 
and put them in the gravy, add a tablespoonful of 
browned flour, and a bit of butter, stir it over the 
fire for a few minutes, then serve in a gravy tureen. 
Or put the giblets in the pan and let them roast. 

Mashed potatoes, tomatoes stewed, mashed 
turnips, (ruta-baga or yellow are best,) dressed 
celery, or lettuce, and pickles and mangoes, are 
served with roast fowls. Also currant jelly, stewed 
apples, or cranberry jam. . 

A fowl may be roasted in a hot'Stove oven, so as 
to be neazly as fine as before the fire ; baste freely 
and often, and finish as directed for roasting before 
the fire ; put muffin rings on a trivet in the drip- 
ping pan, and lay the fowl on, rub the outside over 
with pepper and salt, put bits of butter over, dust 
it lightly with flour; have a pint of water in the 
pan, let the oven be well heated, and baste often; 
^make the gravy as before directed, be sure to have 
enough, water in the pan, that the gravy may not 
burn ; add hot water as it wastes. 



138 FRICASSEED CHICKENS. 

To Stew oa Fricassee Chickens. — Cut off 
the feet, cut off" the legs at the hip, cut off" the wings 
close to the body, take out the entrails ; pass the 
knife close to the breast bone, up the sides to the 
wings, dividing the body in two, cut the back in 
two, (Hatten each piece with a heavy stroke of the 
rolling pin or potato beetle,) make another incision 
close to the top of the breast bone, taking off' whnt 
is called the wish bone, with the meat attached. 
This is for a full grown chicken, and is the proper 
way to carve a roast fowl. 

Rinse the pieces in cold water, take the giblets 
(heart, liver, and gizzard.) from the entrails, with 
the fat, split the gizzard, peel it from the gravel 
bag, and cut it in halves, wash them all, and put 
them with the chicken into a stew-pan, with hot 
water nearly to cover them ; add to it a small tabie- 
spoonfulof salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper, cover 
it close, and set it to boil very gently, take off" any 
scum as it rises; when tender, for a full grown 
chicken, take a teacup of butter, (or two ounces,) 
work into it a small tablespoon ful of wheat flour, 
then add it to the stew, with a bunch of parsley 
washed and cut small, cover the stew-pan for fifteen 
minutes, let it simmer gendy, and serve. 

Lay nicely toasted thin slices of bread on a steak 
dish, put the back and breast of the chicken on 
first, and the other parts around it, and put the 
gravy over ; egg balls may be added to the 
stew. 

Half a pound of nicely corned pork cut in thin 
slices, and stewed with the chicken, is liked by 
many persons ; in that case no other salt will be re- 
quired, and only half as much butter. A blade of 
mace may be added to the seasoning, if liked. Half 
an hour or three quarters will be required for 
stewing chickens, an hour for a large fowl. 



BROILED FOWLS. 139 

Mashed potatoes, or boiled new potatoes and 
lettuce, or dressed celery and pickles, to be served 
with this stew. 

Chicken Currie. — Stew the chicken as direct- 
ed above, adding to the seasoning a tablespoonful 
of currie powder for a small chicken. 

Have some nice boiled chicken dry, put it on a 
dish, and serve with the currie over. (See currie 
powder page 198.) 

To Broil Chickens or Fowls, {Like a SteaJc.) 
— Cut ofi" the vent, cut a slit in the apron, (below 
the breast bone,) and draw out the entrails ; take out 
the crop; cut the neck short; take off the wings, 
and split the chicken nearly in two, passing the 
knife from the vent up each side to the wing joints, 
but do not cut it apart ; then spread it out flat, break 
the back and breast bone with a stroke of the po- 
tato beetle, or rolling-pin, and lay it on a hot grid- 
iron over a bright fire of coals ; put the inside to 
the fire first ; put a tin cover over it, and let it broil 
rather quickly, until nearly cooked through ; then 
turn it, stir up the coals, and let it finish without 
the cover. When it is nicely browned, take it on a 
steak dish, butter it freely; season with pepper and 
salt, (a teaspoonful of salt and the same of pepper) 
turn it once or twice in the gravy ; serve it hot, 
with the inside down ; having also broiled the wings, 
lay them on either side of the body. Or a chicken 
may be carved as for table, or as described for a stew. 

Small young chickens are sometimes split up the 
back and spread out, or cut in two at the breast and 
back. 

There is a way of preparing a chicken for broil- 
ing called a spread eagle. Cut the chicken open at 
the back, lake out the entrails and crop, and flatten 



140 CHICKEN PIE. 

the breast bone, and turn the wings outward. Let 
it broil slowly with a cover, until thoroughly done, 
then brown the outside, and put it on a hot dish 
with butter, pepper and salt. 

Covering it whilst broiling keeps the steam in, 
which makes it more juicy, and cooks it. 

To Fry Chicken or Fowl. — Cut up the chick- 
en as for stewing or fricassee ; make some lard or 
beef dripping hot in a frying pan, rub each piece 
over with a mixture of pepper and salt ; dip them 
in wheat flour or finely rolled cracker, and put them 
in the pan, (the cut side down) cover them and let 
them fry rather quickly until it is a fine brown, 
then turn the other side ; leave off the cover and 
brown it nicely ; when done take them up, add a 
bit of butter to the pan, with a very little hot wa- 
ter, and put it in the dish with the chicken. 

Chickens may be fried with butter only; but it 
is apt to make them too dark colored ; lemon sliced 
thin, and browned in the pan after the chickens, 
may be served in the gravy if liked ; or dredge a 
little wheat flour into the hot fat ; stir it about with 
a spoon, then add a wineglass of hot water ; stir it 
for a few minutes, and pour it in the dish. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut off the legs and vent, cut a 
slit and take out the entrails ; cut off the hips, and 
cut it in two at the leg-joint, cut off the wings with 
as much flesh attached as possible ; split the body 
up the sides, cut the back in two and flatten the 
bone ; cut the small bone from the upper part of 
the breast, with some of the meat, rinse in cold 
water, and, unless the chickens are very young, put 
them in a stew-pan wiih water to cover them ; add 
a large teaspoonful of salt, or half a pound of 
corned pork; cut in thin slices; add a saltspoonful 



CHICKEN POT-PIE. 141 

of pepper ; cover the stew-pan and let them boil 
slowly, until tender ; skim it clear. 

Make a paste crust, or as directed for pot-pie ; 
rub butter over the sides of a pudding-pan or tin 
basin, and line it with the paste rolled to quarter of 
an inch thickness ; put in the pieces of chicken, 
and pork, if it is used ; put in butter the size of a 
small egg ; cut it small. If pork is not used, take 
twice as much butter ; dredge flour over until it is 
white ; then put in the water from the stew-pan ; if 
there is not enough to fill nearly to the top of the ■ 
pie, add more water; roll out a paste or puff paste 
crust ; cut a slit in the centre ; make three or four ' 
small incisions on either side of it ; lay skewers across 
the pie ; lay the crust over ; trim off the edges and 
bake for three quarters of an hour in a moderately 
hot oven ; ten or fifteen minutes before it is done, 
brush the top of the pie with the yolk of egg beaten 
with a little milk, and finish baking. Serve mashed 
potatoes and pickles, with meat or chicken pies. 

The edge of the pie may be ornam.ented with 
leaves cut with a tin cutter, from sheets of paste ; 
put them on twenty minutes before it is done ba- 
king. One full-grown chicken will make two, two 
quart basin pies. 

Chicken Pot-Pie. — Take a full grown chicken 
or fowl; cut it as for stewing or pie; rinse it in 
cold water, and put it in a stew-pan with hot water 
to cover it ; add half a pound of salt pork, cut in 
thin slices, if liked, or a large teaspoonful of salt; 
let it boil gently for half an hour, (unless it is a 
young chicken, when it need not be parboiled,) take 
off the scum ; make a pie or pot-pie crust ; make 
it rather more- than half an inch thick ; line the 
sides only of a dinner-pot; (if it extends too low 
down it will burn ;) put the meat in the bottom , 



142 CHICKEN PATTIES^. 

take a piece of butter, the size of a large egg, and 
cut it in small bits, put it over the meat ; not half as 
much butter will be required if pork is used ; dredge 
it white with flour ; put in the water from the stew- 
pan, and if it does not reach nearly to the top of 
the crust, add more hot water; lay skewers across 
the top ; roll out the paste ; reserve enou.2:h to co- 
ver the pie ; cut the remainder in small squares and 
drop them in the pie; then put on the top crust; 
cut a slit in the centre, and cover the pot. Set it 
over a moderate fire, to boil gently for three-quar- 
ters of an hour; then take a fork and try the top 
crust ; if it is done take the pie up. 

The side crust should be about four or five inches 
wide, and if a large pie, reach nearly to the top of 
the pot, that there may be plenty of gravy. 

To' Dish a Pot Pie. — Take up the top crust, 
with some of the gravy, take the brown crust from 
the sides on to a steak dish, then take the chicken 
on it, put gravy over it and serve. Pickles and 
mashed potatoes, are served with pot pie. 

Chickens Scolloped. — Mince some cold chick- 
en, without the skin ; make it wet with gravy, or 
hot water, season with salt and pepper ; to the 
minced meat of one chicken, put two ounces of but- 
ter, cut small. 

Rub tin scolloped pans over with butler, strew 
rolled crackers over, put the minced chicken in, 
sti'ew rolled crackers over, and bake in a hot oven 
for half an hour; when done, turn it out on a dish. 
Serve with dressed celery or pickles. 

Chicken Patties. — Prepare 3. cold roast, or 
boiled fowl, as for scolloped chicken ; line a but- 
tered tin plate with a rich pie paste, put the mince 



TUEKETS. 143 

in, and cover with a puff paste crust, cut a slit in 
the middle, and bake three-quarters of an hour in 
a moderately hot oven ; or make it in small patty- 
pans, and bake half an hour. Serve with pickles. 

Cold Iamb or vej^l may be minced and done in 
the same manner. 

A few minutes before they are done, brush them 
over with the yolk of an ego;, beaten with a little 
milk, and finish : this is called gilding. 

A Chicken Salad. — Take a fine white bunch of 
celery (four or five heads), scrape and wash it white ; 
reserve the delicate green leaves; shred the white 
part like straws, lay this, in a glass, or white china 
dish, in the form of a nest. Mince all the white 
meat of a boiled, or white stewed fowl, without the 
skin, and put it in the nest. 

Make a salad dressing tlius : — Rub the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste, with a des- 
sert spoonful of salad oil, or melted butter; add to 
it two teaspoonsful of made mustard, and a small 
teaspoonful of fine wliite sugar, and put to it grad- 
ually (stirring it in), a large cup of strong vinegar. 

Make a wreath of the most delicate leaves of the 
celery around the edge of the nest, between it and 
the chicken ; pour the dressing over the chicken, 
when ready to serve ; if the dressing is poured over 
too soon, it will discolor the celery. 

White heart lettuce may be used for the nest in- 
stead of celery. 

Turkeys. — ^To choose a turkey, follow the direc- 
tions for choosing chickens ; a hen turkey is more 
plump and round, and is best for boiling. 

A turkey should be young full grown and fat. 

The most highly esteemed mode of dressing, is 
roast or boil. 



144 , ROAST TURKEY. 

Turkeys ma}'- be stewed, and if 3'oung, fried 01 
broiled, the same as chickens. 

Roast and boiled turkeys are favorite holiday 
dishes ; turkeys are roasted or boiled the same as 
fowls. 

Roast Turkey. — Get afine plump turkey, cut off 
the vent, cut a slit from the end of the breast bone to 
it, take out the entrails, take care not to break the 
gall on the liver : should the gall break on the liver, 
it must be thrown away, no washing will take off 
the bitter ; take off the feet, and bruise the bone 
close to the foot, and draw out the string from the 
leg; cut a slit in the back of the neck, pass your 
finger around in front, and draw out the crop ; cut 
the neck short, leave skin enough to fasten over 
against the back ; wash the inside with cold water, 
"wipe it dry ; mix a tablespoonful of salt with a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, rub the inside well with this, 
and also the place of the crop ; make a stuffing as 
follows : — 

" Cut slices of wheat bread, pour hot water or 
milk over, to wet them ; to half a sixpenny loaf, 
put a quarter of a pound of butter, a teaspoonful 
of pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped sage, or 
thyme, if liked ; fill the body with some of this ; 
sew up the slit with a strong thread, and coarse 
needle ; put enough of the dressing in the crop to 
make it look full, then draw the skin of the neck 
over the back, and fasten it with a skewer, turn 
the legs close to the body, and run skewers through 
each hip joint, and with a strong thread, tie the 
ends of the legs together ; rub the outside over with 
pepper and salt, and put it evenly on the spit ; put 
a pint of hot water in the pan to baste with, (add 
more, according as it wastes,) roast it according to 



ROAST TURKEY. 145 

its weight, allowing fifteen minutes to each pound 
of meat. 

The fire must be bright and clear, and firong; 
though not fierce ; if the turkey is large, set it at a 
little distance from the fire at first, let one side be 
put to the fire first, then turn the other, basting it 
fiecly with the water in the pan ; the hips require 
the longest time to cook ; gradually turn the turkey 
and baste, so that every part may be evenly done. 
When about two-thirds done, stir up the fire, add 
quarter of a pound of butter to the pan, and baste 
the turkey with it ; dredge a little flour over, and 
turn it so that it may be nicely browned ; take care 
not to scorch the breast bone ; if necessary, skewer 
a piece of p;iper o\er it. 

While roasting, take the lieart and liver (care- 
fully cut off the gall bag,) and boil them tender, in 
water nearly to cover them ; chop them fine, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. When the turkey is 
done, strain the gravy in the pan, and put it to the 
chopped giblets in a stew-pan, dredge in a table- 
spoonful of browned flour, and strain to it some of 
the water in which the liver and heart were boiled ; 
let it simmer for a few minutes, then put it in a 
tureen, and serve with the turkey. Or if this gravy 
is not liked, dredge a little flour into the gravy in 
the pan, and set it over the fire, stir it for a few 
minutes, and if necessary, add a little hot water, 
then strain it through a gravy strainer into the 
tureen. 

Take up the roast, draw the skewers out, and 
take out the threads, lay it on a dish, on its back, 
and serve with mashed potatoes, turnips mashed, 
dressed celer}'- and pickles, stewed apples ; cold 
boiled ham or tongue for a large dinner. 

Mince pies for Christmas ; pumpkin and apple 
pies for Thanksgiving. ^ 



146 BOILED TUllKEY. 

A turkey may be stuffed with boiled potatoes 
mashed or chopped, and seasoned as directed for 
bread stuffing. Or for ordinary occasions, fat salt 
pork chopped small, may be used instead of butter. 

To Boil a Turkey. — Prepare a turkey as 
for roasting ; press the hips upward towards the 
wings, and turn the leg bones towards the back, 
tie them with a string passing over the back, secure 
the hips close to the body, by running skewers in 
at the joint, twi§t the wings over against the back, 
fill the body wnth a stuffing as follows : pour boil- 
ing water or milk on wheat bread or mashed pota- 
toes, season high w'ith pepper and salt, and if liked, 
a teaspoonful of fine sage or thyme, or a bunch of 
finely chopped parsle}^ fill the crop until it looks 
full, and turn the skin of the neck over against 
the back, and fasten it with a small skewer. 

Dredge flour over the outside, tie it in a cloth, 
and put it in a pot of hot (not boiling) water, cover 
the pot, and let it boil gently, according to its 
weight, (fifteen minutes to the pound,) take off the 
scum, serve with drawn butter, celery or pars- 
ley sauce. 

Mashed potatoes, turnips or squash, celery, 
pickles, and stewed apples, or cranberry jam, and 
cold ham or tongue, are served with boiled turkey. 

Oyster stuffing is made as above directed, adding 
a pint of fine oysters to it. Serve with oyster sauce 
poured over, or in a tureen. 

Roast or boiled turkey may be served cold for 
supper, or cold collation, with boiled ham cold, cur- 
rant or cranberry jelly, and pickles and dressed 
celery. 

Garnish with fresh water-cresses, parsley, or the 
delicate green leaves of celery. 

Fragments of cold turkey may be advantageous- 



BROWN FRICASSEE. 147 

\j used in the following manner: cut all the meat 
from the bones, chop it small ; if there remains any 
of the stuffing, put it to the meat, if not, use bread 
crumbs, twice as much as of minced turkey ; mois- 
ten it with gravy or hot water, and a bit of butter, 
season with pepper rind salt to taste, and make it 
in small patties or pics, or butter tin pie plates, put 
the mince in, and bake in a hot oven; when 
done turn it out. Or put it into a frying pan, set 
it over a gentle fire, and stir it with a spoon until it 
is thoroughly heated. 

The remains of boiled turkey may be made a 
salad, like chicken. The feet of chicken or turkey 
may be dished with a stew or fricassee ; dip them 
in boiling water until the skin will peel off, cut off 
the claws, boil them tender, and put them in the 
stew. 

Fricasseed Turkey, (White.) — Cut up a small 
young turkey, rinse it in cold water; put it in a 
stew-pan, with water to cover it; cover the stew- 
pan and set it over a gentle fire ; take off the scum 
as it rises ; add a large teaspoonful of salt when it 
is tender and white ; add a small teaspoonful of 
pepper; work a tablespoon of flour with quarter of a 
pound of sweet butter; stir it into the fricassee by 
the spoonful. Dip a bunch of parsley in hot water, 
chop it small, and put it in the stew-pan ; cover it, 
and let it simmer gently for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes; then serve with boiled rice or mashed potatoes 
for breakfast or dinner. 

Brown Fricassee. — Cut up the turkey quite 
small ; put it in a stew-pan with but little water to 
keep it from burning; if it boil$ out before the flesh 
is tender, add more hot water ; cover it closely, and 
let it boil gently until tender; take ofi the scum; 



148 ROAST GOOSE. 

put to the meat quarter of a pound of butler, a 
large teaspoonful of" salt and a teaspoonful of pep- 
per ; set it over the tire, when the butter is hot, 
dredge in a tablespoonful of wheat flour or rolled 
crackers, and let it brown nicely ; turning the pie- 
ces that each may have a fine color, then take it 
up, put a cup of boiling water to the stew-pan, stir 
it with a silver spoon, scraping the brown from the 
bottom ; let it remain over the fire until it is smooth, 
and brown ; then pour it through a gravy strainer 
over the meat. 

Serve with mashed or plain boiled potatoes for 
breakfast, or with the addition of dressed celery 
for dinner. 

To Choose a Goose. — Be careful in choosing a 
goose that it is young ; an old goose is very poor 
fare. If the skin and joints are tender, and easily 
broken with the finger, it is young ; a fat goose is 
best. 

The feet and bill of a young goose are yellow j 
in an old one they are red. 

When fresh killed the feet are pliable; if stale, 
they will be dry and stiff. 

The loose fat from the inside of a goose should be 
taken out, and the fat from the lower part of the 
back. Goose grease may be used medicinally, but 
not for eatins^. 

Some persons use it for making pie crust and for 
common molasses cake instead of other shortening. 

To Roast a Goose. — Pick it perfectly clean, 
cut off the legs at the joints, and singe it nicely; 
cut off the vent ; cut a slit from the breast bone to 
it, or across, below the breast bone ; draw out the 
entrails ; take off that leading to the vent ; take 
out all the loose fat, save the heart and liver ; cut 



ROAST GOOSE. 149 

a slit at the back of the neck, and draw out the 
crop; cut off a part of the neck, leaving enough of 
the skin to fasten over against the back ; wash the 
inside of the body with cold water; wipe it dry, 
and rub it well with a mixture of salt and pepper ; 
prepare the stuffing. 

Cut a six penny loaf of wheat bread in slices, 
pour hot water over to wet them ; then add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and the same of ground pepper, 
and quarter of a pound of sweet butter, with a table- 
spoonful of finely powdered sage or thyme if liked. 
Fill the body, then sew up the slit ; tie the ends of 
the legs together, or cut a place and put them in 
the body ; pass a skewer through the hips, put the 
heart and liver between the wings and the body, 
and fasten close to it with a skewer ; spit it, put a 
pint of water in the pan, to baste with ; have a 
bright, steady and clear fire, with a bed of coals at 
the bottom, and set the goose at a little distance at 
first until it is heated through; put a teaspoon fijl ot 
salt to the water in the pan and baste freely with 
it, after it has begun to roast ; put one side to the 
fire first, then the other ; after that the back, and 
lastly the breast, that it may be evenly done; gra- 
dually draw it nearer the fire ; when nearly done, 
stir up the fire, put quarter of a pound of butter in 
the pan, and baste with it ; dredge a little flour over 
it ; turn it that every part may be browned ; allow 
fifteen minutes for each pound of meat; it must be 
well done, which will depend on the state and man- 
agement of the fire. 

If the gravy is very fat take some of it off; put 
the pan over the fire ; let it become hot, then stir 
into it a thin batter made of a tablespoon ful of 
wheat flour and cold water, stir it until it is brown 
and smooth ; if it is thicker than is liked, add a 



150 ROAST (GO()SE. 

little boiling water, stir it in, and pour it through a 
gravy strainer into a tureen. 

A goose may be equally well dressed in a hot 
oven or stove. 

Prepare it as directed for roasting ; set a trivet 
or muffin rings in a dripping-pan and place the 
goose with its back upon the trivet or rings ; put a 
pint of hot water in the pan ; put bits of butter the 
size of a large hickory nut over the body; dredge 
wheat flour over, and set it in a thoroughly heated 
brick or stove oven ; baste it freely and often ; 
when done take it from the pan, cover it, and set it 
before the fire to keep hot ; put the pan over the 
fire, take out the rings or trivet ; add a bit of but- 
ter the size of an ego^, and when it is hot stir into 
it a thin batter made of a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour and cold water ; if too thick, add hot water to 
thin it; stir it smooth and pour through a gravy 
strainer into a tureen. A lemon sliced thin and 
fried in the gravy before putting in the batter and 
served over the goose, or put in the tureen with the 
gravy, is liked by some persons. 

The stuffing may be made of boiled potatoes, 
chopped or mashed, instead of bread, and moistened 
with milk. An onion or leek finel}' minced may be 
added to the gravy if liked. 

Half a pound of fat corned pork chopped small, 
may be put with the stuffing instead of butter for 
ordinary occasions, if preferred. 

A young goose may be cut up and made in a pie 
or pot-pie. 

An old goose may be rendered eatable thus: — 
Empty it and put it in hot water to cover it, and let 
it boil until tender, then roast iter make a fricassee. 

The vegetables to be served with roast goose are 
as follows : 



BROWX-STEW A GOOSE WHOLE. 151 

Plain bailed or mashed potatoes, mashed yellow 
turnips, or winter S(]uash, ripples stewed without 
sua;ar; or cranberry jam, boiled onions, pickles, and 
dressed celer\'. 

Dessert — Apple, pumpkin, custard or mince pies. 

To Browjt-stew a Goose Whole. — Pick a 
goose clean, singe and empty it, flatten the breast 
bone with the side of a cleaver or rolling pin ; wash 
it in cold water and take out the inside fat, rub it 
well outside and in with a mixture of salt and pep- 
per, cut off the neck, leaving enough of the skin to 
fasten over the back ; boil some potatoes and chop 
them^ small, season with pepper and salt, and if 
liked, a bunch of parslej' or a leek cut fine, or a 
tablespoonful of sage or thyme ; add quarter of a 
pound of butter and a cup of milk ; fill the body 
and sew it up ; put it in a dinner pot or iron bake 
kettle with the back downwards, put in hot (not 
boiling) water to half cover it, cover the pot or 
ketile and set it over a moderate fire, let it boil till 
tender; try ii, by sticking a fork in the most fleshy 
part ; the water will be nearly out, then add a 
quarter of a pound of sweet butter, cut small, or 
half a pound ot fat salt pork cut in thin slices; dredge 
in a tablespoonful of wheat flour, turn the goose 
over, the breast downwards, and cover the pot 
close ; set it down in front of the fire with a bed of 
coals under the pot and let it brown without burning. 
When done take it up, add a cup of hot water 
and dredge in a little flour, stir it smooth ; when it is 
nicely browned, turn it over the goose and serve, 
with plain boiled or mashed potatoes, mashed 
turnips and pickles, etc. 

To INFake a Ragout of the Preceding 
Receipt. — Whilst the goose is stewing, scrape a 



152 CHOICE OF DUCK3. 

carrot and cut it in thin slices, notch the edges neatly 
and boil them in a little water until tender, cut a leek 
in slices, dip a bunch of pardey into hot water and 
cut it small; when the breast side of the goose is 
done a fine brown turn the other down ; add the 
vegetables, cover it, and in fifteen minutes take up 
the goose ; add a small cup of hot water to the 
gravy, stir into it a tablespoonful of browned flour, 
let it boil up once, then put it over the goose and 
serve. A head of celery parboiled and cut small 
may be used in place of the leek. 

To Choose Ducks. — Ducks must be fat and 
plump and thick on tiie breast. If a duck is young 
the skin can be easily broken with the finger, and 
the feet are pliable. 

Tame ducks are prepared for the table the same 
as young geese. 

For roasting, have a hot fire and baste freely and 
often ; half an hour will be sufficient for the smallest, 
the larger in proportion. 

Wild ducks should be fat, the claws small, 
reddish and supple; if they are not fresh, on open- 
ing the beak, there will be a disagreeable smell ; 
the flesh of the hen is the most delicate. 

Pick them clean without scalding, cut the wings 
close to the body and empty it, cut off a part of the 
neck and singe them nicely. 

Having drawn wild ducks, wipe them well inside 
with a cloth, rub each outside and in with a mix- 
ture of pepper and salt ; cut a slice of wheat bread, 
dip it in hot water, spread it thick with butter, 
sprinkle pepper over, and put it in the body, sew it 
up, truss the legs close to the bod}^ and fasten them 
with skewers ; then split theiri or lay them on a 
trivet in the dripping pan ; have a bright, clear fire, 
that they may roast qiiickh'' ; put half a pint of 



CANVAS BACK DUCKS. 153 

water in the pan, put to it a teaspoonful of salt 

and an onion sliced thin, haste witii tliis for ten or 

twelve minutes (to take off the fishy taste peculiar 

to wild ducks) throw it away, put half a pint of hot 

water in its place, put in a, little pepper, basle the 

ducks with butter, dredge a little Hour over and €. 

baste with the water in the pan ; turn them that \ 

every part nnay be done. Half an hour, with a hot / 

lire and frequent basting will roast them nicely. ^ 

Serve the ducks as hot as possible. ' 

Whilst the ducks are roasting, boil the giblets 
tender in a little water; chop or mince them fine ; 
add to the mince pepper and salt, a small bit of 
butter and a teaspoonful of browned flour ; when 
the ducks are done put it in the pan with the gravy, 
^set it over the fire, stir it for a few minutes, then 
serve in a tureen. Make a glass of wine hot, 
put to it a tablespoonful of currant jelly and 
white sugar each, and serve with wild ducks, 
or put a wineglass of port in the pan ; a few 
minutes before taking them up baste the ducks 
once or twice ^vith it; add a tablespoonful of jelly 
and the gravy. 

Or, half roast wild ducks without seasoning. 
When they are brought to the table, slice the breast, 
strew over pepper and salt, pour a little port wine 
over, or squeeze the juice of an orange or lemon 
over ; add a bit of butter, the size of an egg, 
sprinkle over a teaspoonful of fine white sugar ; cut 
up the bird, and set it over a chafing dish, turn it 
that it may be nicel}^ done ; or prepare it in this 
manner and set it on coals befoii> a hot fire. 

Canvas Back Ducks. — Canvas back ducks are 
servctl in the same manner as wihl ducks, without 
the onion in the basting; as there is no disagreeable 
taste to destrov, that is not necessary. 



I5i ROAST DUCKS IN A POT. 

Canvas back clucks may be served the same as 
goose or tame duck. Roast them according to their 
size. 

To Roast Ducks in a Pot. — Draw a pair of fat 
ducks, rinse the inside with cold water, wipe it 
dry ; dip a slice of bread in hot water, spread but- 
ter thickly over it, sprinkle pepper and a little salt 
over and put one m the body of each ; sew up the 
slit ; skewer the legs and wings close to the body, 
rub pepper and salt over the outside of each, and 
lay them with the backs down, in an iron dinner 
pot or bake kettle ; put in a pint of hot water, cut 
quarter of a pound of butter in slices and put it over 
the breast of the ducks, cover the pot close and set 
it over a moderate fire for half an hour, then dredge 
a tablespoon ful of wheat flour, turn the ducks 
over and cover the pot, stir up the fire and let 
them brown nicely without burning ; about fifteen 
minutes will do them ; v/hen done take them up ; 
add a teacup of boiling water to the gravy, stir it 
smooth and pour it over the ducks and serve. 

If t[ie ducks are done in an iron bake kettle, with 
coals and ashes on the lid, they will not require to 
be turned. 

A lemon sliced thin, and put in the gravy before 
the water, or a glass of wine, and a spoonful of 
jelly, instead of water, may be considered an im- 
provement. 

Ducks may be cut up, and stewed, or roasted, 
in ihis way, or they may be fried like chickens. 

Wild duck requires less time to cook than tame. 

PiGKOxs. — Pigeons should be fresh killed ; when 
in g«od order, they are plump on the breast, and fat 
at the vent, and the feet are pliable. When stale, 



FRIED PIGEONS. 155 

the vent is loose and open, and has a greenish with- 
ered appearance. 

Wild pigeons, when fat, are preferred to tame. 
Empt3\ and truss pigeons, the same as chick- 
^ ens or ducks ; roast, broil, fry, or stew them, accord- 
ing to the following several directions. 

To Broil Pigeons. — Split young pigeons down 
the back, take out the entrails; broil the heart* 
take out the breast bone, or flatten it, and lay them 
on a hot gridiron 1[ihe inside to the fire,) over a 
fire of bright coals; put a tin cover over, and" let 
them broil briskly ; when nearly cooked through, 
take otf the cover, stir up the coals, and turn the 
pigeons, and let them brown nicely ; if necessary, 
add fresh coals; for half a dozen young pigeons, put 
a quarter of a pound of butter on a plate, add to it a 
small tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of 
pepper; work them together, put the broil on, turn 
each piece once or twice in the gravy, and serve 
hot. 

Large tame pigeons are cut in two at the back, 
and breast, lor broiling, or frying. 

" To Fry Pigeons. — Pick pigeons clean, split 
them open down the back, and take out the en- 
trails, and if large, cut them in two at the breast ; 
rub each piece over, wiih salt and pepper, mixed ; 
make some beef dripping, or lard and butter, (e<pial 
parts) hot, in a frying-pan, dip each piece of pigeon 
in wheat flour, or rolled cracker, put them in the 
pan, with the inside down ; cover the pan, and 
let them fry cpiicklv, until one side is a fine brown, 
anil nearly cooked through ; then lake off the cover, 
and turn the other side ; when both are done, take 
them on a hot steak dish, j)ut a small bit of butter 
on each, sprinkle a little pepper over, put a table 



156 bird's nest. 

spoonful of hot water in the pan, let it boi. up once, 
and put it in the dish ; serve hot- 

A few thin slices of fat corned pork, may be 
broiled, or fried, and served with the pigeons ; no 
other salt will be required. 

Shces of bread nicely toasted, with the outside 
crust cut off, may be put in the dish under a fry oi 
broil. 

PiGEOxs Stewed, (white.) — Cut off the vent, 
cut a slit from the breast bone to it, take out the 
entrails ; rinse the inside, and rub the pigeons out- 
side and in, with a mixture of salt and pepper ; 
make stuffing as for chickens ; fasten the legs close 
to the bodv, and twist the wings against the back, 
and put them in a dinner-pot on their backs, with 
the necks in the centre of the pot; put in hot wa- 
ter nearly to cover them, cover the pot close, and 
set it over a moderate fire for half an hour, skim 
it, then add quarter of a pound of butter, with a 
tablespoonful ot" wheat flour worked into it, a small 
tablespoonful of salt, (for half a dozen pigeons,) and 
a teaspoonful of pepper, with a bunch of green 
parsly cut small, cover it, and let them simmer for' 
twenty minutes, then serve them in their gravy. 

Serve dressed celery and pickles with them. 

Pigeons may be cut up and stewed in the same 
manner in less time. 

The feet may be left on ; hold them in boiling 
water until the skin will easily peel off, cut off tho 
toes at the first joint, cross them, and fasten them 
together below the breast. 

Pigeons may be stuffed and trussed in this way, 
for roasting. 

To Make a Bird's Nest. — Boil some yellow 
macaroni gently, until it is quite swelled out and 



STEW PIGEONS BROWN". 157 

tender, then cut it in pieces, the length of a finger, 
and lay them on a dish like a straw nest. 

Truss pigeons with the heads on, (having scalded 
and picked them clean,) turned under the left wing, 
leave the feet on, and having stewed them, arrange 
them as in a nest ; pour the gravy over and serve. 

The nest may be made of boiled rice, or bread 
cut in pieces, the length and thickness of a finger, 
and fried a nice brown in hot lard, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Or, make it of bread, toasted a yel- 
low brown. Any small birds may be stewed or 
roasted, and served in this way. 

To Stew Pigeons Brown. — Pick the pigeons, 
and take out the entrails ; into a bit of butter the 
size of a small egg, work a small teaspoonful ot 
pepper, and a very little salt; having rinsed the 
inside of each pigeon with cold water, and wiped 
it dry, put in the butter, sew up the slit, draw the 
legs together below the breast bone, tie them with 
a thread ; rub salt and pepper over the outside of 
each, and put them the backs downward and necks 
in the centre, into an iron dinner pot or baking ket- 
tle, with a pint of hot water ; cover them close, set 
the pot or kettle over a moderate fire for half an 
hour for young pigeons, or until tender for old ones, 
then skim them, dredge in a tablespoonful of wheat 
flour, and to half a dozen of pigeons, put quarter ol 
a pound of butter, and a small teaspoonful of pep- 
per, cover the pot, and set it over a bright lire to 
brown, turn them that they may brown nicely on 
the breast ; when done take them up, add a cup of 
boiling water to the gravy, dredge a teaspoonful of 
browned flour into it, stir it smooth, and let it boil 
up once, then pour it through a gravy strainer over 
the stew, and serve. 

Thin slices of bread toasted delicately brown^ 



t69 PIGEON PIE. 

may be laid on the disli under the stew. Any 
small birds may be stewed in this manner, requir- 
ing less time in proportion to tiieir size. 

Pigeons may be cut in halves and stewed 
brown. 

A brown stew may be made in the following 
manner: take half a pound of nicely corned fal 
pork, cut it in thin slices, and pnt it down in the 
pot under the birds ; when the water is nearly out, 
and the meat begins to brown, dredge in a little 
flour, and turn them so as to brown the birds, add 
a bit of butter the size of an egg, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper; when they are nicely browned, take 
them up, add a little hot water to the gravy, stir it 
smooth ; strain it over the birds, and serve. 

A few slices of lemon may be put in the pot with 
the pepper and butter, and served in the grav}^, if 
liked 

Pigeon Pie. — Clean and truss three or four 
.pigeons, rub the outside and in with a mixture of 
pepper and salt ; rub the inside with a bit of but- 
ter, and fill it with a bread and butter stuffing, or 
mashed potatoes ; sew up the slit, butter the sides 
of a tin basin or pudding dish, and line (the sides 
only,) with pie paste, rolled to quarter of an inch 
thickness ; lay the birds in ; for three large tame 
pigeons, cut quarter of a pound of sweet butter and 
put it over them ; strew over a large teaspoonful of 
salt, and a small teaspoonful of pepper, with a 
bunch of finely cut parsley, if liked; dredge a 
large tablespoonful of wheat flour over; put in 
water to nearly fill the pie ; lay skewers across the 
top, cover with a puff" paste crust ; cut a slit in the 
middle, ornament the edge with leaves, braids, or 
shells of paste, and put it in a moderately hot or 
quick oven, for one hour ; when nearly done, brush 



noAST piGEoJrs. 159 

the top over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a 
little milk, and finish. 

The pifjeons for this pie may be cut in two or 
more pieces, if preferred. 

Any small birds may be done in this manner. 

.Pigeon Pot-pie. — Clean the pigeons, cut each 
m two, and finish, the same as chicken pot-pie. 

Roast Pigeons. — Clean the pigeons, and stuff 
them the s;ime as chickens; leave the feet on, dip 
them into scalding water, strip off the skin, cross 
them, and tie them together below the breast bone; 
or cut them off*; the head m;iy remain on ; if so, 
dip it in scalding water, and pick it clean ; twist 
the wings back, put the liver between the right 
wing and the body, and turn the head under the 
other ; rub the outside of each biid with a mixture 
of pepper and salt; spit them, and put some water 
in the dripping-pan ; for each bird put a bit of but- 
ter the size of a small egg, put them before a hot 
(ire, and let them roast quickly; baste frequently, 
half an hour will do them ; when nearly done, 
dredge them with wheat ffour, and baste with the 
butter in the pan ; turn, them, that they may be 
nicely and evenly browned ; when done, take them 
up, set the pan over the fire, make a ihin batter of 
a teaspoonful of wheat flour, and cold water, when 
the gravy is boiling hot, stir it in ; continue to stir 
it for a few minutes, until it is brown, then pour it 
through a gravy sieve into a tureen, and serve with 
,the pigeons. 

Currant jelly, or apples stewed w-ithout sugar, 

dressed celery, or any other salad, and mashed tur- 

,nips or squash, may be served widi roast birds. 

^ Pigeons or small birds roasted, may be dished 

thus: lay some small slices of nicel}' toasted bread 



160 PIGEON CUTLETS. 

on a dish, pour the gravy over, lay a pigeon or bird 
on eacl'j, and serve 

Pigeons may be roasted in a hot stove oven ; pre- 
paie ihem as directed ; lay them on a wire stand 
or trivet in a dripping-pan ; baste and finish as be- 
fore directed. 

Ivoast quickly and baste very frequentl}', that 
the}'' may be nicely done and juicy. 

Pigeon Cutlets. — Divide the pigeons in halves 
down the breast and back; turn the toot inward so 
that it may appear like the bone of a chop ; rub 
each over with salt and pepper mixed ; dip them 
in wheat flour or rolled crackers, and fry with sli- 
ces of fit corned pork or sweet lard or beet' dripping, 
let the fat become hot in the pan before putting the 
pieces in ; put the inside down first ; put a tin cover 
over and fry quickly. When this is done nearly 
through, turn the other and let it brown ; then take 
them up, put half a wine-glass of hot water in the 
pan, add a piece of butter the size of an egg ; let 
it become boiling hot; stir in a teaspoonful of 
brovvned flour; let it remain over the fire tor a few 
minutes, then put it in the dish and serve ; or make 
the gravy by putting a bit of butter in the pan, 
after taking up the try; let it become hot; add a 
teaspoonful of hot water and turn it into the dish. 
Port or Madeira wine may used in the gravy in- 
stead of water, and currant jelly served w-ith it, or 
a tablespoonful served into it. Or a lemon cut in 
slices and fried may l)e served with the cutlets- 
Pigeon cutlets may be broiled and served with 
or without jelly. 

Woodcock, snipe, partridges, quails, etc., may be 
dressed the same as pigeons. The pheasant or 
prairie hen, which is the same, or nearly resembles 
it, may be served the same as chickens. 



TO KEEP GAME FROM TAINTING. 161 

To Broil Small Birds. — Small birds should be 
carefully picked that the skin may not be torn; for 
frying or broiling, split them down the back, spread 
them fiat, and broil very gently over a bright fire 
of coals ; put the inside first to the fire, let them be 
done nearly througli before turning ; brown the other 
side nicely ; then take them on to a hot dish, butter 
them, put a very little salt and pepper over and 
serve quickly. 

When it is not convenient to broil birds, they 
may be done verj'' nicely in a pan thus : — spht them 
as directed for broiling ; put a bit of butter in a 
frying-pan, let it become hot, and having rubbed 
the bird over with a little pepper and salt and rolled 
crackers, put them in the pan and fry them nicely ; 
add a tablespoonful of hot water to the gravy, put 
it in the dish, and serve. 

To Keep Game from Tainting. — Game may 
often be made fit for eating when apparently spoiled 
b}'' nicely cleaning it and washing with vinegar and 
water. 

If you have birds which you fear will not keep, 
pick and empty them; rinse them., and rub them 
over with salt outside and in; have in readiness 
a kettle of boiling water, and plunge them in 
one by one, holding them by the legs and draw- 
ing them up and down, so that the water may pass 
through them, let them remain in for five or six 
minutes, then hang them in a cool place ; when 
perfectly drained, rub them outside and in with 
black pepper. 

The most delicate birds may be preserved in 
this way. Thoroughly wash them before roasting 
or otherwise cooking them. 

Pieces of charcoal put about meat or birds, will 

II 



1G2 ROAST BIRDS. 

preserve them from taint and restore wliat is 
spoiling. I'oultry or birds drawn and wiped dry, 
and a bit ot" charcoal put into ilie body and o\er 
the outside of eacii, will keep them nicely, or they 
may be kept in a box lined with ziucnnd i)its oi' ico 
between them. Pe])per keeps them secure from Hies. 

To Roast Birds. — Pick and empty them, (Eu- 
ropeans do not take out tiie entrails tiom birds of 
several kinds; but lew Americans have arrived at 
that state of refinement, therelbre no recei])t will be 
given lor dressing them, without so doing.) Put a bit 
of butter and pepper and salt worked into the body, 
or fill with mashed potatoes, .seasoned with a bit of 
butter, pepper and salt, and moistened with milk ; 
cut ofi' the pinions at the first joint; press the legs 
close to the ribs, and turn the head backward, 
sticking the bill between the leg and the bod}' ; rub 
each over with pepper and sail, a«d hang them on 
bird s[)its, and set them belbre a hoi Hre ; baste 
with a cup of water and butter; dredge Hour or 
rolled cracker over, and baste continuallv for the 
last live minutes ; lay slices of toast under to catcli 
the dripping, and serve under the birds. 

Small biids may be prepared as t(>r roasting, and 
broiled whole .so as to resemble a roast. Have a 
good bed of bright coals; set the gridiron rathei 
high over it ; put the birds on, with the back down 
for a few minutes; then turn the sides and breast 
that they may be evenly done ; keep them covered 
with a tin cover; stir up the coals occasionally ; 
when about half done, put the gridiron nearer the 
lire to brown the birds; when done, take them on 
a hot dish, butter them, and serve hot. 

Rabbits, Haues, and Squirrels. — Rabbits 



RABBITS, HARES, A^'D SQUIRRELS. 163 

hares, and squirrels are chosen, dressed, and cook- 
ed, in like manner. 

Tliese should not bo cooked a^ soon as killed 
one direction will be given, which will serve for 
either. 

Cut a hare or rabbit open down the belly, take 
out the entrails, snve the liver, wipe the inside dry, 
and rub it over with pepper, then hang it in a cool 
dry place. 

The ears of an old hare are dry and tough, and 
the claws blunt ; in a young one, the ears are ten- 
der and pliable, and the claws sharp and smooth. 

When wanted for dressing, cut off the fore legs 
at the tirst joint, raise the skin of the back and draw 
it" over the hind legs; leave the tail whole, then 
draw the skin over the back and slip out the fore 
legs ; cut the skin from the neck and heati, skin 
the ears, and leave them on ; clean the vent, cut 
the sinews under the legs, bring them forwaid ; run 
a skewer through one hind leg, through the body 
and the other hind leg ; do the same with the fore 
legs ; lay the head rather back, put a skewer in 
at the mouth, through the back of the head, and 
between the shoulders; rinse the inside, wipe it 
dry, rub it with a little pepper and s;dt, and fill it 
with a bread stuffing, or with boiled potatoes, 
mashed and seasoned the same as bread stuffing; 
sew up the body, or tie a cord around to keep in 
the stuffinof, let it secure the lees also in their 
places ; it is now ready for roasting ; finish the 
same as for fowls. 

In skinning rabbits, cut off the ears, before boil 
ing, hold the head in a pot of boiling water, which 
will prevent the disagreeable appearance they oth- 
erwise have. 

Boil the same as fowl, or turkey according to 



164 KEEP EGGS. 

their weight ; serve the same sauce and vegetables 
with it. 

They may be broiled, stewed, or fried the same 
as chickens, or pigeons ; or made a soup. 

Squirrels, after having been split and skinned, 
may be broiled, fried, or stewed ; they are best 
broiled. 



EGGS, OMLETS. &c. 

To Choose Eggs. — Fresh eggs when held to the 
light, the white will look clear, and the yolk dis- 
tinct ; if not good, they will have a clouded ap- 
pearance. 

When eggs are stale, the white will be thin and 
watery, and the yolk will not \fe a uniform color, 
when broken ; if there is no mustiness, or disa- 
greeable smell, eggs in this state, are not unfit for 
making cakes, puddings, etc. 

Eggs for boiling should be as fresh as possible ; 
a new laid egg will generally recommend itself, by 
the delicate transparency of its shell. 

Eggs may be kept fresh for several weeks, by 
packing them, the small end downwards, in bran 
or chaff; keep them in a cool place. A refrigera- 
tor, or ice-box, will keep eggs as when first laid for 
a long time. 

To Keep Eggs. — Take fresh laid eggs, dip 
each one in melted lard, or beef fat, or rub a bit 
of butter thoroughly over the shell, between the 
hands ; then pack them, tiie small end downwards, 
in bran, or chaff"; in this way they will keep good 
for months. 



BOILED EGGS. 165 

Eggs may be kept good for a year, In the follow- 
ing manner : — 

To a pail of \vater, put of unslacked lime and 
coarse salt each a pint ; keep it in a cellar, or cool 
place, and put the eggs in, as fresh laid as possible. 

It is well to keep a stone pot of this lime water 
ready to receive the egirs as soon as laid ; make a 
fresh supply every few months. This lime water 
is of exactly the proper strength ; strong lime water 
will cook the eggs. Very strong lime water will 
eat the shell. 

For making omlets, or frying eggs, it is best to 
have an omlet pon, which is thick-bottomed, and 
about six inches in diameter, or across ; this is best 
also for pan-cakes, or fritters, or for frying oysters ; 
the small size of the pan, enables you to turn the 
omlet, or pan-cai<e, without danger of breaking ; 
and the thick bottom regulates the heat, so that 
fritters, etc., may be sufficiently done without burn- 

For turning omlets, fried oysters, fried parsley, 
&c., have a skimmer spoon, which is a flat thin 
blade, with holes or perforations, that the fry may 
be taken up without the flit. 

To Boil Eggs, in their shells. — Wash the shells 
clean in cold water before boiling ; have a stew- 
pan of boiling water, into which put the eggs ; keep 
It boiling — four minutes for very soft — five, that the 
yolk only may be soft — six minutes will boil the 
yolk hard, for eating. Eight minutes are required 
to boil eggs for salad, or garnish. When done, 
take them from the boiling water, into a basin of 
cold water, which will prevent the yolk turning 
dark or black. 

Boiled eggs will become harder, from the heat 
of the shell, if they lay a few minutes before break- 



166 BOILED EGGS. 

ing ; if they are not to be served immediately, take 
them up a minute sooner than otherwise, and put 
them into a dish with a cover; in this way they 
will keep hot for ten or fifteen minutes, and be- 
come but little harder. If the water is kept fast 
boihtig after the eggs are in, one minute less will 
do them, than if otherwise. 

A more delicate way of eggs in the shells is this: 
Have a stew-pan of pure water, boiling hot, put the 
eggs in, cover the stew-pan without putting it over 
the (ire ; five minutes will do then tor those who 
like soft eggs, and a minute or two longer lor those 
who like them harder. The white of eggs boiled 
in this way is more like poached eggs ; less firm 
than in the other manner. 

If eggs are boiled in an egg boiler at table, let 
the water be boiling hot when they are put in, and 
replenish it when more .are wanted ; five minutes 
will be required when the white is wanted soft, six 
when the yolk onlv is to be soft. 

The most healthful and delicate way of cooking 
eggs is to poach them thus — have a clean stew-pan 
with boiling hot water, add to it a little salt; break 
the eggs one at a time into a cup, and from it slip 
them iiitft boiling water; when the white is set and 
firm, which it will be after about five minutes, lake 
each up with a skimmer, and lay them into a dish 
over a pot of boiling water ; cover the dish ; whea 
all are done, put a bit of butter, and if liked, sprin- 
kle pepper over them, and serve; in this way they 
muy be kept hot and soft for a long time, so that you 
may do anv number of them. 

After boiling eggs as directed for garnishing; ; 
when they are quite cold, take ofl" the sltell, and 
cut them lengtli.wise in two; then cut each liidf in 
two or three. This looks well o\er spinach or let- 
tuce or boiled fish ; or cut them in slices across ; or 



OMLETS. 167 

the white may be cut in long slips, and the yolk in 
slices or quarters. 

Eggs Poached in Balls. — Put throe pints of 
boiling water into a stew-p;m: set it on a hot stovf 
or coals; stir the water with n stick until it runs ra^ 
pidly around, then having broken an egc^ into a cuj 
— taking care not to break the yolk — drop it into 
die whirling water, continue to stir it until the egg 
is cooked ; then take it into a dish with a skimmer 
and set it over a pot of boiling water; boil one at 
a time, until you have enough. These will remain 
soft tor a long time. 

Omelet au Natural. — Break eiglit or ten eggs 
into a basin ; adtl a smnll teaspoonful of salt and a 
httle pepper, with a t;d)lespoi)nful of cold water; 
beat the whole well with a spoon or whisk. In 
the meantime put some fresh sweet butter into an 
omlel p;i.n, and when it is nearly Irol, put in an om- 
let; whilst it is frying, with a skimmer spoon raise 
the edges from the pan that it mny be properly done. 
When the egijs are set and one side is a fine brown, 
double it half over and serve hot. These omlets 
should be put quite thin in the pan ; the butter re- 
quired for each will be about the size of a small (^gg- 

Stirred eggs. — Break eight or more eggs into a 
basin, add to them a tablespoonful sweet butter, 
cat into bits and a teaspoonful of salt, make a little 
bit of butter hot in a frying pan, pour in the eggs 
and let them cook. Stir them with a silver spoon 
until they are just set without becoming hard or 
brown ; serve over toast. 



Fkekch Omelet. — Break eight eggs into a basin, 



168 DUTCH OMLET. 

Beason with a small teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
pepper, and if liked mace oi' nutmeg ; add two ta- 
)lespoonfuls of milk or cream ; two ounces of but- 
ter broke in bits, and a little parsley cut small, if 
[kod, also a finely chopped shalot or while onion 
,'ell washed. 
Beat these ingredients well together with a spoon, 
^put an ounce of butter in a frying pan, let it become 
boiling hot, and pour the omlet in about half an inch 
thick ; as it is cooking continue to stir it with a spoon, 
drawing it from the sides to the centre, that it may 
be evenly done ; shake the pan now and then to 
free the outlet from it ; let it fry gently ; when it is 
a fine clear brown, turn it into a dish, and serve. 

An Omelet. — Take a rich meat gravy, beat eggs 
light and put them to it; beat them well together, 
make a tablespoon ful of salted lard hot in a frying- 
pan ; put in the omlet half an inch thick and Iry it 
a delicate brown. When one side is done turn it 
out on a dish. 

llAii Omelet. — Chop some fat and lean ham quite 
fine ; beat up six or eight eggs, and stir the ham, (a 
teacupful) into them ; have a tablespoonful of lard 
made hot in an omlet pan ; put in the omlet and fry 
it gently. Slip a knife around the edge occasion- 
ally, that it may be done nicely ; then turn it on a 
dish. Or, you may make it nearly an inch thick, 
and when one side is done, turn it and let it brown. 

Spanish Omelet. — Make with chopped ham as 
above directed, add to it two small white oinions 
=■ finely minced, and finish as directed. 

Dutch Omelet. — Break eight eggs into a basin, 
season whh pepper and salt, add two ounces of 



SMOKED BEEP. 169 

1)utter cut small, beat these well together, make an 
ounce of butter hot in a fr\'ing-pan, put the eggs in, 
continue to stir it, drawing it away from the sides, 
that it may be evenly done, shake it now and then 
to fioe it from the pan ; when the under side is a 
little browned, turn the omlet into a dish, and 
serve ; this must be done over a moderate fire. 

Smoked Beef with Eggs. — Cut some smoked 
beef in thin shavings or chips, put them into a fry- 
ing-pan, and nearly fill it with hot water; set it on 
the fire, and let it boil up once, then pour it ofF; 
add to the beef a good bit of lard, twice the size of 
an egg, for half a pound of the beef; shake a little 
pepper over, and let it fry for a few minutes over 
a quick fire; then break two, three, or more eggs 
into it ; stir them together until the eggs are done, 
then turn it on to a dish. 

Or after frying the beef with a little wheat flour 
dredged over, fry eggs, and serve with it the same 
as ham. 

Omelet — May be made of smoked beef chipped 
thin, first taking off the outside skin; finish as di- 
rected for ham omlet. 

A Nice Breakfast of Smoked Beef. — Pare 

ofFthe outside skin of the beef, and shave it thin, 

then put it in a pan, and if very salt, pour boiling 

water over it, let it remain for a few minutes, then 

throw it off; add to the beef a large tablespoonful 

of lard, to half a pound of it ; shake a little pepper 

over, set it over the fire, when it begins to fry nicely, 

dredge over a heaping teaspoouful of wheat flour; 

put to it a teacup of boiling water, stir it togethei 

over the fire for a few minutes ; when the gravy is 

thick, it is done. 

II 



170 PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 

Have two or three slices of bread toasted a deli- 
cate, bnnvn, cut them in small squares or lozenges, 
anil put them into a deep dish, tlien pour the beef 
and gnivy over; a small bit of butter may be put 
to it before putting it over the toast. 

Frizzed Beef. — Pare off the outside skin of 
the beef, and cut some thin small slices or chips, 
put them on a gridiron over a bright, clear fire of 
coals, when tljey are hot and crisp, take them on 
to a hot dish, with butter and pepper, and serve. 

To Serve Smoked Beef. — Cut off the outside 
skin, shave the beef thin, and lay it lightly on a 
plate, and serve for tea. 

After a piece of smoked beef has been cut, keep 
it folded in a coarse paper, and hang it up. 

If smoked beef or mutton, or venison hams 
(which are served in the same manner,) is carefully 
cut evenly across, instead of cutting it carelessly 
at one side, it will cut to better advantage, and 
last lonofer. 



VEGETABLES. 



To Preserve Vegetables for Winter 
Use. — Green stringed beans must be picked when 
young; put a layer three inches deep, in a small 
wooden keg or half barrel; sprinkle in salt an inch 
deep; then put another layer of beans, then salt, 
aiiil beans and salt in alternate layers, until you 
ha\e eii'iugh ; let the last be salt, cover thrm with a 



VEGETABLES. 171 

piece of board which will fit the inside of the bar- 
rel or ke<jj : and place a heavy weight upon it; 
ihey will make a brine. 

When wanted for use, soak them one night or 
more in plenty of water, changing it once or twice, 
until the salt is out of them, then cut them, and 
boil the same as when fresh. 

Carrots, beans, beet-roots, parsnips, and pota- 
toes, keep best in dry sand or earth in a cellar; 
turnips keep best on a cellar bottom, or they may 
be kept ttie same as carrots, etc. Whatever earth 
remains about them when taken from the ground, 
should not be taken off. 

When sprouts come on potatoes or other stored 
vejiretables, thev should be carefullv cut off. The 
young sprouts from turnips are sometunes served as 
a salad, or boiled tender in salt and water, and 
served with butter and pepper over. 

Celery may be kept all winter by setting it in 
boxes filled with earth; keep it in the cellar; it 
will grow and whiten in the dark ; leeks may also 
be kept in this way. 

Cabbage set out in earth, in a good cellar, will 
keep good and fresh all winter. Small close heads 
of cabbage may be kept many weeks, by taking 
them before the frost comes, and laying them on a 
stone fioor ; this will whiten them, and make them 
tender. 

Store onions are to be strung, and hung in a dry, 
cold place. 

Pumpkin may be kept for use, thus : — Cut it 
up, take off the skin, and take out the seeds ; put 
a teacup of water, to a common size pumpkin, and 
stew it to a mash, over a slow fire ; let it dry as 
much as it will, without burning; then take it up, 
spread it in pans, or make it in thin cakes, and dry 
it in a liot sun, or cool oven, after baking ; when 



172 VEGETABLES. 

wanted for use, slew it in nriilk, or pour hot rnilk 
over it, and let it dissolve — then add eggs, &c., for 
pies. Pumpkins may be kept for a long time, on 
frames, in a good dry cellar ; or they may be cut 
up, and dried the same as apples. They are then 
to be stewed with very little water, and used the 
same as fresh pumpkin. 

Parsley should be cut when tender, and a deli- 
cate green ; then pack it down in sweet butter ; 
one pound of butter will be enough for quarter of a 
peck of parsley ; this butter may be uset^in drawn 
butter, or sauce, or for frying, or fricassee. In this 
wa}'-, parsley may be kept perfectly green, and 
fresh, all winter. 

Most vegetables require to be well washed, in 
plenty of water. Green vegetables are good, in 
proportion as they are young, and fresh gathered. 

Spinach, cucumbers, new potatoes, beets, and 
turnips, should be put in cold water some time be- 
fore cooking, or dressing. 

Old Potatoes, to hoil. — Wash them clean, in 
two or three waters, take off a bit of the skin from 
each end, the size of a two shilling piece, or cut off' 
a ring lengthwise, from end to end ; then put them 
into a stew-pan, or pot, and pour boiling water 
over, to cover them ; add a teaspoonful of salt, and 
cover the pot close ; let them boil fast for half an 
hour, for small ones, or three-quarters of an hour 
for large ; when done, take them up, or pour the 
water oft", and let them set for two or three minutes 
to dry off"; then take the skins off, and serve lliem 
plain, in a covered dish. 

When old potatoes are not ver}' fine, take off all 
the skin, and lay them in cold water, for an hour 
before boiling ; skim the pot whilst boiling potatoes. 



BOIL NEW POTATOES. 173 

Mashed Potatoes. — Potatoes are not good for 
mashing, until they are full grown ; peel them, and 
lay ihein in water, for an hour or more, before boil- 
ing, for mashing. 

Old potatoes, when unfit for plain boiling, may be 
served mashed ; cut out all imperfections, take off 
all the skin, and lay them in cold water, for one 
hour, or more ; then put them into a dinner-pot, or 
stew-pan, with a teaspoonful of salt ; cover the 
stew-pan, and let them boil for half an hour, unless 
they are large, when three-quarters of an hour will 
be required ; when they are done, take them up 
with a skimmer into a wooden bowl or tray, and 
mash them fine with a potato beetle ; melt a piece 
of butter, the size of a large egg, into half a pint 
of hot milk ; mix it with the mashed patotoes until 
it is thoroughly incorporated, and a smooth mass ; 
then put it in a deep dish, smooth the top over, and 
mark it neatly with a knife ; put pepper over, and 
serve. The quantity of milk used, must be in pro- 
portion to the quantity of potatoes. 

Mashed potatoes may be heaped on a flat dish ; 
make it in a crown, or pine apple ; stick a sprig of 
green celer}^ or parsley, in the top ; or, first brown 
it before the fire, or in an oven. 

Mashed potatoes may be made a highly orna- 
mental dish ; after shaping it, as taste may direct, 
trim the edge of the plate with a wreath of celery 
leaves, or green parsley ; or first brown the outside 
in an oven, or before the fire. 

To Boil New Potatoes. — Scrape the skins 
from new potatoes, and lay them in cold water, for 
Ian hour or more; then put them into a stew-pan, 
or dinner-pot, and pour boiling water over, to cover 
them ; add a teaspoonful of salt, cover the pot, or 
pan, let them boil iast for half an hour ; try one, if 



174 FRIED POTATOES. 

not o^iiile done, cover for a few mimites. then drnin 
the wnter off; let them stand for a few minutes 
over tlie fire ; take them into a deep dish, put a bit 
of butter and pepper over, and serve covered. 

Potatoes in Haste. — A very nice little dish 
may be made of cold boiled potatoes, in a ver}'' few 
minutes. Having peeled, cut them in slices, half 
an inch thick, put them in a stew-pan, pour boiling 
water over them ; cover the stew-pan, and set it 
over the fire for ten minutes ; then drain off all the 
water, add a small bit of butter, shake pepper 
over, and serve hot. 

Or, having cut the potatoes in slices, put them in 
a stew-pan, cover them with milk; cover the stew- 
pan and set it over the fire for five minutes. "Work 
a large teaspoon ful of butter with a small one of 
flour, and put it to the potatoes ; shake a little pep- 
per over, and add a little parsley cut fine, if liked. 
Cover the stew-})an for ten minutes, then turn the 
potatoes into a deep dish, and serve for breakfast. 

Potatoes may be pared and cut in slices and 
boiled in water with a little salt for twenty minutes, 
then served with butter and pepper over ; or work 
a teaspoon ful of wheat fiourwith a small bit of but- 
ter, and put it to the potatoes a. few minutes before 
the}' are done ; then shake a little pepper over and 
serve. 

Fried Potatoes. — Boil some potatoes in their 
skins ; when cold, peel them and cut them in slices, 
quarter of an inch thick ; put a large tablespoonful 
of lard or beef dripping into a frying pan, and set 
it over the fire ; add pepper and salt according to 
the quantity of potatoes, (a teaspoonful of salt and 
a salispoonful of pepper to a dozen small sized po- 
tatoes,) when it is boiling hot, put in enough sliced 



ROASTED POTATOES. 175 

potatoes to cover the bottom of the pan , as soon as 
one side is a dehcate brown, turn the other ; when 
both are done, take them into a hot dish ; then fry 
more : when all are done, put to them a little of the 
fat in which they were fried, and serve. 

Care is necessary in frying potatoes that they are 
nicely and delicately browned, without being burned 
or cooked to a crisp ; for breakfast or supper, fried 
potatoes are much liked. 

l^otatoes may be fried with less time or trouble 
thus : peel them and chop them small, make some 
lard hot in the pan; add salt and pepper as before 
directed, then put the potatoes in ; turn them that 
they may be nicely browned. Serve in a covered 
dish. 

Hashed Potatoes. — Peel and chop some cold 
boiled potatoes, and put them into a stew-pan with 
a ver}'' little milk or water to moisten them ; put to 
them a small bit of butter and pepper and salt, to 
taste; cover the stew -pan* close, and set it over a 
gentle fire for fifteen or twenty minutes ; stir them 
once or twice whilst cooking. Serve hot for break- 
fast. 

Baked Potatoes. — Take as many large and 
equal sized potatoes as you wish ; wash them per- 
fectly clean in two or three changes of water, then 
wipe them dry, and put them in a quick oven for 
one hour ; serve with cold butter, pepper and salt. 

Roasted Potatoes. — Wash perfectly clean as 
many potatoes of equal size as you wish ; make 
clean a place on a hot hearth where wood is burnt, 
lay the potatoes down and cover them with hot 
ashes; if not very near the fire add fresh embers 
occasionally ; half an hour or three quarters wilJ 



176 BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

roast them, according to their size ; when done 
wipe them clean, and serve with cold butter, salt 
and pepper. Serve with cold meat for breakfast, 
dinner or supper. 

Broiled Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
in slices lengthwise, quarter of an inch thick ; dip 
each slice in wheat flour, and lay them on a grid- 
iron over a bright fire of coals; when both sides are 
browned nicely, take them on a hot dish, put a bit 
of butter, pepper and salt to taste over, and serve 
hot. 

Sweet or Carolina Potatoes. — The best 
sweet potatoes are from the southern states ; those 
raised in New Jersey are not nearly as sweet as 
those from the south. 

The best manner of serving sweet potatoes is 
roasted or baked. 

To Bake Sweet Potatoes. — Wash them per- 
fectly clean, wipe them dry, and bake in a quick 
oven, according to their size — half an hour for quite 
small size, three-quarters for larger, and a full hour 
for the largest. Let the oven have a good heat, 
and do not open it, unless it is necessary to turn 
them, until they are done. 

Roasted Sweet Potatoes. — Having washed 
them clean, and wiped them dry, roast them on a 
hot hearth as directed for common potatoes ; or put 
them in a dutch oven, or tin reflector. Roasted or 
baked potatoes should not be cut, but broken open 
and eaten from the skin, as from a shell. 

To Boil Sweet Potatoes. — Wash them per- 
fecdy clean, put them into a pot or stew-pan, and 



SUMMER SQUASH. 177 

pour boiling water over to cover them ; cover the 
pot close, and boil fast for half an hour ; or more if 
the potatoes are large ; try them with a fork ; when 
done, drain off the water, take off the skins, and 
serve. 

Gold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices across 
or lengthwise, and fried or broiled as common po- 
tatoes ; or they may be cut in half and served cold. 

Sweet potatoes are made pie of, the same as* 
pumpkin pie. 

YoujJG Turnips. — Cut off the green leaves ot 
new turnips, leaving an inch or more of the stalks ; 
pare them, and trim them neatly, then put them 
into a pot of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of 
salt ; cover the pot, and let them boil fast for half 
an hour, or until perfectly tender; put butter and 
pepper over, and serve hot. Or serve with drawn 
butter over. 

RuTA Baga — Or large winter turnip, may be 
cut in quarters or slices, and boiled with meat, and 
served with a little butter and pepper over; or 
boil in water with a little salt; take off the thick 
outside rind, and cut them in quarters or slices, and 
boil them for an half an hour or more, until they 
are soft ; then drain off the water, and mash them 
fine, add a bit of butter and pepper to taste, work 
them smooth, then put them into a covered dish, 
smooth the upper surface over, and mark it with a 
knife blade in flutes, meeting in the centre, or make 
it in a pyramid or pine-apple, and serve. 

Summer Squash. — Young green squashes must 
be fresh to be fit for eating ; if they are so, the out- 
side will be crisp when cut with the nail. 

Cut them in quarters, and if not very tendeE 
13 H* -^ 



178 CABBAGE SPROUTS. 

pare off'ihe outside skin ; take the seeds and strings 
from the inside, and cut the sqashes. small, then put 
them into a stew-pan, with a te ispoonful of salt to a 
common sized squash ; pour boiling water on nearly 
to cover them, cover the stew-pan, and let them boil 
fast, until they are tender, half an hour is generally 
enowgh ; take them from the water into a cullen- 
der with a skimmer, press the water from them, 
then take them on to a dish, mashi them smooth, 
add a bit of butter and pepper to taste, put them 
into a dish, and serve. 

Winter Squash. — Cut the large yellow or win- 
ter squash small, take off" the outside skin, and the 
inside strings and seeds ; then put it into a stew- 
pan, with hot water to cover it, cover the stew-pan 
for half an hour or longer, until they are tender, 
take them into a cullender with a skimmer, press 
out the water, then take them into a dish and mash 
them perfectly smooth, add a good bit of butter, 
and pepper and salt to taste ; make it in a neat 
form the same as mashed turnips or potatoes; but 
do not brown it; put pepper over in spots, and gar- 
nish with sprigs of parsley, or celery leaves, if you 
wish it ornamental. 

Sprouts AND Greens. — Cabbage sprouts, young 
beet-tops, and the green leaves of young turnips, 
are boiled with salt meats, or in clear water, with 
a little salt. 

Cabbage Sprouts. — The leaves must be cut 
from the stalk end, and washed in plenty of water, 
let the water boil when they are put in, and boil 
fast for half an hour; when done, take them from 
the water into a cullender, press all the water from 
them, chop them, and serve them with a salad 



OLD BEETS,^ 179 

dressing, or with roasted meat, to be eaten with the 
gravy, and vinegar and mustard. These greens 
are generally boiled with salt beef or pork, and 
eaten with vinegar. 

Or, they may be served in this manner: having 
boiled, and pressed all the water from them, lay 
them close on a steak dish ; fry some steaks or 
cutlets, or some slices of ham or sausages, lay them 
on the greens, and pour the gravy ever. Vinegar 
may be added at table by those who like it. 

The tops of young beets are next in delicacy to 
spinach. After nicely boiling, and pressing the 
water from them, put them into a covered dish; 
put bits of butter and pepper over, and serve. Or. 
boil beet-tops with salt fat meat, press the water 
from them, and serve with the meat. 

Young Beets. — Wash fresh pulled youngbeets; 
break the tops from them, pick from them all the 
withered leaves, and put them with the beets into 
a pot of hot water, cover it, and let them boil fast 
for half an hour, or longer if the beets are large; 
then take the tops into a cullender, and press all 
the water from them ; lake the beets into a pan of 
cold water, and rub off the skin with the hand ; put 
the pressed tops in a dish, slice the beets over ; 
make a small cup of vinegar hot, with a bit of but 
ter the size of a large egg, put a small teaspoonful 
of salt, and a little pepper to it, then pour it over 
the beets and tops, and serve. When the stalks of 
beet-tops are long, cut thera from the beets and the 
leaves, tie them in bundles, and boil, and serve like 
asparagus, with a little white sauce, or drawn butter 
over, serve the beets in deep vegetable dishes, with 
the same sauce. 

Old Beets. — Winter beets should be put in cold 
water over night to take off the earthy taste which 



180 SPINACH. 

they are apt to have ; before boihng wash them 
clean, put them into a pot of boiling water and 
boil fast ; if not very large, one hour will be suffi- 
cient for them ; should they be very large, one hour 
and a half or two hours will be required ; when 
done take them into a pan of cold water, rub the 
skin5 off with the hands, and cut them in thin slices, 
put them into a deep dish, strew a little salt and 
pepper over and pour on cold vinegar nearly to 
cover them ; prepare them an hour before serving, 
with roasted or fried meat ; if to be served with 
cold or boiled meat, make a cup of vinegar hot, put 
a large tablespoonful of butter to it; add peppei 
and salt to taste, and serve hot. Winter beets may 
be cut in halves or quarters, and pickted by covering 
them with cold vinegar. 

Beets must be washed, but never cut before boil- 
ing, else they will lose their fine color. 

Spinach. — Take off every discolored leaf from 
the bunches ; put them into a large pan or pail of 
water, and wash each cluster of leaves separately, 
shaking it well in the water, otherwise it will be 
gritty or sandy ; washing it in this way, through 
two waters, will generally be enough ; have a large 
kettle of water boihng fast, put in the spinach, 
press it down ; add a teaspoonful of salt and a bit 
of saleratus, the size of a pea, to a peck of spinach,; 
cover the pot and let it boil fast for fifteen minutes, 
it will sink when done ; then take it into a cullender 
with a skimmer, press the water from it, cut it 
small with a knife, press it again, put a good bit of 
butter and a little pepper to it ; put it into a deep 
dish, smooth the surface over, let it rise high in the 
centre, cut a cold boiled egg in slices and lay them 
over, serve hot with a cover ; or it may be served 
on a flat dish ; put it neatly on, lay hard boiled and 



m 

MARROW-FAT PEAS. ISl 

sliced egg over. Spinach is boiled with salt beef, 
pork or ham. After the meat is done, take it up and 
press it between two plates that it may cut nicely, 
meanwhile, put the spinach into the pot, let it boil 
fast for fifteen minutes, then take it into a cullender, 
press all the water from it, cut it small, and serve 
with the meat. To be served with fried meat and 
gravy : boil it in water with a teaspoon ful of salt, 
press the water from it and serve. 

Green Peas. — Shell green peas, until j'-ou have 
a quart ; half a peck in the shells will generally 
produce a quart of shelled peas. Put boiling 
water to cover them ; add a teaspoonful of salt, 
cover the stewpan and boil fast for half an hour ; 
then take one between your fingers, if it will mash 
easily, they are done ; drain off the water, take them 
into a deep dish, put to them a small teacup or 
less of sweet butter and a little pepper ; a small tea- 
spoonful of white sugar is a great improvement ; 
serve hot. Small young potatoes, nicely scraped, 
may be boiled and served with them, or in a 
separate dish with a little butter over. 

Lamb and peas is a favorite dish in the spring of 
the year ; they are nice with poultry, veal, and 
mutton. A bit of saleratus or carbonate of soda, 
the size of a pea, put with green vegetables, im- 
proves the color, and renders them more healthful ; 
fast boiling keeps the color good. 

Marrow-fat Peas — Are the late sort, and as 
their name indicates, are much richer in taste. 
The shell of these is more of a yellowish green, 
and has a roughness, which the earlier peas have 
not; they should be young, and fresh picked. The 
early pea has a shell of brighter green and smooth, 
and is very inferior in taste, but recommend them- 



1S2 A.SPAllAGUS SALAD. 

selves by their forwardness, that being their dis- 
nnguisbing merit. The marrow-fat peas are dressed 
the same as the early peas. 

Asp AEAGUS.— Choose green stalks of asparagras, 
the Uirgest are best; cut off the white tough part, 
wash the gi-een in cold water, and tie it in small 
bundles, that they may be taken up without danger 
of breaking; put them i-n hot water with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and let them boil fast for half an 
hour ; toast some thin slices, of bread a delicate 
brown; cut ofl" the extreme outside crust, butter 
each slice freely; then lay them on small oval 
dishes; untie the asparagus, and lay it on the 
toast ; butter it a little, sprinkle pepper over and 
serve. Or it may be served without the toast ; the 
toast may be moistened by putting a little of the 
water in which the asparagus, but boiled, over it. 

Vinegar is eaten with asparagus was it is gene- 
rally added at table by such as like it. 

Asparagus maybe laid on plain toast; and a little 
drawn butter poured over both. 

Asparagus Stewed. — Cut the green part of a 
bunch of asparagus in inch or half inch lengths ; 
put it into a stew-pan and let it boil fast for fifteen 
minutes, then pour very nearly all the water off, 
work a tablespoontul of butter with a teaspoonful of 
flour, then stir them into the asparagus. Add pep- 
per and salt to taste ; cover the stew-pan for five 
minutes ; and serve poured over toast. 

Asparagus Salad. — Divide a bunch of green 
asparagus into small bundles ; tie them, and put 
them in hot water, with a teaspoonful of salt ; let 
them boil fast for fifteen or twenty minutes, until 
they are tender ; when done, take them into a salad 



BEAN AND CORN SUCCATASH. 1S3 

bowl ; make a small teacup of vinegar hot, put a 
bit of butter, the size of an egg, (or a teaspoonful 
of sweet oil) to it, add a teaspoonful of made mus- 
tard ; stir them well together, and pour it over the 
salad. 

Greem Beans. — Cut the bud and stem end off', 
and take the strings from the sides of stringed beans; 
cut them in inch lengths,- wash them in cold water, 
then put them into a stew-pan of hot water, add a 
teaspoonful of salt, cover the stew-pan, and let them 
boil fast for half or three-quarters of an hour ; take 
one up, if it will mash easily when pressed between 
the thumb and finger, they are done. Drain off 
the vvater, add sweet butter and peppel' to taste ; 
but some nicely toasted bread in squares or dia- 
monds, lay them on a dish, and serve the beans 
over. 

Green beans when good, will be a bright color, 
and crisp when broken. They should be fresh 
picked. 

Beans and Corn, called Succatash. — Take 
the husks and silk from a dozen ears of sweet corn, 
and with a sharp knife cut the kernels from the cob, 
scrape gently what remains on the cob with the 
knife blade ; string a quart or more of green beans. 
and cut them in inch lengths or shorter; wash them 
and put them to the corn ; put them, with the corn, 
into a stew-pan, add half a pint of boiling milk or 
vvater ; cover it close, and let them boil rather 
gently for thx^ee-quarters of an hour; then add a 
teacup of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper; stir them well together; cover 
it for ten minutes ; take the beans and corn into a 
dish, with more or less of the liquid, as may be 
Uked. 



IS4 MASHED CARROTS. 

This dish may be made without butter, by sub- 
stituting half a pound of nicely corned fat pork, 
washed in cold water, and cut in slices as thin as a 
knife blade. No other salt is required. 

Lima beans and sweet corn make the finest suc- 
catash. 

Lima Beans. — Lay a quart of shelled Lima 
beans in cold water for ohe hour ; then put thera 
into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water over to 
cover them ; cover the stew-pan, and let it boil fast 
. for half an hour ; then take one between your fin- 
ger and thumb, if it will mash easily, it is done ; 
drain off" nearly all the water, add a small teacup 
of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a httle pepper; 
cover them for a few minutes over the fire, then 
serve hot. 

Carrots. — When young and small, carrots need 
onl}'' be washed without scraping ; leave on about 
an inch length of the green ; put them in a stew- 
pan with hot water to cover them, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt : let them boil fast for twenty minutes, 
then take them into a dish, put butter and pepper 
over, and serve, with boiled meat or poultry. 

Old or Winter Carrots — Must be scraped 
and washed clean ; then boil them tender, slice 
them, and serve with butter, pepper, and salt over. 

Carrots may be sliced before boiling, and served 
in the same manner. Carrots are mostly used for 
soups. 

Carrots Mashed. — Scrape off" the skin, wash 
them and boil them tender in a pot of boiling water, 
then take them up with a skimmer, mash them 
smooth, add butter, pepper, and a little salt ; make 



PARSNIP FRITTERS. ioO 

them in a form with a knife blade, and serve, with 
boiled or roast meat. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Boll cauliflower in 
water, with a little salt, until tender, drain it in a 
cullender, cut it small, put it in a salad bowl, and 
serve with a salad dressing, cold or hot. 

Cauliflower. — Cut off the stalks, boil the cau- 
liflower in milk and water until it is tender, make 
a drawn butter and serve over it, or put bits of 
butter over, strew pepper over, and serve hot. 

Parsnips. — ^Young parsnips require only to be 
scraped before boiling, old ones must be pared 
thin and sliced, when tender, put butter and pep- 
per over, and serve. Parsnips may be boiled or 
stewed v^ith salt meat. 

Fried Parsnips. — Boil whole parsnips until 
they are tender, then skin them, and cut them in 
slices lengthwise, of a quarter of an inch thickness ; 
have a little lard or beef dripping, made hot in a 
frying-pan, salt it (in proportion, a tablespoonful to 
a pound,) when it is boiling hot, lay the slices in; 
when one side is a fine brown, turn the other ; 
when both are done, take them on to a dish, sprin- 
kle a little pepper over, put over a very little of the 
fat in which they were fried, and serve hot for 
breakfast or dinner, with fried or roast meat. 

Parsnip Fritters. — Boil four or five parsnips; 
when tender, take ofi'the skin and mash them fine, 
add to them a teaspoon ful of wheat flour and a 
beaten egg ; put a tablespoonful of lard or beef 
dripping in a frying-pan over the fire, add to it a 
BaltSDOonful of salt ; when boiling hot, put in the 



18G COLDSl>AW. 

parsnips, make it in small cakes with a spoon; 
when one side is a delicate brown, turn the other ; 
when both are done, lake them on a dish, put a 
very little of the fat in which they were fried over, 
and serve hot. These resemble very nearly the 
taste of the salsify or oyster plant, and will gener- 
ally be preferred. 

Celery. — Put a bunch of celery in cold water, 
cut it loose from the stalk end ; cut oif the green 
part and any imperfections, and serve in a celery 
glass, with vinegar, oil, and made mustard in the 
castor. Or cut the white part in thin slices' across, 
and put it into a salad bowl or deep dish, put a 
wreath of the most delicate leaves around the edge, 
put a sprig in the middle, and pour a salad dressing 
over the whole. 

Salad Dressing. — Take the yolk oT a hard 
boiled egg^ break it fine with a silver fork, add to 
it the yolk of an 'uncooked egg, and a teaspoonful 
of salt with half as much fine pepper, and half a 
tablespoonful of made mustard, work them smoothly 
together, adding gradually a tablespoonful of sweet 
oil, and the same of white wine vinegar. A larger 
proportion of oil and vinegar may be used if liked. 

» 
. Cabbage Salad. — Take a fine hard head of 
white cabbage, cut it in two, and shave it across 
as fine as possible, with a sharp knife, put it in a 
salad bowl,*and pour the dressing over. 

This is very good when celery cannot be had, 
and far less expensive. 

This may be served with stewed oysters, boiled 
or roasted poultrj'- or meat, and with lobster. 

Coldslaw. — Cut a hard white head of cab- 
bage in two, shave one half as finely as possible, 



RADISHES. 187 

and put it into a stew-pan with a bit of butter the 
size of an egg, one small teaspoonful of salt, and 
nearly as much pepper ; add to it a wine-glass of 
vinegar ; cover the stew-pan, and set it over a gen- 
tle heat for five minutes, shake the stew-pan about ; 
when heated through, turn it into a dish, and serve 
as a salad. 

Boiled Cabbage. — Trim off all the outside 
leaves of a head of cabbage, cut it in quarters, and 
put it into a pot of boiling water, with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; cover the pot close, and let the cabbage 
boil fast for half an hour, or it may require ten 
minutes longer ; when the stalks are tender, take it 
up on to a cullender, press it slightly, to free it 
from water, put a little butter and pepper over it, 
and serve. 

Or after having boiled it, chop it fine, put a bit 
of butter and some pepper to it, and serve hot in a 
covered dish. 

Red Cabbage. — This is eaten as a salad, pre- 
pared as directed for cabbage salad or coldslaw, 
or shaved fine and pickled. 

Radishes. — Radishes are of three sorts; ^he 
long red, the small button or turnip radish, and the 
winter or white radish. 

Radishes should be fresh pulled, and 4:ender, to 
be in perfection for the palate, or to be healthful ; 
to many persons they are positiyely injurious. 

To prepare them for the table, cut off all the 
leaves, leaving about an inch of the stalk, trim them 
neatly, and lay them in cold water for an hour, 
serve the long ones in a tumbler or celery glass 
half filled with water ; serve the small ones on a 
plate ; they are generally eaten with salt only ; they 



p 



188 ARTICHOKES. 

may be served c\it in thin slices, with vinegar, pep- 
per and salt over. 

Lettuce. — The early lettuce, and first fine^ 
salad are five or six leaves in a cluster ; their early 
appearance is their greatest recommendation ; cab- 
bage or white heart lettuce is later and much more 
delicate ; break the leaves apart one by one from 
the stalk and throw them into a pan of cold water ; 
rinse them well, lay them into a salad bowl or a 
deep dish, lay the largest leaves first, put the next 
size upon them, then lay on the finest white leaves ; 
cut hard boiled eggs in slices or quarters and lay 
them at equal distances around the edge and over 
the salad ; serve with vinegar, oil, and made 
mustard in the castor. 

Or, having picked and washed the lettuce, cut 
the leaves small ; put the cut salad in a glass dish 
or bowl, pour a salad dressing over and serve ; or, 
garnish with small red radishes, cut in halves or 
slices, and hard boiled eggs cut in quarters or 
slices ; pour a salad dressing over when ready to 
serve. 

Serve with boiled lobster, boiled fowls, or roasted 
lamb or veal. 

Artichokes. — These are eaten the same as 
radishes, but more generally sliced thin, with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar. 

Artichokes are served boiled the same as turnips: 
that is, wash and pare them, throw them into a pot 
of boiling water, let them boil for half an hour, then 
.ake them up with a skimmer into a vegetable 
dish, put butter, pepper, and salt over, or serve 
with drawn butter over. White or winter radishes 
may be boiled the same as artichokes. 



TO BOIL ONIONS. 189 

Cucumbers. — Cucumbers are very unwholesome 
h flot perfectly fresh gathered, which maybe ascer- 
tained : press the finger nail into the rind, and if 
fresh it will be crisp, if it is tough or withered, the 
cucumber is stale. 

Cucumbers are eaten with salt only, or sliced, 
with vinegar, pepper, and salt. Cut off an inch of 
the stem end, pare off all the green outside or rind, 
and lay them in cold water or on ice for an hour or 
more ; when served cut them in quarters from end 
to end, or cut them in slices not thicker than a dol- 
lar piece, put them in a deep dish, strew a little 
salt and pepper over, and nearly cover them with 
good vinegar, when ready to serve. 

Young green onions are sometimes peeled and 
cut in thin slices, and served with cucumbers. 

Shalots,or Green Onions. — Take off the outer 
skin or leaf; cut off all but about an inch or two of 
the green part, and lay them in cold water for an 
hour, then take them from the water on to a plate, 
and serve with salt. 

Or, cut them in thin slices, sprinkle salt and 
pepper over, and vinegar nearly to cover them. 

Winter, or Store Onions. — White onions are 
used for boiling or pickling ; red onions are eaten, 
cut in thin slices ; let them lie in cold water for 
half an hour, then throw it off; put salt, pepper, 
and vinegar over ; or cut in thin slices and fry as 
previously directed, with liver or beef. 

To Boil Onions — Take off the skin and outer 
shell until they are white, put them into a stewpan 
with a teaspoonful of salt (to a dozen, medium size) 
and hot water to cover them ; cover the stewpan 



1 90 TO BOIL GKEEN CORN'. 

and let them boil for half an hour, or until they are 
tender, then take them into a dish with a skimmer, 
put a bit of butter, the size of an egg, to them ; 
sprinkle pepper over, and serve. 

Boiled onions are served with roast fowl, goose, 
or turkey, or boiled or roast mutton. 

To Boil Green Corn. — Get the short, full ears 
of sweet or sugar corn, trim ofF all the husks, 
leaving only the last inside leaves ; have a kettle of 
boiling water with a small teaspoonful of salt to 
each quart ; put in the corn and let it boil fast for 
half an hour, if young and tender, or longer if less 
tender; when done, drain off all the water, take off 
tlie remaining husks ; lay a napkin on a large dish, 
lay the corn on, turn the corners of the napkin 
over it, and serve, to eat with salt and cold butter. 

Or break each ear of corn in pieces, about two 
inches long, or break each ear in two, tie them in a 
cloth and put them into a pot of boiling water with 
a small tablespoonful of salt ; let it boil fast for half 
an hour if young and tender, or longer, if necessa- 
ry ; some corn will require a full hour. When done 
take it from the water, and serve, folded in a napkin. 

Corn may be served in the following manner : — 

Take off all the husks, then with a sharp knife 
cut it from the cob and put it in a stew-pan, with a 
teacup of water, to a quart of corn cut from the cob , 
cover it close, and let it simmer gently for one hour; 
then add a large tablespoonful of butter ; pepper 
and salt to taste, and serve hot. 

Sweet or sugar corn is best for boiling. The 
ears are short and full, and the grains, when broken 
by the finger nail, are full of a sweet, milky fluid. 

Common large ears of white corn may be im- 
proved by putting a tablespoonful of white sugar to 



MUSHROOMS. 191 

the boiling water. Or it may be cut from the cob, 
and finished as directed above, with the addition 
of the sugar. 

Roasted Green Corn. — Strip off all the husk 
from green corn, and roast it on a gridiron, over a 
bright fire of coals, turning it as one side is done. 
Or, if a wood fire is used, make a place clean in the 
front of the fire ; lay the corn down, turn it when one 
side is done ; serve with salt and butter. 

Salsify, or, Yegetable Oyster. — Boil and 
serve as directed for parsnips ; either plain boiled, 
or fridd, or made fritters. 

• Egg Plant. — Cut an egg plant in thin slices, 
pare off the purple rind, then strew each slice with 
salt, and lay them together on a plate, placed slan- 
ting that the liquor which exudes may run off, after 
an hour rinse the slices, wipe them dry, dip each 
slice in batter or flour, and fry a nice brown, turn- 
ing them that each side may be a nice brown, fry 
in seasoned fat or lard, or sweet butter. 

Mushrooms. — Mushrooms for eating grow in open 
pasture lands. Those which grow near or under 
trees, are poisonous. 

Good mushrooms first appear very small, of a 
round form, on a small stalk ; they grow very ra- 
pidly. The upper part and the stalk are white ; 
as they increase in size the under part gradually 
opens, and shows a fringed fir of a fine salmon co- 
lor, which continues more or less until the mush- 
room has gaine'd some size, and then changes to a 
dark brown. 

These marks should be attended to; and like- 
wise whether the skin can be easily parted from 
the edge and middle, and whether they have a 
pleasant smell. 

Those which are poisonous, have a yellowish 
skin, and the under part has not the clear salmo:i 



192 HOMINT. 

color of genuine mushrooms. They have also a 
rank smell, and'the fringe or fur is white or yellow. 

Broiled Mushrooms. — Choose the largest sort, 
lay them on a small gridiron over bright coals ; the 
stalk upwards. Broil quickly, and serve, with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt over. 

Hominy. — There are three sizes of hominy ; the 
middle size is best. 

Wash a small teacup of hominy in plenty of wa- 
ter, rubbing it between the hands; all that is not 
good will rise to the top ; drain off the first water, 
then add more ; stir it in this ; let it settle and pour 
off the water; then put to it a quart of water, cover 
it and let it stand all night. In the morning add to 
it a teaspoonful of salt, and set the vessel which 
contains it in a kettle of boiling water over the fire. 
One hour will boil it. The reason for putting the 
vessel in water is, that otherwise it is very liable to 
burn. It may be set in an oven, or over a very 
gentle heat, without danger of burning. When all 
the water is absorbed, stir it well with a spoon, 
turn it out in a deep dish, cover it and serve for 
breakfast, with broiled steak, stewed clams, fried 
oysters, or chickens. 

This is extremely palateable and wholesome, 
and much liked, though not generally known. 

Some hommy is much sweeter than other. It 
may be eaten with butter for breakfast, or with a 
sauce of butter, sugar and nutmeg for dessert, the 
same as rice. Coarse hominy requires five or six 
hours boihng. Cooked with dried beans and pork, 
it is called succatash. 

Tomatoes. — These are cooked and dressed in a 
variety of ways. 



BROILED TOMATOES. 193 

Tomatoes may be sliced thin, and served with 
salt, pepper, and vinegar over, for breakfast ; or 
sliced, and strewn with sugar and grated nutmeg, 
for tea ; for dinner they may be stewed or broiled, 
or baked. 

Tomatoes may be preserved in sugar, or as cat- 
sup, when out of season. Such as like them, de- 
clare them to be equally excellent in each and 
every form or dressing. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Pour boiling water over 
six or eight large tomatoes, or a greater number of 
small ones ; let them remain for a few minutes, 
then peel otTthe skins, squeeze out the seeds, and 
some of the juice, b}"^ pressing them gently in the 
hand ; put them in a well tinned stew-pan, with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a bit of 
butter, half as large as an egg, and a tablespoonful 
of grated bread or rolled crackers ; cover the stew- 
pan close, and set it over the fire for nearly an 
hour, shake the stew-pan occasionally, that they 
may not burn ; serve hot. 

This is decidedly the best manner of stewing 
tomatoes; they may be done without the bread 
crumbs, and with less stewing if preferred. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Wash five or six smooth 
tomatoes, cut a piece from the stem end, the size of 
a twenty-five cent piece, put a saltspoonful of salt, 
half as much pepper, and a bit of butter the size of 
a nutmeg, fn each ; set them in a dish or pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven for nearly one hour. 

Broiled Tomatoes. — Having broiled a steak 
of beef, ham, veal or lamb, on one side, turn it ; lay 
sliced tomatoes over it, sprinkle a little pepper and 
18 I 



194 HORSE-RADISH. 

salt over, and when the meat is done, and dished, 
put butter over, and serve hot. 

Scolloped Tomatoes. — Peel six fine tomatoes, 
(pour scalding water over, if the skins do not come 
off readily,) and press the seeds and juice from them, 
butter a scolloped tin plate, put to the tomatoes 
two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper, and a piece 
of .butter the size of a small egg, cut it small ; put the 
prepared tomatoes into the buttered dish, and bake 
half an hour in a quick oven ; when done, turn it out. 
A teaspoonful of sugar added to the preparation is 
considered an improvement. 

Water-Cresses. — These are used as a salad ; 
pick out all discolored leaves, wash each cluster 
separately, and serve in a salad bowl, with cold 
boiled eggs sliced and put over ; or cut the cresses 
fine, and serve with a salad dressing. 

Leeks. — These are used principally for soups, 
they may be boiled, and served with toast the same 
as asparagus. 

Cabbage and Potatoes. — Chop cold boiled 
cabbage and potatoes quite fine ; put them together, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, add a very lit- 
tle vinegar or hot water, to moisten without mak- 
ing it wet, put it into a stew-pan over the fire, stir 
it well, that it may be thoroughly heated, but not 
burn ; then take it into a dish, and serve for break- 
fast, or with cold boiled salt meat for dinner. 

Horse-radish. — Lay fresh horse-radish in a pan 

of cold water for an hour or more, then pare or 

scrape off the outer skin, and grate it on a coarse 

' grater ; add a little salt to it, moisten with vinegar, 

and serve with boiled fish or roast meat. 



BUTTER AND VINEGAR SAUCE. 195 

SAUCES 

For Meat, Fish, Poultry, or Vegetables. 

To Make Drawn Butter. — Put half a pint of 
milk in a perfectly clean stew-pan, and set it over 
a moderate fire ; put into a pint bowl a heaping 
tablespoonful of wheat flour, quarter of a pound^of 
sweet butter, and a saltspoonful of salt ; work these 
well together with the back of a spoon, then pour 
into it, stirring it all the time, half a pint of 
boiling water ; when it is smooth, stir it into the 
boiling milk, let it simmer for fiv'e minutes or more, 
and it is done. 

Drawn butter made after this receipt, will be 
found to be most excellent; it may be made less 
rich, by using less butter. 

Parsley Sauce. — Make a drawn butter as di- 
rected, dip a bunch of parsley into boiling water, 
then cut it fine, and stir it into the drawn butter a 
few minutes before taking it up. 

Egg Sauce. — Make a drawn butter; chop two 
hard boiled eggs quite fine, the white and yolk 
separately, and stir it into the sauce before serving. 
This is used for boiled fish or vegetables. 

Sour Sauce. — Make half a pint of good vinegar 
hot, stir into it a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
and a teaspoon ful of made mustard, and a little 
pepper, and serve with boiled lobster or fish. 

Cold Butter and Vinegar Sauce. — Beat a 
quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, with a gill 
of vinegar, and a tea spoonful of pepper; dip a 



196 ANCHOVr SAUCE. 

bunch of parsley into scalding water, chop or cut it 
small, and beat it with the butter ; a teaspoonful 
of made mustard may also be added. Serve with 
boiled meat or lobster. 

Butter Sauce. — Beat a quarter of a pound of 
butter to a cream, add a teaspoonful of pepper and 
salt, each ; beat it well together, and serve with 
roast, or baked, or boiled potatoes, and cold meat— 
or, put it over boiled vegetables. 

Shalot Sauce. — Take half a pint of water, in 
which meat has been boiled, add a wineglass of 
vinegar, and two or three shalots cut fine, and half 
a teaspoonful of salt ; put these into a sauce-pan, 
over the fire ; work a teaspoonful of flour into a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir them in- 
to the hot water, and let them simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Serve with boiled meat. 

To Brown Flour. — Take some flour into a pan 
or dish, and set it in the oven or over some coals ; 
stir it about, that it may not burn, but be nicely 
browned. Keep it in a dredging box for browning 
gravies. 

Nasturtion, or Imitation Caper Sauce. — 
Stir some pickled nasturtions into sour, or drawn 
butter sauce. 

Anchovy Sauce. — Soak some anchovies in a 
basin of cold water, for two or three hours ; then 
put them in a stew-pan, with cold water, and set 
them on coals to simmer, until the anchovies are 
dissolved ; then strain the water, add to it a wine- 
glass of red wine, and half a pint of melted butter ; 



LEMON SAUCE. 197 

let it simmer for quarter of an hour, then serve 
with boiled fish, or meat. 

Oyster Sauce. — Put half a pint of milk into a 
stew-pan, set it over a fire ; mix a table spoonful of 
wheat flour with a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
when the milk boils, put to it a pint of small oys- 
ters ; then pour into the butter and flour, half a pint 
of boiling water, stirring it all the time ; when 
smooth, add it to the millc and oysters ; add a small 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper, and serve with boil- 
ed meat, turkey, or fowls. 

Mint Sauce. — Take nice fresh mint, chop it 
small, mix with it a teaspoonful of sugar, and vine- 
gar to moisten it. Serve with roast lamb. 

Onion Sauce. — Peel some nice white onions, 
and boil them tender ; press the water from them , 
chop them fine, and put them to half a pint of hot 
milk ; add a bit of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt, 
and pepper to taste. Serve with boiled veal, or 
poultry, or mutton. 

Lobster Sauce. — Put the coral, and spawn of 
a boiled lobster into a mortar, with a tablespoonful 
of butter, pound it to a smooth mass, then rub it 
through a sieve ; melt nearly a quarter of a pound 
of sweet butter, with a wineglass of wine, or vine- 
gar ; add a teaspooonful of made mustard, stir in 
the coral, and spawn, and a little salt and pepper ; 
stir it until it is smooth, and serve. Some of the 
meat of the lobster may be chopped fine, and 
stirred into it. Madeira wine should be used. 

Lemon Sauce. — Make a drawn, or melted but- 
ter sauce, cut a lemon into very thin slices, take out 



198 CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

the seeds, and stir the slices into the sauce ; give it 
one boil, then serve over boiled fish, fowl, or meat. 

CuRRiE Powder. — This powder is used for fla- 
voring various stews of meat, fish, and poultry ; a 
tablespoonful of the powder for each pound of meat, 
or less may be used, if liked. Currie powder may 
be bought at the best groceries, or you may have 
it made up at the druggists, as follows : 

Take thirteen ounces of coriander seed, two 
ounces of black pepper, one of cayenne pepper, 
three ounces of cummin seed, and six ounces of 
pale colored tumeric ; the whole pounded very 
fine ; set them before the fire, and let them dry per- 
fectly, turning them frequently ; mix them well, 
and when cold, put it into bottles ; cork them tight; 
this will be good for one year, if kept in a dry 
place. 

Cream Sauce. — Put quarter of a pound of but- 
ter ,in a stew-pan, with a small tablespoonful of, 
wheat flour, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and 
the same of young onions of scallians, chopped 
fine ; add a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of 
pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix these well together, 
then add a glass of cream, or rich milk, set it over 
the fire, and stir it with a silver spoon, until it is 
ready to boil ; if it is too thick, add more milk ; 
this sauce should be kept stirring for fifteen min- 
_utes. Serve with boiled rabbits, meat, or poultry. 

Melted, or Clarii-ied Butter. — Put quarter 
of a pound of butter in a stew-pan, by a gentle 
fire ; let it remain until the scum rises, and the 
milk settles to the bottom ; take off the scum care- 
fully with a spoon ; then pour the butter carefully 
from the milk. 



y CRA?JBERRY SAUCE. 199 

Apple Sauce. — Peel, quarter, and core, rich 
Lart apples ; put to them a very little water, cover 
them, and set them over the fire ; when tender, 
mash them smooth, and serve with roasted pork, 
goose, or any other gross meat. 

Fried Apples. — Wash fine fair apples without 
paring, and cut them in slices an eighth of an inch 
thick, and fry in hot lard, or pork fat ; serve with 
fried pork. 

Fried Peaches. — Take peaches, not fully ripe, 
wash them, and wipe them ; then cut them in slices 
quarter of an inch thick, and fry in the pan, after 
pork; serve with the meat. This is a South Caro- 
lina dish. 

Cranberry Sauce, or Jam. — Pick a, quart of 
cranberries free from all imperfections, wash them, 
and put them into a stew-pan, with a teacup of 
water, and the same of brown sugar ; cover the 
stew-pan, and let them stew gently for one hour ; 
then mash them smooth with a silver spoon ; dip a 
quart bowl in cold water, pour in the stewed cran- 
berries, and set it to become cold ; then turn it out 
on a dish, or glass saucer, and serve with roast 
pork, ham, goose, or fowls. 



200 BUTTER IN HASTE FROM MILK. 



DIRECTIONS. 

For malcing and keepins; Butter in the best manner. 
Also, Milk, Cream, Cheese, etc. 

To Freshen Salt Butter. — Butter which 
has been made too salt, may be freshened and made 
sweet in the following manner : Take two or three 
pounds of it into a wooden bowl or tray, pour very 
cold water over it, and work it with a ladle, gently 
pressing it until the water is colored; then drain it 
off, add more water, continue to work it, changing 
the water until it is clear ; mix a small teaspoonful 
of fine white sugar, and a large one of fine salt to- 
gether for each pound of butter; and after draining 
off the water tor the last time, strew the mixture 
over ; work it thoroughly in with a ladle by folding 
and gently pressing the butter ; then make it in 
rolls and wrap each in a separate bit of muslin ; or 
pack it down in stone jars, lay a bit of muilin upon 
it, and put a cover over to keep it from the air ; keep 
it in a cool dry place. Ice water, or cold spring 
water, is requisite for making good butter. 

Delicious Butter. — Lay open three clean 
coarse towels, one over the other ; put a pint of thick 
cream in the upper one, tie the cream in them as 
close as possible ; then bury it in the earth in a 
dry place, eighteen inches deep, for twenty-four 
hours ; then put the cream in a cool earthen basin, 
and stir it with a spoon for five minutes in summer, 
or fifteen in winter; — when you will have a lump 
of cool, fresh, and most delicious butter, for the 
breakfast table. Why not try it? 

Butter in Haste, from Winter Cream, or from 



BUTTER MADE SWEET FOR WINTER USE. 201 

the Milk of one Cow. — Take milk fresh from the 
cow, strain it into clean pans, set it over a gentle 
fire until it. is scalding hot ; do not let it boil ; then 
set it aside; when it is cold skim off the cream; 
the milk will still be fit for an^^ ordinary use ; when 
you have enough cream, put it into a clean ^rthen 
basin ; beat it with a wooden spoon, until the butter 
is made, which will not be long; then take it from 
the milk and work it with a little cold water, until 
it is free from milk, then drain off the water, put a 
small tablespoonful of fine salt to each pound of 
butter, and work it in. A small teaspoonful of fine 
white sugar, worked in with the salt, will be found 
an improvement — sugar is a great preservative. 
Make the butter in a roll ; cover it with a bit oi 
muslin, and keep it in a cool place. 

This receipt was obtained from one who prac- 
ticed it for several winters. 

yo Preserve Butter for Winter Use. — 
Take two parts of the best fine salt, one part finely 
ground loaf sugar, and one of saltpetre; beat them 
well together. To each pound of butter, worked 
perfectly free from milk, put one ounce of this com- 
position ; work it well into it, and pack it down in 
stone pots, or wooden firkins. Butter packed in 
this way, will be found to equal the best rose butter, 
and will remain sweet for years, if not exposed to 
the air. 

To MAKE Butter Sweet, foj- Winfer Use. — 
Buy the ordinary packed butter, which is not 
strong or rank ; take out several pounds, and work 
it with cold water until free from milk ; put to each 
pound a small teaspoonful of fine salt, then pack ii 
close into stone pots or wooden kegs ; make a brina 
6f one part saltpetre, one part white sugar, and two 



203 TO MAKE BUTTER. 

of common salt. To encli ounce of this pre])ara- 
tion put a gill of water for each two pounds of but- 
ter ; pour it over the butler; cover the pot or keg, 
and keep it in a cool {)lace. 

Quite indifferent butter may be made sweet and 
good hy pouring this brine over, and allowing it to 
remain fov a few weeks, or longer, before using. 

Or you may pack it as directed in the preceding 
receipt, and arrive at the same result. 

Butter packed after these directions has been 
eaten in the spring of the year in preference to the 
best grass butter. 

To Make Butter. — In order to make butter 
■well, it is necessary that the vessels in which the 
milk is kept be sweet and clean, and the milk-room 
or cellar cool and airy in summer. 

Large tin pans are mostly used for milk ; the 
broadest are best, allowing a greater surface for the 
cream to rise. 

Vessels in which milk is kept, after being emp- 
tied, must fii'st be washed in cold water to take off 
all the milk, and any remains of cream, then fill 
them with scalding hot water, which must be suf- 
fered to remain until it is nearly cold. One pan 
may be turned over another, which is filled with 
hot water, for a few minutes, then change their re- 
lative positions, pouring the water from one to the 
other ; this will require less time and water than 
the other way. Lastly, wash them well in the 
water, and turn them upside down in the sun. Tin 
milk pails are best, being most easily kept sweet ; 
white or hard wood pails are generally used, and 
must be washed well in cold water and then scald- 
ed the same as tin pans. Occasionally, scour both 
pails and pans with soft soap and sand; and after- 
wards scald them, rinse them in hot water, and dry 



TO MAKE BUTTER. 203 

them in the sun, or by a fire. Or, instead of scald- 
ing the milk tins, and other vessels, as above di- 
rected, have a large vessel of boiling water, and 
having first washed them in cold wnj:er, dip each 
pan into the scalding water, turning it around that 
every part may get its due. Let it remain in for a 
few minutes, then wipe them dry, and set them by 
for use ; their own heat will assist the drying. 

Milk strainers are tin basins, with a fine sieve at 
the bottom ; or with a ring by which to fasten a 
linen cloth, over a bottomless basin. The ring and 
cloth must be taken off every time it is used, and 
first washed in cold water; allow it to remain in the 
water whilst washing the tins, then wash it out ; 
pour scalding water in it, and lastU', rinse it in cold 
water <nnd hang it to dry. 

A small frame or ladder is wanted to lay across 
the pan and support the strainer whilst the milk is 
poured through. 

For t;i king the cream from the milk, a small short- 
handle tin skiinmer or shell is used; a stone jar or 
pot is best for keeping cream. There should never 
be more than three days' gatherings f(ir a churning ; 
too long keeping will make bitter butter; wash the 
jar in cold water, then scald and dry as directed for 
the tins. 

Wooden ware churns are mostly used. The old 
fashioned barrel churn, is best for small churnings; 
a larger sort, in which the dasher is suspended and 
moved back and forth instead of up and down, is 
less tiresome ; the churn is to be kept sweet and 
clean in the same manner as the other vessels, ex- 
posing the inside to the heat of the sun, until 
thoroughly dry, after each time washing. 

A wooden tray and ladle, is also necessary for 
receiving and working the butter, after it is made. 

Care is necessary that the churning is neither too 



204 TO MAKE BUTTER. 

fast nor too slowly performed. The clashes should 
be continued ;rt interval:? of about a second between 
ihem, and steadilv, until the butter has come, when 
a slower and more gentle motion is desirable. 

Scald the tray and ladle, then fill it with cold 
water until the butter is made. 

After the butter is fairly gathered, take it from 
the buttermilk, with the ladle, pressing it against 
the side of the churn, to free it from the milk ; 
havinj;. thrown the water from the trav, put the but- 
ter in, pour cold water over, to cover it, and set it 
in a cool place for half an hour, to harden it ; then 
with the ladle work all the milk from it, changing 
the water until it is clear; it is best to have ice 
water if possible, in summer. To each pound ol 
butter put a small tablespoonful of fine salt, and a 
small teasj)oonful of fine white sugar; work it nice- 
ly into the butter and make it in rolls, or pack it in 
wooden or stone vessels, put a bit of muslin, and a 
cover over to keep the butter from the air. 

Butter should be made and kept in a cool cellar 
or ice house : this direction is particularly for sum- 
mer, when it must be done in the coolest part of the 
day, and the coolest possible place. Cold water 
poured in occasionally, in small quantities, at the 
dasher, will make butter come belter, in summer. 

In warm weather, milk is generally ready for 
skimming, after twenty-four hours' standing, when 
the cream is wanted for butter. 

Cream for table or freezino^, twelve hours' stand- 
ing is sufficient ; take off the cream, let the milk 
remain until the next morning, then skim it and keep 
the cream for butler. 

When the weather is cold, let the milk become 
scalding hot without boiling, before straining it ; 
after twelve hours it is fit ibr skimming, and the 
milk which remains will be sweet and fit for com- 



MILK STRAINS as BUTTERMILK. 205 

nion purposes. Another way to hasten yream is to 
dip the.{);ins in boihng water before straining in the 
milk ; by turning another pan scalded in the same 
manner ov^er the pan with the milk, you may great- 
ly facilitate the operation. Another way is to set 
the pans over vessels of boiling water; this will 
also cause the cream to rise quickly. 

If you churn in winter, pour boiling water into 
the churn, cover it and let it remain until ready to 
put in the cream, at which time throw it out^ Win- 
ter churning should be done in a moderately warm 
room. 

Milk cellars should be under ground or over an 
ice house. If under ground, a milk room should 
be paved with brick or stone ; and a stone or wood- 
en table in the centre ; or a rack or shelf suspended 
from the ceiling instead. There should be stone 
or wooden shelves running around three sides ; in 
summer the windows and doors should be close 
latticed onlj, that there may be a free current of 
air. In cold or winter weather the windows should 
be closely glazed, and the door tight. 

The shelves and floor of a milk room should be 
washed and wiped dry twice a week in summer, 
and once each week in winter. The place should 
be cool and sweet, and free from any mustiness, 
which will affect the milk. 

To preserve butter for winter use, see a previous 
receipt, (page 201.) 

Buttermilk and thick sour milk are used to make 
pot-cheese, or cottage-cheese, as it is sometimes 
called. 

Buttermilk is also a cooling summer drink, and 
very palateable, sweetened with a little sugar, or 
s\'rup, or molasses. A little grated nutmeg may 
also be added. It is fit for eating only the first day. 
Bread crumbed into sweeLened buttermilk is much 



ARTIFICIAL CHEESE. 

liked by children, as well ascertain grown persona 
one might mention. 

Thick sour milk, taken from the pan carefully 
with a skimmer, without breaking, may be served 
with sugar and nutmeg over. It is both cooHng 
and very palateable, and by most persons preferred 
to cold custard. 

Sour milk and buttermilk are kept for the pigs. 

To Make Pot Cheese. — Put butter-milk and 
thick sour milk together, about one-third butter- 
milk ; put it in a clean vessel over the fire, make it 
scalding hot, then take the curd from the whey with 
a skiuimer, put it into a muslin or linen bag, tie it 
up and hang it to drain ; after an hour or two, take 
it down, moisten it slightly with swoet cream, put 
a litlle salt to it, work the salt into it, and njake it 
in bails the size of a teacup; press it close with the 
hands, lay^ a cloth on a dish to receive the cheese, 
cover it, then set it in a cool place. These are tine 
for the breakfast or tea-table. 

Lay one on a small plate, and serve with bread 
and butter, and ripe fruit, or preserves. 

Pot-cheese should be made fresh, once or twice 
a week. 

Cows Fed on Turnips. — If cows are fed on 
turnips, the butter made from their milk has an un- 
pleasant flavor ; to counteract which, put a quart of 
boiling water to every two gallons of milk, and let 
it stand as usual for cream. 

A very small quantity of nitre, dissolved in cold 
water, and put to the milk, is said to destroy any 
ill taste. 

Artificial Cheese. — Boil one gallon of new 
milk with two quarts of cream : add six or 



TO PREPARE RENNET. 207 

eight eggs well beaten, and six or seven Inrge 
spoonsful of wine-vinegar; let it sinrimer until 
it conies to a tender curd, then tie it in a cheese- 
cloth, and hang it to drain for several hours, after 
which, open the cloth, work some salt to the cheese, 
then lay a cloth in a cullender or cheese-hoop, put 
the curd in, f(jld the cloth over, and lay a weight 
upon it f()r one hour or longer, then turn it on to a 
dish and serve. 

Milk Cheese. — Put five quarts of warnn milk 
into a basin, with 'two tablespoonsful of rennet 
water; when the curd is formed, break it gently 
with the hand, drawing it to the side of the basin 
or other vessel; let it stand for two hours, spread a 
cheese cloth over a sieve or round basket, put the 
curd in, let it drain until all the whey is off, then 
salt it to taste ; then lay a cloth in a cheese-hoop, 
put the curd in, lay a cloth over ; lay a wooden 
cover, the size of the inside of the hoop over, place 
a two pound weight upon it, and let it remain for 
twelve hours; then take it out, put it in a frame, or 
tie a cloth tight around it, and turn it from one side 
to the other every day, until dry; then rub the out- 
side with a little butter, and sprinkle pepper over 
to keep the tlies from it ; put it to ripen between 
two pewter plates; if the weather is warm, it will 
be ready in three weeks. 

Cheese-Cream. — Make a pint of milk luke- 
warm, dilute a piece of rennet the size of a pea, in 
milk, and stir it in; put it over some hot coals until 
it curds, then drain it, and turn it into a dessert 
dish, antl serve with wine sauce, or with sugar and 
cream. 

To Prepare Rennet. — Take the stomach of 



208 ■ MILK TOAST. 

the calf, empt}'- it, and strew it plentifully with salt, 
let it lav for a day or two, then stretch it out on 
two sticks, and dry it in the sun ; a piece of dried- 
rennet the size of 3'our hand, is sufficient for a 
qunrt of water; a tablespoonful of the water will 
curd a quart of milk. ' 

Cheese Roasted, — Grate three ounces of dry 
cheese, and ntix it with the yolks of two eggs, put 
four ounces of grated bread, and three of butter; 
beat the whole together in a mortar, with a dessert- 
spoonful of made mustard, a little salt, and some 
pepper ; toast some slices of bread, cut off' the out- 
side crust, cut it in shapes, and spread the paste 
thick upon them, and put them in a dutch oven ; let 
ihem become hot, and slightly browned ; serve hot 
as possible. 

To Make Welsh Rabbit. — Cut or grate some 
good cheese, put a bit of butter, and some made 
mustard to it, put it in a frying pan over the fire, 
and stir it smooth ; a little milk may be added to it ; 
when it is hot, and a smooth paste, spread it on 
slices of nicely toasted bread, and serve hot. 

To Make Toast. — Cut slices from a loaf of 
wheat bread, let them be smooth, even, and half an 
inch thick, have a bright fire, and toast them quick- 
ly; when both sides are a fine brown, lay the slices 
on a hot plate, and put a tin cover over until 
served. 

Milk Toast. — Having toasted the bread nicely, 
spread it with sweet butler, make some milk hot, 
add a small bit of butter, and a little salt to it, then 
pour it over the toast, and serve. Or lay toasted 
bread in a deep plate or dish ; to a pint of milk put 



• BOILED PUDDINGS. 209 

ft teaspoonful of salt, and a teacup of butter, make 
it boiling hot, then pour it over the toast ; some per- 
sons work a small teaspoonfulof flour with the but- 
ter, and stir it into the milk when it is boiling hot; 
stir it for a few minutes, then pour it over the toast. 

Toast Without Butter. — Toast some slices 
of wheat bread, put a pint of milk over the fire, 
when hot, add a small teaspoonful of salt, and pour 
it over the toast. 



DIRECTIONS 

For making Puddings, etc. 

For Boiling Puddings. — Have a tin form oi 
muslin bag — the former should have a close fitting 
cover, and be rubbed over the inside with a bit of 
butter before putting the pudding in it, that it may 
not stick — the latter should be first dipped into 
boiling water, then well floured on the inside. 

Tin forms may be bought, or small covered pails, 
of two or three quarts capacity, for large or small 
puddings ; these are more easily kept sweet than 
are muslin bags. Tie a batter pudding close. 

Bread puddings, or those made of corn meal, 
should be loose, as they swell very much in boiling. 

The water must be boiling when the pudding is 
put in, and continue to boil until it is done. If a 
pudding is boiled in a bag, it must be turned fre- 
quently whilst boiling, otherwise it will stick to the 
pot. 14 



210 COMMON CUSTARD. . 

There rr'jst be enough water lo cover the pud- 
ding if it is boiled in a bag ; if boiled in a tin form 
do not let the water quite reach the top of it. 

To boil a pudding in a tin basin, dip a cloth in 
hot water, dredge it with flour, and lie it closely 
over the basin. 

When the pudding is done, take it from the wa- 
ter, give whatever it is boiling in, one sudden plunge 
into cold water, then turn it out immediately ; this 
will prevent its sticking. If there is any delay in 
serving the pudding, cover it with a napkin, or the 
cloth in which it was boiled ; it is best to serve as 
soon as turned out. 

Baked Puddings. — Bread, cornmeal, or rice re- 
quire a moderate heat ; batter or custard require a 
quick oven ; the time required for baking each par- 
ticular one is given with the receipt for making it. 

Eggs for puddings are beaten enough when a 
spoonful can be taken up clear from strings. 

A baked pudding must be served in whatever 
it is made. It is well to improve their appear- 
ance as much as possible. They mny be served 
the same as meat pies, substituting small ap))les or 
other small fruit fl>r the parsley or green leaves. 

Soufflees, or light puddings, require a quick oven. 
These should be made so as to be done at the mo- 
ment for serving ; otherwise they will fall and flat- 
ten. 

Common Custard. — Beat either four or five 
fre^h eggs light; then stir them into a quart of milk; 
sweeten to taste ; flavor w^ith ateaspoonful of peach 
water, or extract of lemon, or vanilla, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt; rub butter over the bottom and 
sides of a baking dish or tin basin ; pour in the 
custard, grate a little nutmeg over, and bake in a 



MINUTE PUDDING APPLE FRITTERS. 211 

quick oVen. Three-quarters of an hour is generally 
enough. Try whether it is done by putting a tea- 
spoon handle into the middle of it ; if it comes out 
clean, it is enough. 

Or, butter small cups ; set them into a shallow 
pan of hot water, reaching nearly to the top of 
the cups ; nearly fill them with the custard mixture; 
keep the water boiling until they are done. The 
pan may be set in an oven, or over a fire ; if over 
the fire, it is best to biovvn them with a hot shovel. 

MiNiTTE Pudding. — Put a quart of milk in a 
stew-pan over a clear fire ; make a batter of a large 
teacup of wheat . Hour and enough cold milk ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt, and when the milk is boiling 
hot, stir the batter gradually to it; continue to stir 
it until it thickens, and the Hour is cooked. Dip a 
mould or basin into cold water; pour the pudding 
in and let it cool sufficiently to keep its Ibrm, then 
turn it out and serve with sugar and butter, or wine- 
sauce. 

Apple Fritters, wUhout Eggs. — Put of butter- 
milk or sour milk and water, each half a pint into 
a basin ; dissolve half a teaspoonful of saleratus 
in a little water; put a teaspotniful of salt to the 
milk and water, and stir in whe-at flour enough to 
make a smooth batter, then add the saleratus ; pare 
and chop fine five or six large tart apples, and stir 
them into the batter; have a thick-bottomed frying- 
pan, put into it a large tablespoonful of sweet lard, 
set it over the fire, and when it is boiling hot, put 
in l.>atter by the large spoonful until the pan is full, 
flatten each a little ; let them fry gently ; when one 
side is a delicate biown tiwn the other ; when both 
are done take them on a dish, add to each a small 



212 APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

bit of butter and a Icaspoonfal of sugar, with a little 
grated nutmeg, and serve hot. 

Boiled Apple Pudding, without Eggs. — INFake 
a bailer the same as for fritters, using doul)le the 
quantity of milk and water and flour; peel, quar- 
ter, and core five or six rich tart apples, and stir 
them into the batter ; tie it into a pudding bag, and 
boil two hours. Serve with butter and sugar worked 
together, with a little grated nutmeg. 

Huckleberries, cranberries, or ripe peaches may 
be used instead of apples. 

Apple Fritters, with Eggs. — Beat two eggs 
light, and stir them to a pint of milk, and half a 
pint of water, and flour enough to make a smooth 
batter, (a pint bowl heaping full is enough flour) pare 
and core six large tart apples, and chop them small, 
stir them into the batter, and finish as directed 
without esss. 



"OO^ 



Boiled Apple Pudding, with Eggs. — Make a 
batter with two well heated eggs, and a pint and a 
half of milk, with a pint bowl heaping full of wheat 
flour; beat it until smooth and light ; pare, quar- 
ter, and core, five or six large tender tart or sour 
apples, and stir them into the batter, with a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; tie it in a pudding-bag, and boil 
for two hom-s. Turn it out on a dish, and serve 
with sugar, Dutter, and nutmeg sauce. 

Apple Duaiplings. — Pare, quarter, and core, 
eight fine tender tart apples ; make a pie crust, roll 
it to half an inch thickness, cut it in round pieces, 
the size of a tea plate ; lay as many pieces of ap- 
ples in the centre as it will contain, gather the edges 
U]), and pinch them together ovei' the apple ; have 



DRIED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 213 

a pot of boiling water, and when the duinplino-s 
are all made, drop them in ; cover the pot, and let 
them boil gently, for nearly an hour; then take 
each one carefully with a skimmer, on to a dish ; 
serve quickly, with butter, sugar, and nutmeg, 
worked together, or with butter and syrup ; to be 
eaten cut open, and the sauce, or syrup, and butter 
over. 

A more healthful paste may be made for apple 
puddings, or dumplings, thus : — To a pint of sour 
milk, or buttermilk, and half a pint of water, put 
a small teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a lit- 
tle hot water ; put wheat flour, into an earthen ba- 
sin, make a hollow in the centre, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, and the buttermilk, etc. ; work in the flour 
until it is a soft dough ; flour your hands, and di- 
vide it in pieces, the size of a common afTple ; then 
flatten it between your hands, to about half an inch 
thickness, or rather less ; put a quartered apple in 
the centre, then draw the edges of the paste to- 
gether over it, pinch it close ; strew some flour over 
a large dish, and lay each dumpling on, (the gath- 
ered side down,) until they are finished ; have a 
pot of boiling water, drop the dumplings in, cover 
the pot, and let them boil gently for nearly an hour; 
servo with sugar, or syrup, and butter. 

This paste is both light, and delicate ; a pie paste 
is not so ; very few persons can eat it without posi- 
tive injur}'. • 

Dried Peach Dumplings. — Stew dried peaches 
without sugar, and finish as directed for apple 
dumphngs. 

Dried Apple Dumplings. — Pick the apples, 
and cut out any imperfections, rinse them in cohj 
water, ami put them in soak for one night ; then 



.814: SNOV/ BAI-I.S. 

Stew them with the water in which they were soak- 
ed, with more, if necessary; acM a lemon, cut in 
thin slices, if liked ; when the apples are ten(h'r, 
put tliem on dishes to cool ; then finish as directed 
lor apple dumplings, the last nientioned paste to he 
preferred. Any dried fruit may be stewed, and 
done in this way. 

Ripe Peach DrvrPLiNGS. — Pare, not very ripo 
peaches, and cut them in halves, or quarters, and 
finish as directed for apples. 

Rhubarb Dumplings. — Peel off the skin from 
the stalks, cut them in inch lengths, and finish as. 
directed for apple dumplings. 

Paste *PuDDI^G,^i'lV/t Fruit. — Make a pie paste, 
roll it out to less than half an inch thickness, cover 
the whole surface, until within two inches of the 
edge, with apples, peeled and cored, and chopped 
small, or stewed fruit, such as crnnherries, prunes, 
phims, or any other ; then begin at one side, and 
fold, or roll it neatly ; wrap a pudding cloth around 
it, secure the ends bv tying, and, unless very sn)ail, 
boil gently tor two hours ; take the clolii frouj it, 
turn it on a dish, and serve with a sauce of butter, 
sugar, and grated nutmeg, or wine sauce ; cut it in 
slices across, nearly an inch in thickness. 

Instead of pie paste, a more healthful one may 
be used, as directed for apple dumplings; roll it 
rather thinner than directed for pie paste. 

Snow Balls. — Pick all imperfections from half 
a pint of rice, put it in water, and rub it between 
ihe hands ; then pour that water off, put more on, 
stir it about in it, let the rice S(?ttle, then drain the 
v/ater ofi ; put the rice in a two (juart slew-pan, 



NICE DESSERT. 215 

with a teappoonful of salt, and a quart of water ; 
cover the stew-pan, and set it where it will Ijoil 
gently for one hour, or until the water is all absorb- 
ed ; dip some teacups into cold water, fill them with 
the boiled rice, press it to their shape ; then turn 
them out on a dish, and serve with butter, and 
sugar, or wine sauce. 

Prune Pudding. — Beat two eggs, stir them to 
a quart of milk, with a teaspoonful of salt, and 
enough wheat flour to make ix rather thick batter ; 
rinse, or wash a handful of prunes, as may be re- 
quired ; sprinkle a little flour over, then stir them 
into the batter ; tie it in a pudding-bag, and boil 
for two hours ; serve with butter, and sugar, or 
wine sauce. 

Apple Charlotte. — Cut slices of wheat bread 
or rolls, and having rubbed the bottom and sides 
of a basin, with a bit of butter, line it with the 
sliced bread, or rolls ; peel tart apples, cut ihem 
small, and nearly fill the pan, strewing bits of but- 
ter and sugar between the apples; grate a small 
nutmeg over ; soak as many slices of bread, or roll, 
as will cover it ; over which put a plate, and a 
^veight, to keep the bread close upon the apples ; 
bake two hours in a quick oven, then turn it out. 

Quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound 
of sugar, to half a peck of tart apples. 

Peach Charlotte. — Pare and cut the peaches, 
which may be ripe, but not soft, and finish as di- 
rected for apples. A charlotte may be made of 
an}' sort of fruit; dried frliit may be first slewed 
and sweetened. 

A Nice Dessert — May be made by slev/ing 



21.6 BATTEIl PTTDDINGS. 

fruit ofany sort; cherrips, currants, cranberries, or 
apples ; make it quite sweet, butter some slices of 
wheat bread, lay them on a dish, and pour the 
stewed fruit over and serve hot. 

If, for example, cherries are used ; pick the stems 
and imperfections from a quait of them, put to 
them water rather more than to cover them, add a 
large teacup of sugar, (for sour cherries,) cover 
them, and let them slew rather slowly for half an 
hour, then pour them over the buttered bread, and 
serve hot. 

Whole Apple Dumplings. — Take eight or 
ten rather small sized, tender tart apples, pare 
them neatly, and take out the cores with a pen- 
knife, roll out some good pie paste, or the one di- 
rected for apple-dumplings, to less than half an 
inch thickness; cut two rounds for each apple, lay 
it on one of them, then lay the other over, wet the 
edges on the inside, and join them neatly, then tie 
each in a bit of muslin, and boil for one hour ; 
serve with butter and sugar, or syrup and nutmeg. 

Quaking Pudding. — Grate stale bread until you 
have a teacupful, add to it six well beaten eggs, 
and a heaping teaspoonful of rice Hour ; stir them 
into a quart of milk, add a small teaspoonful of salt, 
tie it in a well floured pudding cloth, and boll for 
two hours ; when done, turn it out, and serve with 
wine sauce heaped upon it ; it is best to boil it in 
a basin. This pudding may be baked in a well 
buttered basin, then turned out, and served with 
wine sauce upon it ; one hour will bake it in a 
quick oven. 

Cheap Batter Pudding. — Beat three fresh 
eggs with six dessert spoonsful of wheat flour; beat 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 217 

unf.il very light, then stir into it gradually a quart 
of milk ; add one tablespoonful of sweet butter, and 
two of sugar ; of salt and essence of lemon, or peach 
water, each a teaspoonful ; grate half a nutmeg to 
it, beat it well together, put it into a buttered basin 
or mould for one hour, in a hot oven ; when done, 
turn it out, or serve in the basin. This pudding 
may be boiled ; omit the sugar, butter, and tiavor- 
ing, boil two hours, and serve with wine sauce. 

Rich Batter Pudding. — Beat six eggs with 
six large spoonsful of wheat flour, until very light, 
then stir it into a quart of milk, beat them well 
together, butter a, dish, and bake for one hour 
in a hot or quick oven. Serve with brandy or wine 
sauce ; instead of brandy or wine, lemon juice, may 
be used. 

This pudding may be tied in a cloth, and boiled 
for two hours ; serve with a sauce. Or it may be 
baked in small cups. 

Citron Pudding. — Beat the yolks of three eggs 
with two tablespoonsfulof wheat flour ; when light, 
add a pint of boiled milk, and a quarter of citron 
cut small ; put it in buttered cups, and bake half 
an hour in a quick oven ; when done, turn them out, 
and serve with liquid sauce. 

CocoANUT Pudding. — Take the meat of a cocoa« 
nut from the shell, and take off the black outside ; 
grate the white meat «f a small cocoaiiut, and stir it 
into four well beaten eggs, add a quart of rr.ilk^^md a 
teaspoonful of salt; line a buttered tin basin with 
pio paste rolled thin, put the pudding in, antl bake 
for one hour in a hot oven ; take it from the basin 
and serve with wine sauce. This pudding may be 
boiled, and served with sauce ; or add a tablespoon- 



^iS CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

ful of sweel butter, two larofe spoonsful of sijfrar, 
half a nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon, or peach water ; bake in bowls or cups lined 
with pie paste. Two hours will be required for 
boiling. 

Floating Island. — Set a quart of rich n.ilk to 
boil, when it does so, stir into it two small table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, and the beaten yolks of 
six eggs ; flavor with lemon or rose, or peach water; 
whip the whites to a high froth ; when the custard 
is thick, put it into a deep china dish, and henp the 
frothed eggs upon it; it may be finished by putting 
spoonsful of jelly or jam over the frothed eggs, and 
serve. 

Trifle. — Cover the bottom of a glass dish with 
Naples' biscuit, and half a dozen maccaroons broke 
in half, pour enough l)randy or wine over to mois- 
ten them ; next put spoonsful of jelly or jam over, 
pour a custard over, made of the yolks of six eggs 
and a quart of milk, sweetened to taste; whip the 
whites of two eggs, with quarter of a pound of pul- 
verized white sugar, add a small wine-glass of 
wine or lemon juice, and when it will stand in a 
heap, putitoti the custard, and serve. 

Lemon Cream, Floating Island. — Beat the 
yolks of twelve eggs to the juice of four lemorts, 
make it sweet with white sugar, and set it over a 
chafing dish of coals or a furnace ; stir it till it be- 
con:ie thick, then pour it into a dish, whip the whites 
of the eggs to a high froth, a.nd serve it on the 
cream. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. — Chop half a 
pound of beef suet ver}^ fine, stone and cliop one 



PLUM PUDDING. 219 

pound of raisins ; take a pound of currants, picked; 
washed, and dried ; soak half a sixpenny wheat 
loaf in a pint of milk ; when it is all imbibed, add 
to it the chopped suet, raisias, and currants, a 
tablespoon ful of sugar and two well beaten eggs ; 
put to it one wineglass of brandy or lemon juice, 
half a nutmeg grated or half a teaspoonful of ground 
mace, a tablespoonful of ground cinnamon and a 
small teaspoonful of alspice ; mix it well together, 
and boil it in a bag or tin form for three hours. 
When done turn it out and serve. 

For sauce, beat quarter of a pound of butter to a 
crean), then stir into it half a pound of pulverized 
white sugar, continue to beat it until it is light ; a 
wineglass of wine or brandy may be added. 

Plum pudding may be made and kept for a 
month or more ; having made one as directed, oi 
double its size, and boil twice as long, keep it in the 
cloth in which it was boiled ; when wanted cut off 
a piece or slice, put some butter and sugar, and if 
liked, a little wine over, put it on a plate and set it 
in a hot stove oven for half an hour, and serve ; or 
cut a slice, put a bit of butter in a frying pan, let it 
become hot, lay the pudding in, put over it a table- 
spoonful of sugar, dissolved in a little wine or water, 
cover the pan, and when the pudding is hot through, 
turn it on a dish and serve ; a tablespoonful of 
wine or hot water may be put in the pan after the 
pudding ; let it become hot, then put it over the 
pudding. 

Plum Pudding. — Take half a pound of wheat 
flour, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, 
and the same of currants, picked, washed, and 
dried ; use milk enough to stir easily with a spoon, 
add half a pound of suet chopped fine, and four 
well beaten eggs and a large teaspoonful of maco. 



230 ALMOND PUDDING BOILED. 

cinnamon and alsplce ; mix all well togeiher and 
boil it for two hours and a half in a cloth or tin. 
Serve with butter and sugar, or wine sauce. 
Plum pudding, if cold, may be wanned in a pan 
with some of the sauce. 

Lemon Pudding. — Beat half a pound of fresh 
butter to a cream with half a pound of white sugar, 
powdered fine, then add to it eight eggs well 
beaten, and a large fresh lemon grated with the 
skin, stir it well together, line a dish with puff paste, 
fill with the pudding and bake in a quick oven for 
nearly an hour. 

Almond Pudding. — Boil a pint of milk, let it 
cool ; beat three eggs light, with three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; take the skins from two ounces o{ 
shelled almonds and pound them in a mortar to a 
smooth paste, with a teaspoonful of extract of lemon 
or peach water ; melt one ounce of butter in the 
t milk, add a quarter of a pound of white sugar, then 
beat all together and bake in a basin or cups. 

Almond Pudding. — Take the skins from quarter 
of a pound of shelled sweet almonds and four or 
five of bitter, pound them in a mortar with a tea- 
spoonful of extract of lemon or orange-flour water 
and a wineglass of wine ; grate Naples biscuit or 
sponge cake until you have a pint bowl of it ; add 
to it quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, half a pound 
of butter beaten to a cream, and a quart of cream 
boiled; grate in half a«nutmeg and beat all together 
with six eggs beaten to a froth; line a dish with 
thin puff paste, put the mixture in and bake for one 
hour in a quick oven. Serve hot or cold. 

Almond Pudding Boiled. — Take the skins from 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 221 

half a pound of shelled almonds, beat them to a 
smooth paste with a tablespoonful of rose water or 
lemon juice ; mix a pint bowl of grated bread and a 
nutmeg grated with quarter of a pound of butter and 
the yolks of six eggs ; beat them well together, 
add a tablespoonful of flour and a pint of cream 
or boiled milk, mix them well together, then put 
in the almonds, beat it until thoroughly mixed, 
then tie it in a buttered cloth and boil for one 
hour. 

Dish of Snow, whipt Cream. — To the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a froth, add a pint of cream 
and four tablespoon fuls of sweet wine, with three 
of fine white sugar and a teaspoonful of extract of 
lemon or vanilla ; whip it to a froth and serve in a 
glass dish ; serve jelly or jam with it. 

Or lay lady-fingers or sliced sponge cake in a 
glass dish, put spoonfuls of jelly or jam over, and 
heap the snow upon it. 

Mock Cream. — Beat three eggs light ; then add 
to them, three heaping teaspoonfuls of wheat flour, 
beat them well together, then stir them into a pint 
and a half of boiling milk, add to it a saltspoonful 
of salt and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon or 
peach water, stir it for five minutes over a gentle 
fire ; when perfectly smooth it is done. 

Line a pudding pan, (having rubbed it over with 
butter,) with puff paste, cut strips of the paste and 
lay it around the edge, fill it with cream, strew 
powder sugar over, and set it in a hot oven for half 
an hour ; when nicely browned it is done. This is 
altogether superior to custard. 

Charlotte Russe. — There arc many varieties 
of this same charlotte-; they are always similarly 



222 TO CLARIFY ISINGLASS. 

made, that is, of sponge cake or lady-fingers and 
whipt cream custard or blanc-mange, or the fbllow- 
infT : Hne the sides and bottom of an oval tin basin 
with lady-fingers closel}'' fitted together or slightly 
lapped. Beat the whites of three eggs to a high 
froth with quarter of a pound of pow(Jer sugar and 
half a pint of cream until it is quite thick and light ; 
flavor to taste with lemon or vanilla extract and fill 
the cake-lined mould, lay sliced sponge cake or 
lady-fingers over to cover it, and set it on ice for an 
hour or more. Turn it out on a dish and serve. 

Or having lined a basin or mould, or small tin 
cups with lady-fingers, or sliced Savoy biscuit, or 
yellow lady-cake, fill them w^ith mock cream, 
blanc-mange, or custard made of the yolks of eggs, 
and set them on ice to harden, or let them become 
cold. Turn them out, and serve. 

Make a Charlotte de Russe as follows : — Break 
an ounce of isinglass small, and put to it a teacup 
of hot milk or water ; set it on a stove until all is 
dissolved; then strain it through a bit of muslin to 
half a pound of fine white sugar. When very 
nearly cold, add it to a quart of cream, alread}' 
beaten to a froth ; continue to beat it for a few 
minutes, holding the pan on ice ; having fined your 
moulds with lady-fingers, pour your cream in, cover 
it with lady-fingers or sponge cake sliced. Turn it 
out and serve. 

Isinglass. — There are three sorts of isinglass : 
American, and English, and Russia, which is three 
times the price of the others ; only one-third as much 
is required of it as of Cooper's isinglass, for a quart 
of milk, which is one ounce. 

To Clarify Isinglass. — Break an ounce of 
isinglass small; pour on to it a cup of boiling water, 



INDIAN MEAL DUMPLINGS. 223 

and set it oyer a gentle heat to dissolve ; when en- 
tirely dissolved, take off the scum, or strani it 
through a coarse cloth. 

Blanc-mange. — Boil a pint of cream and a quart 
of milk together ; clarify an ounce and a half of 
isinglass, and stir it into the cream ; make it sweet 
with white sugar, and flavor with lemon and rose, 
or with vanilla, or orange flower water, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Let it boil up once, stirring it well. 
Have ready some earthen moulds dipped in cold 
water ; fill them with the blanc-mange. When per- 
fectly cold turn them out, or when ready to serve. 

Red jelly or jam is served with blanc-mange. 

Three ounces of almonds skinned or blanched, 
and pounded to a smooth paste, stirred into the 
milk with the isinglass, may be considered au im- 
provement. Strain it through a bit of coarse mus- 
lin into the moulds. 

Ribbon Blanc-mange. — Put into a mould some 
blanc-mange one inch deep ; let it become perfectly 
cold ; color some blanc-mange with cochineal or 
carmine, a fine rose color, and put it an inch deep 
on the white ; when it is also cold and firm, put the 
same depth of white, and white and red alternately, 
until the mould is full. When cold, it ' may be 
turned out on a dish. 

Make rose color with cochineal pounded fine and 
steeped in a little hot water, or wash off enough 
from a saucer of carmine ; use more or less accord- 
ing as you may wish the color to be. 

Indian Meal Dumplings. — Put a pint of yellow 
corn meal into a large bowl ; pour boiling water 
into it, stirring it all the time ; make it a moist paste 
to mould in your hands ; add a teaspoonfiil of salt, 



224 BOILED SUET PUDDING. 

Stir it in ; muke it in balls the size of a teacup, flour 
the outside, and drop them into a pot of boihng 
water, and let them boil for one hour. These may 
be boiled with salt meat. Serve with a sweet sauce 
or syrup. 

Boiled Indian Meal Pudding. — On half a pint 
of Indian, or corn meal, pour a quart of boiling 
milk, stirring it all the time ; add a teaspoonful of 
salt ; beat two, three or four eggs, very light ; 
and when the batter is nearly cold, stir them into 
it ; put the pudding into a cloth or tin mould and 
boil two hours. Serve with a sauce, or with but- 
ter and syrup. 

Yeast Dumplings. — Make a dough of a pound 
and a half of wheat flour, with a tablespoonful of 
baker's yeast, a teaspoonful of salt, and warm milk, 
set it in a warm place to rise for two hours ; when 
light, flour your hands, knead it down, and make 
it in balls the size of a small teacup ; have a pot 
of boiling water; take off* any scum which may 
have risen in boiling, drop the dumplings in, and 
boil fast for half an hour; take them up \rith a 
skimmer, and serve with boiled meat, or with a sauce 
or with butter and syrup. 

Cheap Indian Pudding. — Stir gradually half a 
pint of Indian (yellow) cornmeal to a quart of boiling 
milk or water ; when it has cooled, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a teacup of chopped suet, or half as 
much butter ; put to it half a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger, one egg, and a teacup 
of sugar or syrup. Bake two hours. 

Boiled Suet Pudding. — Into a quart of boiling 
milk, stir gradually as much sweet corn meal, as 



SMALL CUSTAKDS. '22b 

will make a thick batter; add a teacup of beef 
suet chopped fine, and a teaspoonful of salt; tie it 
loosely in a bag, and boil two hours. Quarter of 
a pound of raisins nriay be added to the batter. 
Serve with syrup. 

Boiled Batter Pudding. — Beat three eggs 
very light with a teacup of wheat flour, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; then stir it into a quart of milk ; 
put it in a tin form, or well floured pudding cloth, 
and boil fast for two hours. Serve with a wine or 
other sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. — Steep broken bits of 
stale bread in warm milk ; when it is soft, beat it 
as you would beat eggs, until it is a smooth batter; 
add a teaspoonful of salt, tie it in a pudding-bag, 
and boil for an hour, or two, according to its size ; 
one quart of milk, and bread enough to make a 
nice batter, may be boiled two hours ; serve with 
a sauce. Eggs may be added to this pudding, one, 
two, three, or four. 

Baked Bread Pudding. — Break stale bread 
in small bits, to fill a pint bowl, put it into a quart 
of warm milk ; when it is soft, beat it fine ; add 
two well beaten eggs, half a nutmeg, grated, a bit 
of butter, the size of a large egg, and two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, with a teaspoonful of salt ; a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract is an improvement. 
Bake one hour in a hot oven. 

Small Custards. — Boil a quart of milk, beat 

from four to six eggs light, and when the milk is 

nearly cold, stir them into it ; add a teaspopnful of 

salt, and two tablespoonsful of sugar ; grate half a 

15 J* 



226 BAKED BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

nutmeg over, and the yellow part of a lemon, or a 
small teaspoon ful of lemon extract. 

Butter some custard cups, and nearly fill them ; 
set them in a shallow pan, and fill it nearly to the 
top of the cups, with boiling water ; set it in a hot 
oven, or on some coals, for half an hour ; then take 
the cups out, wipe them, and serve on a custard 
stand ; or lay a napkin over a large dish, or tray, 
and set the cups on it. Serve with ripe fruit, with 
sugar ; or with preserves. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. — Cut three slices, of 
half an inch thickness, from a sixpenny loaf of 
wheat bread, take off the outside crust, and cut the 
slices in small squares ; pour enough warm milk 
over, to moisten them ; then beat two eggs light, 
and stir them into a pint of milk ; rub the inside 
of a tin basin with butter, and having picked and 
washed half a pound of raisins, put them into the 
basin, lay the soaked bread on them, pour the milk 
and eggs over ; dip a muslin cloth in hot water, 
dredge wheat flour over one side, and tie it over 
the basin ; boil for one hour ; when done, take the 
cloth from it, lay a plate over the basin, then turn 
the pudding upon it. Serve with wine, or other 
sauce. 

Baked Bread and Butter Pudding. — From 
a baker's sixpenny loaf, cut three slices, of more 
than half an inch thickness, spread butter, quarter 
of an inch thick over each slice ; butter a two quart 
basin, cut each slice in four, and strew them with 
well washed and picked currants, or raisins, and put 
them in the basin ; beat two, or four eggs light, stir 
them into a quart of milk ; add half a grated nutmeg, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon extract, if like(^ ; make 



SMALL PUDDINGS. 227 

it sweet with three large spoonsful of sugar; pour in 
the bread and raisins ; bake one hour in a hot oven. 
This pudding requires nearly quarter of a pound 
of butter, half a pound of raisins, or currants, and 
two or more eggs, to a quart of milk. 

Egg Pudding. — Beat nine eggs, with nine table- 
spoonsful of wheat flour, until it is very light; then 
add, gradually, three pints of boiled milk, and a 
leaspoonful of salt ; bake one hour in a hot oven. 
Serve with sugar, butter, and nutmeg, or wine 
sauce. 

Rice Flour Pudding. — Beat four eggs light, 
with a teacup of rice flour ; add a quart of milk, 
and sugar, and spice, to taste, with a teaspoonful 
of salt ; bake in a buttered basin, in a quick oven, 
for one hour ; a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, and 
half a nutmeg, grated, will make this pudding very 
nice ; or it may be baked without either, and served 
with a sauce. 

Rice Pudding, without Eggs. — Wash a small 
teacup of rice, in two or three changes of water ; 
make a quart of milk sweet, with a teacup of 
sugar ; add a teaspoonful of salt, and half a nut- 
meg, grated ; put the rice to the milk, and bake in 
a moderate oven, for nearly two hours. 

Rice Pudding, with Eggs. — Beat two or more 
eggs light, and stir them into a quart of milk, with 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a wineglass of rice, well 
washed ; put to it, two tablespoonsful of sugar, half 
a nutmeg, grated, and a tablespoonful of butter. — 
Bake one hour, in a quick oven. 

Small Puddings. — Beat six eggs, with six ta- 



223 RICH LEMON PUDDING. 

• 

blesponnsful of wheat flour, and stir it into three 
pints of milk ; add a teaspoonful of salt ; butter 
six custard cups, and one pint bowl, and nearly 
fill them with the batter ; bake half an hour in a 
quick oven ; when done, turn the large one on the 
middle of a dish ; turn the small ones around it, 
and serve with wine sauce over them. 

Marrow Pudding. — Grate stale bread to fill a 
pint bowl, pour over it a pint of boiling milk ; when 
cold, slice into it a pound of beef marrow, very 
thin; add 'four well beaten -eggs, and a wineglass 
of brandy ; mix well together ; raisins, and cur- 
rants, may be added : boil two hours, and serve 
with brandy sauce. 

CocoANUT Pudding. — Grate half a pound of the 
white meat of a cocoanut ; work a pound of fine 
white sugar into six ounces of butter, beat six eggs 
light, then add them to the sugar and butter, sprin- 
kle the cocoanut gra.dually in, stir it well, add a 
wine-glass of brandy, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract, with half of a grated nutmeg; line a deep 
dish with a rich pie paste, put the pudding in, set 
it into a quick oven, roll some puff' paste thin, cut it 
in leaves ; when the pudding has been in the oven 
half an hour, take it out, make a wreath of the 
leaves around the edge, and return it to the oven 
for fifteen minutes, then serve. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. — Make the same as 
cocoanut; grate the potato after paring off the 
skin. 

Rich Lemon Pudding. — Grate lemons outside, 
and pulp and finish the same as cocoanut pud- 
ding. 



CHERRY PUDDING. 229 

• 

Sponge Cake Pudding. — Take sponge cake 
■which has become quite dry, grate it line, add 
enough hot milk to make it a batter ; put to it a bit 
of butter and some currants washed and dried ; line 
deep dishes with pie paste, put the mixture in, and 
hake in a quick oven for one hour. Beat the white 
of an egg with quarter of a pound of pulverized 
white sugar, and a wineglass of wine, until it is 
light and white, and will stand in a form, heap it on 
the top of each pudding or pie as soon as taken from 
the oven, and serve. 

Omlet for Desser'jt. — Beat six eggs light, add 
a teaspoonful of salt, and four or five maccaroons 
pounded fine, beat thera well together, fry as 
usual ; strew plentifully with sugar, and serve. 

Cream Custard. — Beat six eggs light, stir 
them into a quart of cream, sweeten with loaf sugar 
to taste, add half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon or vaniha extract, or if preferred, peach 
water. Bake one hour in a quick oven, in a but- 
tered basin, with or without a bottom crust. 

Dried Currant Pudding. — One pound of cur- 
rants, cleaned and dried, one pound of suet chop- 
ped fine, half a pound of wheat flour or bread 
crumbs, half a nutmeg grated, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, and one teaspoonful of salt ; make it moist 
with milk, w^ork it well together, tie it in a pudding 
bag, and boil for two hours ; serve with wine or 
brandy sauce. 

Apples in Batter. — Pare and core several 
small sized apples, set them in a deep dish, make 
a rich batter, and pour it over them ; bake in a 
quick oven for one hour; serve with wine sauce. 

Cherry Pudding. — Make a batter the same as 



230 CUSTARD FRITTERS. 

for apj)Ie pudding, with or without eggs, (see di- 
rections,) take the stems from a quart of sour cher- 
ries, stir tliem into the batter, tie it in a pudding 
bag, and boil two hours ; serve with butter and 
su^ar sauce. 

Ripe Currant Puddixg. — Make the same as 
cherry pudding. 

Huckleberry, Blackberry Pudding. — Pick 

the huckleberries or blackberries free from crushed 
berries or leaves, rinse them in cold water, and 
finish as directed for cherry pudding. 

White Pudding. — Beat two ens^s lifjht, and 
stir them to a pint of cream, add a. small teaspoon- 
tul of salt ; butter a tin basin or pudding pan, cut 
three slices quarter of an inch thick, from a baker's 
loaf; rinse in cold water, pick and stone quarter of 
a pound of raisins, la}^ them in the pan, cut 'the 
bread small, and put it on them ; pour the cream 
over, bake three-quarters of an hour in a quick 
oven ; turn it out, and serve with wine sauce. 

Rhubarb Fritters. — Strip off the outer skin 
from rhubarb stalks, cut them fine, and finish as 
directed for apple fritters. 

Custard Fritters. — Whip the yolks of three 
eggs with a tablospoonful of flour, half a nutmeg 
grated, and a small teaspoonful of salt, add half a 
pint of cream or rich boiled milk; flavor with a 
glass of brandy, or a teaspoonful of lemon extract 
or peach water, sweeten to taste, and bake in a 
buttered dish ; when cold, cut it in slices, cut each 
in small squares or diamonds ; make a batter of 
two eggs beaten very light, to a pint of milk, and 



CURRANT JELLY PUDDING. 231 

flour, to make a thin batter; dredge the pieces of 
custard with flour ; put a tablespoonful of sweet 
lard or beef fat into a dripping pan, over the fire, 
put to it a saltspoonful of salt, and when it is boil- 
ing hot, take up one of the pieces with a spoonful 
of the batter, put it into the pan, then take another 
in the same way, and fill the pan, not too closely ; 
let them fry gently ; when one side is done turn the 
other ; serve with white sugar grated over. 

Jelly Fritters. — Make a batter of two eggs, 
a pint of milk, and a pint bowl of wheat flour or 
more, beat it light ; put a tablespoonful of lard or 
beef fat in a frying or omlet pan, add a saltspoonful 
of salt, make it boiling hot, put in the batter by the 
large spoonful, not too close ; when one side is a 
delicate brown, turn the other; w^hen done, tnke 
them on to a dish with a doyle over it, put a des- 
sertspoonful of firm jelly or jam on each, and serve. 

Jelly in Fritters. — Cut some firm jelly in 
slices; cut each slice in small squares or diamods, 
dip each into wheat flour or pulverized sugar, then" 
into a batter made as directed for jelly fritters, fry 
as therein directetl ; strew fine sugar over, and 
serve hot for dessert. 

Currant Jelly Pudding. — Make a rich pie 
paste, roll it out to quarter of an inch thickness, 
spread currant jelly as thickly over the whole sur- 
face within an inch of the edge; then roll or fold it 
neatly ; fold a pudding cloth about it, secure the 
ends and side and boil for two hours, unless very 
small ; serve with a sauce of butter and sugar ; cut 
it in slices across. 

Any sort of jell}', preserve or stewed fruit may bo 
made in this way 



'SiZ JELLY PANCAKES. 

Currant Jelly Dumplings. — Make a rich pie 
paste, or one more delicate and healthful as directed 
tor apple dumplings; if pie paste is used, roll it to 
half an inch thickness ; roll theoiher paste thinner; 
cut it in rounds the size of a tea saucer, put a 
large tablespoonful of jelly in the centre of each, 
gather the outer edges and pinch them together, dip 
vour hand in flour and smooth over the outside ; lay 
each one, the gathered side down, on a floured 
dish ; when all are done, drop them in fast boiling 
water, which must be skimmed before putting them 
in ; cover the pot and let them boil three-quarters of 
an hour; take them up carefully with a skimmer 
and serve quickly with a cover over, and butter and 
sugar sauce. 

Cranberry jam, or any other, may be made in this 
manner, and it is delicious. 

Egg Pancakes. — Beat six eggs light with a pint 
bowl of wheat flour, add a teaspoonful of salt, and 
stir gradually into it enough milk to make a smooth, 
thin batter ; put an omlet pan over the fire and let 
it become hot, rub a hfi of sponge, dipped in butter, 
over the inside of the pan, and put in enough of the 
batter to run over it, as thin as a dollar piece ; 
shake the pan when you think one side is done 
enougli, and if you can, toss it up so as to turn it, 
if 3'ou cannot, use a pancake turner ; when both 
sides are a delicate brown, take it on a dish, put a 
little butter over, grate white sugar and a little nut- 
meg or cinnamon over ; fry another, lay on the first 
one, sprinkle it likewise, and so continue until you 
have enough ; send to the table hot for dessert or 
supper; cut it in quarters and serve.. 

Jelly Pancakes. — Make and fry the pancakes, 
as above directed ; when one is done and taken 



RATAFIA PUDDIXG. 233 

on to a plate, spread jelh' orjam thinly over it, then 
roll it up like a scroll, lay a napkin on a hot dish, lay 
the pancake on, make until 3'oa have enough and 
serve. 

Bread Fritters. — To a quart bowl of stale 
bread broken small, put a quart of boiling milk, 
cover it for ten or fifteen minutes, when it is quite 
soft beat it with a spoon until it is smooth, add two 
well beaten eggs, half a nutmeg grated, one taMe- 
spoonful of brandy, a large spoonful of sweet butter 
and a small teaspoonful of salt ; beat it light, make 
an omlet pan hot, put in a bit of butter the size of 
a large hickory nut, set the pan over a gentle fire, 
put in the batter by the spoonful, or enough to run 
over the bottom of the pan, let it fry very gently; 
when one side is a fine brown turn the other, put 
butter and sugar with a little grated nutmeg over, 
or spread wine sauce over, put one above the 
other, cut them through in quarters, and serve hot. 

For a Pudding. — Make as directed for bread 
fritters, tie it in a bag and boil two hours ; serve 
with wine sauce. 

Ratafia Pudding. — l3oil a quart of cream, 
break half a pound of dry sponge cake, or Naples* 
biscuit, in pieces, and put it into the cream ; add a 
teacup of butter, a wineglass of wine, half a nut-; 
meg grated, and a quarter of a pound of fine white 
sugar ; take the skins from two ounces of shelled 
nlmonds, pound them to a smooth jiaste, with a lit^ 
tie lemon juice or brandy to keep them from oiling; 
when the- cream, etcetera, is almost cold, add to it 
the volks of four eggs, and the almond paste, beat 
. them well together, grate sugar over the top, and 
bake half an hour iu a quick oven. 



iJ34- EGG DUMPLINGS. 

TRANSP.^RE\T Pudding, — Beat ciohtcir^s light: 
put to them half a pound of butter beaten to a 
cream, stir in half a pound of finely powdered 
sugar, and half a nutmeg, add a small teaspoonful 
of lemon extract, set it over the fire, and stir it until 
it is thick, then set it to cool; rub a yjudding pan 
over with butter, put a strip of puff paste around 
the edge; put in the pudding, and bake half an 
hour ill a quick oven ; serve it hot. 

Small Curd Puddings. — Take four quarts of 
milk, make it warm, and put to it a tablespoonful 
of rennet water; when the curd is forn:ied, strain 
the whey from it, and put it intf) a mortar or earthen 
basin, beat half a pound of fresh butter with it, un- 
til it is well mixed, then beat the 3^olks of six, and 
the whites of three eggs light, and strain them to 
the curd, grate two small Naples' biscuit or a pen- 
ny roll, and stir them altogether ; butter small pans 
or cups, put in the mixture an inch deep, and bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven ; when done, turn 
them out on a dish, and having blanched some al- 
monds, cut them in slijos, cut citron in slips, and 
stick them over the puddings, put liquid wine sauce 
over, and serve. 

Egg Dumplings. — INIake a batter of a pint of 
milk, two well beaten eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, 
and Hour enough to make a batter as thick as for 
pound-cake ; have a clean sauce-pan of boiling 
water, let the water boil fast, drop in the batter by 
the tablespoonful ; four or five minutes will boil 
them, take them with a skimmer on to a dish, put 
a' bit of butter and pepper over, and serve with 
boiled or cold meat ; for a little dessert, j)ut 
butter and grated nutmeg, with syrun or sugar 



BOILED WHEAT AND INDIAN PUDDlNa. 235 

Gotham Pudding. — Beat four eggs light, add 
to them half a pint of milk, a teaspoon ful of salt, 
and a bit of saleratus the size of a small nutmeg, 
stir in enough flour to make a rather thick batter, 
add half a pound of currants clean washed and 
dried ; or a quarter of citron cut in slips, beat it 
until very light, then lie it in a pudding cloth, and 
boil one hour and a half; turn it on to a -dish, put 
wine sauce over, and serve. This pudding may- 
be boiled in a tin basin, or well buttered mould. 

Corn Meal Fritters, Without Eggs. — Take a 
pint bowl of yellow corn meal, put to it a tablespoon- 
ful of sweet butter, and a teaspoonful of salt, stir 
gradually into it enough boiling milk to make a thick 
baiter ; put a lablcspoonful of sweet lard with a salt- 
spoonful of salt, into a frying pan, let it become 
boiling hot, put in the baiter by the tablespoon ful, 
flatten it, out to an even thickness, and let it fry 
gently until one side is a rich brown, then turr the 
other ; when both are done, take them on a dish, 
and serve with a bit of butter and syrup, or sugar 
over. 

Corn Meal Fritters, With Eggs. — Beat 
three eggs light, and stir them to a pint of milk, add 
a teaspoonful of salt, and' enough yellow corn meal 
to make a thin batter; make some lard boiling hot 
in a frying pan, put in the batter by the spoonful, 
and fry each side a delicate brown ; serve willi 
butter and sugar, or syrup. 

Boiled Wheat and Indian Pudding. — Put 
a quart of warm water or milk into a vessel, put to 
it a large teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful 
of saleratus, dissolved in a little water; stir into it 
one pound of yellow corn meal, and a teacup ot 



S36 SOUPON, OR CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

wheat flour, add a tablespoonful of baker^s yeast, 
set it in a warm place for three or four hours, then 
add two well beaten eggs, stir them well into it; 
tie it in a pudding bag, and boil two hours with a 
sauce, or with butter and syrup. 

To Make Soupon, or Corn Meal Pudding. — 
Put two quarts of water into a clean dinner pot, or 
stew-pan, cover it, and let it become boiling hot 
over the fire ; then add a tablespoonful of salt, take 
off the light scum from the top, have sweet fresh 
yellow or white corn meal ; take a handful of the 
meal with the left hand, and a pudding stick in the 
right, then with the stick, stir the water around, 
and by degrees let fall the meal; when one hand- 
ful is exhausted, refill it ; continue to stir and add 
meal until it is as thick as you can stir easilv, oi 
until the stick will stand, in it, sti^ it awhile longer; 
let the fire be gentle; when it is done enough, it 
will bubble or puff" up; turn it into a deep basin ; 
this is eaten cold or hot, with milk or with butter, 
and S3'rup or sugar; or with meat and gravy, the 
same as potatoes or rice. 

This is the genuine way of making soupon, some- 
times called hasty pudding, whicli however, is a 
misnomer, few of the old Dutch, around Schenec- 
tady or thereabgur, would not be disturbed at hear- 
ing it called by other than its ancient name, 
suppon. 

An Englishman travelling through that vicinit}' a 
long time ago, chanced to stop at the house of &n 
old resident, and desiring refreshment, forthwith 
w;is set before him a generous dish of soupon, with 
milk to correspond, nnd bowl and spoon for opera- 
tion, which, bx-^ing quite hungrj^ he soon conmien- 
ced; the novelty recommending itself to his palate, 
he in(][uired its nam'% whereat the good housewife 



GREEN CORN PUDDING. 2>7 

answered him sup-pon; the good natured traveller 
continued to do so for some time, when he again 
asked the name, sup-on being the answer, he re- 
newed the attack, and continued until nature re- 
volted at a further burden ; now rising with some 
degree of passion, or to say the least, exhausted pa- 
tience, he threw back his chair, seized his hat, and 
turning to the hostess with- — "I have done all I can, 
now if you will not give me the name, pray keep 
it," he dashed out of the house, the old lady scream- 
ing after him in no very gentle tones, " I tell you. 
sup-on !" 

Fried Soupon. — Make a soupon as directed, 
put it in a basin three inches deep ; when it is en- 
tirely cold, cut it in slices half an inch thick, and 
fry in a pan with hot lard or butter ; it, is served 
for breakfast, with meat and syrup. 

Dried Currant Fritters. — Make a batter of 
two eggs well beaten, with quarter of a pound of 
wheat flour, quarter of a pound of beef suet chop- 
ped fine, a wineglass of brandy, enough milk to 
make a rather thin batter, and a large teaspoonful 
of salt; add a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned 
and chopped, and the same weight of currants, 
washed and dried ; fry in hot lard or beef drippings, 
as directed for fritters; when done, put a litde but- 
ter and grated nutmeg over, and a large s{)oonful 
of sugar, and serve hot ; they may be served with 
a wine sauce. 

Green Corn Pudding. — Grate the corn from 
three green ears, beat four, five or six eggs light, 
and stir them into a quart of milk ; stir in the gratea 
corn, with a large teaspoonful of salt, and half a 
nutmeg grated, and if liked,* a small teaspoonful of 



238 GRATED COCOANUT. 

lemon extract or peach water, make it sweet, and 
bake for one hour in a hot oven. The sugar and 
ppice may be omitted in making, and wine sauce 
served with the pudding. 

Omelet Sour FLEE. — Beat six eggs, the whites 
and yolks separately ; put to the yolks four dessert 
spoonsful of white sugar powdered, and the yel- 
low rind of a lemon chopped very fine ; mix them 
thoroughly ; whip tlie whites to a high froth, and 
add them to the yolks ; put quarter of a pound of 
butter into the pan, over a brisk fire, and as soon 
as it is completely melted, pour in the mixture, stit 
it, that the butter may be completely incorporated 
with the eggs ; when it is so, put it in a buttered 
dish, and set it over hot embers' or ashes ; strew 
powder sugar over the top, and color it with a hot 
shovel or salamander ; this may be done in the 
oven. 

This may be served as soon as possible, as it 
soon falls, and so the appearance is spoiled. 

Omelet Souffle e, in a Mould. — Break six 
fresh eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, put 
with the latter, three spoonsful of white sugar pow- 
dered fine, a dessert spoonful of rice flour, and a 
teaspoonful of orange flower water; stir these well 
together ; whip the whites of the eggs to a high 
froth, and sti?' them to the yolks ; pour the mixture 
into a buttered mould, not much more than to half 
fill it, bake in a moderate oven for half an hour; 
when done, turn it on to a dish, and serve quickly. 
This omelet must be clear," and shake like a 
;elly. 

Grated Cocoanut, a Dish of Snoiv. — Take a 
large cocoanut, break it in pieces, pare off the dark 



OMLETTE WITH SWEETMEATS. 230 

outside, and throw them into cold water ; grate the 
white meat on a coarse grater, and with a broad 
fork, heap it on a flat glass dish; serve with jellies, 
jam, or tart preserves. 

Cranberry or currant jelly in a form, served with 
this, has a pretty appearance, and is a fine relish. 

To Make a Hedge Hog. — Take the brown 
skins from two pounds of shelled almonds, beat 
them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them occa- 
sionally with a little lemon juice or orange flower 
water ; beat the 3^olks and whites of seven eggs 
very light and stir them into a pint of cream with 
quarter of a pound of powder sugar, stir this grad- 
ually into the almond paste, put half a pound of 
fresh butter into a saucepan and set it over the 
fire ; when it is melted put in the mixture and stir 
It around, mixing it thoroughly until it is sufficiently 
firm, and moulded into a hedge hog ; stick it full 
of blanched almonds cut lengthwise in slips and 
set it in a dish, stir the yolks of four eggs into a 
pint of boiling cream, sweeten to taste and pour it 
around the hedge hog in the dish, let it become 
cold, then serve it as an ornamental dish for dessert 
or supper. 

Frothed Eggs. — Beat the yolks of eight and the 
whites of four eggs with a tablespoonful of water, 
a teaspoonful of salt and the juice of one lemon, 
with sugar to taste ; fry this aS an omlet, put it on 
a dish; whip the four remaining whites to a high 
froth with a pound of white sugar, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, heap it on the omlet and set it 
before the fire or in an oven for a few minutes to 
brown. Serve for dessert or supper. 

Omelet with Sweetmeats. — Beat nine eggs, 



240 BRANDY OR WINE SAUCE. 

the yolks and whites separately, jJut five tablespoon- 
fuls of fine white sugar to the yolks ; add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract or peach water, whip the 
whites to a high froth and slir them with the yolks ; 
put a teacup of butter into the pan, let it become 
hot, put in the omlet, draw it from the edges of the 
pan to the middle, and stir it so that it may be 
evenly done, shake it occasionally so as to free it 
from the pan ; wdien done, spread jelly or jam over, 
roll it in the form of a muff, strew powder sugar 
over, make it with a hot skewer, and serve for 
dessert. 

Omelet Glacee. — Whip some fresh eggs to a 
froth with a little salt, finel}'' shred lemon peel and 
five or six pounded macaroons ; beat thern well 
together, then fry as usual, sprinkle white sugar, 
brown with a salamander and serve. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Wine Sauce. — Beat quarter of a pound of sweel 
butter to a cream, add gradually to it quarter of a 
pound of fine white sugar and a wineglass of wine, 
with half a nutmeg grated ; continue to beat it until 
it is light and white, t^ien mould it in a neat form 
and serve. 

Brandy Sauce. — Make as directed for wine- 
sauce, substituting brandy for wine. 

Liquid Brandy or Wine-sauce. — To quarter 



APPLE SAUCE. 241 

of a pound of butter put a quarter of a pound of 
sugar and a gill of brandy ; grate half a nutmeg 
into it, make it hot and serve. Or it may be 
beaten well toijether and served cold. 

Lemon Sauce. — Make as directed for wine- 
sauce, using" lemon in place of wine. 

Lemon and Syrup Sauce-. — To half a pint of 
syrup put the juice of two fresh lemons, simmer 
them together for fifteen minutes, then add half a 
nucmeg, grated, and a small teacup of butter ; stir 
it ajuooth. Serve with cornmeal or boiled rice 
puddings, or with batter or apple puddings. 

Sweet Sauce. — Work a teacup of sugar into a 
teacup of butter with a teaspoonful of Hour and half 
a nutmeg, grated ; when it is a smooth paste, stir 
gradually into it half a pint of boiling water, set it 
over the fire for ten minutes, stir it all the time, 
then turn it into a tureen and serve — with boiled 
batter or apple puddings. A glass pf wine may be 
added to this, or a lemon sliced thin and cut into 
dice ; put it in before putting it on the fire. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Wash a pint of cranber- 
iies, and pick out all imperfections, put them in a 
stew-pan, put a small teacup of water to them, put 
a large teacup of sugar over, cover them, and let 
them stew gently for nearly an hour, then add a 
teacup of butter to them, stir it in, and serve poured 
over boiled rice, or in a sauce dish. 

Apple Sauce. — Pare, quarter, and core quarter 
of a peck of rich tart apples, put them in a stew- 
pan, with a teacup of water; add some finely 
chopped lemon peel, and a large cup of sugar, grate 



242 • CINNAMON SAUCE. 

half a nutmeg ovt.r, and cover the stew-pan ; let 
them stew gently for half an hour, then mash them 
fine ; add a teacup of butter, and serve with boiled 
rice, or boiled batter pudding. 

Rich Lemon Sauce, for Puddings. — Boil a 
fresh skin lemon in plenty of water, until a straw 
will penetrate it, then cut it in slices, and each 
slice in quarters; put to them and the juice, a tea- 
cup of sugar, and the same of butter, with a large 
teaspoonful of wheat flour worked into it ; put all 
together into a stew-pan, and stir in gradually ha^f 
a pint of boiling water; keep it over the tire for 
ten minutes, stirring it all the time, then serve with 
half a nutmeg grated over. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. — Scrape maple sugar, 
or grate it until you have a teacupful, put to it a 
teacupful of hot water, stir it until it is dissolved, 
let it simmer for a few minutes, then stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, and serve with boiled rice. 

Cinnamon Sauce. — Make a sauce as directed 
for sweet sauce ; when nearl}'' done, stir in a des- 
sertspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

Or work together a teacup of butter and a teacup 
of sugar, with a large spoonful of ground casia or 
cinnamon; l)eat it until light and white, and serve 
with boiled rice or batter pudding. 

Sauce for Plum Pudding. — Take tliG yolks of 
three eggs, add a gill of cream, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, set it over the fire, stir it until 
it is thick, then add a glass of brandy to it, stirring 
it all the time 



BAKING AND MAKING PIES, &C. 243 



DIRECTIONS 

For BaJcing and MaJcing Pies, Tarts, Sfc, and a 
Fetv hints for the Economical. 

Be careful that the oven, whether of brick, or a 
range or stove, be perfectly clean, and free from 
any sugar or fat from anything which may have 
run over whilst baking. 

The delicacy of pastry depends as much upon 
the baking as the making, therefore strict attention 
should be paid to the following directions : 

PufF paste requires a quick even heat ; a hot 
oven would curl the paste and scorch it. 

Tart paste or short paste requires a degree less 
of heat. 

For raised or light crust, the oven may be heated 
as for puff paste. 

A brick oven must be thoroughly heated, that is, 
have a body of heat, else it will render pastry or 
cakes heavy ; this must be attended to before be- 
ginning to bake; tliere may be sufficient heat to 
raise, and yet not enough to finish baking. 

A range or stove oven is more easily managed ; 
it is necessary to have it thoroughly heated, and a 
well sustained fire to keep it so, for those things 
which require the greatest degree of heat ; those re- 
quiring less will be baked after these are done ; 
there should always be a good heat at the bottom ; 
some stove ovens are so well constructed, as to 
have a regular heat throughout. 

When baking with coal, if the fire is not brisk 
enough, do not put on more coal, but add a stick or 
two of hard wood, or if nearl}'^ done, put in a stick 
of pine wood. 

Tin summer ovens are very good for small things, 



244 BAKING AND MAKING PIES, &C. 

such as cakes, biscuits, and custards, but such as 
require a body of heat, will not do well in them. 
The charcoal tor heating them should be in rather 
small pieces, and replenished a little at a time, as 
it burns away ; by this means you may have a 
steady and more regular heat. 

Sheet iron summer ovens are preferable to tin, 
and are heated in the same manner ; these are very 
convenient for small families. A few cents worth 
of charcoal will get a nice breakfast for five or six, 
if rightly managed; thus, after kindling a fire in 
the furnace, with a few bits of twisted paper or 
splintered pine wood, and small pieces of charcoal, 
nearly fill it with coal ; set a kettle of water over, 
then make out biscuit, short-cake, or corn meal 
bread, as you like ; the oven by this time is heated; 
put them in to bake ; two quarts of water will now 
be nearly boiling, put four even tablespoonsful of 
coffee in a coffee pot or bowl, add to it a little cold 
water, and a third of the white of an egg, mix it 
well together ; if it is in a coffee-pot, pour the boil- 
ing water from the teakettle 01*1 it; cover it, and set 
it over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes; then set 
it by for a few minutes to settle, or if it is mixed in 
a bowl, stir it into the boiling water, and finish in 
the same manner. After this is done, a small steak 
may be broiled or fried over the furnace in fifteen 
minutes ; or eggs may be boiled. The whole will 
require rather more than one hour. This is econo- 
my, where a fire is not required for other purposes 
during the day ; and as it is all done within the fire- 
place, the room in which it is done is not heated 
by it. 

A nice dinner may be cooked for a small family 
in this manner ; make a small bread pudding or 
custard, have a breast of veal or lamb, or a shoul- 
der, or any small piece ; prepare it, and set them 



FINEST PUFF PASTE. 245 

side by side in the oven ; put vegetables in a pot 
over the furnace, or pee.led potatoes in with the 
meat, keep up a brisk fire for an hour, and the din- 
ner is done. Half a peck of charcoal will be 
enough for it. 

Finest Puff Paste, for Tuffs. — Heap one 
pound of flour in the centre of the paste-board, or 
slab, make a hollow in the centre, break one csfsr 
mto It ; then add a teaspoonful of salt, and a piece 
of butter the size of an egg ; mix these lightly to- 
gether, with a little cold water ; add the water, a 
little at a time, until the flour is made a nice paste ; 
work it together, and roll it out to half an inch 
thickness; then divide a pound of butter in six 
parts, spread one part over the paste ; then fold it, 
and roll it out again, until you can perceive the but- 
ter through ; then spread over another part, fold 
it up and roll out again, and so continue until all 
is used, and it has been through six turns. It is 
now ready for making in pies, puffs, or any other 
purpose ; and may be used immediately, or set in a 
refrigerator or ice box, or other cool place for a day 
or two, and be improved thereby. 

A marble slab, and rolling-pin, are Dest for pas- 
try, and much more durable ; after using them, 
wash off all the old paste, scrape them clean, wash 
them first with cold water, then pour scalding wa- 
ter over them, and wipe them dry. 

Have a hair sieve ready to sift any flour you 
may wish to use : this is but little trouble, or delay, 
and always best to sift flour. 

To gild pastry, wet it over when nearly done, 
with the yolk of an egg-, beaten with a little milk. 

Common Puff Paste, ybr Vies. — Put one pound 
of sifted wheat flour on the slab, or into an earthen 
basin ; make a hollow in the centre, work into it 



246 LIGHT PUFF PASTE. 

quaiter of a pound of lard, and a ten spoonful of 
salt ; when it is mixed through the flour, add as 
much cold water as will bind it together ; then 
strew a little flour over the paste-board, or table ; 
flour the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to half 
an inch thickness ; divide half a pound of butter 
in three parts ; spread one evenly over the paste ; 
fold it up, dredge a little flour over it, and the paste- 
slab, or table ; roll it out again, spread another por- 
tion of the butter over, and fold, and roll again ; so 
continue until all the butter is used ; roll it out to 
quarter of an inch thickness for pies. 

This paste is for the upper crust of pies, or to 
line tartlet pans, for shells for fruit, or presei"ves. 
Puff paste should not be used for the under crust 
of pies ; when not having space enough to rise, it 
becomes greasy and heavy, and consequently un- 
wholesome. Half a pound of shortening, worked 
into a pound of flour, with a teaspoonful of salt, 
and enough water to bind it, will make an under 
crust rich enough. 

A Light Puff Paste. — Have one pound of 
sifted flour, and the same weight of sweet butter ; 
work one-fourth of the butter into the flour, until it 
is like sand ; measure two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, and one of soda, rub it tlirough the seive ; 
put it to the flour ; add enough cold water to bind 
it, and work it smooth ; dredge flour over the 
paste-slab, or board, rub a little flour over the 
rolling-pin, and roll the paste to about half an inch 
thickness; spread over the whole surface, one-third 
of the remaining butter, then, fold it up; dredge 
flour over the paste-slab, and roliing-pin, and roll 
it out again ; then put on another portion of the but- 
ter, and fold, and roll again ; spread on the remain- 
ing butter, and fold, and roll for the last time. 



FAMILY PIE CRUST. 247 

Paste Puffs. — Roll the paste to rather more 
than half an inch thickness, and cut it in cakes 
vvith a tin cutter, the size of the top of a tumbler ; 
then with a wineglass, or tin cutler of that size, 
mark the size of it in the centre of the lai'ger cake ; 
lay them on tins, wet the tops over with a brush, 
■dipped in an egg beaten with a little sugar, bake 
in a quick oven for half an hour ; when done, take 
out the centre, and fill with jelly or jam. Serve 
for dessert or supper. 

Paste Tarts. — Roll puff paste to half an inch 
thickness, cut it in cakes the size of a tumbler ; cut 
the inside from one, leaving a. ring the width of a 
finger ; put it on one of the cakes, wet the top over 
^ with the yolk of an egg, beaten with a little milk ; 
make several in the same manner, lay them on 
baking tins, and set them in a quick oven, for near- 
ly half an hour ; then put a tablespoon ful of jelly, 
or jam, or rich stewed fruit in the centre of each; 
strew a little fine sugar over, and return them to 
the oven for ten minutes. 

Family Pie Crust, Short. — Put a pound of 
sifted flour intp a bowl, work into it half a pound 
of sweet lard, or beef dripping, with a dessert- 
spoonful of salt ; when it is thoroughly mixed 
through, put to it enough cold water to bind it to- 
gether ; flour the paste-slab, or table, and rolling 
pin, take a part of the paste, and roll it to less than 
a quarter of an inch thickness. 

This will be quite rich enough for health or 
taste. 

A bit of volatile salts, the size of a small nutmeg, 
dissolved in a little hot water, and put to the paste, 
with the water to bind it, will make it more light 
and delicate. 



243 CANELLONS. 

For the upper, or outside crust of a pie, roll the 
paste out thin, spread a bit of butter, half the size 
■>f an egg, over it ; fold it up, roll it out again, and 
cover the pie. 

Sweet Paste Jelly Tarts. — Mixhalf a pound 
of flour, half a pound of fine white sugar, and half 
a pound of butter well together, with a bit of vola- 
tile salts the size of a pea, (dissolve it in about a 
tablespoonful of hot water ;) when ii; is all dissolv- 
ed and cooled, add it to the paste ; beat it smootli 
with a rolling-pin. then roll it out to nearly half an 
inch thickness ; cut it in cakes, the size of the top 
of a tumbler ; wet the top of each over with a lit- 
tle milk, an^ bake on tins, in a hot oven, for half an 
hour ; when done, heap a tablespoonful of jelly, or 
marmalade, in the centre of each ; grate sugar over 
and return them to the oven, for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

. Sugar Paste Cream Tarts. — To one pound 
of flour, put quarter of a pbund of sugar, and one 
beaten egg ; work it together with a little cold wa- 
ter, in which is dissolved a bit of volatile sails, hall 
the size of a small nutmeg ; roll it as thin as a dol- 
lar piece ; rub some small tin tartlet pans, and line 
them with the paste ; bake them ten minutes, then 
fill them with mock cream ; grate sugar over, and 
return them to the oven for a few minutes to brown 
the tops. 

Pufl" paste may be used instead of the above. 

Canellons. — Make a stiff" paste with a quarter 
of a pound of flour, half as much white sugar, and 
a teacupful of melted butter, and a teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon ; beat the paste well with a roll- 
ing pin, and roll it as thin as a dollar piece. 



CAKES A LA-POLANAISE. 249 

Make little canes of card paper of about three 
inches in length, and one in diameter; butter the 
outside well, and wrap each in some of the paste, 
close it neatly on one side, and bake in a quick 
oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

When they are done, and cooled a little, take 
out the paper, and fill them with jelly or marma- 
lade, or fill them with the mixture of which kisses 
are made. 

Canellon's Glaces. — Rollout some puff paste 
quite thin, to about eighteen inches square, and 
cut it into about twenty-four strips, have by you as 
many pieces of beach wood turned ; let them be 
about six inches long, three-quarters of an inch in 
diameter at one end, and not more than half an 
inch at the other; (or instead of wood, these may 
be made of card paper or tin,) rub them over with 
butter, moisten one side of the strips of paste, and 
wind one around each of the moulds; begin at the 
smallest end, so as to form a screw four inches in 
length ; lay them on baking tins, rather distant 
froin each other, and half bake them in a quick 
oven, then take them out; wet them over with 
beaten egg, roll them lightly in powdered loaf sugar, 
and return them to the oven for a few minutes, to 
give them a color ; as soon as you take them from 
the oven, remove the moulds, and lay them to cool. 
When wanted to serve, fill them with jelly or kiss 
mixture. 

Cakes a La-Polanaise, — Take puff paste, roll 
it a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it in pieces 
four or five inches square, gather up the four cor- 
ners of each, have ready some round moulds, dip 
ihem m warm water, and put them inside die 
cakes; then put them in a quick oven ; when they 

K* 



250 



RIIMARKS ON VIV. MAKING. 



are tnree parts done, Uike them out., and wash them 
over witli the hcaten wliite of an egg; sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over, and finish baking. When done, 
take out the moulds, and fill the cakes with pre- 
serve, or jelly, or mock cream. 

Trifles. — Work one egg, and a tablespoonfui 
of sugar, to as much flour as will make a stiff paste, 
roll it as thin as a dollar piece, and cut it in small 
round or squares cakes, drop two or three at a time 
into boiling lard ; when they rise to the surface and 
turn over, they are done; take them out with a 
skimmer, and lay them on an inverted sieve to 
drain. When served for dessert or supper, put a 
spoonful of jelly on each. 

Nothings. — Break two or three fresh ecfgs into 
a basin, and work into them enough flour to make a 
very stiflT paste, roll it out to the thickness of a dol- 
lar piece ; cut them in small cakes, and finish the 
same as trifles. 

These make a very pretty dish; they may be 
served with jelly or jam, between each two. 

Remarks on Pie Making. — Pies for ordinary 
desserts are best to be made on plates of six or 
eight inches diameter, and when served with a 
variety of puddings, creams, etcetera, should be cul 
in six or more pieces. 

Pumpkin pies should be made on dishes flat at 
the l>ottom, nearly an inch deep, with nearly per- 
pendicular sides ; generally they should not be larger 
than a breakfast or dinner plate; l()r Thanksgiving 
dinner, pumpkin pie being the crowning dish of 
the feast, should be made on a dish so large, that 
each of the guests may be helped to a piece from 
one and the same pie, which may be orna- 



AI'PLK TAUT. 251 

mentoJ for the occasion, as shall hereafter oe di- 
rected. 

INIince pies, for Christmas, should be distinjruish- 
ed by their size and ornaments, from those for or- 
dinary occasions. 

A New-Year's day table is not finished without 
its mince pies, which should be made small, not 
larger than tartlets, or made on the smallest tea or 
dessert plates, that they may be cut in two or four 
pieces. 

Apple pies should always be served with roast 
pig or goose. 

Apple Pie. — Rub a pie dish over with a bit of 
butter; line it with short pie crust rolled thin ; pare 
some rich tart apples, and cut them in stnall pieces ; 
fill the pie dish an inch thick, lay them evenly 
over ; if the apples are sour, use a teacup of sugar, 
to a quart bowl of cut apples ; strew it over them, 
then grate half a nutmeg over, strew a snltspoonful 
of salt evenly over, and half a teas[)Oonful of (ground 
cinnamon ; then cover with a paste or puflT paste 
crust ; trim off the edges with a sharp knife, cut a 
slit in the centre, or make it before putting it over 
the pie ; pass a gigling iron around the pie, half an 
inch inside of the edge, and bake for nearly an hour 
in a quick oven ; if they are quite small, half an 
hour will bake them. You may gild the tops by 
brushing them over with the yolk of an egf:, beaten 
with a little milk, before putting them in the oven, 
or when half done. 

Apple Tart. — Peel and slice some nice tart 
apples, and stew them, with a sm;dl teacup of 
water, and the same of sugar, to a quart of sliced 
apples ; add half a nutmeg grated, a saltspoouful of 
salt, and a little grated lemon peel, or lemon extract, 



252 DRIED APPLE TART. 

or half ii teaspoonfiil ofcrovind cinnamon; scttbom 
to become cold; line some small pie })lrites with 
rich pie paste, or light puff'pasie, put in the stewed 
apples half an inch deep, roll ont some of the paste, 
wet it over slightly with the yolk of an egi^, beaten 
with a little milk, nnd a teaspoonful of sugar; cut 
it in strips the width of a finger, and lay it in bars 
or diamonds across " the tart; lay another strip 
around the edge, trim off the outside neatly with a 
sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the 
paste loosens from the dish. 

Dried Apple Pie. — Cut out all imperfections 
from tart dried apples, (a sharp pair of scissors is 
best for this purpose) then rinse ihern in cold water, 
put them in a vessel and put water over three 
inches more than to cover them ; let them stand one 
night, then put them over a gentle fire with the 
water in which they were soaked, cover them 
and let them stew gently ; boil a lemon in water 
mitil a straw will pierce the skin ; cut it in thin 
slices, or smaller, and put it to the apples with 
the juice from it ; add half a pound of clean brown 
sugar for each quart of apples, let them stew until 
they are soft, then turn them into dishes to become 
cold. 

Rub the pie dishes over with a small bit ot 
.sponge, dipped in butter, line them with pie-paste, 
put in the stewed apple half an inch thick, thinning 
it towards the edge ; roll an upper crust rather 
thin, cut three or four small slits each side of the 
middle and put it over the pie; trim them neatly 
with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Dried Apple Tart. — Prepare the apples, and 
make the same as for pie, with the exception of the 



RIPE PLUM PIES. 253 

cover, instead of wliich, put strips of paste in bars 
or diamonds. 

Dried Peach Pie. — Prepare the fruit and finish 
the same as dried apple pie. 

Dried Peach Tart. — Make the same as directed 
for dried apple tart. 

Dried Plum Pie. — Wash dried plums in 
plenty of water, put them to soak at night in water 
to cover them ; in the morning put them to stew 
with the same water, put a pound of clean brown 
sugar to each quart of fruit, let there be plenty of 
hquid, if not enough, add hot water, cover them 
and let them stew until the syrup is rich, turn them 
into flat dishes to become cold. Cover a pie dish 
with paste, put in the stewed fruit and juice, half an 
inch deep, dredge a little wheat flour over, and cover 
with a rich pie or puff" paste crust ; bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour in a hot oven ; gild the top over with 
the yolk of an egg beaten v/ith a little milk, when 
half done, or grate white sugar over when served. 

Dried Plum Tart. — Prepare the fruit and 
finish the same as pie. with the exception of the 
upper crust, instead of which put strips of paste 
over in bars or diamonds, finish with a strip laid 
around the edge, trim off" the outside and bake half 
an hour in a quick oven, or bake until the crust 
loosens from the dish. 

Or, hue some small tartlet pans with tart paste, 
fill them with the stewed fruit, grate sugar over, 
and bake in a quick oven until the paste loosens 
from the pans. 

Ripe Plum Pjes. — Stew ripe plums with 



254 SOUR CHERRY PIE. 

water to cover them, put a teacup of brown sugar, 
or more if they are sour, cover them :iru\ let them 
stew ijently until they are soft, then take them in 
fiat dishes to become cokl, and finish as directed 
for dried plums. Tarts may be made as directed 
fir dried phjms. 

Green Plums — require to be stewed as directed 
for ripe plums, with twice as much sugar. 

Green Gage Pies or Tarts. — Stew green 
gages as directed for ripe plums, grate a little 
nutmeg to them and finish as directed for dried 
plums ; green gages make delicious pies or tarts. 

Dried Cherries. — Rinse a quart of cherries, 
dried without the stones, in cold water ; put them 
in a stewpan or brass kettle with water, three 
inches more than to cover them ; cover the vessel 
in which they are and let them stew gently over a 
moderate fire for half an hour, then put a pound of 
brown sugar to them and let them stew f()r half an 
hour longer ; having lined the pie .dishes with 
paste, put in the cherries and juice half an inch 
deep, strew a small teaspoonful of flour over ; roll 
out an upper crust, enough to cover the pie ; make 
several small incisions on either side of the middle, 
cut a strip of paste the width of a finger, and lay it 
around the edge of the pie, put the cover over, trim 
off' the edge, even with the dish, with a sharp knife, 
and bake in a quick oven until the paste loosens 
from the plate ; about three-quarters of an hour 
\rill bake them. This is a fine pie ; the top may 
be gilded as directed, previously. 

Sour Cherry Pie. — Take the stems from fair 
ripe cherries, rinse them in a little cold water, line 



CRANBEKRV PIE OR TARTS. 255 

a pie plate with famil\- pie-crust, put iu a layer of 
c'lierries 1o cover the surface, put in cold \v;iter to 
half cover them, dredge then} white with flour (if 
the cherries are small put two layeis of them) put 
a large teacup of clean brown sugar to a quart bowl 
of stemmed cherries, grate a little nutmeg over and 
cover the pie with a light puff paste or familv pie- 
crust; bake in a moderately quick oven until the 
pie loosens from the dish ; gild the top when half 
done, or grate sugar over when it is served. 

Peach Pie. — Peaches for pie rnay be ripe but 
not soft ; pare them, cut them up and finish as 
directed for apple pics. Unripe peacl^es may be 
pared and stewed as directed for apple tart, and 
baked in a pie or tart. 

Whole Peach Pie. — Take small sized peaches, 
not fully ripe, pare them without cutting them up ; 
line a dish with pie paste, hiy the peaches in close 
together, put in a little water, for a pie the size of 
a large dinner plate ; strew over a small teacup of 
sugar, dredge a small teaspoon ful of flour over, 
grate half a small nutmeg over, and a saltspoonful 
of salt, and cover the pie ; cut a slit in the centre, 
and bake for one hour in a quick oven. 

Cranberry Pie or Tarts. — Pick a quart of 
cranberries free from imperfections, put a pint of 
water to them, and put them in a stev^-pan, over a 
moderate fire ; put a pound of clean hrown sugir 
to them, and stew them gently, until :hey are all 
soft, then mash them with a silver spi. jn, and turn 
them into a dish to become cold, then make them 
in pies or tarts, and bake. Many per? >ris put flour 
in cranberry pies ; it is a great mistak , as it >-:om- 
pletely spoils the color of the fruit. 



25n RnUBARB TART. 

LemOiN Pie. — Boil six fresh lemons in fair water 
until a straw will penetrate tlie skin, then take 
them out, chop them fine, and take out the pips ; 
to a pound of ii^ht brown sugar put a teacup of 
water; let it boil, skimming it clear until it is a 
nice syrup, then put in the lemon and set it to 
coo! ; cover a shallow plate with pie-paste, put in 
the Icmim, spread o\it to nearly the edge, cover 
with a paste, cut a slit in the centre and bake. 

Meringue Pie. — Tliis may be made by adding 
to a nicely made and baked tart, a nice whip, made 
as follows : to the white of a fresh egg, add two ta- 
blespoonfuls of finely pulverized white sugar, flavor 
with lemon, vanilla, or any other flavor, which may 
be liked, whip the same as for kisses, then with a 
knife lay it on tlie top of the tart, and shape it 
nicely off at the edges, then set it into an oven and 
close it for a few minutes until it is delicately 
browned. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Cut the large stalks off where 
the leav-es commence ; strip oflf the outside skin, 
then cut the stains in pieces half an inch long; line 
a pie dish with paste rolled rather thicker than a 
dollar piece, put in a layer of the rhubarb nearly 
an inch deep ; to a quart bowl of cut rhubarb, put 
a large teacup of sugar, strew it over with a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and half a nutmeg grated ; cover 
with a rich pie crust, cut a slit in the centre, trim 
off" the edsre with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick 
oven, until the pie loosens from the dish, lihubarb 
pies made in tl)is way, are altogether superior to 
those made of the fruit stewed. 

Rhubarb Tart. — Peel the stalks, and cut them 



GREEN CURRANT PIE. 257 

in inch lengths ; to a quart bowl of pieces, put half 
a teacup of water, and a teacup of clean brown 
sugar ; cover it, and let it stew gently until it may 
be mashed, then make it fine with a spoon, add a 
saltspoonful of sah, and half a nutmeg grated ; line 
small pie dishes or tartlet pans, put in the stewed 
fruit nearly half an inch deep ; roll some paste to 
half an inch thickness, brush it over with the yolk 
of afi egg, beaten with a little milk, cut it in strips 
the width of a finger, and lay it across the pie; lay 
a strip around the edge, then trim it off even with 
the dish, and bake in a quick oven for a half an 
hour, or until the paste loosens from the dish ; 
these tarts may be baked without the strips 
across. 

HucKLE OR Whortleberry Pie. — Put a quart 
of picked huckleberries into a basin of water, take 
off' whatever floats, take up the berries by the hand- 
ful, pick out all the stems and unripe berries, and 
put them into a dish ; line a buttered pie dish with 
a pie paste, put in the berries half an inch deep, 
and to a quart of berries put a teacup of brown 
sugar, and half a teacup of water ; dredge a tea- 
spoonful of flour over, strew a saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a nutmeg grated over ; cover the pie, cut a 
slit in the centre, or make several small incisions 
on either side of it, press the two crusts together 
around the edge, trim it off neatly with a sharp 
knife, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Ripe Currant Pie. — Make as directed for 
huckleberry pie ; use twice as much sugar, and a 
puff" paste crust. 

Green Currant Pie or Tarts. — Pick the 

17 



258 CREAM PIES. 

currants free from stems, stew iliem as directed for 
rhubarb tarts, and make in pie or tarts. 

Gooseberry Takts and Pies. — Take off the 
stems and blossom end ; washthein and stew them 
the same as rhubarb for tarts ; make them in pies, 
or make them in tarts ; strew a little sugar over, 
and bake. 

Green Grapes for Pies and Tarts. — Pick 
green grapes from the stems, and stew them with a 
pound of sugar, and half a pint of water, to a qnart 
bowl of graj)es ; add a saltspoonful of salt, and half 
a nutmeg grated, and finish. 

Huckleberries stewed with green grapes, make 
a nice pie ; allow a teacup of sugar for a quart of 
huckleberries. 

Blackberry Pie. — Pick the berries clean, rinse 
them in cold water, and finish as directed for huc- 
kleberries. 

Cream Pies. — Scald a quart of sweet cream, 
beat four or five eggs light, then stir them into the 
scalding cream ; add a saltspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of the extract of lemon or peach water, 
and half a nutmeg grated, if liked ; sweeten to 
tasle, (about two tablespoonfuls of sugar is enough,) 
have flat pie dishes, with nearly perpendicular 
sides, rub them over with a bit of sponge dipped iu 
melted butler, line them with pie j)aste rolled (jiiite 
thin, set them in a quick oven ti)r ten minutes, then 
put in the cream nearly to fill them, and bake fur 
half an hour. 

These pies, and also pumpkin and custard pies, 
may be very prettily ornamented, when half baked, 
with flowers, stars, or letters, cut from thin rolletJ 



RICE PIES. 259 

paste ; if letters or love-knots are used, form them 
of narrow strips of paste ; the cream or custard 
must be firm, before these are put on, otherwise 
they will sink. 

CrsTARD Pies. — Boil a quart of milk, beat f(>ur 
or five eggs light, and stir them gradually into it, 
and finish as directed for cream pies. 

Custard Pie. a J^ahor Saving Pie, which 
makes ifs oimi Paste. — Beat four eggs with four des- 
sert-spoonsful of wheat flour, until they are light, 
then gradually stir into it a quart of milk ; add a 
saltspoonful of salt, and half a nutmeg grated, with 
sugar to taste ; (about two dessert-spoonsful is 
enough,) rub a square tin pie-pan over with a bit 
of butter, and put the mixture in nearly to fill it ; 
bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

This is a truly " Native American Democratic 
Citizen" pie, and being such, could it prove other 
than excellent? 

MofJK Cream Pies. — Make the cream as di- 
rected, (see mock cream,) and finish the same as 
cream pies ; bake them until nicely browned at 
the top. 

Rice Pies. — Pick and wash a wine-glass of 
rice, and boil it in a quart of milk until soft, then 
take it from the fire, having beaten three eggs light, 
stir them gradually into it ; add a small teacup of 
sugar, and a small nutmeg grated, with half a lea- 
spoonful of salt, and a small teaspoonful of extract 
of le mon or peach water, if liked. Line Hat pie 
dishes with pie paste, nearly fill them with the pie 
mixture, and bake half a* hour in a quick oven. - 



260 THANKSGIVING PIE. 

Rice Flour Pie. — Make this pie as directed fol 
mock cream, using rice flour instead of wheat. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Cut up a nice cheese pumpkin, 
take out the seeds and stringy inside, pare off the 
rind, and cut the pumpkin small, then put it in a 
kettle with a teacup ot" water; cover the vessel, 
and set it over a gentle fire, until the pumpkin is 
soft enough to mash when lightly pressed ; then set 
a colander or sieve into a basin, take the stewed 
pumpkin into ii, and press it through into the basin 
with a ladle or wooden spoon ; when it is all rub- 
bed through, add to it milk enough to make a thin 
batler, to every quart of this batter put four well 
beaten eggs ; make it sweet, a small teacup of 
sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt, for each quart, is 
about what will generally be liked ; grate in a nut- 
meg, and a teaspoonful of extract of lemon, and 
some ground ginger, if liked. 

Line flat bottomed pie dishes with pie paste, 
and nearly fill them with the pumpkin mixture, 
lay a strip of paste around the edge, trim off the 
outside neatly, and bake three-quarters of an hour 
in a quick oven ; the top of the pie should be 
delicately brown. Ornament as directed for cream 
pies. 

A less number of eggs than is mentioned in this 
receipt, may be used; pumpkin pies are sometimes 
made without any eggs ; these are less delicate, as 
may be supposed. 

Thanksgiving Pie. — Prepare pumpkin pie mix- 
ture as directed in the last receipt ; take a very 
large flat pie dish with nearly perpendicular sides, 
and nearly an inch in depth ; the dish should be 
of earthen or tin and nealWy eighteen inches across; 



MINCE PIE MEAT. 261 

rub it over with a bit of sponge dipped in melted 
butter, cover it with family pie-crust rolled a quarter 
of an inch thiclc ; cut a strip of paste, the width of a 
finger, and put it around the inside edge of the pie, 
then nearl}'^ fill it with the pie mixture, and put it 
in a moderately hot oven ; roll some puff paste to 
less than quarter i)f an inch thickness, brush it over 
with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, 
and a leaspoonful of sugar, then cut it in small 
stars ; cut some of it in strips the width of a finger 
or a little narrower ; when the pie is half baked so 
that it is firm or set, lay it on the stars, at a little 
distance from the edge, and the same distance from 
each other ; put a lai'ger one in the centre ; of the 
strips of paste make letters to spell thanksgiving ; 
and put six on either side of the star in the centre, 
midway between that, and those on the edge, so as 
to form a curve around the centre ; cut a strip of 
the paste half an inch wide and put it around the 
edge of the pic, then return it to the oven, and let 
it remain for twenty minutes or more until it is 
nicely colored and the paste is cooked. 

To serve thanksgiving pie after the table is 
cleared for dessert, place the large pie in the centre, 
place around it, puddings, jellies, etc., making this 
the crown of the feast. 

Mince Pie Meat. — Take a nice tender piece of 
beef which is free from gristle, skin, or strings ; the 
tongue is used for making pies as is also a sirloin; 
the heart, head and skiits are also used for mince 
pies. 

The tongue or sirloin is best, put the meat in hot 
water to cover it; boil it gently until turning a fork 
in it will break it, set it to become cold, then 
lake out all the bone and gristle parts ; if the tongue 
is used, peel off the skin ; chop it very fine. 



DOMESTIC MINCE PIE MEAT. 

To Make Mince Pie Mixture. — Weigh two 
pounds (jflbe chopped ment, put to it two pounds 
.of suet i'vee fioni strings or sUin, and clioppod 
fine ; add two pounds ot" currants, picked, wasiied, 
and dried, nrid four pounds of peeled ;ind chopped 
rich tart apples, with the juice of two lemons, and 
the chop[)cd peel of one; a pint of sweet wine, and 
one large nutmeg grated, or a teaspooid'ul of ground 
mace, three poutjds and a half of sugar, quarter of 
an ounce of ground cloves, or alspice, and the same 
of cinnamon, and a large tablespoonful of salt ; mix 
the whole well together, put it in a stone pot or jar, 
cover it close and set it in a cool place for use ; 
mix it well t02;ether before usin^:. 

Mince Pies. — Line a pie dish with a nice puff 
paste, rolled to twice the thickness of a dollar piece 
(first having rubbed the dish over with a bit of 
sponge dipped in butter) put in the pie mixture half 
an inch tleep, and sjiread it to within a finger witlth 
of the edge ; roll out a puff' paste crust, turn a plate 
the size of the one on which the pie is made on to it, 
and with a knife cut the paste around, the size of 
the plate, then take the plate off', make three small 
incisions with the end of the knife on either side of 
the middle, take it carefully up, and cover the pie 
with it, press it lightly with the finger against the 
bottom crust, put it in quick oven for three-quariers 
of an liour; the top may be brushed over with the 
yolk of an egs: beaten with a little milk. Mince 
pies made in this way should be served warm. 

Domestic Mince Pie Meat. — Boil a nice 
piece of beef until lender; take out every bit of 
skin, bone, or gristle, and chop the meat fine ; to 
each pound of chopped meat, put of ground mace, 
cinnamon, and alspice, each a teaspooaful, with 



APPLE MINCE PIES. 263 

half a tca.'poonfiil of ground cloves, and a large 
teaspoontul of sail ; put to the nneat enough syrup 
or molasses to make it moist, mix it well together, 
and pack it in a stone jar, dip a paper in brandy, 
and lay it over ; cover the jar, and set it in a cold 
dry place. This will keep all winter. 

To Finish the Pie Mixture. — Pare, core, 
and chop not very fine some tart juicy apples, put 
to them one-third as much of the prepared meat: 
stone one pound of raisins, and cut a quarter ot 
citron in small bits, add a gill of brandy, and 
enough sweet cider to make the whole quite wet; 
a peck of apples, pared and chopped with a quart 
bowl of the prepared meat, and the raisins, citron, 
and cider, as above mentioned, with a large tea- 
cupful of brown sugnr, is enough to make six or 
seven pies the size of a dinner plate; a teacupful 
of fine chopped suet may be added, if liked. 

To Make Mince Pies. — Rub pie dishes over 
with a bit of sprnge dip})ed in butter, and cover 
them with a family pie-crust, rolled quite thin ; put 
in the pie mixture half an inch deep, cover the pie 
with some of the paste, trim it off at the edge, cut 
a sht in the centre, press the upper against the 
under crust with your finger, bake three-quarters 
of an hour in a moderate oven. 

These pies may be kept three or four weeks in 
winter; when wanted, set one in an oven for ten 
minutes, or serve them cold. 

Apple Mince Pies. — One pound of well wash- 
ed and dried Zanle currants, one pound of peeled 
and chopped apples, one pound of suet chopped 
fine, one pound of moist sugar, quarter of a pound 
jf raisins stoned and cut in two, the juice of foui 



264 BREAD, BISCUIT, ROLLS, &C. 

oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel 
of one ; add of ground mace and alspice, each a 
leaspoonful, and a wineglass of brandy: niix them 
well together, and keep it closely covered in a dry 
cool place. Bake with two crusts, the same as 
mince pies. 

Mkringue Pik. — Make any nice rich tart and 
bake it, then having beaten the whites of two eggs 
with a quarter of a pound of Unely pulverized 
white sugar, until it may he moulded with a knife, 
lay it over the tart an inch or less thick, even the 
sides, and put it into an oven for a few minutes un- 
til it is slightly colored, serve hot or cold. 

These tarts should be made of preserves or jams 
or else fruits stewed very rich. 



DIRECTIONS 

For MaJcing Varieties of Bread, Biscuit, Rolls, 
Cakes, Sf'c. ^'c. 

Introductory Remarks. — An oven to bake 
well, should have a regular heat throughout, but 
particularly at the bottoni, without which, bread or 
cakes will not rise or bake well ; bread and cakes 
are as often spoiled in baking as in making. 

Br?acl or large cakes had better, if convenient, 
be sent to a competent family baker, if you have 
not a good baking oven. 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ROLLS, ScC. 266 

Small cakes, such as tea-biscuit, rolls, jumbals, 
drop calxcs, etc., bake nicely in a tin or sheet 
iron summer oven; these should often be looked to, 
as those nearest the furnace will first be done ; 
when they are so, either turn the pan about, or re- 
move those that are done, putting the unfinished 
ones in their places, and fresh ones in place of 
them. 

For baking bread, plum cake, or other large 
cakes, have round tin pans with sides nearly per- 
pendicular. P'or cakes, line the pans with white 
paper, rubbed over with butter. Pans with nearly 
straight sides bake more evenly, and are more easi- 
ly iced than slanting sides. 

A brick oven for baking bread, should be as hot 
as you can bear to hold your hand in, whilst count- 
ing twenty or twenty seconds ; this is an established 
rule in most farm houses. 

Deijrees of healing ovens for baking, are — cool or 
slow heat ; moderate or gentle is a degree stronger 
than slow, and is like a hot breeze or breath ; a 
quick heat is hot, but not intensely ; a degree 
stronger is a hot oven ; still stronger is scorching 
hot, and fit for nothing but destruction. 

One accustomed tu baking, will readily under- 
stand what degree of heat is meant by the 
terms used ; one not accustomed, must need 
learn. 

In using volatile salts or saleratus for bread or 
cakes, it should be powdered, and dissolved with a 
little hot water before putting it into the bread or 
cakes. 

A bit of volatile salts the size of a small nutmeg, 
powdered fine and dissolved with a little hot water 
and added to a pound or sponge cake will insure a 
light cake ; it is much used by cake bakers ; car- 
bonate of soda may be used instead of this. The 



2GG BREAD. BISCUIT, ROLLS, ETC 

salts is generally put with the beaten eggs, and 
beaten with them for ten minutes or more. 

Volatile salts should be kept in a glass bottle or 
iar, with a ground stopper. 

Saleratus or bi-carbonate of soda (which may be 
flsed in place of saleratus) maybe kept in a wooden 
box with a cover.; it must be kept perfectly dry, 
the least moisture will spread through and dissolve 
a large quantity. 

An earthen basin is best for beatinof e<XQ[s or cake 
mixture in. 

Cake should be beaten with a wooden spoon or 
spatula, like an ol<l fashioned pudding stick; but- 
ter may be beaten with the like. 

Eggs should be beaten with rods, or a broad 
fork ; a silver fork or one made of iron wire is best, 
as it is broadest ; eggs should be clear and fresh 
for cake. 

None but good sweet butter should be used for 
cake making; should it be rather S'lll, it will do no 
harm ; butter in the least degree rank or strong 
will spoil a cake. 

It is well as a general rule in cake making to 
beat the butter and sugar (which must first be 
made fine) to a light cream ; indeed, in the making 
of pound cake, the lightness of the cake depends as 
much upon this, as upon the eggs being well beaten ; 
then beat the eggs and put them to the butter and 
gradually add the flour and other ingredients, beat- 
in£2; it all the time. 

In common cakes where only a few eggs are 
used, beat them until 3'ou can take a spoonful up 
clear from strinijs. 

For pound, sponge, or other fine cakes, observe 
each pailicular direction. 

Before beginning to mix a cake, see that all 
the ingredients are before you, otherwise by 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ROLLS, ETC. 267 

omitting one or more, you may spoil your cake. 
Cake mixture cannot he beaten too much ; it is 
not enough to beat it whilst mixing, but the o[)era- 
tion shouhl be continued after all the parts are 
added, unlil the whole is light and creamy. 

In receipts in which milk is used as one ingredient, 
either sweet or sour may be used, but not a mixture 
of both. 

Sour milk makes a spongy light cake ; sweet 
milk makes a cake which is more fine, and cuts like 
pound-cake. 

Almonds for cakes or macaroons may be bought 
already shelled, for two shillings per pound, which 
is much cheaperand less troublesome than those in 
the shell. 

Almonds for macaroons and other cakes, should 
be pounded in a marble mortar, or one made of 
hard wood (lignum viise.) 

To blanch almonds, pour boiling water on them, 
and let them remain in it until the skins may be 
easily removed, then take it off, throw the almonds 
into cold water to whiten them, drain them from the 
water but do not wipe them ; the moisture will 
prevent their oiling. 

For making lady-fingers, confectioners have a tin 
tube as long as your finger, like the spout of a tun- 
nel ; to the upper part of this, a little bag is at- 
tached, and the cake mixture put in it, and pressed 
out on to the paper, the size and length desired ; the 
point of the tube may be larger or smaller as may 
be required ; Savoy biscuit mixture, may be baked 
as lady-fingers, for making charlotte d'russe. 

In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing 
to the eye as well as to the palate, use double 
refined white sugar, although clean light brown 
sugar makes an equally good cake. 

Fmely pulverized or ground^ sugar, which is as 



268 BAKER S BREAD. 

fine as wheat flour, is the sort for icing cakes, and 
for maUing fine cakss; where this cannot be had, 
the sugar must be rolled and sifted, or pounded in 
a 111 or tar. 

To ascertam whether a cake is baked enough, if 
a small one, take a broom splint, and run it through 
the thickest part, if it is not done, some of the dough 
or unbaked cake will be found sticking to it; if 
done, it will come out clean. If a cake is large, 
take a teaspoon handle or small knife-blade, instead 
of the broom splint. 

All receipts herein contained, will be found to be 
just what they are represented, and give full satis- 
faction, if strictly followed. 

To keep cakes as when fresh made : fold a thick 
napkin about them, and put them into a stone jar, 
with a close cover ; or keep them in a tin box or 
canister, tightly covered, in a cool dark closet. 

To Make Baker's Bread. — To one quart of 
warm water, put a gill of baker's yeast, stir in the 
flour to make a thin batter, put it in a large pitcher 
or tin pail, and let it set in a large pan, in a warm 
place, all night. 

Early next morning, put seven pounds of super- 
fine wheat flour into a wooden bowl or tray, heap 
it around the sides, leaving a hollow in the centre, 
dissolve a bit of volatile salts, the size of a small 
nutmeg, in a little hot water, and when it is cool, 
put it to the batter, pour it into the hollow of the 
flour ; powder a piece of alum the size of a very 
small hickory nut, make it as fine as flour, then stir 
it into the batter, until it is a white foam, add to it 
a tablespoonful of salt, and gradually, three pints 
or moieof warm water with this; work all the flour 
into a dough ; knead or work it with your two 
hands, until it is a smooth, shining paste, then strew 



WHEAT BREAD. 269 

a little flour over, spread a thick cloth over, and 
set it in a warm place for two hours, until it has 
risen to twice its first size, then dip your hands in 
flour, work it down fine and smooth, cover it, and 
set it near the fire for an hour ; knead it smooth 
again, make it in loaves, and bake according to 
their size, in a quick oven ; if the mass is divided 
in two loaves, they will require one hour's baking 
in a quick oven ; if divided in foiir, half an hour 
will be sufficient. 

To Make Wheat Bread: — Put seven pounds 
of whsat flour in a large bowl or tray, heap it around 
the sides, leaving a hollow in the centre ; put into it a 
quart of warm water, add to it a large tahlespoon- 
ful of salt, half a teaspoonful of saleratus, (dissolved 
in a little water,) and half a gill of baker's yeast; 
have three pints more of warm water, and with as 
much of it as may be necessary, make the whole 
in a rather soft dough, work it well with both hands, 
(see directions for kneading bread,) when it is 
smooth and shining, strew "a little flour over, lay a 
thickly folded cloth over it, and set it in a warm 
place for four or five hours, then knead it again for 
fifteen minutes, cover it, and let it set to rise again ; 
when it is like a sponge, work it down again, divide 
it in loaves, either two or four, and bake in a quick 
oven, according to their size ; one hour, if divided 
in two loaves ; half an hour each, if divided in 
four. 

This bread need only rise once, and if made of 
the best superfine flour, will be beautifully white and 
light, and healthful and sweet. 

Any who will follow this receipt, either with once 
rising or twice, will have uniformly white and sweet 
bread. 

In cold weather, bread should be mixed in a 



270 POTATO BREAD. 

warm room, and not nllowed to become cold wliilsi 
mixing : have a thickly folded cloth, warm it, and 
Iny it over, and set the bowl in a warm phice ; if 
there is any difficulty about its rising, set the bowl 
or tray over a kettle of hot water. It is as well to 
mix this bread at night, in cold weather, and cover 
it close, in a warm room, until morning. 
/ 

Potato Bread. — To make potato bread, pare 
half a peck of nice potatoes, wash them through 
two changes of water, put them into a kettle with a 
teaspoonful of salt, pour over them enough boiling 
\vater to cover them, then cover the kettle or pot, 
and let them boil fast for half an hour, or longer if 
they are large ; then take them from the kettle of 
Doiling water with a skimmer, into a cullender, rub 
them through it into a dish ; put seven pounds of 
wheat flour into a bowl or tray, make a hollow in 
the centre, into which put the prepared potatoes ; 
add nearly a gill of baker's yeast, a heaping table- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of saleratus, 
dissolved in warm water, (it must be entirely dis- 
solved,) have nearly three quarts of warm water or 
milk in a pitcher, and with as much of it as may 
be necessary, make the potatoes and flour into a 
soft dough or paste ; work it with your hands with- 
out flouring them, until it will not stick to them, and 
it is a smooth, glossy mass, then put a cover over 
the pan, cover it with a thickly folded cloth, and 
set it in a warm place for five or six hours in warm 
weather, or all night in winter ; it will then be as 
light as a sponge ; dip your hands lightly in flour, 
and knead or work the bread down until it is fine 
and smoodi, then set it to rise again for two hours ; 
when it is light, work it down again, divide it in 
three or six loaves, lay them In a large pan to touch 
each other, (first having rubbed the pan over with 



WHEAT AND INDIAN BREAD. 271 

a sponge dipped in butter,) let them set for ten 
minutes, then bake in a quick oven one bour, if di- 
vided in three, or half an hour if divided in six. 

It is not usual to give home-made bread more 
than one rising, nor is it necessary, but the bread 
will be whiter and finer. 

Potatoes for bread maybe washed through three 
or more changes of water; [)ut them in a pot with 
boiling water to cover them, cover the pot, and let 
them boil fast for forty minutes, if small, or an hour 
ij' large, then take them from the w^ater with a 
skimmer, peel them, and grate them on a coarse 
grater, or mash them fine, one by one, with a po- 
tato beetle, then finish as above directed. 

To Make Twist Bread. -^Let the bread be 
made as directed for baker's or for wheat bread, 
then take three pieces as large as a pint bowl each ; 
strew a little flour over the paste-board or table, 
roll each piece under your hands, to twelve inches 
length, making it smaller in circumference at the 
ends than in the middle ; having rolled the three 
in this way, take a baking tin, lay one part on it, 
join one end of each of the other two to it, and braid 
them together the length of the rolls, and join the 
ends by pressing them together ; dip a brush in 
milk, and pass it over the top of the loaf; after ten 
minutes or so, set it in a quick oven, and. bake for 
nearly an hour. 

Wheat and Indian Bread. — Put three pints 
of water over the fire, when it is boiling hot, add a 
large tablespoon ful of salt, stir into it sweet white 
corn meal, until it is a thick batter ; continue to stir 
it for ten minutes, that it may not burn, then turn 
it into a dish, stir into it a quart of cold water; 
when it is cool enough to bear your hand in it, pour 



272 RYE.BliEAD CAKE. 

it into a bowl, in which is seven pounds of wheat 
flour, henped around the sides, so as to leave a liol- 
low in the centre ; add to it a gill of baker's yeast, 
and half a teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a 
little hot water, then work the whole into a smooth 
dough, work it or knead for nearly an hour, then 
Strew a little flour over it, lay a thickly folded cloth 
over, and set it in a warm place for Ave or six 
hours in summer, or mix at night in winter; when 
light, work it down, set it to rise again for one hour, 
then heat the oven, work the bread down, and di- 
vide it in loaves, and bake, according to their size, 
in a quick oven ; when taken from the oven, turn 
them over in the pans, and set them to become 
cold ; if the crust is hard, wrap them in a towel as 
soon as taken from the oven. 

Rye Bread. — Make the same as wheat and In- 
dian bread, substituting rye flour for wheat. Or 
thus : to a quart of warm water stir as much wheat 
flour as will make a smooth batter, stir into it half 
a gill of baker's yeast, and set it in a warm place 
to rise ; this is called setting a sponge ; let it be 
mixed in some vessel which will contain twice the 
quantity ; in the morning put three pounds and a 
half of rye flour into a bowl or tray, make a hollow 
in the centre, pour in the sponge, add a dessert- 
spoonful of salt, and half a small teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, dissolved in a little water, make the wdiole 
into a smooth dough, with as much warm water as 
may be necessary ; knead it well, cover it, and let 
it set in a warm place for three hours, then knead 
it again, and make it in two or three loaves ; bake 
in a quick oven one hour, if made in two loaves, or 
less if the loaves are smaller. 

Rye Bread Cake. — Take from the risen dough, 



TO KNEAD BREAD. 273 

the size of a small loaf, work into it a small teacup 
of shortening, make it in a flat cake, rather more 
than an inch thick, i nd bake twenty five minutes 
in a quick oven. 

Dyspepsia Bread. — Work three quarts of un- 
bolted wheat meal into a dough, with one quart of 
warm water, half a gill of baker's yeast, one teacup 
of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, and half a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little hot 
water ; knead it well, then cover it, and set it in a 
warm place, until it has risen to twice its original 
size, then work it down; divide it in two loaves, 
and bake in buttered basins, in a quick oven. 

Brpwn Bread. — Make as directed for dyspep- 
sia bread ; add a pint bowl of rye flour, and a little 
more water, mix it well, and bake. 

Graham Bread. — Make as directed for wheat 
and Indian bread, using unbolted wheat flour 
instead of superfine. 

To Knead Bread. — After the dough is made, 
flour the hands, and folding the fingers over the 
thumb, making what is called a fist, belabor the 
dough first with one hand then the other on every 
side, work it in this way until it ceases to stick to 
your hands ; much kneading makes bread both 
whiter and finer. 

Kneading bread will be found a most beneficial 

exercise for dyspeptics, though not a very gentle 

one ; the arms and chest are brought into full play, 

quite as much as in the use of dumb bells ; it is 

heartily recommended since good bread and good 

health are both obtained thereby. 

Bread can scarce be kneaded too much, it will 
18 L* 



274 PONE OR CORN-MEAL BREAKFAST CAKE. 

readil} be allowed, that the more bread is needed 
the sweeter it will be to the taste when eaten. 

Bread Cake or Biscuits. — Take from risen 
bread dough, the size of a small loaf, work into it 
one egg and a large tablespoon ful of lard when it 
is thoroughly amalgamated, flour the hands and 
make it in balls, the size and shape of a hen's egg', 
rub a tin pan over with a bit of sponge dipped in 
butter, lay them in so as to touch each othei', until 
the pan is full, wet the tops over with milk, then 
set them into a quick oven for twenty minutes, serve 
hot for breakfast or tea. When eaten, break them 
open — to cut them would make them heavy. 

These cakes are very nice when cold for breakfast 
or tea. 

Indian Corn Bread. — Into a quart of yellow 
corn-meal stir as much boiling milk or water as will 
make a very stiff batter; add a teacup of molasses 
and a large teaspoonful of salt; put to it half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little water, and 
when rather more than bloodwarm add to it half a 
gill of baker's yeast, mix it well, set it in a warm 
place to rise, for two hours, then put it an inch deep 
in buttered basins, and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven ; serve hot, with cold butter. 

Indian Meal Bread for Tea. — Stir a quart of 
boiling milk into a pint of 3^ellow corn-meal, add to it 
a teacup of molasses and three or four well beaten 
eggs, a. teaspoonful of salt, then pour it into a but- 
tered l);i?in ; bake in a moderate oven for two hours. 
Or, add to tliis mixtnre a tablespoonful of sweet 
butter — butter saucers, half fill them, and bake 
half an hour in a quick oven. 

Pone or Corn-meal Bkeaivfast Cake. — Into a 



INDIAN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 275 

quart of milk stir enough yellow corn-meal to make 
a very thick batter, add to it four well beaten eggs 
and a teaspoonful of salt ; butter small basins or 
tin pans, hll them one inch deep, and bake for 
nearly an hour in a moderate oven; do not open the 
oven in less than forty minutes. 

Albany Breakfast Cakes. — Beat six eggs 
light and stir them into a quart of milk, add a 
heaping teaspoonful of salt and a bit of saleratus 
the size of two peas, dissolved in a little hot water ; 
stir in enough sweet corn-meal to make a thick bat- 
ter, rub some small tin saucers the size of a tea- 
saucer with butter and half fill them ; bake half an 
hour in a quick oven, or put the mixture an inch 
deep in square tin pans ; when done cut it in squares 
and serve hot. 

Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes. — Pour boiling 
water into a pint of yellow corn-meal, stirring it all 
the time, until it is wet ; dissolve half a small tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, and add 
it to the meal with a teaspoonful of salt, two well 
beaten eggs and a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg, stir it well together ; butter square tin pans, 
two-thirds fill them and bake in a quick oven for 
half an hour ; cut it in squares and serve hot. 

Indian Meal Griddle Cakes. — Put three 

Eints of warm water into a basin or jar, add to it 
alf a gill of baker's yeast, half a small teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus dissolved, and a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir in yellow corn-meal to make a batter, add a 
pint bowl of wheat flour, and beat the whole 
smooth, cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise; 
tlie batter should not more, than half fill the vessel, 
Uiat it may not rise over the sides : in the morn- 



27'J JOHXNTY CAKE. 

ing add two well beaten cg2[3 ; make a griddle hot, 
put on it a teaspoonful of lard, spread it over il, 
and put the batter on in small cakes ; when one side 
is a delicate brown, turn the other, when both sides 
are done, take them up on a hot dish ; these cakes 
retain the heat fi)r some time ; serve butter and 
syrup with these, for breakfast. 

Wheat and Indian Crumpets. — Put half a 
gill of yeast into a quart of warm milk, with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, stir in wheat flour to make a good 
batter; set it in a warm place to rise, in the morn- 
ing, add a teacupful of melted butter, and a hand- 
ful of yellow corn meal ; bake them on a hot grid- 
dle, which must be rubbed over with lard each 
time before putting on the cakes; a spoonful of 
batter for each cake. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. — Beat two eggs light, 
stir them into a quart of sweet milk, with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and enough corn- meal to make 
a good batter, bake as soon as mixed, on a hot grid- 
dle, rubbed over with a bit of suet or fat pork, a 
tablespoonful of batter for each cake. 

Johnny Cake. — Put a quart of fresh corn-meal 
into a basin, add a heaping teaspoonful of salt, stir 
into it boiling water, until it is all moistened, then 
with your hands, make it in cakes half an inch 
thick, and bake them on a hot griddle, rubbed over 
with a bit of fat pork, or beef suet ; let them do 
slowly; when one side is done, turn the other; 
they may be baked in an oven for twenty minutes ; 
or put the cake on a flat board or iron plate, and 
slant it in front of the fire; when one side is done, 
turn the other; serve hot, split them open, and but- 
ter freely ; they are eaten with fried pork. 



YEAST CAKES. 2/7 

Indian Meal INIuffixs. — Poui boiling water 
into a quart of yellow corn meal, stirring it all the 
time, until it is a thick batter, let it cool; when only- 
warm, add a small teacup of butler, a teaspoonfal 
of salt, and a tablespoonful of yeast, with two well 
beaten eggs ; set it in a warm place for two hours, 
then stir it smooth, and bake in small cakes, on a 
hot griddle; when one side is a rich brown, turn 
the other, lay them singly on a hot dish, and serve. 
These may be made without the yeast, and baked 
as soon as mixed. 

Oat Meal. — May be prepared for cooking, in 
the same manner as corn meal ; either as soupon, 
gruel, or Johnny cake. 

Rye Short Cakes. — Make as directed in the 
several receipts for wheat flour. 

To Make Baker's Yeast. — Make three table- 
spoonsful of wheat flour into a smooth batter, with 
a little cold water, then add to it nearly two quarts 
more of water, and quarter of a pound of brown 
sugar, put it to boil, stir it occasionally, then set it 
to cool ; when it is only blood warm, add a gill of 
good yeast, set the vessel in a warm place, or near 
the fire for one day, to ferment, then pour ofl^ the 
thin liquor from the top, shake the remainder up, 
and put it in a bottle for use, or keep it in a cover- 
ed stone jar ; half a gill of this yeast for seven 
pounds of flour. 

Yeast Cakes, called Turnpike Cakes. — 
Put a quart of hops into two quarts of water, cover 
them, and let them boil, then strain it hot over a 
quart of fresh corn meal, stir it well together, when 
cooled, so as to bear your hand in, add a teacupful 



27S bakkr's rolls. 

of good ycuSt, or one turnpike cake dissolved in 
warm water, stir it well, make it in cakes the size of 
the lop of a tumbler, and rather less than half an inch 
thick, lay them on a board, and set them in a dr}', 
warm, but airy place, to rise and harden, do not 
put them in the sun ; when one side is dry, turn 
tlie other, and so turn them from side to side, until 
they are thorounhly dry and hard ; should the 
weather prove damp, these cakes may be dried 
near the fire. Keep them in coarse paper bags, in 
a dry, cool place ; half of one of these cakes dis- 
solved in a cup of warm water, is enough for seven 
pounds of flour. These will remain good for 
months. 

Leavex. — Take the scrapings of the tray, and 
a little of the risen dough, to make a cake as large 
round as a tumbler; dry it, or put it in cold water 
to cover it. When wanted, pour off^ the cold wa- 
ter, and put a pint of warm water to it. Use it 
instead of yeast. If the leaven is dried, dissolve it 
in warm water. Keep the leaven from each time 
baking, which should not be less often than twice 
each week. 

Dyspepsia Crackers. — Mix a hard dough of 
unbolted wheat flour, a small quantity of salt, and 
a very little saleratus ; beat it well with a rolling- 
pin; make it in small round cakes, stick each with 
a fork, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp 
- and hard. 

To Make Baker's Rolls. — Put' three pounds 
of wheat flour into a large bowl, make a hollow in 
the centre, put in a large tablespoonful of j^east, a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a bit of saleratus the size of 
half a small nutmeg, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 



TO MAKE BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 279 

hot water, make it into a soft dough with warm 
milk, work it or knead until it is smooth and shin- 
ing, then cover it and set it in a warm place for two 
hours, then work it smooth again, let it rise again, 
then work it down and divide it in pieces twice the 
size of a hen's egg ; roll it hetween your hands to the 
length of a finger, lay them so as to touch each 
other, on baking tins, dip your hand in milk and 
pass it lightly over the tops of the rolls, and set them 
ill a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, until 
they are baked and the tops a delicate brown, 
break one open to know if they are done. Serve 
hot for breakfast, to be broken open — cutting light 
hot cakes soddens them. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes. — Put three pints 
ot warm water into a stone pot or jar, add half a 
gill of baker's yeast, or an inch square of turnpike 
cake dissolved in a little warm water; add a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt, and half a small teaspoonfulof 
saleratus, have a pudding stick or spatula and 
graduaHy stir in enough buckwheat flour to make a 
nice batter, beat it perfectly smooth, then cover it 
and set it in a moderately warm place until morn- 
ing , a large handful of cornmeal may be put with 
the flour, and is by many persons considered an 
improvement. 

To Bake Buckwheat Cakes. — Set a griddle 
over a gentle steady fire, when it is hot, rub it over 
with a bit of suet, or fat fresh pork on a fork ; the 
griddle must be hot but not scorching • put the 
batter on in small cakes, when one side is nicely 
browned and about half cooked through, turn them. 

These cakes to be in perfection, must be not 
much thicker than a dollar piece, and both sides a 
delicate brown. Should the batter prove too thick 



'280 MUFFINS. 

it may be made thinner with sweet milk, this will 
also make them bake a finer color. The best of 
sweet butter and syrup to be served witli buck- 
wheat cakes hot from the griddle ; should the 
cakes be preferred thicker than mentioned in this 
receipt, it is an easy matter to make them so; take 
care that they are baked through. 

Buckwheat may be mixed the same as wheat 
muffins, and baked on a griddle. 

Minute Pudding. — Put a quart of water over 
the fire, when it boils fast, add a large teaspoonful 
of salt, stir it round with a pudding stick in one 
hand, and from the other let fall gradually, (stirring 
it all the time) enough buckwheat flour to make it 
thick ; continue to stir it for a few minutes, when it 
will be a thick and smooth pudding ; dip a large 
bowl in cold water, and turn the pudding into it ; 
when it is a little cooled lay a plate over the bowl, 
then reverse it, and turn the pudding out upon it ; 
serve with butter and sugar or a sauce, for dessert. 

Buttermilk Muffins. — To a quart of thick 
sour milk or buttermilk put a pint of water, stir into 
it enough wheat flour to make a smooth but not 
very thin batter ; dissolve a large teaspoonful of 
powdered saleratus in a little hot water, and stir it 
in with a heaped teaspoonful of salt; the batter 
must be perfectly smooth and free from lumps. 
Bake on a hot griddle, which must first be rubbed 
over with a bit of fat or lard. 

Muffins. — Mix with a pint of warm milk, two 
well beaten eggs, half a teaspoonful of melted but- 
ler and half a gill of baker's 3'^east with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a bit of saleratus the size of a large 
pea (dissolved in hot water) stir in enough sifted 



BUTTERMILK TEA CAKES. 2S1 

wheat flour to make a thick batter; set it in a warm 
place to rise, for three hours in warm .weather, o*. 
longer in winter; it may be mixed at night for 
breakfast next morning — put a griddle over the fire, 
when it is hot, rub it over with some fat, grease the 
inside of the rings, set them on and half fill them 
with the batter, or they maybe done without rings; 
when one side is done turn the other ; bake a light 
color, as they are done break each one open, put a 
bit of butter in each, and set them in front of the 
fire until served ; muffins should never be cut 
open. Cold muffins may be toasted and served hot. 

Crumpets. — Put half a gill of yeast into a quart 
of warm milk, with a teaspoonful of salt, set in a 
warm place to rise, when light, add a cup of melted 
butter, stir it in, and bake as muffins. 

Cream Tea Cakes. — Put two pounds of sifted 
wheat flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, 
and put in half a pint of sour cream, and a cup of 
melted butter, dissolve half a teaspoonful of salera- 
ratus in aUttle hot water, and put it in with a large 
teaspoonful of salt, make it a nice soft dough ; if 
necessary add a little more cream or water, flour 
your hands, and make it out in cakes the size of an 
egg, rub a tin pan over with a bit of butter, lay the 
cakes in so as to touch each other, until the pan is 
full.; bake in a quick oven, from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

When taken from the pan, they should be broken 
open at one side, and a bit of butter, the size of a 
large hickory nut, put in, serve hot ; they may be 
served without the butter in them, with cold butter 
accompanying. 

Buttermilk Tea Cakes. — Pnt two pounds of 



282 EGG RUSK. 

sifted wheat flonr into a basin, make a hollow in 
the centre, put in a. small teacup of butter, lard, or 
beef drippings, adtl a teaspoonful of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little hot water ; 
mix a pint of thick sour milk or buttermilk, with 
half a pint of water, and with as much of it as may 
be necessary, make the flour, etc. into a soft dough ; 
dip your hands in flour, and divide the dough into 
cakes the size of an egg, roll each one between your 
hands, to a smooth round cake, rub a bit of butter 
over a tin pie pan, lay the cake in, flatten it a little, 
and so continue until the pan is full, putting in the 
cakes so as to touch each other ; set the pan in a 
quick oven, shut it close, and bake fifteen minutes, 
then break one open, if it is not done through, 
return them to the oven for three or five minutes 
longer. 

Tea Rusk. — To a pint of warm milk, put half 
a gill of baker's 5'east, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a small teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a 
little hot water, put to it enough wheat flour to 
make a soft dough, mix it well and smooth, cover 
it, and set it in a warm place for two hours, to 
rise ; when light, add half a teacup of sugar, and 
a cup of melted butter, work them well into the 
dough, flour your hands well, and make it in small 
cakes, (the size of a large egg, or a trifle larger,) 
lay them close together in a buttered pan, dip 3'our 
hand in q, little sweetened milk, and pass it lightly 
over the tops of the rusks, set them in a quick oven 
for half an hour; serve hot. 

Egg RusK.-^-INtelt four ounces of butter in a pint 
of warm milk, beat seven eggs untill you can take 
them up by the spoonful, and with these, three 
ounc^es of sugar, a gill of yeast, and as much sifted 



LIGHT ROLLS. 2S3 

wheat flour as may be necessary, make a soft 
dough, shake a little flour over it, and set it in a 
warm |ilace lo rise, when light, (which it will be in 
about two hours,) work it down, cover it, and set it 
to rise again for one hour, then work it down, rub 
a baking tin over with a bit of suet, make the rusk, 
in cakes, the size and shape of an egg, lay them on 
the tin, so as to touch each other, dip a brush in a 
little sweetened milk, and pass it lightly over the 
cakes, let them set for ten minutes, llien put them 
in a quick oven, and bake twenty minutes ; tr}^ if 
they are done by breaking one open, if not, return 
them to the oven, and close it for five minutes ; they 
may be wet over a second time, a few minutes be- 
fore, they are done; serve hot with butter, for tea. 

Velvet Cakes. — To a pint of warm milk, and 
two well beaten eggs, put half a gill of yeast and 
half a teacup of soft butter, and a teaspoonful of salt, 
stir into it enouo^h wheat flour to make a soft douoh, 
strew some flour over it, lay a warm towel over, and 
set it in a warm place to rise, (three h«urs in sum- 
mer, or until hght in winter,) dip your hands in flour 
and work the dough down ; make it in small flat 
cakes, lay them in a buttered pan, quite near each 
other, dip 3'our hand in milk, and pass it over the 
top of each cake, bake in a quick oven for twelve or 
fifteen minutes. These cakes may be mixed at 
night, and baked in rolls for breakfast. 

Light Rolls. — Take a piece of risen dough, 
the size of a small loaf, from mixed bread, work 
into it a teacup of shortening, and one egg, work it 
well together, then make it in rolls between 3'^our 
hands, about one inch thick, and the length of the 
finger, lay them close in a buttered basin, and bake 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven; do not open the 



284 COMMON BUNS. 

oven until that time has expired, then wet the tops 
of the rolls o\"er with a little milk, and close the 
oven for five minutes longer. 

French Rolls, for Tea. — Work quarter of a 
pound of butter into two pounds of sifted wheat 
flour, until it is like grated bread, put to it two 
beaten eggs, two tablespoon sful of bakers yeast, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and as much warm milk 
as will make a soft dough, strew flour over, cover 
it with a warm cloth, and set it in a warm place to 
rise, for two hours ; then dip your hands in flour, 
and make it in small rolls, an inch thick, and the 
length of a finger, bake tvvent}'' minutes in a quick 
oven ; five minutes before they are done, wet them 
lightly over with sweet milk, do it as quickly as 
possible, and close the oven to finish. 

Rice Flour Short Cakes. — Rub three ounces 
of butter into half a pound of rice flour, moisten it 
with cold water, work it smooth, then roll it out 
thin ; cut it in small cakes, and bake ten or twelve 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Short Cakes or Paste Cakes. — Make a short 
pie crust, roll it out to half an inch thickness, or 
thinner if preferred, and cut it in smaU round cakes 
with a tumbler or tin cutter of that size ; bake 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

These cakes may be made the same as " com- 
mon puff* paste" for pies ; serve with preserves, 
jelly, or stewed fruit, for tea. The cakes may be 
hot or cold. 

. Common Buns. — Rub four ounces of butter into 
two pounds of flour, with four ounces of fine sugar 
and a teaspoonful of carraway seeds, and the same 



BUTTER CRACKERS. 285 

of salt ; add half a gill of yeast, and as much 
warm milk as will make a soft dough ; set it in a 
warm place to rise, (it will be light after about 
three hours ;) strew a paste-slab and rolling-pin 
with flour, and roll out the dough to half an inch 
thickness, and cut them in large round cakes ; lay 
them on baking tins ; wet the tops over with milk, 
strew sugar over each, and put them on tins in a 
quick oven for fifteen minutes. 

Cross Buns. — To the above mixture add half 
a nutmeg grated, half a teaspoonful of ground 
alspice, and a cup of dried currants, washed and 
dried ; mix it well together ; finish as directed 
for buns ; when nearl}'' done, press the form of a 
cross in the centre of each. 

Soda or Milk Biscuit. — To a pound of sifted 
flour put the yolk of an egg ; dissolve a teaspoonful 
of carbonate of soda in a little m.ilk ; put it and a 
teaspoonful of salt to the flour, with as much milk 
as will make a stiff' paste ; work it well together ; 
beat it for some minutes with a rolling-pin, then 
roll it very thin ; cut it in round or square biscuits, 
and bake in a moderate oven until they are crisp. 

Butter Crackers. — Rub four ounces of butter 
into a pound of flour, with a teaspoonful of salt; 
when it is like sand, put to it enough cold water 
to damp it and keep it together; beat it with a 
rolling-pin until it is smooth ; then roll it thin ; cut 
it in small cakes, or make it in small 'crackers be- 
tween your hands^ lay them on baking tins, and 
set them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes, or set 
them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes ; let 
each cracker be about the size of a dollar piece, 
and nearly half an inch thick. 



286 TO FRV DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

Milk Biscuits. — Warm two ounces of sweet 
butter in a gill of sweet milk, and with it wet a 
pound of flour into a ver}'- stiff' paste ; heat it with 
a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth ; roll it a 
quarter of an inch thick ; cut it in small round 
cakes ; stick each with a fork, and bake ten min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

To MAKE Doughnuts. — Take of risen wheal- 
bread dough the size of a quart bowl ; work into it 
a teacup of butter, two teacups of clean brown 
sugar, rolled fine, half a nutmeg, grated, a tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, and two eggs; work 
it to a smooth jjaste ; strew some flour over a paste- 
table and rolling-pin ; put on some of the paste, 
and roll it to a quarter of an inch thickness ; rub 
more flour over the rolling-pin, if the paste sticks; 
cut it in small squares, stars, or diamonds; fry in 
hot fat. 

To FRY Doughnuts and Crullers. — Have a 
small iron or porcelain kettle ; put into it a pound 
of lard, set it over a gentle fire ; when it is boiling 
hot, drop a bit of the dough in to try it ; if the fat 
is not hot enough, the cakes will absorb it, and 
thereby be rendered unfit for eating; if too hot, 
it will make them a dark brown outside before the 
inside is cooked : boiling hot is about the heat the 
fat should be ; if it is at a right heat, Ihe doughnuts 
will in about ten minutes be of a delicate brown 
outside, and nicely cooked inside :. five or six 
minutes will' cook a cruller; try the fat, by drop- 
ping a bit of the dough i.i ; if it is right, the fat w^ ill 
boil up when it is put in : keep the kettle in mo- 
tion all the time the cakes are in, that they may 
boil evenly : when the cakes are a fine color, take 
them out with a skimmer on to an inverted sieve. 



t 

FRIED CAKES. §87 

"Doughnuts. — Take a pound ol' flour, a qunrtei 
of a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of 
clean brown sugar, rolled fine, one nutmeg, grated, 
and a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon ; mix these 
well together; then add a' tablespoon ful of bakers' 
yeast, with as much warm milk, with saleratus the 
size of a pea dissolved in it, as will make a smooth 
dough ; knead it for a few minutes, cover it, and 
set it in a warm place to rise, for three hours or more, 
until it is light ; then roll it out to a quarter of an 
inch thickness ; cut it in small squares or diamonds, 
and fry as directed. 

Doughnuts, without Yeast. — Half a pound of 
butter, a pint of sour milk or buttermilk, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, a small teaspoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, two 
well-beaten eggs, and as much flour as will make 
a smooth dough ; flavor with half a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, and half a nutmeg, grated ; rub a 
little flour over a paste-board or table, roll the 
dough to a quarter of an inch thickness ; cut them 
in squares, or diamonds, or round cakes, and fry 
in boiling lard as directed. These cakes may be 
made in rings, and fried. 

Fried Cakes. — One quart of milk, half a pound 
of butter, six eggs, well beaten, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of currants, washed and dried, or one 
pound of raisins, stoned, and as much sifted wheat 
flour as will make a thick batter ; beat the eggs 
until they can be taken up without strings ; beat 
the butter with the sugar to a cream ; grate in 
half a nutmeg; add a teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
or a wine-glass of brandy, in which rose leaves 
have been steeped, and a teaspoonful of salt ; then 
stir in flour to make a thick batter ; add the raisins 



3SS DELICATE CRULLERS. 

or currants ; beat it for a few minutes, then fry in 
boilings; lard as directed for doughnuts and c;rullers. 
A dessert-spoonful of the batter makes a cake. 

Plain Crullers. — Take half a pint of sour milk 
or buttermilk, one teacup of butter, two teacups of 
sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a small teaspoon- 
ful of powdered saleratus, dissolved in a little hot 
water; add a teaspoonful of salt, half a nutmeg, 
grated, and a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon; 
work in as much sifted wheat flour as will make a 
smooth dough; work it well together; roll the 
cakes to twice the thickness of a dollar piece ; cut it 
in pieces two inches square; cut it in fingers, twist 
each a little, and join the ends together, and fry 
as before directed. These cakes may be ciit in 
rings, stars, baskets, or any other fancy shapes. 

Richer Crullers. — One pound of butter, beaten 
with one pound of finely rolled sugar, and six well- 
beaten eggs ; work them into two pounds of flour, 
with half a nutmeg, grated; when it is a smooth 
dough, flour a paste board or table and rolling-pin, 
and roll it to an eighth of an inch thickness ; cut it 
in rings or crullers, and fry as directed ; when done, 
grate sugar over. 

Richest Crullers. — Beat one pound of butter 
to a cream, with one pound of finely rolled sugar; 
add four v»^ell-beaten eggs, and half a nutmeg, 
grated ; work the whole into a pound and a quarter 
of sifted flour; flour the cake board or table, and 
roll it to the eighth of an inch thickness ; cut it as 
fancy may dictate, and fry as directed. 

Delicate Crullers. — Take four eggs, four 
tablespoonsful of lard, four tablespoon sful of sugar. 



1*0 MAKE WIGS. 289 

a teaspoonfiil of salt, and half a nutmeg grated, a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract may be added ; work 
into these as much sifted flour as will make a nice 
dough, roll it to about an eighth of an inch thickness, 
and fr}^ as directed for doughnuts and crullers. 

To make little baskets, cut the paste in strips an 
inch and a half wide, and three inches long, and 
with a gigling iron, cut slits across it from one side 
lo the other, within a quarter of an inch of either 
edge, and quarter of an inch apart ; then join the 
two ends together in a circle, forming the basket ; 
press it down slightly, that the strips may bulge, 
and so form the basket, like those made for fly 
traps of paper ; as soon as they are taken from the 
fat, (five minutes will do them,) grate white sugar 
over. 

Prepared Flour. — To one quart of wheat flom*, 
put two heaped teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
and one of soda, work it through a seive, and make 
use of it instead of unprepared flour in any of the 
receipts. 

To Make Wigs. — Take three pounds and a 
half of flour, rub into it three quarters of a pound 
of butter, until it is like grated bread, put to it a 
pound of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger; beat three eggs very 
light, take a gill of baker's yeast, and a wine-glass 
of brandy, make a hohow in the flour, and put in 
the eggs and yeast, with as much warm milk as 
will make a nice dough ; work it smooth, cover it, 
and set it in a warm place for two hours, then di- 
vide it into eighteen or twenty '^akes, put them in a 
buttered pan, at a little distance from each other, 
brush the top of ench over with the yolk of an egg 
beaten with a little milk, and bake half an hour in 
i9 M 



S90 YEAST WAFFLES. 

a quick oven ; serve hot, to be broken open and 
buUercd. 

Currant Buns. — Into three pounils and a half of 
sifted wheat flour, work two pounds of soft lard, add 
a large tablespoon ful of salt, and a teaspoonful of 
ground alspice ; add to it half a gill of baker's 
yeast, and enough warm water to inake a soft 
dough, cover it, and set it in a warm place for three 
hours, then stir into it half a pound of currants, 
picked, washed, and dried; make it in cakes (with 
a spoon,) an inch thick, and the size of the top of a 
tumbler; bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Waffles. — Three teacups of sugar rolled fine, 
one cup of butter, three well beaten eggs, half a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a teacup of 
milk, stir in sifted wheat flour, until it is a thick 
batter, add to it half a nutmear errated, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, put in a teaspoonful of 
salt, and stir it for some time. 

Make the waffle irons hot, dip a sponge in melted 
butter, and rub it over every part, put a large spoon- 
ful or two of the mixture in for each cake, close the 
iron, and set it over hot coals or a stove ; let them 
remain for six or eight minutes, then turn the iron 
over; after six or eight minutes open it, if the cake 
is a nif;e color, and loosens, take it out; and socon- 
tmue until you have enough. 

Waffles, — May be made of soft jumble mix- 
ture, or of pound cake ; any cake maj' be baked in 
waffle irons. Waffles may be made for dessert 
of a batter, as directed for wheat fritters, pan-cakes, 
and served with wine sauce over. 

Yeast Wafflkf. — Beat three eggs light, put to 



WAFERS AND JELLY. 291 

them one pint of warm milk, a large tablespoonfnl 
Oxf" yeast, one tablcspoonful of butter, and Haifa nut- 
meg, and Hour as stiff as you can stir with a spoon, 
or enough to make a light batter, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and set it in a warm place to rise, for 
two or three hours, then bake them in mufRu rings 
or a waffle iron ; put butter and sugar over, and 
serve hot. 

Wafers. — Two tablespoon sful of white sugar, 
two ditto of butter, one teacup of flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, or a tablespoon ful of 
brandy, and half a nutmeg grated, work them well 
together, cut it in bits the size of your thumb, make 
a wafer iron hot, rub it inside with a bit of butter, 
put in a bit of the dough, press the irons together 
upon it, and bake it a delicate brown, then take it 
out, slip another bit in, and so continue until all are 
done ; or roll the paste as thin as a dollar piece, 
cut it in small cakes, and bake it four or five 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Wafers. — Take three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks 
of three eggs, half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoon- 
ful of carroway seeds, if liked; add a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and work the whole into a smooth 
paste or dough, cut it in bits half the size of ar» 
egg, and bake it in a wafer iron, or roll it out as 
thin as a dollar piece, cut it in round cakes the size 
of the top of a tumbler, and bake in a quick oven 
for a few minutes. 

Wafers and Jelly. — Make a batter as direct- 
ed for soft jumbles or Dover cake, rub a square till 
pan over with a bit of sponge dipped in soft butter, 
put in the mixture, not much thicker than a dollar 



292 SMALL CAKES. 

piece, put tlie pan in a moderate oven for fifteen 
minutes, or until it is nicely baked, then turn it 
carefully out, spread it with jelly ; when it is cold, 
bake another, lay it carefully up.>n the first one, 
when cold, spread it with jelly, and having baked 
a third, lay it carefully upon it; serve cut in 
squares, or cut it round, and serve cut in wedge 
shaped pieces. Or having baked one of these 
cakes, spread half of it with jelly, lay the other half 
upon it; when cold, cut it in pieces three inches 
long, and one broad ; serve for tea or for evening 
parties. 

Common Jumbles. — One teacup of butter, two 
teacups of sugar, one teacup of sour milk or butter- 
milk, one small teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved 
in a little water, one beaten egg, and half a nutmeg 
grated, use enough sifted flour to make it so as to 
mould in well floured hands, roll it Quarter of an 
inch thick, cut it in round cakes, make an opening 
in the centre with the finger, grate sugar over, lay 
them in pans or baking tins, and set them in a quick 
oven for ten or twelve minutes. 

Jumbles. — Three pounds of flour, one pound and 
a half of butter, oiie pound of sugar, and six well 
beaten eggs, add half a grated nutmeg, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, or a teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon ; work it well together, then roll 
it out to eighth of an inch thickness,.. grate loaf 
sugar over, cut it in round cakes, make an aperture 
in the centre of each, lay them on tin plates, and 
bake ten minutes in a quick oven. 

Small Cakes. — Three eggs, three tablespoons- 
ful of butter, the same of sugar, three teacups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, and half a 



BISCUIT CAKES. 293 

nutmeg grated, work these well together, roll it 
thin, cut it in small cakes or jumbles, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Taylor Cakes. — Beat one pound of butter to a 
cream, put it to one pound and a half of flour, one 
pound of fine sugar, and four eggs well beaten ; 
add half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoonful of car- 
roway seeds, work it well together, roll it thin, cut 
it in round cakes, and bake in a moderate oven ten 
or twelve minutes. 

Almond Jumbles. — Beat half a pound of butter 
to a cream, with half a pound of fine sugar, mix i* 
with a pound of flour, and quarter of a pound of 
almonds blanched, and shred small, or beaten to a 
paste with a little lemon juice ; work it well to- 
gether, then roll it eighth of an inch thick, cut it in 
small round cakes, .and bake in a quick oven ten 
or twelve minutes. 

Cinnamon Wafers. — Pound and sift six ounces 
of sugar, and put it with an equal weight of fresh 
butter, beaten to a cream, with an equal weight of 
sifted flour ; add half an ounce of ground cinnamon, 
and a small egiX, stir these well together in an 
earthen basin, add sufficient milk to make a thin 
batter; maice a griddle quite hot, rub it over with a 
bit of sponge dipped in soft butter, then lay on it 
a spoonful of the batter ; when one side is done turn 
the other, when both sides are a fine brown, roll it 
(still on the griddle) around a small stick, and so 
continue until all the paste is used. 

Sponge Cakes. — One pound of sifted flour, five 
eggs well beaten, half a pound of fine sugar, half a 
nutmeg grated, and a few drops of lemon extract 



294 TircH STICK cake. 

or a teaspoonful of orange flower water, roll it tc 
quarter of an inch thickness, cut it in cakes the siz« 
of the top of a tumbler, and bake twelve or fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

White Cakes. — Take half a pound of sifted 
flour, rub into it one ounce of butter, and quarter 
of a pound of fine sugar, add one egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of carroway seeds, and as much milk as 
will make it a paste ; roll it out to quarter of an 
inch thickness, or thinner, cut it in small round 
cakes, and bake on tin plates in a quick oven, ten 
or twelve minutes. 

One two-three-four Cak^ — One cup of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, and four 
eggs. Work the sugar and butter together, put it 
to the eggs, well beaten, then mix in the flour; 
add grated nutmeg ; flour the sake board or table, 
and roll the cake to rather more than a quarter of 
an inch thick ; stick each with a fork, and bake 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

Spice Cakes. — Two pounds of sifted flour, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, one tablespoonful of ground spices, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and two tablespoonsful of 
yeast; mix it to a nice dough with warm milk, 
cover it, and set it in a warm place for three hours ; 
then roll it thin ; cut it in small cakes, and bake 
ten or twelve minutes in a quick oven. These 
mav be fried as douo-hnuts. 

Rich Spice Cakes. — Take one pound and a half 
of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, three 
quarters of a pound of butter, and half a teacup of 
mixed spices ; work the butter, flour, and sugar 



y 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 295 

together with the spices, until thoroughly incorpo- 
rated ; roll it thin, cut it in small cakes, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Portugal Cakes. — One pound of butter worked 
into one pound of flour and one pound of sugar ; 
add a quarter of a pound of well-washed and dried 
currants, tliree well-beaten eggs, and a gill of 
brandy ; mix them well together, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Spanish Cakes. — Two pounds of flour, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, four eggs, well beaten, one tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, and half a nutmeg, 
grated ; work it well together, roll it in thin sheets, 
and cut in fancy cakes with tin cutters, such as 
stars, leaves, hearts, &c. ; bake fifteen minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

Wine Cakes. — Mix eight ounces of flour with 
half a pound of finely-powdered sugar, beat four 
ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of wine; 
then make the flour and sugar into a paste with it, 
and four eggs, beaten light; add carroway seeds, 
and roll the paste as thin as paper; cut the cakes 
with the top of a tumbler, brush the tops over 
with the beaten white of an egg, grate sugar over, 
and bake ten or twelve minutes in a quick oven ; 
take them from the tins when cold. 

Soft Gingerbread, (Molasses.) — Take half a 
pint of sour milk or buttermilk, half a pint of mo- 
lasses, one teacup of butter, or salted lard, or beef 
fat, one large teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved 
in a little hot water, two well-beaten eggs, half a 
QUtmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon 



296 PEARLASH CAKE. 

and a large spoonful of ground ginger; mix in 
sifted wheat flour, until it is a thick batter which 
you can stir easily with a spoon ; beat it well to- 
gether for some time, then pour it an incli deep in 
square tin pans, buttered ; bake half an hour in a 
quic oven : to ascertain whether it is done, try 
as directed in introductory remarks. 

Ginger Snaps. — Haifa pint of molasses, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, carroway seeds and 
ground ginger, each a tablespoon ful, and a quarter 
of a pound of butter ; work the butter into a pound 
of flour ; work it altogether, and form it in cakes 
not larger than a dollar piece, on baking tins; bake 
in a moderate oven tweu'y minutes, when they 
will be dry and crisp. 

Soft Gingerbread, without Eggs. — Make as 
directed for soft gingerbread, omittiuG: the efjijs, 
and using two teaspoonfuls of saleratus instead of 
one ; dissolve it in a teacupful of warm water. 

Pearlash Cake. — Take half a pint of molasses, 
half a pint of water, half a teacup of butter, one 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, and an even full tablespoon of 
powdered pearlash ; dissolve it in the water ; put 
these ingredients together, then stir in as much 
sifted flour as will make a stiflT batter, beat it well 
for some time together; with a sponge dipped in 
soft butter, rub the inside of square tin pans, put in 
the cake mixture nearly an inch deep, and bake 
half an hour in a quick oven ; when the cake 
loosens from the sides of the pan, it is done ; it 
may be broken and eaten hot. This is a healthful 
cake for children, and extremely palatable to alL 



WIGS. 297 

Molasses Cup Cakes. — Two cups of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful 
of powdered saleratus dissolved in a little hor. water, 
one teaspoonful of lemon extract, half a nutmeg, 
grated, and two well-beaten eggs ; srir in, b}^ de- 
grees, enough flour to make it as stiff as jou can 
stir easily with a spoon, beat it Avell until it is very 
light, rub a two-quart tin basin over with a bit of 
butler, line it with white paper, and put the cake 
in it; bake forty minutes in a quick oven; try if 
it is done, by running a broom splint in at the 
thickest part ; if it comes out clean, it is done. 
This is a delicious cake. 

Honey Cake. — Three pounds and a half of 
flour, one pound and a half of hone}', half a pound 
of sugar, half h pound of butler, half a nutmeg, 
grated, a tablespoonful of ground ginger, and one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little hot 
water; wprk it to a smooth dough, roll it a quarter 
of an inch thick, cut it in small cakes, and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Nuts. — Into three pounds and a half 
of wheat flour work half a pound of butler; add 
half a pound of sugar and a pint and a half of 
molasses, half a nutmeg, grated, and a teaspoonful 
of ground ginger ; put to it a large teaspoonful of 
saieratus, dissolved in a little hot water ; make it 
a nice dough, roll it thin, and cut it in small cakes; 
put them on baking tins, and bake fifteen minutes 
iii a quick oven. 

Wigs. — Take half a pound of butter, half a 

pound of sugar, one pound and three quarters of 

flour, one quart of milk, and six eggs; make the 

milk warm, and melt the butler in it, beat thenri 
M* 



29S COMMON CUP CAKE. 

verv li,2:Vit, then stir them into the milk, with half 
n gill of yenst; put tlie sugar and flour together, 
an<l grudually stir the milk, &c. into it; cover it, 
and set it in a warsn place for three hours; when 
light, rub some square tin [)ans over with a hit of 
butter, put in the mixture nearly an inch deep, and 
bake twenty minutes in a quick oven ; when done, 
turn them out, break or cut it open, j)ut butter be 
tween, and serve hot for tea. * This tea cake may 
be cut in small squares and served hot, to be but- 
tered at table. This mixture may be put half as 
thick in the pans, and baked fifteen minutes; when 
cold, cut it in squares; it is very delicate and light 
for lunch. Saleratus, half the size of a small nut- 
meg, may be dissolved, and added to the mixture. 

Cream Cup Cake. — Four cups of flour, two 
CUDS of butter, one cup of sour cream, five well- 
beaten eg2;s, and one small teaspoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in a little hot water ; beat tliese together 
for a long time; add half a nutmeg, grated, and a 
teaspo(jntj.d of lemon extractor orange-llower water; 
bake in a quick o.ven, in buttered tins lined with 
paper; if baked in square tins, put the mixture in 
an inch deep, and bake twenty-five minutes; in 
round pans, put it an inch and half, and bake 
forty minutes. 

CoMMOx Cup Cake. — One tea cup of butter, 
two of sugar, four of flour, four well-beaten eggs. 
one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
dissolved in a little water, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract, or a wineglass of brandy, and half a nut- 
meg, grated ; beat up the mixture well, butter two 
two-(]uart basins, line them with white paper, and 
divide the mixture between them ; bake in a quick 
oven three quarters of an hour. 



COCOANUT CUP CAKE. 299 

Soft Jumbles. — Two teacups of sugar, rolled 
fine, one cup of sweet milk, with half a teas{)oonful 
of saleratus dissolved in it, one cup of belter, heat 
to cream, and four well-beaten eggs; use sifted 
flour enough to make it rather tin'cker than pound 
cake ; beat it well after all the ingredients are in, 
rub some square tin pans over with a bit of sponge 
dipped in soft butter, put in the mixture rather 
more than an inch deep, and bake in a moderate 
oven three quarters of an hour ; when served, cut 
it in small scjuares. This mixture makes fine 
waffles; an ounce of shelled almonds blanched and 
stirred fine or pounded to a paste may be added to 
this cake mixture. 

Teacup Cake without Eggs. — One»cnp of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sour cream or 
buttermilk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 
one teaspoonful of soda, rolled very fine, a gill of 
brandy, half a nutmeg grated and a teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon or the yellow rind of a lemon 
grated ; stir in enough sifted wheat flour to make it 
as thick as poundcake ; beat well ; put in an inch 
deep in buttered basins; bake half an hour in a 
quick oven. 

Soda Cake — Dissolve half a pound of sugar and 
a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a pint of milk ; 
put to it half a pound of butter beaten to a cream 
and half a nutmeg grated ; add gradually enough 
flour to make a stifl' batter, beat it well, put it in 
shallow pans and bake in a quick oven. If half an 
inch deep, bake twenty minutes, in a moderate oven. 
Cut it in small squares to serve. 

CocoANUT Cup Cake. — Two cups of sugar, two 
caps of butter, one cup of milk, one teaspooniul of 



300 ALMOND CAKE. 

essence of lemon, half a nutmeg grnted, four well 
beaten eggs and the white merit of a cocoanut 
grated ; use as much sifted wheat flour as will 
make a rniher stifl' liatter; beat it well, butter 
squ.-ire tin pans, line them with white paper, and put 
in the mixture an inch deep ; i)Mke in a moderate oven 
half an hour, or it may require ten minutes longer. 
Wiien cold, cut in small squares ordiamomls; 
this is a rich cake and is much improved by a thin 
icing. This cake should be made with fine white 
sugar. 

Composition Cake. — One pound of sugar, half 
a pound of butter beaten to a cream, four egrrs w^ell 
beaten, one cup of milk, half a teaspooufiil of saler- 
atns, or vohitile salts dissolved in a little hot water, 
half a nutmeg grated, and a teaspoonful of essence 
of lemon ; use as much sifted flour as will make a 
stiffiiatter. 

Beat these well together until it is light and 
creamy, then adtl one pound of raisins, stoned, and 
cut in two, or one pound of curr;rnts, picked, 
washed, and drieil ; line square tin pans with but- 
tered paper, put in the mixture an inch deep and 
bake half an hour in a moderate oven ; try it, ten 
minutes longer may possibly be required. When 
served cut the cake in S(|uares or oblong y)ieces ; 
this mixture makes two cakes eight inches wide 
and twelve long. 

To ice this cake, take it from the pans; when 
cold tnkeoff'the paper, turn the pan upside down 
and set the cake u[)ori it; finish as directed. See 
" 'J'o ice a cake." 

This cake mixture without the fruit makes fine 
w a flies. 

Almond Cake. — Make a batter as directed for 



WHITl! LADV-CAKE. 301 

composition cake, blanch quarter of a pound of 
shelled almonds, cut them in slips and stir them 
into the cake instead of fruit ; finish as directed for 
that cake. 

Yellow Lady-Cake. — A new icay to make it. — 
Take a pound of fine white sugar with half a pound 
of butter beaten to a cream, the yolks of eight eggs 
beaten smooth and thick, one cup of sweet milk, a 
small teaspoon ful of powdered volatile salts or sal- 
eratus, dissolved in a little hot water, half a nut- 
meg grated, a teaspoonful of lemon extract or 
orange-flower water, and as much sifted wheat flour 
as will make it as thick as pound-cake batter ; beat 
it until it is light and creamy, then having taken the 
skins from, and beaten to a paste quarter of a 

Eound of shelled almonds, stir them into the cake, 
eat them in it, line buttered tin pans with white 
pap?r, put in the mixture an inch deep, and bake 
half an hour in a quick oven, or forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. This is a delicious cake, never 
before given in any book, being the result of an 
experiment of the author of this book. 

Lady-cake is usually made with the yolks of 
eggs, as Savoy cake (two yolks for one whole egg) 
with the addition of pounded almonds. Ice it as 
directed for composition cake, when a little dry, 
mark it with a knife blade in slices the width of a 
finger, and three inches long. 

White Lady-Cake. — Beat the whites of eio;ht 
eggs to a higli froth, add gradually a pound of 
white sugar finely ground, beat quarter of a pound 
of butter to a cream, add a teacup of sweet milk 
with a small teaspoonful of powdered volatile salts 
or saleratus dissolved in it ; put the eggs to butter 
and milk, add as much sifted wheat flour as will 



302 WEBSTER CAKES. 

make It as thick as pound-cake mixture, and a 
teasjH^onful oforange-Hower water or lem<>n extract 
then add (juarter of a pound of sIicIUmI almonds, 
bhmched and beaten to a paste witli a httle white 
of egg ; beat the whole together until light and 
white ; line a square tin pan with buttered paper, 
put in the mixture an inch deep, and bake half an 
hour in a quick oven. When done take it from the 
pan, when cold take the paper off*, turn it upside 
down on the bottom of the pan and ice the side 
which was down ; when the icing is nearly hard 
mark it in slices the width of a finger, and two 
inches and a haU'long. 

CiTiiox Heart Cakes. — Beat half a pound of 
butter to a cream, take six eggs, beat th(^ whites to 
a frotli, and the yolks witii hislf a poimd of sugar, 
and rather mure than half a pound of sifted JJour, 
beat these well togt^thcr, adil a wine-glass of 
brandy, and quarter of a pound of ciiron cut in 
thin slips, bake it in small heart shaped tins, or a 
square tin pan, rubbed over with a bit of sponge 
dipped in melted butter, put the mixture in half an 
inch deep, bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a 
quick oven ; these are very fine cakes. 

Shred almonds may be used instead of citron. 

Webstek Cakes. — Mix a pound and a half of 
sifted flour with a pound of powder sugar, rub into 
it a pound of sweet butter, then ;idd ten well beaten 
esr^s, two tablespoonsful of rose or orange flower 
water, and two tablespoonsiul ol wu)e or brandy, 
with half a pound of well cleansed and (iried cur- 
rants ; beat the mixture until it is light and creamy, 
bake it in square tin pans, lined with buttered pa- 
per ; put the mixture in half an inch deep, and 
"bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes; when served 



DOVER CAKE. 305 

cut it in squares or diamonds ; this c;ike rnay Idc 
iced, mark it as it is to be cut, before the icing is 
dry. 

Palo-alto Cakes. — Beat half a pounrl of butter 
to a cream, with half a pound of fine white sr.gar, 
put to it five well beaten eggs, a table spoon fVd of 
rose water, the same of brandy, half a nutmeg 
grated, and half a pound of sifted flour, beat it to- 
gether until vei-y light; line S(]uare tin pans with 
paper, rubbed over with a bit of sponge tlippeii in 
melted butter, put in tlie mixture half .in inch deep, 
and bake in a quick oven fifteen rijinutes, or twenty 
in a moderate oven ; when done, take it from the 
pans, turn them upside down, and set the cake 
upon them ; when the cake is cold, take off" the pa- 
per, cut it in small fancy shapes ; put a little red 
jelly in the centre of each piece, and with a small 
syringe, put a border of icing around it. 

Dover Cake. — Bent half a pound of butler to a 
cream, with a pound of fine white sugar, add hnlf 
a pint of milk, t()ur well beaten eggs, one wine-glass 
of rose water, a wine-glass of brandy, one nutmeg 
grated, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and half 
a teaspoonful of saleralus, dissolved in a tablespoon- 
ful of hot water, beat in as much wheat flour as 
will make it as thick as pound-cake mixture, beat 
well after all the ingredients are in, line round or 
square tin pans with buttered paper, put the mix- 
ture in an inch deep in square, or an inch and a 
half in round pans, bake in a quick oven: half an 
hour for square pans, fbrt\'-five minutes for round 
basms. 

The addition of currants, raisins, and citron, to 
this cake, makes one which will keep for months, 
and improve. 



30i SMALL POUXD CAKES. 

Washixgtox Cake. — One pound ami three 
qiiaiters of flour, one pound and a half of sugar, 
three quarters of a poutul of butter, four eijfjs, half 
a pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
d!S:?olved in a little hot water. 

Beat the sugar and butter together, add the milk 
and beaten eggs, then put in the dissolved salera- 
tus, and gradually stir in the Hour, wiih a wine- 
glass of brandy or wine, and a small nutmeg 
grated ; beat them well Kjgether. 

Make it in two round cakes, or bake it in square 
tin pans, in a quick oven, allow fifteen minutes if 
half an inch deep, thirty minutes if an inch deep, 
and forty-five if an inch and a half deep. 

To Bake Cakes. — Allow fifteen minutes for 
baking a cake which is half an inch thick or deep, 
and according as it may be thicker, allow fifteen 
minutes tor each half inch, in a quick oven; in a 
moderate or gentle oven, five minutes more for each 
half inch may be allowed ; in a sknv oven, half an 
hour would be required for each half inch. 

Small Pound Cakes. — One pound and a half of 
sifted flour, seven eggs well beaten, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar and one of soda, sifted 
in with the flour, one pound of flne white sugar, 
one pound of butter, and one teaspoonful of essence 
of lemon or orange flower water, with half a nutmeg 
grated. 

Beat the eggs light, beat the butter and sugar 
together, then put it with the eggs, and grailually 
add tlie flour, beat all together tor a few minutes, 
put it half an inch def^p in very small round tins. 
rubbed will) a bit of butter, and bal<e ten minutes 
in a quick oven, or bake it in square tins fifteen 
minutes ; cut it small to serve. 



THANKSGIVING TEA CAKES. 305 

Pound Cakes, — One pound and a half of flour, 
one pountl of butter, one pound of fine white sugar, 
ten eggs, one gill of brandy, half a nutmeg grated, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon extract, or 
orange flower water. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the 
eggs to a high froth, then put all together, beat it 
until it is light and creamy, put it in basins lined 
with buttered paper, let the mixture be an inch and 
a half deep, and bake in a moderate oven for one 
hour, then try it ; when done, turn it gently out, re- 
verse the pan, and set the cake on the bottom until 
cold, let the paper remain until the cake is to 
be cut. 

Queen Cake, — Beat one pound of butter to a 
cream, with a tablespoonful of rose water ; then 
add one pound of fine white sugar, ten eggs, beat- 
en very light, and a pound and a quarter of sifted 
flour ; beat the cake well together ; then add half 
a pound of shelled almonds, blanched, and beaten 
to a paste ; butter tin round basins, line them with 
'white paper ; put in the mixture an inch and a half 
deep ; bake one hour in a quick oven. 

Thanksgiving Tea Cake. — One teacup of but- 
ter, one of white sugar, two well-beaten eggs, two 
teacups heaping full of sifted wheat flour ; one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and half a teaspoonful 
of soda. 

Beat the butter to a cream, with the sugar ; then 
add the two eggs, well beaten ; pound the salts anci 
alum to powder, and dissolve them separately ; 
then put them to the sugar aiid eggs, and gradually 
stir in the flour; beat it until it is very lightr-rit can^ 
not be beaten too much ; cut some citron in thin 
slices, cut ep.ch slice quite small ; stir them into the 



306 HICKORY-NUT, OH JACKSON CAKE. 

cake; line a tin two quart liasin with InUt.tTcd pa- 
per ; put tlie mixture in, and bake in a. quick oven. 

Coco^MVUT Pound-Cake. — One pound of wljite 
fine sugar, half a pound of butter, one r^^acup of 
sweet rnilk, one teaspoonful of powdered snlcratus, 
or a bit of volatile srdts the size of a small nutmeg, 
dissolved in a little h(^t water ; one teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon, and tour well benten cs:!:iji. 

Beat these ingredients well together, until very 
light, with as much sifted flour as w^ill make it as 
thick as pound-cake ; then lightly stir in the white 
meat of a cocoanut, grated ; line square tin pnns 
with buttered paper; put the mixture in an mch 
deep, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour : 
when done, take it from the pnn, reverse the pan, 
and set the cake on the bottom to cool. This cake 
should be iced or frosted : mark it in small squares 
or diamonds, before it is hard. 

Almond Pound-Cake. — Make a cake as for co- 
coanut pound-cake ; take the skins from quarter*^' 
a pound of shelled almonds; pound them small, 
but not to a paste, with a little leri)on juice, or 
white of egg : beat them with the cake, instead of 
cocoanut, and finish in the same manner. 

HicKoRY-NuT, OR .Tackson Cake. — Crack some 
fine hickorv-nuts ; pick the ments from the shells, 
until you have half a pint ; make a cake as for co- 
coanut pound-cake; make the nut meats small, and 
stir them in. Raisins, stoned, and cut in two; or 
currants, well washed and dried, may be added, 
and will be an improvement. Put the mixture 
more than on incn deep in a round tin basin, liiied 
with buttered paper ; and bake in a quick oven. 



SAVOY BISCUIT. 807 

Sponge Cake. — One pound of su^ar, finelv 
ground ;. lialf a pound of sifted flour ; eiubt eggs; 
one teaspoonful of snlt ; one lablespoonful of rose 
brandy ; or a teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

Beat the volks of the eggs, Hour antl sugar toge- 
ther, until it is smooth and light ; bcMt tlie wliites 
of the eggs to a hiiih froth ; then be;it nil together, 
until well mixed; one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, and half a teaspoonful of soda sifted dry into 
the flour. 

Butter a square tin pan, line it with pnper, and 
put in the mixture more than an inch deep; bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Small Sponge Cakes. — Beat five eggs light, 
with half a pound of sugar, and qiiarter of a pound 
of flour; flavor with grated nutmeg, and lemon, or 
orange flower w;iter ; add a small teaspoonful of 
salt; beat it until it rises in bubbles ; butter small 
tins, put in the mixture half an inch deep, and bake 
twelve or fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

Harrison Cake. — Beat two eggs light ; add to 
them half a pound of sugar, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, half a teacup of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful 
of powdered saleratus, a small teaspoonful of salt, 
half a nutmeg, grated ; and enough Hour to make 
a smooth batter ; beat it until it rises in bubbles ; 
put it in buttered pans, and bake in a quick oven ; 
cut it in squares to serve. 

Diet Bread. — One pound of sifted flour, one 
pound of Hue sugnr, one teaspoonful of salt, und nine 
eggs. Make and finish the same as sponge cake. 

Savoy Biscuit. — Beat the whites of six es^gs to 
a froth, and the yolks, wiih rather more than half a 



SOS CAKE TRIFLE. 

pound of finely powdered white sugar; then add 
half a pound of sifted flour, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, or orange flower water ; beat all well 
together; butter square tin pans; line them with 
white paper, nearly fill them, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Lafayette Cake. — Make a Savoy biscuit, bake 
it in a round tin basin, about five inches in diame- 
ter, with straight sides. When cold, cut it in sli- 
ces quarter of an inch thick ; spread each with 
jelly, or jam ; put it together again ; put three or 
four slices for each cake; ice the top and sides; 
and while it is soft, mark it to cut in wedge-shaped 
pieces when served. 

This cake may be served without icing; it may 
be made of Pound Cake, or Dover Cake. 

Naples Biscuit. — Beat eight eggs light; add to 
them one pound of fine white sugar, and one pound 
of sifted wheat flour ; flavor with a teaspoonful of 
salt, and essence of lemon, or orange flower water ; 
beat it until it rises in bubbles ; bake in a quick oven. 

Biscuit and Jelly Sandwich. — Bake a Naples 
biscuit in a basin with straight sides; then cut it 
in slices, and finish as directed for Lafayette cake. 

Cake Trifle. — Bake a Savoy cake, or Naples 
biscuit ; cut out the inside about one inch from the 
edge and bottom, leaving the shell. Li place of 
the inside, put a custard made of the 3^olks of four 
eggs, beaten with a pint of boiling milk, sweetened, 
and flavored with half a teaspoonful of peach-wa- 
ter ; lay on it some jelly, or jam ; beat the whites 
of two eggs, with white ground sugar, until it will 
siand in a heap : put it on the jelly, and serve. 



LADY-FINGERS. 309 

Spoon Biscuits. — Put the whites of four cgjrs 
into a basin ; put the yolks in another, with quar- 
ter of a pound of fine white sugar, and the yellow 
part of a lemon, grated ; mix these last together, 
for ten minutes ; then whip the whites to a high 
froth, and put about half of them to the yolks ; mix 
it well ; then add the remainder ; stir it very gen- 
tly, nnd lay it with a spoon on sheets of pn per ; let 
each be the thickness and length (jf a finger, and 
some little distance apart ; strew them with fine 
white sugar ; lay the papers on baking-tins, and as 
soon as the sugar dissolves, and the biscuits shine, 
put them in a moderate oven ; let it remain open 
for seven or eight rninutes; then close it lor fifteen 
minutes : when cold, take them from the paper with 
a knife-blade. Almonds, blanched, and cut in slips 
across, may be stirred into the mixture before put- 
ting it on the paper. 

Tablets de Patience, oa Lady-Fingers. — 
Take eight eggs ; whip the whites to a firm snow. 
In the meantime, have the yolks beaten up with six 
ounces of powdered sugar. Each of these opera- 
tions should be performed at least one hour. Then 
mix all together with six ounces of sifted flour; and 
when well incorporated, stir in half a pint of rose, 
or orange flower water ; stir them together for some 
time. 

Have ready some tin plates, rubbed with white 
wax ; take a funnel with three or four tubes ; fill 
it with the paste, and press out the cakes upon the 
plates, to the si^e and length of a finger ; grate 
white sugar over each ; let them lay until the sugar 
melts, and they shine : then put them in a moderate 
oven, until they have a fine color ; when cool, take 
them from the tins, and lay them together in cou- 



310 FRENCH TEA CAKE. 

pies, by the. backs. These cakes maybe formed 
wiih a spoon, on sheets of wriling paper. Hall 
this quaiuity will be trouble cn(>ugh at one thne. 

Loaf Cake. — One pound of butler benten to a 
cren.m,t\vo pounds oi"sugiir rolled line, three j^onnds 
of sifted whe.'il flour, six well benten eg<;s, three 
ten spoonsful of powdered saleratus. dissolved in a 
little hot water, one tnblespoonful of ground cinna- 
mon, and half a nutirieg grated, add one pound of 
currants, well washed and dried, one j)onnd of 
raisins stoned and cut in two ; work the whole W(,'ll 
together, divide it in three loaves, put them in but- 
tered i)asins, and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Loaf Cake. — Make either of the mixtures di- 
rected for douijhnuls, work into it one pound of cur- 
rants washed and dried, or a pound of raisins st()ned 
and cut in twf): bake in a moderate oven. When 
served, cut it in slices. 

Diet Biscuit. — Beat the yolks of four eggs for 
ten minutes, with half a pound of powdered sugar, 
and rather less flour, bent the whites and the yolks 
to a high froth, flavor with a teaspoonful of salt and 
essence of lemon or orange flower water, add the 
whites to the yolks, stir them gently together, and 
bake in small tins in a quick oven. 

FuENCH Tea Cake. — Beat ten egf^s to a high 
froth, dissolve half a teaspoonful of volatile salts, 
with a litde hot water, let it stand to cool, then put 
it to the eggs, and i)eat for ten minutes, add four 
ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and the same of 
sifted flour, beat them well together, line square tin 



SUGAR DROP CAKES. 311 

pans with buttered paper, put in the cake mixlure, 
nearly an inch deep, and 1)0 ke in a quick oven. 
When served; cut it in squares. 

Drop Cakes. — Beat eight eggs very liglit with 
one pound of powdered sugar, and twelve ounces 
of flour ; flavor with lemon or rose, and half a 
nutmeg, grated; if the mixlure is not beat enough, 
the cakes will run into aach odier ; make them in 
small oblong cakes, on sheets of paper, grate sugar 
'over each ; bake in a moderate oven ; when done, 
take them from the pa])er with a knife. 

Ai.iMOND Drop Cakes. — Tal<e the skins fr^m 
an ounce of almonds and pound them fine, with a 
teaspoonfu! of lemon extract, beat the volks of 
three i'gg>, and put them to the almonds, then add 
sugar and. flour each an omice and a hidf; mix 
then) well together, strew sugar and flour in a tin 
plate, drop the tnixture from a spoon in smrdl cakes, 
let ti)et:i be an inch apart ; bake in a quick oven. 

Lemox Drop Cakes. — Grate the rinds from 
three large fresh skin lemons, put to it three heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of white flue sugar and a table- 
spoonful of v.heat flour; work the whole together 
with the white of an egg ; make it in small balls 
on sheets of paper, the distance of an inch apart; 
bake half an hour in a slow oven. 

Sugar Drop Cakes. — Beat one pound of white 
sugar with the yolks of seven eggs, beat the whites 
often to a high frolh, mix one pound of sifted flour 
to the yolks and sugar, then stir in lightly the beaten 
whites; beat the whole well together; drop this 
mixture on buttered paper; bake in a quick oven, 



312 RICH FRUIT CAKE. 

take them from the paper whilst hot, with a knife 
blade. 

CocoAXUT Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of 
six eggs with lialfa pound of sugar and a quarter 
of a pound of Hour, add a teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon essence, and half a nutmeg, gra- 
ted ; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and 
stir them to the yolks, &c. and the white meat of 
a cocoa-nut, grated ; line square tin pans with but- 
tered pnper, and having stirred the ingredients well 
together, put ihe mixture in an inch deep in the 
pans; bake in a quick oven half an hour; cut it 
in squares, to serve with or without icing. 

Rout Drop Cakes. — Two pounds of flour, one 
pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of 
currants, well washed and dried ; mix the whole 
into a stiff paste, with two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of rose-water, and one gill of brandy ; strew a tin 
plate with flour and powdered sugar, mixed ; put 
the paste on it in small cakes, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Rich Fruit Cake. — Make a cake of one pound 
of flour, one pound of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, and ten eggs. First beat the yolks 
and sugar together, then add the flour and butter, 
l>eaten to a cream; and lasths mix in Hghtly the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a high froth. 

Have a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two, 
two pounds of currants well washed and dried, 
one pound of citron cut in slips, mace and ciiiii;;- 
rnon, each a tablespoonful, and a. gill of bra:!(i'. ; 
strew a ijuarter of a pound of flour over the cur • 
rants and raisins, then stir all into the cake ; lino 



WEDDING CAKE. 313 

round tin basins with buttered paper, fill them two 
inches deep, then bake in a quick oven one hour. 

■rhis cake is better for keeping several weeks 
or monlhs. 

Mrs. Madison's Wuim. — Two pounds of flour, 
two pounds of sugar, two poinuls of butter, beaten 
to a cream, twelve eggs, the yolks beaten with the 
sugar and the wliiit's beaten to a high froth, two 
wineglasses of braudv in which rose-leaves have 
been steeped, two nutmegs, grated, one leaspoonful 
of saleralLis, dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot 
water. Beat the whole well togetlier until it is 
light and creamy, then add two pounds of raisins, 
stoned and chop[)ed ; strew a teacup of flour over 
them before putting them in the cake; line round 
basins with buttered paper, and put the cake mix- 
ture in an inch and a half deep ; bake in a quick 
oven. 

This cake will keep good for three months. 

Wedding Cake. — One pound of flour, nine 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, one 
pound of butter beaten to a cream, one pound of 
brown sugar, one teacup of molasses, nutmegs 
grated, or ground mace, one ounce, one teaspoonful 
of ground alspice, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
and a gill of brandy ; beat this mixture well. 

Having picked, washed, and dried three pounds 
ofcurrants, and stoned and cut in two three pounds 
of raisins, strew half a pound of flour over them ; 
mix it well through, and stir them with a pound of 
citron, cut in slips, into the cake. 

Line round tin pans with buttered paper; put 
the mixture in an inch and a half or two inches 
deep, and bake in a moderate (>\en an hour and a 
half or two hours. See directions for icins^ a cake. 

N 



314 RICH BRIDE-CAKE. 

Plum Cake. — Make a rake of two cups of 
butter, two cups of tuolas?<'s, one cup of" sweet milk, 
two eggs, well l)eaten,one teaspoonful of powdered 
saleratus, dissolved with a little iiot water, one 
teaspoonful of ground mace or nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of ground alspice, a tahlespoonful of cin-' 
narnon, and a gill of brandy ; stir in flour to make 
a batter as slifl' as may Ite stirred easily wiih a 
spoon: beat it well until it is light, then add two 
pounds of raisins, stoned, and cut in two, two 
pounds of currants, picked, washed, and dried, 
and half a pound of citron, cut in slips. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

This is a fine, rich cake, easily made, and not 
expensive. 

To Clean Currants for Cake. — Pick out all 
the sticks and stones, put the currants in a })an, 
and more than cover them with water; rub them 
between 3-our hands, take them up by the handful, 
pick out an}'' imperfections, and put them into 
another pan ; when all are done, cover them with 
water, shake them about, take them up in the 
band, press the water from them, and sj)read them 
on a thickly folded ck^th, lay them in the sun or 
near the fire to dry ; turn them and spread them, 
that they may be thoroughly dried. Keep them 
in glass jars or boxes lined with paper. Some 
dried currants require only to be picked over, 
rinsed in one water, and dried. 

Rich Bride-Cake. — Take four pounds of sifted 
flour, t'our pountls of sweet fresh butter, beaten to 
a cream, and two pounds of white powdered sugar; 
take six eggs for each pound of Hour, an ounce of 
ground mace or nutmegs, and a tal)lespoonful of 
lemuii extract or orange-liower water. 



SCOTCH CAKE. 315 

Wrish through several wnters, and pick clean 
froii) grit, four pounds of currants, and spread them 
on a folded cloth to dry; stone, and cut in two, 
four pounds of raisins, cut two pounds of citron in 
sh[)s, and chop or shce one pound of blanched 
ahnon<!s. 

Bent the yolks of the eggs with the sugar to a 
smooth paste, beat the butter and flour together, 
and add them to the yolks and sugar; then add 
the spice and half a pint of brandy, and the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth ; stir all together for 
some time: strew half a pound of flour over the 
fruit, mix it through, then by degrees stir it into 
the cake. 

Butter large tin basins, line them with white 
paper, and put in the mipture two inches deep, 
ant! bake in a moderate oven two hours. The 
fruit should be prepared the day before making the 
cake. 

Almond Spice Biscuits. — Take three pounds 
of sifted flour, three pounds of almonds, beaten 
fine, an ounce each of cinnamon and mace, pound- 
ed fine, and one pound of powdered sugar. To 
three pounds of clean brown sugar put a teacupful 
of water; when it is all dissolved, set it over the 
fire, let it become boilincj hot, take off' ihe scum, 
and make the other ingredients into a paste with it, 
make it ihe size of a rolling-pin, lay it on a sheet of 
paper, flatten it a. little with your hands, keeping it 
higher in the middle tiian at the end ; put it into 
a quick oven for nearly an hour; when done, take it 
out, and whilst hot, cut it in slices the eighth of an 
inch thick, and dry them in a cool oven. 

Scotch Cake Take two pounds of wheat flour, 

sift and dry it, then mix with it a pound of powder- 



316 ALMOND MACAROONS. 

ed sugarand aquarterofapound ofcaTroway seeds; 
putjialf a pound of butler near the fire until it is 
rrjeltod, then work the flour and sugnr to a paste 
with it; roll it out to half an inch ihickness, and 
cut it in cakes four inches long and three wide; 
lay them on white paper, crimp the edges neaily 
witl) the finger, stick the cakes with a fork, strew 
some carroway comfits over, and bake them a pale 
color in a moderate oven. 

Almond Drops. — Blanch nnd pound five ounces 
of sweet and three ounces of biiter almonds, with 
a little white of egg, put half a pound of flour on 
your slab, make a hole in the middle, in which 
put the almonds, with half a pound of powdered 
sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a smrdl teaspoonful 
of salt; work this to a paste ; make it in rolls the 
size of j'our finger, then cut it in bits the size of a 
small nutmeg; make them in round balls in j'our 
hands, lay them the distance of half an inch apart 
on sheets of paper; lay them on baking tins, and 
put them in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; take them from the papers with a thin 
blade knife, whilst warm. 

Almond Macaroons. — Pour boiling water over 
half a pound of shelled almonds, take the skins 
off", and throw them into cold water; when all are 
done, take a few at a time in a mortar, and pound 
them lo a smooth fine paste with a little extract of 
lemon or orange-flower water; add to the paste 
an equal weight of finely-ground white sugar and 
the whites of two eggs, not beaten ; work it toge- 
ther with the back of a spoon until it is a nice 
paste; then flip your hand in water, and roll the 
preparation in balls the shape and size of a large 
nutmeg ; lay some white paper on baking tins, lay 



KISSES. 317 

them on at the distance of an inch apart; when all 
are done, dip your finger in water, and pass it 
gently over the macaroons, this will make them 
smooth and shining ; put them into a slow oven, 
close it three quarters of an hour, and the}' are 
done. 

If this receipt is strictly followed, there can be 
no failure, and the macaroons will be found to equal 
any made by professed confectioners. 

CocoANUT Macaroons. — Make these the same 
as almond macaroons, substituting grated cocoanut 
for powdered almonds ; finish the same as almond 
macaroons. 

Cocoanut Drops. — Break a cocoanut in pieces, 
and lay it in cold water, then cut ofi" the dark rind, 
and gratis the white meat on a coarse grater ; put 
the whitesof four eggs with half a pound of powder- 
ed white sugar; beat it until it is light and white, 
then add to it a teaspoonful of lemon extract, and 
gradually as much grated cocoanut as will make it 
as thick as can be stirred easily with a spoon ; lay 
it in heaps the size of a large nutmeg on sheets of 
white paper, place ihem the distance of half an inch 
apart; when the paper is full, lay it on a baking 
tin, set them in a quick oven ; when they begin to 
look 3'ellowish, they are done ; let them remain 
on the paper until nearly cold, then take them off 
with a thin-bladed knife. 

Kisses. — Beat the whites of four small eggs to a 
high froth, then stir into it half a pound of finely- 
ground white sugar; flavor with vanilla or lemon ex- 
tract y continue to beat it until it will lie on a heap ; 
this being done, lay the mixture on letter-paper, 
in the size and shape of half an egg, and nearly 



318 JELLY KISSES. 

tlic distance of an inch apnrt j if it loses its shape 
or runs, it is not suflicientl}' hcaten. Then place 
the pafx.T containing ilietn on a piece of hard wood, 
(a piece of the head of a flcMir-barrel,) and put them 
in a. quick oven, without chising it ; watch them, 
when ihey begin to look yellowish, take them out; 
take the paper from the wood on to a table, and let 
them cool for three or four minutes, then slip a 
thin-bladed knife very carefully under one, turn it 
into your left hand, take another from the paper 
in the same manner, and join the two by the sides 
which were next the paper, then lay the kiss thus 
made on a dish ; handle them very gently whilst 
making. 

These are delicious eating ; the outside being 
haid, and the inside a rich, creamy moisture ; and 
present a beautiful appearance. 

Following this receipt for making kisses will in- 
sure success, unsurpassed by any professed con- 
fectioner, and that, too, without the least difficulty. 
The time required for finishing is short, after hav- 
ing prepared the mixture. 

By placing the paper containing the kisses on a 
baking-tin, instead of the board, the bottom will be 
hardened as well as the upper surface. Those 
made in this manner are not as delicious as the oth- 
ers, as they contain less of the moisture, or cream : 
they, however, look very well. 

This mixture may be put on the paper w'ith a sy- 
ringe. For that purpose, press it out in a little 
pyramid, or heap. Or it may be made in any 
form you choose. 

Jelly Kisses. — Kisses, to be served for dessert 
at a large dinner, with other suitable confectionary, 
may be varied in this way : — Having made the 
kisses, put them iu a moderate oven, until the out- 



TO ICE OR FROST CAKE. 31i^ 

side is a little hardened ; then tnlse one off care- 
fally, as before directed ; take out the soft inside 
with the handle of a spoon, and put it back with 
the mixture, to make more ; then lay the shell 
down. Take another, and prepare it likewise ; fill 
the shells with currant jelly, or jam ; join two to- 
gether, cementing them with some of the mixture ; 
so continue until you have enough. 

Make kisses, cocoanut drops, and such like, the 
day before tliey are wanted. 

Cocoanut Kisses. — Make a kiss mixture ; add 
to it half of a cocoanut, grated (the white meat 
only) ; finish as directed for kisses. 

To Make Icing for Cakes. — Beat the white of 
two small eoo-s to a hia:h froth ; then add to them 
quarter of a pound of white sugar, ground fine, 
like flour ; flavor with lemon extract, or vanilla ; 
beat it until it is light, and very white, but not quite 
so stiff as kiss mixture ; the longer it is beaten, the 
more firm it will become. No more sugar must be 
added to make it so. Beat the frosting until it may 
be spread smoothl}'' on the cake. 

This quantity will ice quite a large cake, over 
the top and sides. 

To Ice or Frost Cake. — Make an^iclng as 
above directed, more or less, as may be required. 

Turn over the basin in which the cake was 
baked, and set the cakg on the bottom ; then spread 
the icing on the sides with a piece of card paper, 
or Bristol board, about four inches long, and two 
and a half wide ; then heap what you suppose to 
be sufficient for the top, in the centre of the cake ; 
and with the card paper spread it evenly over ; 



320 ALMOND MERINGUES. 

set it in a warm place to dry and harden, aflei 
which, ornament it as yon may fancy. 

If sugar ornaments are put on, it should be done 
whilst it is moist or soft. 

For small cakes, where a thin icing only is re- 
quired, it mnst not be beaten as stiff. Let it be so 
as to flow for the last coating of a cake that it may 
be smooth. 

Ornamental Frosting. — For this purpose, have 
syringes, of diffisrent sizes ; draw any one 3-ou may 
choose, full of the icing, and work it in any designs 
you may fancy — wheels, Grecian border, or flow- 
ers look well ; or borders of beading. The cake 
must, of course, first be covered with a plain frost- 
ing, which may be white ; or colored pink with 
cochineal, powdered, or carmine : blue, with a lit- 
tle indigo ; or brown v/ith a httle chocolate, finely 
grated : green ma}^ be made with a little spinach- 
juice, or a mixture of a little gamboge and indigo — 
more or less gamboge, according as you want it 
light or dark green. 

Almond Meringues. — Beat the whites of two 
large eggs to a high froth ; then add to it quarter 
of a pound of finely ground, double refined sugar ; 
beat it until it is light and firm, so as to retain any 
form in which you may place it ; add to it quarter 
of a pound of almonds, blanched, and cut in very 
thin slices, across ; form it in rings, on letter paper ; 
put the papers on baking-tins, and put them for a 
short time in a moderate oven (without closing it), 
to harden ; when cold, take them from the papers, 
with a thin-bladed knife. 

These, like kisses, macaroons, etc., should be 
made a day before they are wanted, on account of 
the time required to do them. 



COCOANUT CAKE OR CANDY. 321 

Meringues ma}'" be made in any fancy form 
which ma}'' be desired. 

CocoANUT Meringues. — Make as above, using 
finely chipped cocoanut, instead of almonds. 

To Prepare Cochineal, to color PinJc or Red. 
— Take an ounce of powdered cochineal ; also an 
ounce of cream of tartar, and two drachms ot 
alum : put these ingredients into a saucepan, with 
half a pint of water: when it boils, take it from 
the fire, and let it cool ; pour it off" into a bottle, as 
free from^ sediment as possible. To keep cochin- 
eal any length of time, boil an ounce of it (finely 
powdered) in three quarters of a pint of water, un- 
til reduced to half; then add to it rock-alum, and 
cream of tartar, each half an ounce (pounded fine) ; 
boil them together for a short time ; then strain it; 
when cold, bottle it. If you wish to keep it for a 
long time, boil an ounce of loaf sugar with it. 

Almond Spice Biscuits. — Blanch half a pound 
of shelled almonds, and pound them in a mortar, 
to a smooth paste ; break into them two eggs ; add 
half a pound of ground sugar ; half a nutmeg, gra- 
ted ; a tablespoonful of ground ginger, and a tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon ; work it with the 
back of a spoon to a smooth mass ; strew some 
mixed flour and sugar on a paste slab, and roll it to 
quarter of an inch thickness ; mark it in squares or 
diamonds, and bake in a moderate oven, twenty or 
twenty-five minutes. 

Hazel Nuts, or Filberts — May be made in 
macaroons, or meringues. 

Cocoanut Cake or Candy. — Take cocoanut 

21 K* 



322 PISTA<^IO BISCUIT 

meat from tlio shell, pare off the black rind and 
grate it on a coarse grater, or chip it iine, have half 
a pound of it; to half a pound of loaf sugar, put two 
tablespoonfuls of water; when it is dissolved put it 
over the fire, let it become boiling hot, then stir 
in the cocoanut, continue to stir it until it is thick, 
take care not to burn it ; pour it on a well buttered 
pan or marble slab, cut it in whatever forms you 
think proper when nearly cold. 

Pistachio Biscottes. — Mix together in a pan, 
quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, quarter of a 
pound of flour, dried and sifted ; and the yolks of 
five eggs ; beat them for ten minutes ; add two 
ounces of pistachios, taken from the shells : then 
spread it on buttered baking-tins, ten inches long, 
and five wide ; make it of an equal thickness ; 
strew over it two ounces of pistachios, cut cross- 
wise ; put this in a slow oven for forty or fifty min- 
utes; then take it out, cut it in pieces rather more 
than two inches long, and half an inch wide ; re- 
turn them to the oven for a few minutes to dry ; 
almonds may be used instead of pistachios. 

Pistachio Biscuit. — Take a pound of pistachio 
nuts, two ounces of sweet almonds, the whites ot 
sixteen eggs, and the yolks of eight, two ounces of 
flour, and a pound of powder sugar; blanch and 
pound the pistachios and almonds, moistening occa- 
sionally with the white of egg ; beat the whites 
of the eggs to a high froth, and the yolks with half 
of the sugar, and the yellow rind of a lemon grated ; 
when both are thoroughly beaten, put them together, 
beat constantly ; whilst doing so, sift over the re- 
mainder of the sugar and the flour, then add the al- 
monds and pistachios ; make some paper case?, 
put in the biscuits half a^ thick as a finger, bake in 



TO MAKE PYRAMIDS. 323 

a mod!.erate oven twenty-five minutes, whip the 
white of an egg with a tablespoon ful of fine sugar, 
to a smooth paste, and brush the biscuits ovei 
with it. 

To Make a Pyramid of Cocoanut Drops, Mac- 
caroons, or Meringue. — To half a pound of loaf 
sugar, put an ounce of gum arable, and two table- 
spoonsful of water, stir it until it is all dissolved, 
then set it over a slow fire, stirring it all the time, 
until it is like melted glue. 

Have a tin mould, or make one of stiff paper, rub 
butter over the outside to prevent the candy from 
sticking, set it firmly on a plate or table ; begin at 
the bottom, by putting a row around it, slick them 
together with the prepared sugar, (which must be 
kept hot,) when this row is cold and firm, add 
another above it, let that also become firm, then add 
another, and so continue until the pyramid is finish- 
ed. When the cement is cold and firm, the pyra- 
mid may be taken from the form. 

These pyramids are_ used for ornamental des- 
serts or supper tables, and if there is but one, occu- 
py the centre of the table ; when there are several, 
the centre one should be the largest, and diffJn'ent 
from the other two, one of which should be placed 
on either side of it, and at some little distance from 
it ; supposing the centre one to be of almond mac- 
'caroons, let those on either side be of meringues or 
cocoanut maccaroons, or drops ; let the centre one 
be ornamented with a sprig of flowers, or a sugar 
figure at the top. 

These ornamental pieces are suitable for fine 
desserts or supper table, and should remain un- 
touched whilst the pastry, ices, &c. are served, 
then these should be broken with a knife, and the 
fragments placed on the table on flat dishes. 



324 iMOTTOES. 

A very ornamental pyraniic! may be made thus : 
make a form of the desired height and size, of paste 
board or stiff paper, make a wreatli of green leaves 
or of green tissue paper, fringed as for motto papers; 
begin at the top, and wind it round- the pyramid, 
about half an inch apart, until the bottom is reach- 
ed, arrange among it at intervals, flowers made of 
colored paper, or flower mottoes or natural flowers; 
put a crowning ornament at the top, either a choice 
flower or flowers, or some delicate sugar ornament, 
let this be for the centre of the table, on either side 
put boquets in high glass stands, or moulds of jelly 
or cream. 

To Make Mottoes. — Cut white and colored 
tissue paper in pieces about four inches in width, 
and five long : cut the two longest sides in fringe 
of one inch depth ; put in the centre of each a sugar 
or burnt almond, or lozenge, and a motto verse or 
two; fold the paper neatly around it, leaving the 
fringed ends out, twist each end close to the candy, 
then spread out the fringe to look full, like a tassel ; 
so continue until you have enough. 

Mottoes may be made in flowers or other fancy 
forms. 



SETTING REFRESHMENT TABLES. 326 

DIRECTIONS 

JPor Setting Refreshment Tables. 

Tables of refreshment for an evening party, or 
New Year's day, are generally arranged in the fol- 
lowing manner: 

A long table running through the centre of the 
room, or placed against the broad side of it, cover- 
ed with a white damask cloth for confectionar}'", 
jellies, pastry, cakes, &c. ; and a table at each side 
of the mantel recess or pier ; the one for sandwiches, 
oysters, salads, celery, and wines, if used ; the 
other for chocolate, lemonade, and punch, (if 
used.) 

Or all are sometimes placed on one long table, in 
this manner : 

Cakes, confectionery, jellies, etc., in the centre ; 
atone end, coffee and lemonade, &c. ; at the other, 
oysters, sandwiches, celery, wines, &c. 

A long table may be placed at one side of the 
room, through the centre, or across the end. 

In either case, the. most ornamental dishes, such 
as pyramids or stands of jelly, are to be placed in 
the centre, the smaller ones surrounding it ; those 
directly opposite each other should correspond, both 
in shape and size. 

The dessert for a fine dinner is similar to a sup- 
per table ; puddings occupying the place of 
cakes. 

The pastry should first be placed on the table, 
at some little distance apart ; next the puddings, 
charlotte de russe, and ice creams, or jellies and 
blancmange, and nuts and raisins, together witK 
ripe fruits. 

Cherries, grapes, pears, or small apples, peaches, 



62o SETTING REFRESHMENT TABLES. 

6cc.. inay be made very ornamental, whether for 
the table or for evening refreshment, in the follow- 
ing manner : 

For grapes, get the most delicate grape leaves, 
lay them in cold water for a short time, take a small 
brush hke a lather brush, choose the finest bunches 
of grapes, pick off every imperfection, and with the 
brush polish them carefully, taking off with it what- 
ever dust may be between them; lay each cluster 
carefully by, until all are done, then take the 
leaves from the water, wipe them dry ; lay them 
neatly around the edge of a flat dish, with the stems 
inward, to cover the plate; lay bunches of grapes 
around on the leaves, put a bunch in the centre, 
put anotlier row of leaves upon the grnjies, quite 
within the circumference of the first, lay grapes on 
it ; make another row of leaves and grapes, if you 
wish. 

For peaches, take off all the down with a brush 
and arrange them in the sanje way as grapes, with 
peach or vine leaves between ; or put a row ot 
leaves, on them a row of peaches, another row of 
leaves, and on them bunches of grapes. 

Yellow or green burgalo pears make a pretty 
appearance arranged with grapes and leaves, or 
with only leaves. 

Oranges, apples, and green grapes should always 
have leaves or mottoes arranged with them. 

Cluster raisins are served in place of grapes, 
with soft shell almonds. 

Cherries maj'^ be served with their stems on, in 
a glass bowl, or heaped on flat dishes. 

For evening parlies, baskets of mixed small 
cakes, such as lady-cake, macaroons, lady-fingers, 
almond spice biscuit, composition cake, pound-cake 
cut small,* and other small fancy cakes, are sent 
round twice during the early part of the evening, 



SETTING REFRESHMENT TABLES. o27 

with lemonade and glasses of water, and a tray of 
wine, if used. 

Jellies, ice cream and charlotte de ruse or blanc- 
mange should be sent in at a late hour, when nearly 
time for disj)ersing, and with them or after, a tray 
with glasses of ice water, and small cakes and 
wines, and cordials if liked. 

Raspberry and strawberry syrup, diluted with 
water and orgeat is much used instead of lemonade, 
or with it ; small tumblers without Ijandles are u^ed 
for these- they should not be much more than half- 
filled. 

For a small winter party, lemonade, syrup-water 
and cakes may be sent around twice during the 
evening, and will be sufficient. 

Or, trays with cups of coffee and tea, with pow- 
dered white sugar and cream, followed by a tray 
of small plates, light biscuit, or short cake or cream 
cakes, buttered hot, and plates of tongue or ham 
sliced thin, or dishes of pickled oysters ; and later 
in the evening, fancy cakes with jelhcs and pre- 
serves. This is called a tea-party. Sandwiches 
may be served instead of hot teacakes, and are 
much to be preferred, unless a table is set. 

When a table is set, which is best, if possible- 
let it be long enough to seat all comfortably, and 
not very broad, not certainly more than three feet 
and a half wide. 

Put a stand of flowers, or a pyramid in the 
centre, and if the table is long, have one near each 
end ; place plates of bread and butter sandwich 
at ever}' corner, and once or twice on either side, 
if necessary ; or instead, let there be small teacakes 
buttered hot, with plates of tongue and ham sliced 
very thin, between ; place regularly round, cakes 
of fruit and pound-cake, and baskets of cut- 
cake, and sin a'llfancy ditto ; intersperse jellies or 



328 SETTING REFRESHMENT TABLES. 

jams and preserves with blancmange or grated 
cocoanut and charlotte de russe or trifle, or floating- 
island wigs, and tea-rusk may be buttered and 
served 'not. 

Have tea and coffee at either end of the table, or 
let it be served from a side-table. 

A tea-table may be set with only the substan- 
tials, such as hot cakes, sandwiches, oysters pickled, 
and tea and coffee ; and when they are removed, 
jellies, blancmange, floating island or trifle, or 
charlotte de russe, and fancy cakes, preserves, 
brandied fruit, grated cocoanut to take their places, 
with glasses of cold water, and wines and cordials 
if used. 

The ornaments and large cakes remain on from 
first to last. 

This makes two courses, and is suflacient without 
any other refreshment during the evening. 

For supper, see "directions for setting refresh- 
ment tables." page 325. 

An oyster supper is expected to be supplied with 
oysters in every variety of dressing ; roasted in the 
shell is one of the favorites ; also stewed and pickled; 
oyster chowder and pies with scolloped oysters may 
also be served. 

Dressed celer}^, celery in glasses and pickles, 
with bread and butter sandwich, and rolls or 
crackers, and -cold butter should be served with 
oysters. 

With roasted oysters it is necessary to have a 
small tub or vessel to receive the shells, between 
each two chairs, and coarse napkins at each plate. 
Coffee and porter is served at oyster suppers. 
Tureens or deep dishes of large uncooked oysters 
should be on the table. Chicken or lobster salad 
may be served at any but oyster suppers with or 
without oysters ; also broiled or stewed birds or 



SANDWICHES. 329 

game. At ordinary supper parties it is not customary 
to sit at table ; when a hot supper is served it becomes 
necessary ; hot suppers are by no means popular 
amongst us. 

The information contained in the last few pages, 
is what has been gathered by observation and 
study of the subject, and to some it may prove 
acceptable — such as like it not nor require it, may 
pass it by without offence. 

Sandwiches. — These are made of different 
articles, but always in the same manner. 

Cold biscuit sliced thin and buttered, and a very 
thin slice of boiled ham or tongue, or beef, between 
each two slices. 

Home-made bread cuts better for sandwiches 
than baker's bread ; a lOaf baked for this purpose 
is best ; take the size of a quart bowl, of risen 
dough, mould it in a roll, about three inches in 
diameter, and bake it half an hour in a quick 
oven. 

For bread and butter sandwich cut the bread in 
slices, not thicker than a dollar piece, spread it 
evenly with sweet bui,ter before cutting it ; let the 
butter be very thin, lay two slices, the buttered 
sides together, for each sandwich ; when you have 
enough, arrange them on flat dishes, n^ake them in 
a circle around the middle of the plate as a common 
centre, one lapping nearly over tlit3 other; put a 
sprig of parsley in the centre. 

Sandwiclies may be made with cheese, sliced very 
thin, between each two slices of- buttered bread, 
also of cold boiled eggs sliced, for luncheon ; stewed 
fruit or jelly or preserve spread thin over buttered 
bread, makes a line sandwich for lunch. 

Any cold meat sliced thin ma.y be made a sand- 
wich ; it is generally spread with made niu-stard; 



330 TO MAKE GKEEN TEA. 

the most delectable are those made with boiled 
smoked tongue or ham. 

To Make Coffee. — Get a coffee pot of block tin 
for liiakhig coffee, it is tiie best, and also the easiest 
mode. Take off the cover of the toj), remove all 
the loose apparatus, and put in it dry coffee finely 
ground, iip to the inside rim near the bottom, then 
replace the strainers, press them down into the coffee, 
fill the top with boiling water, put on the cover and 
get it on to a hot hearth or. on the back of the range 
when all has rnn through, till it again and so con- 
tinue until the coffee is of the strength desired. If 
made very strong it may be reduced when served, 
by half tilling the cups with boiling hot milk or 
water. 

To MAKE Chocolate. — Scrape or grate the cho- 
colate, take a tablespoon ful of it for half a pint, 
half-and-half milk and water; put it in a perfectly 
clean stew-pan, make the chocolate a smooth paste 
with a little cold milk, and stir it into the milk and 
water when it boils, cover it for ten minutes or 
longer; add sugar to taste, unless French chocolate 
is used, which is prepared sweet enough. 

Serve soda biscuit, or rolls, or toast, with it. 

To MAKE Green Tea. — Have ready a kettle of 
water boihng fast, pour some into the teapot, let it 
remain for a few minutes, then throw it out ; mea- 
sure a teaspoonful of tea for each two persons, put 
it in the pot, pour on it about a gill of boiling water, 
cover it close for five minutes, then fill it up ; have 
a covered pitcher of boiling water with it; when 
two cups are poured from it, fill it up ; you will 
thus keep the strength good and equal 

If the company is large, it is best to have some 



CLOTTED CREAM. 331 

of the tea drawn in the covered pitcher, and re- 
plenish the tea-pot or urn when it is exhausted. 

To MAKE Black Tea. — Make as directed for 
green tea ; let it sleep, setting on hot coals for ten 
or lifteen minutes. 

Hasty Cream. — Take a gallon of milk warm 
from the cow, set it over the fire ; when it begins 
to rise, take it off, and set it by ; skim off all the 
cream, and put it on a plate, J.hen set the stew-pan 
over the fire again ; as soon as it is ready to boil, 
take it off, and skim again ; repeat the skimming 
until no more cream rises. The milk must not 
boil. 

To Keep Cream sweet. — Cream may be kept 
sweet twenty-four hours, by scalding it without 
sugar; by adding as much powdered lump sugar 
as will make it quite sweet, it may be kept for two 
days in a cool place. 

Cream Snow. — Take a pint of sweet cream, 
mix with it eight teaspoonfuls of white powdered 
sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a tablespoonful 
of orange-flower water or a teaspoonful of lemon 
or vanilla extract ; whip it, take off the froth as it 
rises, and continue to beat it until you have enough. 

Syrup of Cream. — Put a pound of white sugar 
to each pint of fresh sweet cream, boil it, stirring it 
all the time ; put it in a cool place until it is per- 
fectly cold, then put it in one or two-ounce phials, 
cork and seal them. Prepared in this way, it may 
be kept for several weeks. 

Clotted Cream.— Takfe four quarts of new 



332 ICE CREAM. 

milk from the cow, put it in a pan, and let it stand 
until the next day ; then set it over a very slow 
fire for half an hour, make it nearly hot, then put it 
away until it is cold : take off the cream free from 
milk, beat it smooth with a spoon, sweeten it to 
taste, and serve with preserves or fruit. 

Ice Cream. — Boil a quart of cream, make it 
sweet with white sugar, flavor with lemon or va- 
nilla extract of orange-flower water; when cold, 
freeze it as directed to make " Ice Cream." The 
yolks of three eggs may be beaten, and stirred into 
it when it is boiling hot. 

Cream for freezing may be made boiling hot, 
then made sweet with loaf sugar, and flavored 
with vanilla or lemon extract, or with the juice of 
strawberries, raspberries, or pine-apple ; the fruit 
should be bruised and strained, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to each pint of juice, and stirred 
into the cream when it is cold. 

Vanilla or Lemon Ice Cream. — Take two 
drachms of vanilla or lemon peel, one quart of milk, 
half a pound of sugar, a pint of cream, and the 
yolks of three eggs ; beat the yolks well, and stir 
them with the milk, then add the other ingredients; 
set it over a moderate fire, and stir it constantly 
with a silver spoon until it is boiling hot, then take 
out the lemon peel or vanilla, and, when cold, 
freeze it. 

IcE Cream — May be made thus : Put milk over 
a gentle fire to boil, stir it occasionally ; beat four 
eggs for each quart until very light, then stir them 
into the boihng milk, stir it for a few minutes, then 
set it to become cold ; make it very sweet, flavor it 
to taste, then freeze it. .If it is flavored .with the 



TO KEEP LEMON JUICE. 333 

juice of berries or pine-apple, bruise the fruit, strain 
the juice from it, and put it to the cream when 
cold. 

Currant-Water Ice. — Press the juice from 
ripe currants, strain it clear; to one pint of juice 
put a pound of loaf sugar, put to it a pint of water, 
and freeze as directed for cream. 

Currant- Water. — Having pressed the juice 
from ripe currants, strain it clear: put to each pint 
nearly a pound of white sugar, reduce it with ice- 
water to your taste ; grate nutmeg over, and serve. 
This is a fine cooling summer beverage. Serve 
sponge cake with it. 

Lemon or Orange Sugar. — Grate the yellow 
outside from fresh skin lemons or oranges, put to it 
an equal quantity of powdered loaf sugar, dry it, 
and keep it for flavoring cakes, pies, &c. 

Lemon or Orange-Water. — Peel the outside 
from lemons or oranges, pound it fine in a mortar, 
pour boiling water over to cover it ; cover it close ; 
when cold, bottle it for use. 

Rose Brandy. — Put fresh-feathered rose-leaves 
in a bottle, cover them with brandy ; for flavoring 
cakes or puddings. 

To KEEP Lemon Juice. — To every pint of juice 
put a pound of double-refined sugar; stir it until it 
is all dissolved, then bottle it; put a teaspoonfui 
of sweet oil on the top, and cork it close. When 
wanted for use, apply a bit of raw cotton to the oil, 
and it will immediately be absorbed. Keep it in 
ounce vials. Put a large tablespoonful of this juice 



334 ORGEAT. 

to half a gill of icc-watcr; or, for hot lemonade 
use boiling water. 

To MAKE Lemonade. — Squeeze the juice from 
tvelve fine lemons, put to it one pound of loaf su- 
cr.ir, pour a little boiling water to the peels, cover 
ihem ; when cold, strain it off', and put it to the 
juice and sugar; })ut the prepared juice in decan- 
ters, and make with ice-water in summer, or boil- 
ing water in winter; put a wineglass of this to half 
a pint of water. 

Lemons sliced as thin as a dollar-piece, and the 
edge cut in notches or points, may be put one in 
each glass. 

Crushed raspberries or strawberries, or thin- 
sliced pine-apple, may be added to lemon. 

Orange Sherbet. — Squeeze the juice from 
oranges, pour boiling water on the peel, and cover 
it closely, boil water and sugar (a pint to a pound,) 
to a S3a-up, skim it clear ; when all are cold, mix 
the syruD juice and peel infusion with as much 
water as m.ay be necessar}^ for a rich taste, strain 
it, and set the vessel containing it on ice. Or it 
may be made the same as lemonade, using one 
lemon with half a dozen oranges. 

Orange-Water Ice. — Take ten or twelve fine 
oranges, take off" the peel, divide them in quarters, 
and aftei» taking out the pips, pound them with the 
grated rinds of two oranges, put them into a coarse 
cloth, and press out all the juice, and put to it a 
pint of water, in which is dissolved half a pound of 
sugar. Freeze as directed for ice cream. 

Orgeat. — Take the skins from half a pound of 
shelled almonds, pound them to a very fine paste, 



PINE-APPLE SYRUP. 3St5 

adding a little water occasionally to keep them 
from oiling. Mix half a gallon of water and some 
orange flower water, or lemon extract, with two 
pounds of sugar, to the paste, beat it well together, 
then strain it two or three times through a jelly bag, 
stirring it with a wooden spoon. 

Serve it in small tumblers half filled, or in de- 
canters. Set it on ice before serving. 

Strawberry Sherbet. — Take fourteen ounces 
of picked strawberries, crush them in a mortar, 
then add to them a quart of \Aater ; pour this into 
a basin, with a lemon sliced, and a teaspoonful of 
orange flower water ; let it remain for two or three 
hours. 

Put ei2:hteen ounces of surar into another basin, 
cover it with a cloth, through which pour the straw- 
berry juice, after as much has run through as will; 
gather up the cloth, and squeeze oat as much juice 
as possible from it ; when the sugar is all dissolved, 
strain it again ; set the vessel containing it on ice, 
until ready to serve. 

Strawberry Syrup. — Take fine ripe straw- 
berries, crush them in a cloth, and press the juice 
from them ; to each pint of it, put a pint of simple 
syrup, boil gently for one hour, then let it become 
cold, and bottle it; cork and seal it. When served, 
reduce it to taste with water, set it on ice, and 
serve in small tumblers half filled. 

Raspberry Syrup. — Make as directed for straw- 
berry, and serve with sponge or other cake, cut 
small. 

Pine-Apple Syrup. — Take the rough coat from 
a ripe pine-apple, cut it small, and pound it fine, 



336 TO MAKE ICE CREAM. 

put a teacup of water to it, and squeeze the juice 
IVom it through a cl-oth, put this to enough simple 
syrup to flavor .it, boil it over a gentle fire for a 
short time, when cold, bottle it ; mix it with water 
to vour taste, set it on ice ; serve in small tumblers. 

Lemon Syrup. — Flavor simple syrup with ex- 
tract of lemon. 

Vanilla Syrup. — Flavor simple syrup with 
vanilla extract. 

To Make Ice Cream. — Ice pots for making 
ice cream are of two sorts, block-tin and pewter. 
Of these, pewter is best, the substance to be iced 
congealing more gradually than in the former, an 
object much to be desired ; when the ice is formed 
too quickly, it is apt to be rough and coarse, like 
hail, especially if it is not well worked with a spa- 
tula or flat wooden spoon. 

The other utensils necessary for the operation, 
are a deep pail six or eight inches larger in diame- 
ter than the ice pot, with a vent peg at the bottom, 
and a wooden spatula ten or twelve inches long ; 
then having put the creami (or whatever it may be,) 
into the ice pot, put a layer of ice broken fine, and 
mixed with coarse salt in the pail ; set on the ice 
pot, fill the space around the sides with ice broken 
fine, and mixed with .coarse salt, nearly to the Top 
of the pot ; take care that none of the ice gets into 
it, strew over the top of the ice a large handful of 
coarse salt, cover it with a woolen cloth, and let it 
stand for fifteen minutes ; then take the cover from 
the ice pot, and with the spatula, stir the contents 
up together, so that those parts which touch the 
sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, 
may be mixed with the liquid in the middle, work 



WINE SANGAREE. 337 

it well for ten minutes or so, then replace the cover; 
take the ice pot by the ears, and stir it back and 
forth for quarter of an hour, then open the mould a 
second time, and stir the cream as before. Con- 
tinue these operations alternately until the cream 
or whatever it is to be frozen, is perfectly smooth, 
and free from lumps. 

During the process, take care to let out the water 
which will collect at the bottom of the pail, by 
means of the vent peg ; keep the ice pressed close 
to the pot. 

It is to be served in a mould ; after having nicely 
frozen the cream, put some of it in, press it close 
to the shape, put in more, and press it close until 
the mould is full, cover it, and set it in a pail of 
fine ice, mixed with salt, for one hour; then take it 
out, wipe the mould dry with a cloth dipped in hot 
water, then turn it into a deep plate, and serve 
quickl}'. 

Note to ticdfth edition. 

Austin's Magic Freezer has superseded all 
otliersfor freezing creams, and may be liad at Ber- 
rian's, 601 Broadway. 

Syllabub. — Take the juice of a large lemon, 
and the yellow rind pared thin, a glass of brandy, 
two glasses of white wine, and a quarter of a 
pound of powdered sugar. Put these ingredients 
into a pan, and let them remain one night, the next 
day add a pint of thick cream, and the whites of 
two eggs beaten together, beat them all together to 
a fine froth; serve it in jelly glasses. 

Wine Sangaree. — Put a gill of wine (port or 

Madeira,) into a tumbler, add to it water, hot or 

cold, nearly to fill it, sweeten with loaf sugar to 

taste, grate nutmeg over, and serve with sponge 

cake, ladv cake, or Savoy biscuit, cut small. 
•^22 -^ 



36b IVOIJY DUST JKLLT. 

WixE Jelly. — IiUo a clean porcelain lined kettle 
put a quart of water, add to it a pound of crushed 
sugar, the white, and shells of two eggs. When 
it is boiling hot, put to it a pint of Madeira wine, 
*and a wineglass of pale brandy with the juice of 
two lemons and a small stick of cinnamon, stir the 
whole well together, and having dissolved an ounce 
and a half of isinglass or gelatine, in a little hot 
water, stir it in, continue to boil gently, for half an 
hour or more, then having pared oif the yellow rind 
of the lemons, put them into the jelly strainer, pour 
the jelly over, and let it drain slowly through. 
Should it not be perfectly clear, make it hot and run 
it through a second time, and set it in a cool place. 

Calf's Feet Jelly. — Wash and clean a set of 
large feet, boil them in eight quarts of water, until 
reduced to four, then strain it, and set it to cool; 
when cold, take off every particle of fat from the 
top, take up the jelly, leaving any sediment that 
may be at the bottom ; set it over the fire again, and 
when it is dissolved, before it is hot, add the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a high froth, the juice of six 
lemons, and a pint of Madeira w'me, sweeten it to 
taste, with fine white sugar, let it boil, (skimming 
it well,) until it is perfectly clear, put- some of the 
yellow skins of the lemons in_ the jelly bag, and 
strain the jelly through ; this gives a fine amber 
color ; if it is not a good color, strain it again ; if 
not sufficiently firm a jelly, boil over a gentle fire 
until it is so. A wine glass of pale brandy may 
be added and a stick of cinnamon. 

Calf's Head Cheese. — Take the meat from 
making the jelly, chop it fine, season with peppei 
and salt, tie it in a cloth, and press it. 

Ivory Dust Jelly. — Soil one pound of ivory 
dust in five pints of water until reduced to a quart, 



TO MAKE SIMPLE SYRUP. 339 

then strain it and add a quart more water ; boil it 
again to a slifljelly, add the juice of a lemon and 
the yellow rind pared thin.- Sweeten to taste, 
strain it into a mould. 

Jaune Mange. — Break up and boil an ounce of 
isinglass in rather more than half a pint of water 
until it is melted, strain it ; then add thejuice of two 
large oranges, a gill of white wine, and the yolks 
of four eggs beaten and strained ; sweeten to taste, 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it boils up ; dip 
a mould in cold water and pour the preparation 
into it. 

To Clarify Sugar for Candies. — To every 
pound of sugar put a teacup of water, put it in a 
brass or copper preserving kettle, over a slow fire, 
for half an hour, put to it a small quantity of isin- 
glass and gum arable dissolved together ; this will 
cause all impurities to rise to the surface, skim it 
off as it rises, boil until it is thick candy ; flavor 
to taste. 

All kinds of sugar for candies are boiled as 
above directed. When boiling loaf sugar, add a 
tablespoonful of rum or vinegar to prevent it 
oecoming too brittle whilst making. 

By pulling loaf sugar after it is boiled to candy, 
you may make it as white as snow ; rub your 
hands with a bit of butter that the candy may not 
stick to them ; loaf sugar after boiling thick, may 
be pulled until it is white and made in small rolls 
and twisted a little, and is commonly called little 
rock or snow. Sugar boiled to candy may be 
pulled, twisted, rolled and cut in whatever forms 
you choose. 

To Make Simple Syrup. — Put half a pint of 



340 COMMON LEMON CANDY. 

water to each pound of sugar, when it is all 
dissolved set it over a gentle fire, let it boil tor half 
an hour ; when it is clear and boiling hot, spread a 
wetted napkin over a basin, pour the syrup in and 
strain it through ; flavor to taste. 

Lemon Candy or Rock. — To one pound of loaf 
sugar put a teacup of water, set it over a slow fire, 
stir it with a spoon until it is all dissolved, put in a 
little hot rum or vines^ar to clear it ; take off anv 
scum that rises. 

Try when it is done enough by dipping a spoon 
ill it and raising it ; if the threads thus formed 
snap like glass, it is done enough ; rub a square tin 
pan over with a bit of sponge dipped in soft butter, 
and pour the candy in as thick as a dollar piece ; 
when nearly cold mark it in narrow strips with a 
knife. 

Before pouring it into the pans, chopped cocoa- 
nut, sHced almonds or picked hickory nuts may be 
stirred into it. Brazil nuts taken from the shells, 
cut in slices and added to it, are very good. 

Or this candy may be poured in the pans half 
an inch thick ; to be broken small when cold. 

Common Lemon Candy. — Take three pounds of 
coarse brown sugar ; add to it three teacupsful of 
water, and set it over a slow fire for half an hour, 
then put to it a little gum arable, dissolved in hot 
water ; this is to clear it. Continue to take off the 
scum, as long as it rises. When perfectly clear, 
try it by dipping a pipe stem first into it and then 
into cold water, or by taking a spoonful of it into a 
saucer ; if it is done it will snap like glass. Flavor 
with lemon extract and cut it in sticks ; this may 
be made sour with lemon juice or a little tartaric 
acid. - 



MOLASSES CANDY. 341 

Cream Candy. — To three pounds of loaf sugar 
put half a pint of water, set it over a slow fire for 
half an hour ; then add to it a teaspoonful of gum 
arable, dissolved, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. 
When boiled to candy, bright and clear, take it off; 
flavor with vanilla, lemon, rose, or orange. 

Rub the hands over with a bit of sweet butter, 
and pull the candy between them until it is white ; 
then stretch it out in wide thin strips and cut 
il in lengths ; or make it in rolls and twist, or 
braid it. 

Common Twist. — To three pounds of common 
sugar put one pint of water and boil it over a slow 
fire for half an hour, then skim it clear ; continue to 
boil it until it is candy ; try some i]i a saucer. 
When boiled enough, take it off, rub the'hands with 
a little butter, take that which is cooled, and pull 
it as you would molasses candy, until it is white, 
then twist or braid it, and cut it in strips. 

Peppermint, Rose, or Hoarhound Candy. — 
Make as for lemon candy, flavor with essence 
of peppermint or rose, or finely powdered hoar- 
hound. 

Molasses Candy (Taffy.) — Put a pint of com- 
mon molasses in a stewpan, over a slow fire, let it 
boil, stir it to prevent its running over the top, or if 
necessary, take it off; when it has boiled more 
than half an hour try it, by taking some in a 
saucer; when cold, if it is brittle and hard, it is 
done ; flavor with lemon, sassafras, or vanilla, and 
pour it quarter or half an inch deep in buttered tin 
pans. Shelled peanuts, (ground nuts) or almonds 
may be stirred into it, enough to make it thick, or 
but a few. ^..i. 



^42 TO COLOR FRUIT YELLOW. 

Molasses candy may be made a liirlu color by 
pulling il in your hands, having first rubbed them 
over with a bit of" butter, to prevent the candy 
sticking to them, during the process. 



DIRECTIONS 

FOR PRESERVING FRUITS. 

To Green Fruit for Preserving in Sugar 
OR ViNEGAu. — Apples, pears, limes, plums, apri- 
cots, &c., for preserving or pickling may be greened 
thus : 

Put vine-leaves under, between, and over the 
fruit in a preserving kettle ; put small bits of alum, 
the size of a pea, say a dozen bits to a kettle full ; 
put enough water to cover the fruit, cover the kettle 
close to exclude all outer air, set it over a gentle 
fire, let them simmer; when they are tender drain 
off the water ; if they are not a fine green let them 
become cold, then put vine-leaves and a bit of 
saleratus or soda with them, and set them over a 
slow fire until they begin to simmer ; a bit of soda 
or saleratus the size of a small nutmeg will have 
ihe desired effect ; then spread them out to cool, 
after which, finish as severally directed. 

Spinach may be used for coloring green, instead 
of vine leaves. 

To Color Fruit Yellow. — Boil the fruit with 
fresh skin lemons in water to cover thein, until it 



PRESERVES. &C. 343 

is tetider; then take it up, spread it on dishes to 
cool, and finish as may be directed. 

To Color Preserves Pink. — By putting in 
with it a little cochineal, powdered fine, then finish 
in the sj'rup. 

Preserving Kettles — Should be broad, and 
not very deep, with a handle at each side ; there 
should be a closely-fitting cover. To preserve in 
very small quantities, a small ketttle is requisite. 

A charcoal furnace or coal stove, or tlie side of 
a range, is equally good for preserving. A furnace 
has the advantage of being portable, so that they 
may be used in the open air, if necessary. 

Jelly bags of fine cambric or flannel are used ; 
these ma}^ be made like a lady's reticule, with a 
string by Avhicli to close the top and suspend it 
whilst dripping. (See tin strainers, page 348.) 

Crushed or loaf sugar should be used for best 
preserves ; it is not much higher in price than the 
best light brown sugar; there is, however, sufficient 
difference to make it economy for preserving for 
domestic use, since it is equally nice, except to the 
eye. 

Crushed or loaf sugar need only be dissolved, 
and made hot, before putting in the fruit. 

Refined sugar, which is next in price and quality, 
need only be dissolved, boiled, and skimmed, to 
make it clear. 

Straw^berries, raspberries, cherries, currants, or 
any other red fruit, should have double-refined su- 
gar, since with brown sugar the color of the fruit 
and that of the sugar combined, makes a dingy red- 
dish brown, which is not pleasing to the eye ; nei- 
ther will it answer for green fruit. 

Summer fruits require more care to keep, than 



344 PRESERVES, &C. 

those done later. A cool, dark closet, is the best 
place to keep preserves. 

Small glass jars, or wide -mouthed l)ottle5, are 
best for liquid preserves. The best white earthen- 
ware, or stone-china small jars, are good. 

Pint tumblers of common glass, or white earthen- 
ware pots, are proper for jellies, marmalade, or jam. 

For peaches, quinces, plums, &c. large glass 
jars, or stoneware pots, with small tops, are good. 
There is little or no difficulty in keeping preserves, 
(if they are properly put up,) after the sumiper- 
heat is past. 

Glass jai's may first be covered with tissue-pa- 
per, and fastened against the jar with a little sugar 
boiled in water, and then tin tight-fitting covers 
put over. 

Glass bottles should first be corked tight, then 
dipped into coarse sealing-wax, melted. 

Jellies, jam, &c. rany be secured by first pressing 
a piece of tissue-paper, fitting the top of the glass 
closely upon it ; then wet another piece with sugar 
boiled to candy ; paste it over the top of the tum- 
bler, 'and over that put a third piece ; this v»'ill 
perfectly secure them. Large jars may be secured 
in the same manner — putting several pieces of tis- 
sue-paper, and securing them each separately with 
the melted sugar or candy ; and over this a close- 
fitting cover may be put, or a bladder tied over : 
this last precaution is not necessary. 

Glass is best for keeping preserves, as it ma}' then 
be examined without opening the jars. 

Should a thick mould appear on the top of pre- 
serves, it must not be disturbed, as it is no evidence 
of spoiling, but will rather serve to keep them. 

Foam or frothiness is tlie sign of fermentation ; 
and as soon as it is perceived, turn the preserves 
from* the jar or pot into a preserving kettle, and set 



TO BOTTLE FRUIT. 345 

it over a gemle fire ; take off the skim or foam as 
it rises; wiien no moie rises, tnke out the fruit 
wilh a skimnier, atid, haviug washed the jur with 
cold water, nnd perfectly drieri it at the fire, put in 
the fruit; give the syrup one more hoil, skim it, 
antl put it in a pitcher to settle ; when nearly cold, 
pour it carefully over the fruit, leaving whatever 
sediment there may be at the i)ottotn. When per- 
fectl}' cold, cover them as at first. 

To Clarify Sugar, for Prese?-v>ng. — Put into 
a preserving pan as many pounds of sugar as you 
wish ; to each pound of sugar put half a pint of 
water, and the white of an egg to e\erv f<)ur pounds; 
stir it together until the sugar is dissolved ; then 
set it over a gentle fire ; stir it occasionally, and 
take off the scum as it rises: after a few boilings 
up, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the 
side of the pan ; to prevent which, take it from the 
fire for a few minutes, when it will subside, and 
leave time for skimming. Repeat the skimming 
until a slight scum or foam only will rise ; then 
take off the pan, lay a slightly wetted napkin over 
a basin, antl then strain the sugar through it. 

Put the skimmings into a basin; when the sngar 
is clarifietl, rinse the skimmer and basin with a 
glass of cold water, and put it to the scum, and 
set it by for common purposes. 

To Bottle Fruit. — Cherries, strawberries, 
sliced pine-apple, plums, apricots, gooseberries, &c. 
may be js reserved in the following manner — to be 
used the same as fresh fruit. 

Gather the fruit before it is very ripe ; put it in 

wide-mouthed bottles made for the purpose ; fill 

them as full as they will hold, and cork them tight; 

seal the corks ; put some hay in a large saucepan, 

O* 



346 TO PRESERVE PINE-APPLES. 

set in the bottles, with hay between them, to prevent 
their touching ; then till the saucepan with water 
to tlie necks of the bottles, and set it over tlie fire 
until the water is nearly boiling, then take it off; 
let it stand until the l)otiles are cold, then keep them 
in a cool place until wanted, when the iVuit will be 
found equal to fresh. 

To Preserve Pine-Apples withont Cooking. — 
The best y^ine-apples for preserving are those known 
as the sugar-loaf and bird's-eye ; these are richer 
in flavor, and the coat or skin being less rough, 
they are less troublesome to pare ; they should not 
be very ripe. 

Pare ortthe rough outside of the pine-apple, and 
cut it in thin slices, (not much thicker than a dollar- 
piece ;) have ready a pound of finely-ground white 
sugar ibr each pound of fiuit ; put sugar half an 
inch deep at the bottom of a small glass jar, then 
put in a layer of sliced pine-apple nearly an inch 
deep; on that put sugar as thick as at first, press it 
down with a spoon as closely as possible ; then 
another layer of pine-apple, then one of sugar, and 
so continue until the jar is full — sugar being the 
last. 

Put closely-fitting corks in the top, and dip them 
in melted sealing-wax ; set them in a cool dark 
place until cold weather; or the jars may be se- 
cured by pasting tissue-paper, wet with melted 
sugar, over first; then put a closely-fitting tin cover 
over. 

Many persons use more than a pound of sugar 
for a pound of fruit. One pound will be found suf- 
ficient. 

Pine-apples preserved in this way, have much 
the taste of brandy fruit. Thev are much liked. 

Pine-apples bottled as before directed, should 



PINE-APrLE JELLY. 347 

be served with sugar strewed over, the same as 
fresh I'ruit. 

Pixe-Apple Preserve. — Twist off the top and 
bottotii, and pare oft' the rough outside of pine- 
apples ; then weigh them and cut them in shces, 
chips, or quarters, or cut them in four or six, and 
shape each piece hke a whole pine-apple; to each 
pound of fruit put a teacup of water; put it in a 
preserving kettle, cover it, and set it over the tire, 
and let them hoil gentl}^ until they are tender and 
clear; then take them from the water, l)y sticking 
a Ihrk in the centre of each slice, or with a skim- 
mer, into a dish. 

Put to the water, white sugar, a pound for each 
pound of fruit ; stir it until it is all dissolved ; then 
put in the pine-npple, cover the kettle, and let them 
boil gently until transparent throughout ; when it 
is so, take it out, let it cool, and {)nt it in glass jars: 
let the syrup boil or simmer gently until it is thick 
and rich, and when nearly cool pour it over the fruit. 
The next day secure the jai's as before directed. 

Pine-a])ple done in this way, is a beautiful and 
delicious preserve. The usual manner of preserv- 
ing it, by putting it into the syrup without first boil- 
ing it, makes it little better than sweetened leather 

Pine-Apple Jelly. — Take a perfectl}' ripe and 
sound pine-apple, cut off the outside, cut it in small 
pieces; bruise them, and to each pound put a tea- 
cup of water ; put it in a preserving-kettle over the 
fire,«cover the kettle, and let them boil for twent}' 
minutes; then strain it, and squeeze it through a 
bit of luuslin : fijr each pound of truit take a pound 
of sugar, put a teacup of water to each pound ; set 
it over the fire until it is dissolved ; then add the 
pine-apple juice : for each quart of the s^rup, 



o4S WHOLE PINE-APPLES. 

clarlf}' an ounce of the 1 est isinglass, and stir it in; 
let it boil, until by taking some on a plate to cool, 
you find it a stiff jelly. Secure it as directed. 

To Preserve Whole Pine-Apples. — Get small 
sized pine-apples, not perfectly ripe ; twist off the 
green top ; pare the fruit vieatly with a sharp small 
knife, and with care take out the tough centre, run- 
ning from top to bottom ; take fiom the green top 
all but five or six of the inner leaves, and put them 
and the pine-apples into a preserving kettle; put to 
them half a pint of water for each pound of fruit ; 
cover the kettle close, and set il over a moderate fire ; 
when thev look a unitcirm color, and are tender, take 
ihem carefully on a flat dish: throw a napkin over 
them ; to the water in which they were boiled, put a 
pounil of double refined sugar to each pound of fruit; 
stir it until it isdissolve<l ; set it over the fire, and let 
il become boiling hot ; then put in the pine-apples 
and green tops ; cover the preserving kettle, and let 
them boil gently, until they are almost transparent, 
and of the same appearance throughout: then take 
them carefully into a tureen, or large glass jar: as 
soon as they are cooled, put the tops in their places; 
boil the syrup until it is thick, antl not more than 
half the original quantity ; then turn it over the 
fruit, and when it is cold, secure it with paper, and 
a close fitting cover. 

Tin Jklly Strainers.- -An excellent article foi 
straining jellies may be procured at Berrian's, GOl 
Broadway, and which will be found both an economy 
and a convenience and worth twice its price. It is 
a double vessel, the outer one to be filled with boil- 
in"- water. Into the inside put a piece of thin cam- 
bric or book muslin, set it in a place where it will 
bo undisturbed, set a vessel for receiving the jelly 
under the spout, and then pour it into the strainer, 



PKESEKVmG QUmCES. 349 

let it drip slowly until it has all rim through. The 
"water in the outer vessel being hot, the jelly con- 
tinues liquid nntil it has all run through. 

Should any thing occur to prevent the jelly be- 
ing sufficiently clear, make it hot, and having rinsed 
the muslin, replace it and run the jelly through a 
second time. 



To Keep Quinces. — Quinces, to keep, must be 
gathered when quite ripe, and perfectly sound. Rub 
off the down, quarter and core them, and put them 
in wide mouthed bottles, and finish as directed for 
bottlina: fruit. 



Quinces for Preserving — Should be perfectly 
ripe an^ sound. The large apple-quince is pre- 
ferred for making jelly. 

Pare and halve the quinces, and take out the 
cores ; to each pound of fruit, after it is thus pre- 
pared, put a teacup of water ; put them into a 
preserving kettle, over the fire ; cover it, and let 
them boil gently, until a broom splint will pierce 
them ; then take them from the water with a skim- 
mer, on to a flat dish ; fold a napkin over them ; to 
the water in which they were boiled, put one pound 
of white sugar to each pound of quinces ; stir it 
until the sugar is dissolved and hot ; then put in the 
quinces ; let them boil gently, until they are clear, 
and the syrup is thick ; cut one open ; if it is not 
one color all the way through, let them boil longer, 
until it is so. Take them into whatever you intend 



350 QUIXCES IN JELLY SYRUP. 

keeping them in ; let the syrup cool, nnd settle for 
a few minutes ; then turn it over the fruit ; next 
day, cover them as directed. 

if the quinces are done in brown sugar, put to it 
the while of one egg for each pound ; stir it in, and 
having boiled the fruit as directed, (with a teacup 
of water for each pound,) })our the water on the 
sugar ; stir it until it is dissolved ; then set it over 
the fire ; take off" the scum as it rises : should it be 
likely to boil over, set it off, or at one side : when 
no more scum rises, only a light fram, put in the 
quinces, cover them, and let them boil gently, until 
they are clear, and a uniform color throughout, and 
the syrup is thick ; then take them into the pot or 
jar with a skimmer; boil the syrup for a few min- 
utes longer, and turn it over the fruit ; the next day 
cover and secure as directed. 

The skins of quinces may be boiled with very 
little water, until they are soft ; then mash them ; 
put them in a bag of muslin, and strain the liquor 
from them. This maybe put with the preserve, or 
boiled with apples and sugar, to make a jelly ; the 
seed are not fit to use, since they make a jelly or 
syrup ropy. Quinces are very fine, preserved ac- 
cording to this receipt. 

Quinces in Jelly Syrup. — Pare, halve and 
core as many fine quinces as you wish ; take an 
equal weight of white crushed sugar ; ])ut a layer 
of the quinces in a preserving kettle, turning the 
core side up ; fill the places of the cores with su- 
gar, and strew some over them ; put another layer 
of quinces; fill the cores, and strew them in the 
same way, until all the sugar and quinces are used ; 
put over them a teacup of water for each pound of 
fnait; cover the preserving kettle, and set them over 
a. brisk fire, to boil quickly, until the quinces are 



QUINCE JELLY. 351 

tnncler, and the syfup clear. Tu the meantime, cut 
some rich tart apples small, and put them into a 
stew-pan, with very little water ; boil them until 
soft ; then put them in a bag, drain the Tujuor ftoin 
them ; and after taking the quinces from tlie syrup, 
put the liquor in, boil it for half an hoar ; then take 
it from the fire, let it settle tor a few minutes; then 
pour it over them. When perfectly cold, cover and 
secure as directed. 

To half a peck of apples, after paring, coring, 
and cutting them small, put a teacup of water ; 
cover them, and let them boil until soft ; then 
drain the liquor from them through a jelly-bag, 
without pressing it ; the pulp may be sweetened 
and spiced, for tart or sauce. This quantity will 
be'enough for fifty fine quinces. 

Quince Marmalade. — Gather the fruit when 
fully ripe; pare, quarter and core it ; l»iil the skins 
with as many teacupfuls of water as you have 
pounds of quinces ; when they are soft, mash them, 
and strain the water from them, and put it to the 
quinces; boil them until thev are soil enough to 
mash them fine ; rub them through a sieve ; put to 
the pulp as many pounds of sugar; stir them to- 
gether, and set them over a gentle fire, until it will 
fall from a spoon, like jelly ; or try some in a 
saucer. If it jellies when cold, it is enough. 

Put it in pots or tumblers, and when cold, secure 
as directed for jelly. 

Quince Jelly. — Qumces for jellv should not 
be quite ripe, they should be a fine \'ellow, rub off 
the down from them, core them, and cut them 
small ; put them in a preserving kettle, with a tea- 
cup of wafer for each pound, let them stew gently 
until soft, without mashing, put thern in a thin mus- 



352 QUINCE CHEESE. 

lin bng with the liquor, press them very slightly ; 
to each pint of the li(|Uor put a pound of sugar ; stir 
it until it is all dissolved, then set it over the fire, 
and let it boil gently, until by cooling some on a 
plate, you find it a good jelly, then turn it into pots 
or tumblers, and when cold, secure as directed for 
jellies. 

f 

Quince a^d Apple Jelly. — Cut small, and 
core an equal weight of tart apples and quinces ; 
put the quinces into a preserving kettle, with water 
lo cover them, cover and set it over the lire until 
they are soft, then add the apples, let them boil 
until they are almost a pulp, (there should be 
enough water to cover them,) then put all into a 
jelly bag, and strain without pressing it ; to each 
pint of the liquor put a pound of white sugar, put 
it over the fire, and let it boil gently, until by try- 
ing some on a fiat plate, 3'ou find it a fine jelly ; 
when cool, put it in pots or tumblers, the next day 
cover as directed. 

After making the best jelly, squeeze the juice 
from the pulp, put a teacup of clean brown sugar 
to a pint of it, boil it, taking off the scum as it 
rises ; when it is a nice jelly, put it in pots. 

Quince Cheese. — Pare and core ripe quinces, 
cut them small, put the parings into a preserving 
kettle, turn a plate over them, large enough to cover 
tl.'em, then put in the cut quinces, with a small tea- 
cup of water for each pound, cover the kettle close, 
and set it over a genile fire until they are quite soft, 
then take them out; strain the water from the 
parings, to brown sugar, half a pound for each pound 
of cut quinces, set it over the fire, and stir it until it 
is dissolved ; let it boil, taking off the scum, until 
only a light ibam rises; mash llie quinces tine, and 



CITRON. 353 

put them into the syrup, cover it, and let them boil 
slowly, (take care that it does not burn,) until it is 
thick, like a stiff jelly ; line earthen flat dishes or 
boxes with tissue paper, put the marmalade or 
cheese in to fill them ; when cold, lay tissue paper 
over, and cover with earthen lids. Serve cut in 
slices for luncheon, tea or supper. 

Apples or pears may be put with the quinces, or 
done in the same manner without the quinces ; 
lemon cut small, should be put with apples or 
pears, to flavor them. 

Water-Melox Preserves. — Cut a water- 
melon in two, take out the soft inside, leaving only 
the firm white skin, scrape oflT the green outside, 
and cut them in any fancy shapes you choose; 
stars, crescents, diamonds, and such like, have a 
pretty appearance. 

Color them green, yellow, or pink, by boiling 
them as directed in remarks at the beginning of 
this chapter, then spread them out on plates to cool, 
make the syrup with a pound of sugar and a teacup 
of water, for each poimd of the prepared melon ; 
when the sugar is all dissolved, and iiot, put in the 
melon, let it boil until it is clear, flavor with lemon 
and ginger, or rose, if colored pink ; if they are 
colored j'^ellow by boiling with lemons, slice the 
lemons into the syrup ; when it is transparent, take 
the pieces with a skimmer from the syrup, and 
spread them on flat dishes, let it boil until it is thick ; 
pour it into a pitcher to cool and settle, put the pre- 
serve into jars, and pour the syrup carefully over ; 
when cold, cover as directed. 

Citron. — Cut the citron in \vedge-shaped slices 
from stem to bud end, let the outside be nearly an 
inch thick, take out the sped part, airjd boil them 



354 ORANGES IN JELLY. 

with lemons, to make them ^^ellow ; or green them, 
as directed at the beginning of this subjt.'ct, until 
they are tender, but not soft, then lay them out 
singly on flat dishes to cool, and finish as directed 
for water-melon preserve. 

Musk-Melon Preserved. — This is begun, con- 
tinued, and ended, the same as directed f()r citron. 

Tc Preserve Limes and Lemons. — Green 
them as directed, then put them in water to cover 
them, and boil until a straw will pierce the skin 
through, then make a syrup of one pound of white 
sugar, and a teacup of water, for each pound of 
fruit ; set it over the fire, when the sugar is all dis- 
solved, and hot, cut a slit on one side of each lime, 
from end to end, in the middle, or pierce them 
several times through with a large needle, put them 
into the syrup, cover the kettle, and let them boil 
until clear or transparent, put them in pots or jars, 
boil the syrup quite thick, then turn it over them ; 
when cold, secure as directed. 

Lemons may be done in the same manner, or 
after boiling them tender, cut them in slices or 
quarters. 

Limes and lemons are presei"^'ed without the 
pulp; after having greened and boiled them tender, 
cut them in two, or only down one side, take out 
the pulp, mak(; a syrup of sugar, pound for pouiitl, 
and a teacup of waterto each pound of sugar ; when 
it is clear, put in the li(nes or leinons, and bc^l 
gently until they are transparent, then put them in 
pots with the syrup. 

Oranges in Jelly. — Take a dozen of the 
smallest sized oranges, boil them in three changes 
of water, until a straw will easily penetrate the 



PRESERVED CRAB APPLES &.C. 355 

sliin ; take half a pound of white suqar for each 
pound of oranges, and lor each pound of sug:ir,-a 
siTirdl teacup of water ; when it is all dissolved, set 
it over a gentle fire, put in the oranges, cover them, 
and let ihem boil gently ; when the fruit looks clear, 
take the oranges up, cut them half wa}'^ down in 
quarters, or cut then) entirely through ; put to the 
S3'rup half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a litde 
hot water, give it one boil, then take some of it into 
a saucer, if it is not as thick as you wish, boil it a 
lime longer, put the oranges into a deep glass dish, 
and turn the jelly over them. Apple jelly may be 
used instead of isinglass. 

Lemons may be done in this manner. 

This is a higlily ornamental dish, and may be 
made the day before it is wanted. This jelly may 
be made firm, and the oranges sliced ; put an ounce 
of isinglass to a quart of syrup. 

Put the jelly an inch deep in the mould, when it 
is cold, lay in slices of the preserved orange, put 
more jelly in, when that is cold, put on more slices, 
and so continue until the mould is full. When 
wanted, dip the mould for an instant in hot water, 
then turn it out on a fiat glass dish. 

To Preserve Crab Apples or Lady Ap- 
ples. — Take off" the stem, and core them with a 
pen-knife, without cutting them open, weigh a pound 
of while sugar for each pound of prepared fruit, put 
a teacup of water to each pound of sugar, put it 
over a moderate fire, when the suq-ar is all dissol- 
ved, and hot, put the apples in, let them boil gently 
until they are clear, then skim them o.ut, and sj)read 
thetn on flat dishes. Boil the syrup until it is thick, 
put the syrup in whatever they are to be kept, and 
when the syrup is cooled and settled, pour it care- 
fully over the liuit. *• 



356 APPLE JELLY. ' 

Slices of lemr>n boiled with the fruit, may be con- 
sidered an improvement; one lemon is enough for 
several pounds of fruit. 

Crab apples may be preserved whole, with only 
half nn inch of the stem on ; three quarters of a 
pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. 

To Preserve Apples. — Pare and core, and 
cut them in halves or quarters, take as many pounds 
of the best brown sugar, put a teacup of water to 
each pound ; when it is dissolved, set it over the fire, 
and when boiling hot, put in the fruit, and let it boil 
gently until it is clear, and the syrup thick, take 
the fruit with a skimmer on to flat dishes, spread it 
to cool, then put it in pots or jars, and pour the jelly 
over. 

Lemons boiled tender in water, and sliced thin, 
may be boiled with the apples. 

To Preserve Pippins in Slices. — Take the 
fairest pippins, pare them, and cut them in slices 
quarter of an inch thick, without taking out the 
cores ; boil two or three lemons, and slice them with 
the apples ; take the same weight of white sugar, 
(or clarify brown sugar,) put half a gill of w^ater lor 
each pound of sugar, dissolve it, and set it over the 
fire; when it is boiling hot, put in the slices, let 
them boil very gently until they are clear, then take 
-them with a skimmer and spread them on flat 
dishes to cool; boil the syrup until it is quite thick, 
put the slices on flat dishes, and pour the syrup 
over. These may be done a day before they are 
wanted ; two hours will be sufficient to make a fine 
dish fur dessert or supper. 

Apple Jelly. — Pare and core tart, juicy ap- 
ples, and cut them small, put to them a little water, 



APPLES IN JELL'S. 357 

and boll them in a covered vessel until they aic 
soft, and the liquor glutinous, then strain them with- 
out squeezing, put one ])oun(l of white sugar to each 
pint of juice, flavor with lemon extract, and boil 
until by cooling some in a saucer, you find it a fine 
jelh^ strain it through thin muslin into moulds. 
Put sugar and grated nutmeg to the apples, from 
the jelly bag, and stew them to a thick marmalade. 

Orange Jelly. — Put one quart of water into a 
sauce-pan with quarter of a {jound of hartshorn 
shavings, or two ounces of isiiiglass bi^oken small, 
boil it gently until it is a. strong jelly ; take the juice 
from four large oranges, and two fine lemons, and 
half the yellow rind from one orange and one lemon, 
pared thin, put them to the jelly, and maice it sweet 
with loaf sugar, tlien beat tlie whites of four eggs to 
a high froth, mix it in, and let it boil for ten minutes, 
then run it through a jelly bag once or twice, until 
it is perfectly clear ; put it in thncy moulds. When 
you wish to serve it, set the mould for a few seconds 
in a pan of hot water, turn a fiat glass or china dish 
over the mould, reverse it with the mould upon it, 
and if the jelly does not immediately loosen, give it 
a smart tap with the hand. 

Apples in Jelly. — Pare a dozen Spitzen- 
burg apples, and core them with an apple corer or 
sharp fruit-knife, without cutting them open ; put 
them in a preserving kettle with one or two lemons, 
with Avater to cover them, boil them very gently, 
until they are a i\ne color, and tender, then take 
ihem carefully up with a sUimmer ; take half a 
pint of the water in which they were boiled, and 
half a pound of loaf sugar, let it boil, cut the lemons 
in thin slices, and put them with the apples into 
the syrup ; let them boil very slowly, until the ap- 



358 CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL. 

pies arc clear, then take them into aflat gloss Ahh 
lay a slice of lemon on ihe top of each apj)le ; boil 
the syrup until it is thick, and pour it over them, or 
dissolve half an ounce of isinglass, antl stir it into 
the syrup, let it Ijoil for five minutes, try some in a 
saucer, if it is thick enough, strain it over the ap- 
plet., if not, boil it a little longer first. 

This requires but a short time to make, and is a 
highly ornamental dish for dessert or supper table. 

Marmalade. — This or jam may be made of al- 
most any ripe fruit or fruits, boiled to a pulp, with 
a little water; the best, however, are peaches, 
quinces, apples, oranges, and cranberries, &c. 

It is usually made, when of ripe fruits, (straw- 
berries or raspberries, f«ir instance,) by crushjng 
fruit and sugar (half a pound or three quarters to a 
pound of fruit,) together, and boiling it over a gen- 
tle fire, to a jellied mass ; when done, put it in glass 
or white earthen ware small pots, and when per- 
fectly cold, cover as diiected for jelly. 

Candied Orange or Lemon Peel. — Boil the 
rind from thick skin oranges or lemons, in })lenty 
of water, until ihey are tender, and the bitterness is 
out; change the water once or twice, if necessary. 

Clarify half a pound of sugar with half a cup of 
water for each pound of peel ; when it is clear, put 
in tlie peels, cover them, and boil them until clear, 
and the syrup almost a candy ; then take them out, 
and lay them (^n inverted sieves to drv, i)oil the 
syrup with adilitional sugar, the;i put in the peels, 
stir them about until the sugar candies around 
them ; then take ihem on to a sieve, and set them 
into a warm oven, or beliue a fire; when periccily 
dry, pack them in a wooden box, with tissue paper 
between. 



PRESERVED PEACHES. 359 

To Caxdy P'ruit. — After peaches, plumbs, 
citron, or quinces have been preserved, tai^e it 
from the sjnup, drain it on a sieve ; to a pound of 
loaf sufjnr, pnt half a teacup of water, when it is 
dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, when boiling 
hot, put in the fruit, stir it continually, until the 
sugar is candied about it, then take it upon a sieve, 
and dry it in a warm oven> or before a fire ; repeat 
this two or three times if you wish. 

To Preserve Peaches. — Peaches for preserv- 
ing may be ripe but not soft; cut theni in halves, 
take out the stones, and pare them neatly ; take 
as many pounds of 'white sugar as of fruit, put to 
each pound of sugar a teacup of water ; stir it until 
it is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, when it 
is boiling hot, put in the peaches, let them boil 
gently until a pure, clear, uniform color; turn those 
at the bottom to. the top, carefully with a skimmer 
several times ; do not hurry them ; when they are 
clear, take each half up with a spoon, and spread 
the halves on tlat dishes to l)ecome cold ; when all 
are done, let the S3'rup boil until it is quite thick, 
pour it into a large pitcher, and let it set to cool 
and settle. 

When the peaches are cold, put them carefully 
into jars, and pour the syrup over them, leaving 
any sediment which has settled at the bottom, or 
strain the syrup. Some of the kernels from the 
peach stones may be put in with the peaches whilst 
boiling. 

Let them remain open one night, then cover as 
directed. 

When brown 5ugar is used, it is necessary to 
clarify it; put to each pound of it a teacup of wa- 
ter, and for every four pounds the white of an egg', 
stir it until the surar is all dissolved, then set it over 



360 PEACHES, WHOLR 

the fire, continue to stir it until it is hot, take off 
the scuui as it rises ; should it boil so fast as to be 
in danger of running over, set it off the fire for a 
few minutes ; continue to boil and skim it until 
clear and only a light foam rises ; it is then ready 
for the fruit. 

Peaches will keep perfectly well with seven 
pounds of sugar to ten of fruit; boil the syrup quite 
thick. 

It is best to do but a few at a time, being less 
fatiguing and more likely to be carefully done, that 
they may not be crushed in boiling; peaches 
should not be boiled so much as to lose their shape. 

Peaches, whole. — Punch the stones from free- 
stone peaches thus : cut around the stem end, then 
insert a two-pronged fork at the other end, and 
with it press the stone out, then pare them neatly ; 
lo as many pounds of white sugar as of peaches 
put an equal number of teacups of water, set it 
over the fire, stir it until hot, then put in the fruit ; 
let it boil very gently until they are clear, and the 
syrup quite thick, then take them up one at a time 
very carefully with a large spoon, and lay them on 
flat dishes to become cold ; let the syrup boil a 
little longer, then turn it into a pitcher to cool and 
settle ; put the peaches into whatever you intend 
keeping them, and drain the S3^rup carefully off 
from any sediment over the fruit. When perfectly 
cold, cover them as directed. 

It is best to do but few pounds at a time. 

Or, having stoned and pared the peaches, make 
the syrup, and pour it boiling hot over them ; let 
them remain until the next dav, tlien put them into 
a preserving-kettle over a gentle fire, let them boil 
slowly until they are clear and the syrup rich ; 
then take them on to flat dishes and set them to 



PEACHKS, BRANDIED. 361 

become cold ; crack some of the stones, take the 
meats from them, take off the brown skin, and [)ut 
thetn in the syrup, boil it quite thick ; let it setde 
and cool a little, put the peaches into ajar or pot, 
pour the syrup over, leaving in the pitcher whatevei 
may have settled at the bottom. The next day, 
cover as directed. 

Cling-stone peaches may be preserved whole, 
without taking out the stones. 

Pour boiling water over ripe but not soft cling- 
stones, to cover them, cover the dish with a thickly- 
folded towel until they are cold, then peel off the 
skins; prepare the syrup, and finish as directed for 
whole peaches. 

Brandy Peaches. — Choose fine ripe but not 
soft cling-stone peaches, brush off the down, put 
them into a tureen ant! pour boiling hot water over 
them, cover them with a thickly-folded cloth for 
half an hour; when they are neaily cold, pull off 
the skin ; if it will not come off readily, pour over 
more hot water; make a syrup of half a pound of 
sugar for each pound of peaches, with a teacup of 
water for each pound of sugar ; when it is boiling 
hot, put the peaches in, let them boil for a short 
time, then take them out to cool; boil the syrup 
quite thick, add to it an equal measure of white 
brandy, and pour it over the fruit ; when perfectly 
cold, secure it as directed for preserves. 

Peaches, Brandied. — Take white peaches, 

free-stones, brush or wipe the down from thenj, 

stick each with a large needle in several places, 

and put them in cold water to cover them ; when 

all are in, put the kettle over a moderate fire, and 

keep it scalding hot, ^vithout boiling, until the fruit 

will give to the touch ; then take them with a 

P 



^6^ 



PEACH JELLY. 



skimmer carefulh'- into cold water, niul let them 
remain ten minutes ; alter wiiich, drain ofl'tlie wa- 
ter, and cover them with other; let them remain 
for ten or litieen minutes, then drain it ofl" again, 
and cover lastly with cold water ; after they have 
remained awhile, drain off the water, and put them 
in bottles. If any of the fruit is in the least degree 
broken or bruised, lay it aside, as it would spoil 
the rest. 

Take three quarters of a pound of sugar for each 
pound of peache?;, put a teacup of water to each 
pound of sugar, and set it over the fire; boil it until 
it is thick, tfien put with it an equal measure of 
white brandy, mix it together, and pour it over the 
fruit. 

Peach IMarmalade. — Peel ripe peaches, stone 
them, and cut them small; weigh three quarters 
of a pound of sugar for each pound of cut fruit, 
and a teacup of water for each pound of sugar ; 
set it over the fire ; when it boils, skim it clear, 
then put in the peaches, let them boil quite fast ; 
mash them fine, and let them boil until the whole 
is a jellied mass, and thick, then put it in small jars 
or tumblers ; when cold, secure it as directed for 
jellies. Half a pound of sugar for a pound of fruit, 
will make nice marmalade. 

Peach Jelly. — ^Take the late yellow mealy 
peaches, pare them, and cut them small, mash them 
iine, and put them over the fire, with a teacup of wa- 
ter for each pound of fruit ; stew them for a while, 
then put them into a jelly-bag, and gently press and 
wring all the juice from them ; add to each pir.t of 
juice a i)0und of loaf sugar ; when it is dissolved, set 
it over the fire, and let it boil, until by c^)oling some 
in a saucer, you find it a nice jelly. Less than a 



PEACH PRESERVES. 363 

pound of sugar may be used for each pound of 
fruit. 

Marmalade is generally preferred lo the jelly of 
penches. 

Another way to make peach jelly, is to stew the 
peaches with a pint of water for each pound of 
iVuit ; boil until it is soft, then strain the liquor 
from the peaches ; to each pint of the liquor, put 
a pound of loaf sugar a nd half an ounce of isinglass, 
dissolved ; or some apple jell3^ Let it boil up once, 
then strain it into moulds. 

Apricots. — These ma\- be preserved in any of 
the several ways directed for peaches. 

To Dry Peaches. — Take ripe but not soft 
peaches, pare them, and take out the stones, and 
cut them in halves or quarters, or smaller ; spread 
them on flat dishes or boards, and set them where 
the sun will shine all day upon them ; take them 
in at dusk or sunset; they should not be put out 
when the weather is damp or cloudy. 

Peaches dry nicely in an oven after the baking 
is done. 

Turn peaches whilst they are drying, that they 
may dry quickly and perfectly, else they will be- 
come musty. Keep them in bags tied closely, and 
hung up. 

To Dry Apples. — Apples may be dried in the 
same manner; pare off' every particle of the skin, 
and take out all the core ; dry them where no dust 
may come to them. 

The best apples for drying, are those too sour 
to use in any other way. 

Peach Preserve. — Pare, and cut in halves, ripe 



364 STKAWBERIllES PRESKRVED. 

penches, and dry tliem in a hot sun or warm oven 
for Iwo (la_ys ; then weigh thein, and make a syrup 
of one pound of sugar (or three of fruit ; put a tea- 
cup of water to each pound of sugar, and the white 
of an egg to four pounds ; stir it until it is dissolved, 
then set it over the fire, boil and skim until only a 
light foam rises, then put in the fruit, and let it 
boil gently until the syrup is thick and the fruit 
clear ; put in some of the kernels from the stones ; 
when it is perfectly cold, secure it as previously 
directed. 

A piece of paper to lit the inside of the pot or 
jar, dipped in thick sugar syrup, and laid on the 
top of [he preserve, before closing the jar, will keep 
them nicely. 

Where the fruit is very plenty, this is a safe and 
excellent way to preserve it either for table or tarts. 
The fruit must be cooked slowl}^, and for a long 
time. 

This receipt was obtained from one who prac- 
ticed it for years, and found the fruit perfectly good 
for one 3'ear. Preserves intended for keeping, 
should not be disturbed before cold weather. 

Strawberries Preserved. — Strawberries for 
bottling or preserving, except for jam, should be 
ripe, but not in the least soft. 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit. The sugar should be double re- 
fined, although refined sugar does very well : the 
only difference is in the color of the preserve, which 
is not so brilliant as when done with other than 
crushed or loaf sugar. 

To each pound of sugar put a teacup of water: 
set it over a gentle fire, and stir it until it is all dis- 
solved ; when boiling hot put in the fruit, Jiaving 
picked off every hull and imperfect berry ; let 



STRAWBERRY JAM, OR MARMALADE. 365 

them boil very gently in a covered kettle, until by 
cutting one open you find it cooked th rough. That 
will be known by its having the same color through- 
out. Take them from the syrup with a skimmer, 
and spread them on flat dishes, and let them re- 
main until cold ; boil the syrup until quite thick ; 
then let it cool and settle ; put the fruit into jars or 
pots, and strain or pour the syrup carefully over, 
leaving the sediment, which will be at the bottom 
of the pitcher. 

The next day, cover with several papers, wet 
with sugar, boiled to candy ; set them in a cool, 
airy place. 

Strawberries keep perfectly well, mnde with 
seven pounds of sugar to ten of fruit: they should 
be done as directed above, and the syrup cooked 
quite thick. 

A pint of red currant-juice, and a pound of sugar 
for it, to three pounds of strawberries, make the 
syrup very beautiful. 

Strawberry Jam, or Marmalade. — Pick ripe 
strawberries free from every hull ; put three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, for every pound of fruit ; 
crush them together to a smooth mass ; then put it 
in a preserving kettle, over a gentle fire ; stir it with 
a wooden or silver spoon, until it is jelly-like and 
thick; let it do slowly for some tiine ; then try 
some on a plate ; if when cold it is like jelly, it is 
enough. Put it in small jars or tumblers, and se- 
cure as directed. 

Currant-juice, with a pound of sugar to a pint, 
to four or five pounds of strawberries, and the re- 
quired quantity of sugar, makes the jam very nice. 

Half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit, 
will make very fine jam, or marmalade, which is 



366 TO STEW DRIED RASPBERRIES. 

the same, cooked until it is very thick, and reduced ; 
take care that it does not burn. 

To Preserve Strawberries Whole. — An- 
other excellent way, is to make the syrup boiling 
hot; and having picked fine large strawberries free 
from hulls, (or, if preferred, leave them and half 
an inch of the stem on,) pour it over them ; let it 
remain until the next day ; then drain it off', and 
boil again ; return it hot to the fruit; let them re- 
main for another night ; then put them into the ket- 
tle, and boil gently for half an hour; cut one in 
two ; if it is done through take them from the syrup 
with a skimmer, and spread them on flat dishes to 
cool ; boil the syrup until thick and rich ; then put 
the fruit into glass jars; let the syrup cool and set- 
tle ; then pour it carefully off' from the sediment, 
over the fruit. 

Strawberries Stewed for Tarts. — Make a 
syrup of one pound of sugar, and a teacup of wa- 
ter; add a little white of eggs; let it boil, and 
skim it until only a foam rises ; then put in a quart 
of berries, free from stems and hulls ; let them boil 
till they look clear, and the syrup is quite thick. 
Finish as directed for tarts, with fine puff" paste. 

Raspberries. — These may be preserved wet, 
bottled, or made jam or marmalade of, the same as 
strawberries. 

Raspberries are very fine, dried in the sun, or a 
warm oven. They are very fine stewed for table 
or tarts. 

To Stew Dried Raspberries. — Have them 
dried free from dust; rinse them lightly in cold 



PRESERVED CURRANTS. 367 

water; then put them to stew, with water to cover 
them, and a teacup of sugar to a pint of dried 
fruit ; cover them, and let them simmer slowly for 
an hour or more, until they are swelled out, and 
the syrup is rich. 

Cherries Preserved. — Take fine large cher- 
ries, not very ripe ; take ofl'lhe stems, and take out 
the stones ; save whatever juice runs from them , 
take an equal weight of white sugar ; make the 
syrup of a teacup of water for each pound ; set it 
over the fiire, until it is dissolved, and boiling hot ; 
then put in the juice and cherries; boil them gen- 
tl}^ until clear throughout ; take them from the syrup 
with a skimmer, and spread them on flat dishes to 
cool ; let the syrup boil until it is rich, and quite 
thick ; set it to cool and settle ; take the fruit into 
jars or pots, and pour the syrup carefully over ; let 
them remain open until the next day ; then cover 
as directed. 

Sweet cherries are improved by the addition of 
a pint of red currant-juice, and half a pound of 
sugar to it, for four or five pounds of cherries. 

To Dry Cherries. — Take the stems and stones 
from ripe cherries ; spread them on flat dishes, and 
dry them in a hot sun, or warm oven ; pour what- 
ever juice may have run from them, a little at a 
time, over them ; stir them about, that they may 
dry evenly. When they are perfectly dry, line 
boxes or jars with white paper, and pack them 
close in layers ; strew a little brown sugar, and 
fold the paper over, and keep them in a dry place, 
or put them in muslin bags, and ha'ng them in an 
airy place. 

Currants Preserved. — Take ripe currants. 



368 CURRANT JELLY. 

free from stems ; weigh them, and lake the same 
weight of sugar; put a teacup of sugar to each 
pound of it ; boil the syrup until it is hot and clear ; 
then turn it over the fruit ; let it remain one night; 
then set it over the fire, and boil gently, uhtil they 
are cooked and clear ; take them into the jars or 
pots with a skimmer ; boil the syrup until rich and 
thick ; then pour it over the fruit. 

Currants may be preserved with ten pounds of 
fruit to seven of sugar. Take the stems from seven 
pounds of the currants, and crush and press the 
juice from the remaining three pounds ; put them 
into the hot syrup, and boil until thick and rich ; 
put it in pots or jars, and the next day secure as 
directed. 

Currant Jam. — Pick the currants free from 
stems ; weigh three quarters of a pound of sugar 
for each pound of fruit ; strain the juice from half 
of them ; then crush the remainder and the sugar 
together, and put them with the juice into a bright 
brass or porcelain kettle, and boil until it is a smooth 
jellied mass ; have a moderate fire, that it may not 
burn the preserve. 

Currant Jelly. — Pick fine red but not long 
ripe currants from the stems ; bruise them, and 
strain the juice from a quart at a time, through a 
thin muslin ; wring it geAtly, to get all the liquid ; 
put a pound of white sugar to each pint of 
juice ; stir it until it is all dissolved ; set it over a 
gentle fire ; let it become hot, and boil for fifteen 
minutes; then try it b}'^ taking a spoonful into, a 
saucer : when cold, if it is not quite firm enough, 
boil it for a few minutes longer. 

Or pick the fruit from stems ; weigh it, and put 
it into a stone pot ; set it in a kettle of hoi water, 



BARBERRIES. 369 

reaching nearly lo the top ; let it boil until the fruit 
is hot through ; then crush them, and strain the 
juice from tliem. Put a pound of white sugar to 
each pint of it; put it over the fire, and boil for 
fifteen minutes ; try some in a saucer. When the 
jelly is thick enough, strain it into small white jars, 
or glass tumblers ; when cold, cover with tissue 
paper, as directed. Glass should be lemj)ere(l, by 
keeping it in waim water for a short time before 
pouring any hot liquid into it, otherwise it will crack. 

Bi^ACKBERRiES. — Preserve these as strawberries 
or currants, eidier liquid or jam, or jelly. Black- 
berry jelly or jam is an excellent medicine in sum- 
mer complaint or d^'sentery ; to make it, crush a 
quart of fully ripe blackberries with a pound of the 
best loaf-sugar, put it over a gentle fire and cook 
it until thick, then put to it a gill of the best fourth- 
proof brandy, stir it awhile over the fire, then put 
it in pots. 

Blackberry Syrup. — Make a simple syrup of 
a pound of sugar to each pint of water, boil it until 
it is rich and thick, then add to it as many pints ot 
the expressed juice of ripe blackberries as there are 
pounds of sugar ; put half a nutmeg grated to ear;h 
quart of the syrup ; let it boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes, then add to it half a gill of fourth-proof 
brandy for each quart of syrup, set it to become 
cold, then bottle it for use. A tablespoon ful for a 
child or a wineglass for an adult is a close. 

Barberries. — Preserve them the same as cur- 
rants ; or they may be preserved in molasses. Pick 
them from the stems, and put them into a jug or jar 
with molasses lo cover them. The acid soon 
24 p* 



370 PLUMS. 

destroys all taste of molasses. The small winter 
or frost grape may be clone in the same manner. 

Gooseberries Preserved. — Take the blossom 
frotn the eiul and take off" the stems ; finish as 
directed for strawberries or currants. 

To Keep Red Gooseberries. — Pick goose- 
berries when fnlly ripe, and for each quart, take 
quarter of a pound of sugar and a gill of water, 
boil together until quite a syrup, then put in the fruit 
and continue to boil gently for fifteen minutes ; 
then put them into small stone jars ; when cold 
cover them close ; keep them for making tarts or 
pies. 

Currant Jelly without Cooking. — Press the 
juice from the currants and strain it ; to ever}' pint 
put a pound of fine white sugar, mix them together 
until the sugar is dissolved, then put it in jars, seal 
them and expose them to a hot sun for two or three 
days. 

Plums. — There are several varieties of plums. 
The richest purple plum for preserving is the 
damson ; there are of these large and small, the 
larger are called sweet dnmsons, the small ones 
are very rich flavored. The great difficulty in 
preserving plums is that the skins crack and the 
fruit comes to pieces ; the rule here laid down for 
preserving them obviates that difficulty. * 

Purple gages unless properly preserved will turn 
to juice and skins : and the large horse plum (as 
it is generallv known) comes completely to pieces in 
ordmary modes of preserving; the one recommemled 
herein will keep them whole, full and rich. 



TO PRESERVE PLUMS WITHOUT THE SKINS. 371 

To Preserve Purple Plums. — Make a syrup 
of clean brown sugnr, cbirify it as direcled in these 
receipts ; when perfectly clear and boilinc; liot. pour 
it over the plums having picked out all unsound 
ones, and stenns; let them remain in the syrup two 
days, then drain it off, make it boiling hot, skim it 
and pour it over ;ig;tin, let them remain in the synjp 
two days then drain it off; make it boiling hot, 
skim it and pour it over again ; let them remain 
another day or two, then put them in a preserving 
kettle over the fire, and simmer gently until the 
syrup is reduced and thick or rich. One pound of 
sugar for each pound of plums. 

Small damsons are very fine, preserved as 
cherries or any other ripe fruit; clarity the syrup 
and when boiling hot put in the plums, let them 
boil verv gently until thev are cooked and the syrup 
rich. Put them iu pots or jars ; the next day 
secure as directed. 

To Preserve Plums without the Skins. — 
Pour boilinn; water over larsre eo;": or iriafjrium 
bonum plums, cover them until it is coltl, then pull 
off the skins. * 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a teacup 
of water for each pound of fruit, make it boiling 
hot, and pour it over, let them remain for a day or 
two, then drain it off and boil again, skim it 
clear and pour it hot over the plums, let them 
remain until the next day, then put them over 
the fire in the syrup, boil them very gently until 
clear; take them from the syrup with a skimmer 
into the pots or jars; boil the ss-rup until rich and 
thick, take off any scum which may rise, then let it 
cool and settle, and poiu* it over the plums. If 
brown sugar is used, which is quite as good except 
for green gages, clarify it as directted. 



872 TO BRANDY GREEN GAGES. 

Green Gages. — These may be greened as 
directed for L'reeninj^ fruil ; wlien taken out smooth 
the skin's, make the syrup boiUncr liot and pour it 
over until the next day or two, then put them in the 
syruf) over the fire and boil verv slowlv until they 
look clear, ;ind the syrup is rich nnd thick ; then 
take them from the syrup wiih a skimmer, spread 
them on flat dishes to cool, boil the svrup quite fast, 
skim it clear, then let it settle and cool ; put the 
plums into jars and pour the syruj> over, leaving 
any sediment which ma}^ remain at the bottom. 

Plums tx Brandy. — Take twelve pounds of 
magnum bonum plums which are turned in color, 
but not ripe ; stick each one several limes with a 
coarse needle, put them in cold water and set them 
over the fire : when the water be<>ins to boil and 
the plums rise, take them carefully with a skimmer 
into a pan of cold water ; to three pounds of white 
sugar put three teacups of water, when it is hoiling 
hf)t, put it over the fruit, let it remain until the next 
day, jKit the plums and syrup in a pieserving kettle 
over the fire, boil very gently that the skins may 
not break ; when they are clear take them on flat 
plates ; put to the syrup an equal measure of white 
brandy, stir it until mixed ; put the plums into a 
glass jar and pour the syrup over, when cold put a 
tissue paper and close fitting tin cover over. 

To Brandy Green Gages. — Make a syrup of 
half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit, with 
a teacup of water for each pound of sugar, when 
boiling hot pour it over the plums, let them remain 
for a day or two, then boil them in the S3'rup until 
they are clear, very slowly, that they may not 
break; then take them out with a skimmer; boil 
the syrup fast for a few minutes, skim it; let it 



JAM OR GREEN GAGES. 373 

cool and settle, then mix with it an equal measure 
of white brandy and pour it over the plums. 

Or, green them as directed, make the syrup as 
above directed, pour it boiling hot over them, let 
them remain one night, then put them over the fire, 
let tjiem boil up once, take them out with a skim- 
mer; boil the syrup thick, mix with it an equal 
measure of white brandy, put the fruit in glass 
jars and pour over syrup to cover it. 

To Keep Damsons. — Put them in small stone 
jars or wide mouth-glass bottles, and set them up 
to their necks in a kettle of cold water ; set it over 
the fire to become boiling hot, then take it off, and 
let the bottles remain until the water is cold ; the 
next day fill the bottles with cold water and cork 
and seal them. These may be used the same 
as fresh fruit. Green gages may be done in this 
way. 

To Preserve Damsons a second way. — Put 
a quart of damsons into ajar with a pound of sugar 
strewed between them ; set the jar in a warm 
oven, or put it into a kettle of cold water and set it 
over the fire for an hour, then take it out, set it to 
become cold, drain the juice off', boil it until it is 
thick, then pour it over the plums ; when cold, 
cover as directed for. preserves. 

Jam of Green Gages. — Put ripe green gages 
into a kettle with very little water, and let them 
stew until soft, then rub them through a sieve or 
colander, and to every pint of pulp, put a pound of 
white sugar, powdered fine, then put it in a pre- 
serving kettle over the fire, stir it until the whole is 
of the consistence ofjellv, then take it off; put the 
marmalade in small jars or tumblers, and cover as 



37i TO PRESERVE PEARS. 

directed for jelly. Any sort of plums may be clone 
in this manner. 

To Dry Plums. — Split ripe plums, take the 
atones from them and hiy them on plates or sieves 
to dry in a warm oven or hot sun ; take them in at 
sunset and do not put them out again until the sun 
will be upon them ; turn them that they mav be 
done evenly ; when perfectly dry, pack them in 
jars or boxes, lined with paper, or keep them in 
bags ; hang them in an airy place. 

Pears Dried. — Prepare, and dry them the 
sanie as apples. 

Pears in Brandy. — Take fine rich, juicy, but 
not very ripe pears, put them into a sauce-pan 
with cold water to cover them ; set them over a 
gentle fire and simmer them until they will yield 
to the pressure of your finger, then t;ike them into 
cold water; pare them with the greatest care, so 
that not a single delect may remain ; make a syrup 
of three quarters of a pound of white sugar for each 
pound of fruit, and a cup of water to each pound of 
sugar ; when the syrup is clear and boiling hot put 
in the pears, boil them gently until they are done 
through and clear, and the syrup is rich ; now take 
them with a skimmer into glass jars ; boil the 
syrup thick, then mix with it a gill ot white brandy 
to each pint, pour it over the fruit and when cold 
put paper and a close fitting cover over. 

To Preserve Pears. — Take small rich fair 
fruit, as soon as the pips are black, set them over 
the fire in a kettle, with water to cover them ; let 
them simmer until they will yield to tlie pressure of 
the finger, then with a skimmer take them into cold 



TO BAKE PEARS. 375 

water, pare them neatly, leavino; on u little of the 
stem, and the blossom end ; pierce them at the 
blossom end to the core, then make a syrup of a 
pound of sugar for each pound of fruit; when it is 
boiling hot pour it over the pears, and let it stand 
until the next day ; when drain it off, make it boil- 
ing hot and again pour it over; after a day or two 
put the fruit in the syrup over the fire, and boil 
gently until it is clear, then take it into the jars or 
spread it on dishes, bod the syrup thick, then put it 
and the fruit in jars. 

Large Bell Pears. — May be preserved the 
same as quinces or citron. 

Pear Marmalade. — To six pounds of small 
pears, take four pounds of sugar ; put the pears 
into a saucepan with a little cold water, cover it, 
and set it over the fire until the fruit is soft, thei\ 
take them into cold water ; pare, (juaiter, and cor^ 
them ; put to them three teacups of water, set thpm 
over the fire ; roll the sugar fine, mash the fruit fine 
and smooth, put the sugar to it, stir it well together 
until it is thick like jelly, then put it in tumblers or 
jars, and when cold, secure it as jelly. 

To Stew Pears. — Pare them and cut them in 
halves, if large, or leave them whole, if small ; put 
them in a stewpan wirh very liitle water, cover 
them and let them stew till tender, then add a pint 
bowl of brown sugar to quarter of a peck of pears, 
let them stew until the syrup is rich ; a lemon 
boiled with the pears and sliced ihin when the sugar 
is put in, improves both flavor and color ; or a wine- 
glass of red wine may be used instead. 

To Bake Pears. — Wash half a peck of tart 



37 G TO STKW APrLES. 

pear?, cut the sterns so as to leave only an Inch 
length ; put them in an iron pot over the firo with 
half a pint of water and a pint of molasses to them ; 
cover the pot or kettle and let them boA rathei 
gently until the pears are soft and the syrup rich, 
almost like candy ; take care not to scorch it. 

To Stew Quiivces. — Pare and cut them in 
quarters, tike out the cores, put them into a stew- 
pan wTth half enough water to cover them, cover 
the pan, and let them boil till tender, add half a 
pound of sugar to each pound of cut quinces, cover 
them and let them stew until the syrup is rich and 
thick. 

Or, pare, core, and cut the quinces, put the skins 
and cores in the bottom of a stewpan or preserving 
kettle, put in the cut quinces and enough water to 
half cover them ; cover the vessel and let them 
stew till tender, then take them up, bruise the 
skins and cores, and strain the w^ater from them ; 
take for each pound of quinces (before they were 
boiled) half a pint of the strained w^ater, and half 
a pound of sugar boiled to a nice syrup ; then put 
in the boiled, quinces and boil until they are sweet 
and rich. 

To Stew Peaches. — Take small under-ripe 

Jjeaches, pare them neatly, and put them into a 
cettle w^ith water nearly to cover them, and set 
them over a gentle fire; to each quart of peaches, 
put half pound of sugar; let them stew until the 
syrup is rich. Serve cold for tea or dessert. 

To Stew Apples. — Pare ripe tart apples, and 
cut them in quarters or smaller ; core them, and 
put them into a stew-pan, with a teacup of water 
and the same of sugar to a quart or more of cut 



CANDIED TOMATOES. 377 

apples ; then set them over the fire, let them sim- 
mer gently for nearly an hour ; turn them into a 
flat dish, and set them to cool. Grate half a nut- 
meg over, if liked. 

Small apples may be stewed in this way with- 
out cutting them ; pare them, and core them with 
a small knife or apple-corer ; a lemon boiled, and 
shced thin, may be stewed with them; a small 
teaspoonful of lemon extract may be put to them 
whilst stewing 

Tomatoes Preserved. — Take the small plum- 
shaped yellow or red tomatoes, pour boiling water 
over them, and peel off the skins; make the syrup 
of an equal weight of sugar, and a teacup of water 
to each pound, set it over the fire ; when all is dis- 
solved, and boiling hot, put in the tomatoes, let them 
boil very gently ; boil one or two lemons in water 
until the peels are tender, then cut them in slices, 
and put them with the tomatoes in the syrup ; let 
them boil until the fruit is clear throughout, and 
the syrup rich ; then take the tomatoes on to flat 
dishes, and set them to become cold ; boil the 
syrup until thick and rich, then set it by to cool 
and settle; put the fruit into a jar or pots, and 
pour the syrup free from any sediment over them, 
or the S3^rup may be strained. 

Candied Tomatoes. — Choose the fig or plum- 
shaped tomato ; for every four pounds of tomatoes 
clarify one pound of sugar ; pour boiling water 
over the tomatoes, cover them for a few minutes, 
then peel them ; when the syiup is boiling hot, 
put them- in, let them simmer very slowly until 
they look clear, then take them out with a skimmer 
on to a sieve ; set them wliere they rnay become 
cold ; boil the syrup until it is quite thick, then put 



378 TO FRESEKVE GRAPES. 

the tomatoes in again, simmer them slowly for nearly 
an hour, then take ihein out, imd l;iy them on 
sieves ;ig;iin ; boil the syrup nn hour longer, then 
pu^. in the tomatoes for the lust time, let them re- 
main for half an hour, simmering, then take them 
out, flatten them, and dry them in a hot sun or m 
a .warm oven ; when perfectly dry, j)aek them iu 
glass jars. One or two lemons boiled tender, then 
sliced, and preserved with tomatoes, imparts a fine 
flavor. 

Tomato Jam. — Take ripe tomatoes, peel them, 
and take out all the seeds ; put tljem into a pre- 
serving kettle, with half a pound of sugar for each 
pound of prepared tomatoes ; boil one or two lemons 
soft, then pound them fine ; take out the pipS; and 
put them to the tomatoes, and boil slowly; mash 
them to a smooth mass ; continue to stir them until 
smooth and thick, then put it in jars or tumblers. 

Grapes. — These should be picked from the stem 
when nearly ripe ; take sugar, pound for pound, 
with a teacup of water for eaci) pound of suirar ; 
clarity it, (unless white sugar is used.) make it 
boiling jjot, and pour it over the fruit ; let it remain 
for a day or two; then drain it off'; make it boiling 
l)ot ; skim it, and pour it (n-er again; after a day 
or two, put fruit and syrup over the Hre ; let it boil 
gently until clear, and the syrup thick ; then take 
the grapes from the syrup with a skimmer ; boil the 
syrup sometime longer; then set it to cool and set- 
tle, aiKl strain it over the fruit. 

A NEW Way to Preserve IQi^apes.— ^Pick ripe 

grapes from the stenis ; lake an equal weight of 
sugar; pul to each pound a teacup of water, and 
make it boiling hot; squeeze the pulp fioqa the 



GRAPES PRESERVED. 379 

skins, save them, and put the inside or pulp to the 
syrup, having bruised iliem, to get the juice ; let 
them boil up once or twice ; then strain and squeeze 
it through a coarse cloth ; this will take out the 
seeds; put in the skins, and return it to the fire; 
they will fill up after one or two boils; when the 
syrup is sufficiently thick and rich, turn them into 
an earthen vessel to cool ; put them into glass jars ; 
when perfectly cold, secure them as directed. 

Grape Jelly. — Take ripe grapes, press them 
from the skins ; then put them in a coarse cloih, 
and press out all the juice ; put half a pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice, and finish the same as 
currant jelly. 

Grapes Dried. — Take fine, large, ripe grapes; 
place them on sieves or hurdles, and set them in a 
warm oven, turning them carefully and frequently, 
until they are perfectly dry. 

Or dry them in the sun ; Inke them in at sunset; 
turn them every day, until they are nicely dry. 

Line wooden boxes with paper; prick the bunches 
carefully in layers, strew a liltle sugar between and 
over them ; when the box is full, cover or fold pa- 
per over, and close the box with a wooden cover. 

Grapes Preserved ix Bunches. — Take full 
clusters of grapes, not fully ripe ; trim the stems 
neatly ; make a syrup of a pound of sugar, and a 
teacup of water for each pound of grapes ; make it 
boiling hot, and pour it over them ; let them remain 
for a day or two ; then drain off the syrup, boil it 
agai/i, skim it, and pour it over; after a dav or 
two, put grapes and syrup over the fije ; boil very 
gently, until they are clear, and the syrup rich ; 
lako them up careluU}^ ; lay them on plates to be- 



380 TO PRESERVE GINGER ROOTS. 

come cold ; boil the syrup for nearly an hour ; skim 
it, let it cool and settle ; put the grapes in glass 
jars, and pour the s^'rup over. 

To Dry Grapes in Clusters. — Take preserves 
froin the syrup, dip them in boiling water, to free 
them from what may be hanging to them ; then 
dry them in the sun, or a warm oven, turning every 
day, until perfectly dry : then flatten them, and 
pack them in boxes. 

To Preserve Green Grapes. — Take the lar- 
gest full sized green grapes, take the seeds from 
them by means of a large needle ; make a syrup 
of as many pounds of sugar, and pour it hot over 
them ; let them remain a day or two, then boil 
them in the syrup till clear ; boil the syrup thick ; 
then put the preserve in pots. When cold, cover 
as directed. 

To Stew Prunes. — Wash or rinse prunes, as 
may be necessary, in cold water ; put them in a 
stew-pan, with water to cover them : put over them 
a teacup of clean brown sugar, for each pound of 
fruit ; cover the stew-pan, and boil rather slowly, 
until the syrup is thick and rich. 

To Preserve Green Ginger Roots. — Boil the 
roots in plenty of water, until they may be pared 
neatly ; then put them in fresh water ; change it 
once or twice, putting on boiling water each time ; 
let them boil until tender; then take them into cold 
water. Clarifv four f ounds of sugar for throe and 
a half of ginger ; take the ginger from the water, 
and wipe it dry ; dissolve the sugar with a teacup 
of water to each pound ; put it over the ginger, and 
let it remain lor several days ; then drain it off, 



TO PRESERVE FRUIT. 381' 

boil and skim it; let it become cold; then pour it 
over the ginger; let it remain three or four days; 
then boil it again, and pour it hot over the ginger ; 
repeat the boiling and skimming, until the ginger 
is penetrated wiih the sugar, and the syrup becomes 
thick and clear. 

Almacks. — Take four dozen ripe plums, split 
them ; two dozen apples, pared and cored, and the 
same number of pears, ditto. ; stew them without 
water ; when well blended, take out the plum 
stones, and stir in three pounds of clean sugar ; 
boil them gently, stirring them together, for one 
hour; then spread it on flat dishes, and dry them 
in the sun, or a cool oven. When nearly dry, mark 
it in square cakes. 

Transparent Marmalade. — Take some Sicily 
oranges, cut them in quarters, take out the pulp, 
put it into a basin, take out all the seeds, and skin; 
put the peels into a little salt and water, and leave 
them to soak all night, then boil them in a good 
quantity of spring water until they are tender; cut 
them in shreds, and put them to the pulp ; to every 
pint of it put one pound of loaf sugar, made fine, 
and boil them gentl}^ together for twenty minutes ; 
if it is not perfectly clear, simmer it for some 
minutes longer, stirring it gently all the time, when 
cold, put it in jelly glasses, and secure it as direct- 
ed for jelly. 

To Preserve Fruit, for Torts or Common 
Use. — Cherries, any sort of plums or apples, may 
be preserved for the above mentioned uses, in the 
following manner : \ 

Pit the fruit, gathered when ripe, put them in 
small jars, strew over each, six ounces of sugar for 



382 TO CANDY NECTARTXES. 

every pound of fruit, ti(i over each jnr two bladders, 
or thick })aj)ers, tie eacii one separately ; put them 
up to the neck in a vessel of water, and let them 
boil gently for three hours, then set it off"; let them 
remain in the water until cold. Keep them in a 
dry, cool place. 

MuLDEEEY Preserved. — Take mulberries 
when fully ripe, but not soft, weigh three quaters 
of a pound of sugar for each pint of picked berries; 
finish as directed for strawberries. 

MuLBEEEY Syrup. — Put some mulberries into 
a jug, tie a paper over it, and then put it up to the 
neck in a kettle of water, let it boil ; as the liquor 
rises from the mulberries, drain it ofl"; to each pint 
of it put one pound of white sugar, or brown sufjar 
claiitied ; set it over a slow fire, and boil luitil 
about the consistence of molasses, then skim it, and 
take it off; when cold, boitle it. 

Nectarines Preserved. — Take nectarines 
when nearly ripe, pare them, and cut them in 
halves, and simmer them in boiling water, until 
they rise to the surfiice, then drain them ; clarify 
three quarters of a pound of sugar for each pound 
of fruit, put it in, and let them boil until nearly 
clear, then set them away in the syrup; the next 
day drain the SN'rup from them, boil it until quite 
thick, then put in the fruit, and let it boil for a short 
time; drain off the syrup, and repeat the boiling on 
the following day, then put it in a. tureen, and let it 
stand for two days, then put the preserves in pots, 
and secure as directed. 

To Candy Nectarines. — Split the fruit, and 
take out the stones, clarify half their weiijht of sugar. 



CHERRY WATER. 383 

and put in the fruit, and boil gently until clear, take 
off the light scum, take them with a skimmer on 
flat dishes, and cover them with, until the next day, 
then boil the s\'rup until it is rather thick, put in the 
fruit, and let them boil until fairly hot through, take 
them again on to flat dishes, with a skimmer, as 
free from .syrup as possible, let them remain one 
night, again boil the syrup, and put in the fruit for 
a short time; spread it out to dry, and set it in a 
v/arm place ; dust fine white sugar over, and turn 
them until they are so. 

Peaches, large egg plums, and apricots, may be 
done in this way. 

Nectarines, — May be bottled as directed foi 
fruits. 

Capillatke. — Take fourteen pounds of sugar, 
break six eggs in, with the shells, stir into it grad- 
ually three quaits of water, set it over the fire, and 
boil it, and take off' the scum until onlv a lio:ht froih 
rises, add to it a gill of orange flower water, or half 
as much lemon extract, with a little vanilla, then 
strain it through a jelly bag, and when cold, bottle 
it ; cork it tight to keep. 

A wine-glass of this put to a tumblerof ice water, 
is much liked, and very refreshing. 

Sliced lemon or pine-appie, or crushed straw- 
berries, raspberries, or ripe currants, rnay be added 
to it ; also a glass of wine, brandy, or rum. 

Cherry Water. — Put a wine-glass of Capil- 
laire into a tumbler, pound a dozen fine lai^e sour 
cherries in a mortar, so as to break the kernels, 
then put ihem in the tumbler, two-thirds fill it with 
ice water, and serve with sponge or wine cakes; 



384 LEMON BRANDY. 

or instead of ice water, half fill the tumbler with 
chipped ice, then put in water. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Put a quart of the best 
vinegar into a bottle, put in picked raspberries, as 
many as the bottle will contain, put in a cork, and 
let it remain for a week, then strain the liquor 
through a fine muslin, press all the juice from the 
berries, then measure it ; to each pint put one 
pound and a half of white fine sugar, boil it until 
the syrup is rich, (keep it covered whilst boiling,) 
when cold bottle it, flavor ice water with it, and 
serve with small cakes. 

Roasted Figs. — These are both palatable and 
nutritious for persons in delicate health. Take 
fine large fresh figs, put iViem on bird spits, and 
roast them before the fire, or broil them over bright 
coals, on a gridiron ; turn them when half done. 

Milk Punch. — Half fill a pint tumbler with fine- 
iy chipped ice, add to it a wine-glass of gin, rum, 
or brandy, and a tablespoonful of fine white sugar, 
stir it around, then fill it up with milk ; grate nut- 
meg over, and serve. 

Or put together of milk and gin, or rum or brandy, 
a wine-glass each, add a large tablespoonful of 
white sugar, stir it until the sugar is dissolved, then 
fill it up with milk ; grate nutmeg over, and serve 
with small cakes. 

Lemon Brandy. — Put the yellow rind of two 
fine fresh lemons, into a bottle of brandy, after two 
days strain it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a 
teacup of water, to a nice syrup, let it become cold, 

tlu'u mix it with the brandy- 



RIPE PEACHES, &C. 385 

Strawbkrry Sherbet. — Take one pound of 
pickeil strawberries, crush lliem to a smooth mass, 
then add tliree pints of water, the juice of a lemon, 
and a tablespoonful of ornnge flower water; let it 
stand for three or four hours, put a pound of fine 
win'te sugar into another basin, put over it a large 
cloth or napkin, and strain the strawberries through 
it, wring it, to extract as much of the juice as pos- 
sible; stir it until the sugar is dissolved, then strain 
it again, and set it on ice for an hour, before serv- 
ing in small tumblers half filled. 

Cream Sherbet. — Put the yolks of six eggs, 
and a <Iessert-spoonful of orange flower water, into 
two quarts of cream, boil it up once in a covered 
ste\v-p;u"i, then strnin it ; add to it three quarters of 
a pound of fine white sugar, and stir it until it is 
dissolved. 

When cold, set it on ice, or freeze it the same as 
ice cream. 

Lemon Sherbet. — Dissolve a pound and a half 
of white sugar in a quart of water, take nine large 
lemons, wipe them clean, and cut each in two; 
squeeze thern so as to extract the juice and the 
essence from the peel ; stir into it the sugared 
water, then strain it, and freeze the same as ice 
cream. 

To Prepare Ripe Fruits or Melons for Table. 

Ripe- Peaches Cut Small. — Take fair ripe 

peaches, pare ofT the skin, and cut them in slices, 

not very small, quarters or eighths is best, if the 

Truit is very ripe ; put them into a deep glass dish, 

and strew fine sugar plentifully over ; serve for 

dessert or tea-table. 

25 Q 



386 HUCKLEEEnRIES, &C. 

To Prepare Strawberries anp Raspber- 
ries. — Tuke ihem cnrflully up by the luinc^ful, 
pick out every impcrfeclion or hull, have a basin o{ 
cold water, and pass tliem quickly llirough it, with- 
out allowing thern to ren)ain for an instant, and put 
them into a deep china or glass dish ; when all are 
done, strew them plentifully wiilj powdered white 
sugar, and serve; or serve dishes of fine sugar with 
them, without the sugar upon them ; rinsing the 
berries in this way, will take none of the richness 
from them, but freshen them, and take off any sand 
which may be upon them; it is particularly neces- 
sary with strawberries, after a rain, as you will 
find by examing the rinsing ewater. 

Strawberries should never be touched after pick- 
in<; them, until within an hour of servinrj. Puttinq 
on sugar for longer than this, draws out the juice, 
and discolors them. Should it be put in the morn- 
ing, to be used at tea, or in the evening, they would 
in all probability become sour. Ripe berries may 
be kept from one day to the other, by setting the 
dish containing them on ice, or in a cool, dark 
place. 

Ripe peaches should on no account be cut or 
sugared more than an hour or two before serving. 
The same remark applies to raspberries and black- 
berries. 

Peaches, strawberries and raspberries are pre- 
pared and sugared in this way, to be served with 
ice cream ; or with sponge cake or wine cakes in 
the eveninof. 

Blackberries — Are prepared for table the same 
as strawberries or raspberries. 

HiJCKLE OR Whortleberries. — Put them into 
a basin, with plenty of cold water; take off' the 



WATERMELONS. 387 

floating berries and steins ; take up a handful at a 
time; pick out any unripe or crushed ones, or stems 
or leaves ; shake the water from them, and put them 
into a bowl or deep dish ; serve sugar with them, 
or strew it over. 

Ripe Currants for Tea. — Pick them from tlie 
steins, and put them into a basin of water ; shake 
them about; then take them up by the handt\il; 
shake off the water, and put them into a deep dish ; 
mix plentN' of sugar with them, and serve. These 
are better for standing for an hour before serving. 

Ripe Cherries for Tea. — Pick them from the 
stems ; rinse them in cold water, and throw out any 
imperfect ones ; then take the stones from them, 
over the dish in which they are to be served ; mix 
sugar with them. 

MusKMELONs AND Cantelopes — Are prepared 
for table by cutting them in two from end to end ; 
and after taking out the seeds and inside, cut them 
in slices, as the flutes indicate ; serve with pepper 
and salt. There is great choice in this fruit, some 
being sweet and spicy, whilst others are compari- 
tively insipid. ISTutmeg melons are incomparably 
best. 

Watermelons. — These should be put in cold 
wnter, which should be changed several times, for 
three or more hours before serving; or put them 
on' ice, or in a refrigerator. 

Unripe or over ripe watermelons are very un- 
wholesome. When good, the inside cuts firm, the 
seeds are black, and they have a delicious sweet- 
ness. The inside may be either white, or pink, or 
red 



388 CUCUMBERS. 



DIRECTIONS 

For Making Mangoes, and Other Varieties cf 
Pickles. 

Cucumbers. — Cucumbers for pickling should 
be fresh gathered, not longer than a finger, and 
an inch thick. The gherkin or cluster cucum- 
ber, has a rough, prickly outside, and they are 
rather thicker for the length than the ordinary 
pickle. 

Make a strong brine of salt and water, which 
will bear an e^^r ; let the pickles remain in this 
twenty-four hours; then take them fronfi the brine, 
lay them in a tub, make vinegar boiling hot, with 
whole pepper, and alspice, and mustard-seed, if 
liked ; pour it over the pickles, and let them re- 
main until the next day. Then drain it off', boil it 
again, pour it over, and cover the pickles witii a 
thickly Hjided cloth ; drain off the vinegar the next 
day ; add a few bits of alum the size of a pea to 
it ; make it boiling hot, and again pour it over the 
pickles ; let them remain for a day or two ; then 
cut one in two ; if it is not a fine green throughout, 
scald the vinegar again, and pour it over. After a 
few days, assort the pickles ; put those of each size 
together in jars ; cover them with cold vinegar, put 
a cloth and cover over the jars. These pickles 
will keep perfectly well for years. Put the largest 
and softest in jars to be used first. 

Cucumber pickles may be put down in a strong 
salt and water brine, to be greened and pickled as 
they may be wanted. Keep them under the brine. 
When wanted, freshen iheni in two or three changes 
of water, for two or three days, until by cutting on<» 



GRKEN PEPPERS. 3S9 

open, yon find it but little salt ; then pour scalding 
vinegar over them three times, and keep them cov- 
ered. 

Or, after taking them from the brine, put them 
into a kettle, with vine leaves, and a few very 
small bits of alum, and a bit of saleratus the size 
of half a small nutmeg, to one hundred pickles ; 
cover them close, and let them simmer very slowly 
until they are a fine green ; then take them otf, 
and put them in cold vinegar. 

Pickles for present use should be put up sepa- 
rately from those intended for keeping. 

Another way to make them is : make a strong 
brine, which will float an egg, put the pickles in 
for twenty-four hours, then take them from it, put 
them into a bright brass kettle, with vinegar and 
water to cover them, with a few bits of alum the 
size of a pea, scattered between, to harden them; 
fold a thick coarse towel over them, and simmer 
very gently until they are green; if they do not be- 
come sufficiently so after an hour or more, put in 
a bit of saleratus the size of a small nutmeg, for a 
kettle full. 

When a fine green, take them with a skimmer 
into a stone pot or wooden vessel, and cover with 
cold cider vinegar; put in whole pepper, cloves, al- 
spice, and mustard seed. 

Green Peppers. — These are pickled the same 
as cucumbers. It i^ best to slit one seam, and take 
out the seeds or core, that they may be less strong ; 
if they are preferred strong, slit them, and soak in 
salt and plenty of water fjr several days ; the last 
mentioned receipt for cucumbers, is the best for 
peppers. 

The best peppers for pickling are those thick 
skinned and green ; they may be stuffed with 



390 MELON MANGOES. 

white onions, green beans sliced, horseradish, and 
mustard seed, the same as melon mangoes. 

Melon Mangoes. — Get the late, smnll, smooth, 
green melon ; they should not be hirger than a tea- 
cup, take a piece from the stein end, large enough 
to allow you to take the seeds from the inside ; 
scrape out all the soft, without cutting the other, 
then secure each piece to its own melon ; lay them 
in rows in a stone or wooden vessel, as you do 
them. 

Make a strong brine of salt and water, pour it 
over the melons, and let them remain twenty-four 
hours. 

Prepare the following stuffing: sliced horse- 
radish, very small cucumbers, green beans, nastur- 
tions, white small onions, mustard seed, whole pep 
per, cloves and alspice ; put the beans in a little 
water, with the white onions ; having peeled them, 
and set them over the fire, give them one scald, 
and spread them out to cool ; scald the pickles and 
cool them. 

Rinse the melons in clear water, then wipe each 
dry, proceed to fill them : put a cucumber, one or 
two small onions, and two or three beans, with 
shced horseradish and mustard seed, into each 
melon, put on the piece belonging to it, and sew it 
with a coarse needle and thread, lay them in a 
stone pot or wooden vessel, the cut side up, when 
all are in, strew over the cloves and pepper, make 
vinegar (enough to cover them.) boiling hot, and 
put it over, then cover with a folded towel, let them 
stand for one night, then drain off the vinegar, 
m;ike it hot again, and pour it on, cover as befl^re ; 
repeat this scalding four or five times, if necessary, 
until the mangoes are a fine green ; three times is 
generally enough. ^ 



TO PICKLE PLUMS, <5cC. 391 

Be sure tliat the melons are green, and fresh 
gathered ; the proper sort are the last on the vines, 
and green and firm. 

If you wish to keep some until the next summer, 
choose the most firm, put them in a jar, and cover 
with cold fresh vinegar ; tie thick paper several 
thicknesses over. 

To Pickle Onions. — Peel the onions until they 
are white, scald them in strong salt and water, 
then take them up with a skimmer ; make vinegar 
enough to cover them, boiling hot, strew over the 
onions whole pepper and white mustard seed, pour 
the vinegar over to cover them, when cold, put 
them in wide mouthed bottles, and cork them close. 
A tablespoonful of sweet oil may be put in the bot- 
tles before the cork. 

The best sort of onions for pickling, are the small 
white buttons. 

To Pickle Nasturtions. — Pick them, and put 
them in glass bottles, with cold vinegar to cover 
them ; a little salt may be added. 

Another Way to Pickle Onions. — Peel the 
onions, boil some strong salt and water, and put it 
over them, cover, and let 'them stand twenty-four 
hours, then take them up with a skimmer ; make 
some vinegar boiling hot, put to it whole pepper 
and mustard seed, and pour it over the onions to 
cover them ; when cold, cover close. 

To Pickle Plums Like Olives. — Make a 
piekle of vinegar, mustard seed, and a little salt, 
make it boiling hot, then put it over green plums, 
gathered before they begin to turn, let them remain 
one night, then drain off "the vinegar, make -it hot 



392 PEACHES PICKLED. 

again, and ponr it over the plums ; when cold, covei 
close. Plums may be taken before the stone is 
formed, and pickled in the same manner. 

To Pickle Green Beans. — Pick sound, ten- 
der green beans, put them in a kettle with salt and 
water, and a very small bit of saleratus, sgt them 
over the fire for a few minutes, to scald, when they 
are a fine green, take them off, take them from the 
water with a skimmer, make vinegar (enough to 
cover them,) boiling hot, put to it mustard seed and 
whole pepper, turn it over the beans, let them re- 
main until the next day, then drain off the vinegar, 
add a very small bit of alum, make it hot, and 
again pour it over the beans. Keep them in glass 
jars with tin covers. 

To Pickle Walnuts and Butternuts. — 
Gather the nuts when so young that you may 
pierce them with a pin, put them in water to cover 
them, and change it every day for three weeks, to 
extract the bitterness ; to enough vinegar to cover 
them, put cloves, alspice, and mustard seed, and 
salt, make it boiling hot, and put it over the wal- 
nuts ; let them remain for a day or two, then boil 
it again ; boil it and put it over three times. 

Or after soaking them in water as directed, put 
them in salt and water, with vine leaves, and a bit 
of saleratus, let them scald up once, then take them 
out, and pour the boiling vinegar over ; drain it 
off after twenty-four hours, boil it up, and again pour 
it over the pickle ; repeat the scalding ones again. 

Peaches Pickled. — Brush the down from green 
peaches, cling-stones, put them in salt and water, 
with leaves and a bit of saleratus, set them over a 
moderate fire to simmer slowl}-, until they are a 



TOMATO CATUSUP. 393 

fine green, then take them out, wipe them dry, and 
smooth the skins ; take enough vinegar to cover 
them, put to it whole pepper, alspice, and mustard 
seed, make it boiUng hot, and turn it over the 
peaches ; repeat the scalding three successive days. 

Walnut Catsup. — Bruise to a mass, one hun- 
dred and twenty green walnuts, gathered when a 
pin could pierce one ; put to it three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good vinegar; stir 
them every day for a fortnight, then strain and 
squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and 
set it aside, put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, 
and let it stand all night, then strain and squeeze 
them as before ; put the liquor from them to that 
which was put aside, add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce 
of nutmeg sliced, and half an ounce of ginger, and 
boil it for half an hour closely covered, then strain 
it ; when cold, bottle it for use. 

Secure the botdes with new corks, and dip them 
in melted rosin. 

To Make Cider Vinegar. — After cider has 
become too sour for use, set it in a warm place, put 
to it occasionally the rinsings of the sugar basin or 
molasses jug, and any remains of ale or cold 
tea ; let it remain with the bung open, and 
you will soon have the best of vinegar. 

Tomato Catsup. — Take one gallon of skinned 
tomatoes, four tablespoonsful of salt, four ditto of 
whole black pepper, half a spoonful of alspice, eight 
pods of red pepper, and three spoonsful of mustard, 
boil them together for one hour, then strain it 
through a sieve or coarse cloth, and when cold, bot 
tie for use ; have the besr velvet corks. 



394 TO PICKLE BEETS. 

Another Tomato Catsup. — Take ripe tomatoes 
to fill ajar, put them in a moderate oven, and bake 
them until they are dissolved, then strain them 
through a coarse cloth or sieve ; to every pint ot 
juice put a pint of vinegar, half an ounce of garlic 
sliced, quarter of an ounce of salt, and the same of 
white pepper finely ground ; boil it for oue hour, 
then rub it through a sieve, boil it again to the con- 
sistence of cream ; when coUl, bottle it, put a tea- 
spoonful of sweet oil in each bottle, cork them 
tight and keep in a dry place. 

Oyster Catsup. — Take fine fresh oysters, rinse 
them in their own liquor, then pound them in a 
marble mortar, and to a pint of 03'ster put a pint of 
sherry wine ; boil them up, add an ounce of salt, 
two drachms of cayenne pepper, let it boil up once 
again, rub ii through a sieve ; when cold, put it in 
bottles and cork and seal them. 

To Make Mustard. — Put a large tablespoonful 
of the fiour of mustard into a teacup, with a large 
saltspoonful of salt, mix with it gradually enough 
cold water to make a smooth, quite thin paste. 

To Pickle Red Cabbage. — Cut the cabbage in 
thin slices across, put a layer of it in a stone pot, 
strew a little pepper and salt over, then put another 
iayer of sliced cabbage, strew it with salt and pep- 
per, and so continue, until you have enough, then 
cover with cold vinegar; turn a plate (large enough 
to cover it) upon the cabbage and cover the pot. 

To Pickle Beets. — Wash beets in cold water, 
take them of as nearl}^ one size as possible ; boil 
them according to the size, from three quarters of 
an hour to an hour and a half, then take them into 



TO PICKLE TOMATOES. 395 

a pan of cold water, rub off the skins with youi 
hands, then cut them in halves or quarters, length- 
wise, and put them into cold vinegar, with whole 
pepper and some salt. Beets must not be cut be- 
fore boihng, only washed clean ; old beets which 
have been kept in earth should be put in soak the 
night before boilinir. 

To Pickle Tomatoes. — Take the round smooth 
green tomatoes, put them in salt and water, covei 
the vessel and j)ut them over the tire to scald ; thai 
is, to let the water become boiling hot, then set the 
kettle off; take them from the pot into a basin oi 
cold water; to enough cold vinegar to cover them, 
put whole pepper and mustard seed; when the 
tomatoes are cold take them from the water, cut 
each in two across, shake out the seeds and wipe 
the inside dry with a cloth, then put them into glass 
jars, and cover with the vinegar, cork them close 
or with a close fitting tin cover. 

Radish Pods. — Pickle these the same as beans 

A few hints on the Management of Pickles, Freservcd 
Fruit, ^'c. 

Pickles should always have vinegar enough to 
cover them ; those intended for immediate use, 
should be kept in wide top stoneware pots orjars : 
keep a cloth folded upon the pickles, and the pot 
covered with a plate or wooden vessel managed in 
the same way; pickles should occasionally be 
looked over, that the softest ana least likely to keep 
well, may be used first. Store pickles or those 
intended for use the following summer, should oe 
assorted IVom the remainder when first made • 
choose those most firm and equal sized, out them 



39C TO PRESERVE PICKLES. 

into stone or glass ware, with fresh vinegar to cover 
them ; cover the vessel close with several thick- 
nesses of paper over, or a tin cover, or if wide 
mouthed bottles are used, cork them tight. 

Beans, radish pods, tomatoes, small cucumbers, 
green plums and nasturtions may be put in a jar 
together for as:?orted pickles, with a few onions if 
liked ; it is generally preferable to keep onions 
separately, since there are many persons to whom 
they are extremely offensive. 

Mangoes should be kept in a jar or pot by them- 
selves. Green peppers should be kept separate 
from other pickles ; if put with cucumbers, they are 
known to lose taste, whilst the ])ickles become too 
strong for eating ; five or six peppers amongst two 
or three hundred cucumbers will make them sufti- 
<;iently strong. 

Should the vinegar on pickles become white oi 
weakened, turn it off", scald and skim it and return 
it to them either hot or cold. Pickles should be 
taken from the vinegar with a. wooden spoon or 
fork ; stirring them up by putting in the hand will 
spoil the vinegar. 

The vessels in which pickles have been, whethei 
of glass, wood, or stone, will never be fit lor pre- 
served fruit ; M'hatever be tlie cause, they will 
surely spoil if put in them. Afier the pickles are 
used, throw out the vinegar, wash the vessels 
first in cold water, then pour hot water into ihem, 
cover and let it remain until cold, then wash, wipe, 
and dry them near the fire or in the sun, and set 
them away for future use ; wof)den ware will re- 
quire to be wet occasionally, or to be kept in a 
damp place, that they may not beconie leaky. 

Should catsups seem frothy or loam, put them in 
a bright brass or porcelain kettle over the fire, boil 
slowly, and skim until no more rises, then turn it 



TO PRESERVE PICKLES. 397 

into an earthen vessel to cool, after which, put it in 
bottles and stop them tight. 

A cool dark closet is the best place for pickles, 
catsups, and preserves. 

Preserves should be disturbed as little as possible ; 
for this reason, it is best to keep them in small 
vessels, that not more than enough for three or four 
times use will be disturbed ; take them out with a 
silver spoon. 

Mrs. Cowino's Peach Pickles. — Take ripe 
sound clitig-stone peaches, remove the down with 
a brush like a clothes brush ; make a gallon of good 
vinegar hot, add to it four pounds of brown sugar, 
boil and skim it clear ; slick five or six cloves into 
each of the peaches, then pour the vinegar hot over 
them, cover the vessel, and set it in a cold place 
for eight or ten days, then drain off the vinegar, 
make it hot, skim it, and again turn it over the 
peaches ; let tiiem become cold, then put them inuo 
glass jars, and secure as directed for preserve*. 
Free-stone peaches may be used. 

FicivLED Plcms. — Take any sort of plums — dam- 
sons are best — assort them that all may be sound, 
and put them into a stone jar or pot; to a gallon of 
good vinegar put four pounds of clean brown su- 
gar, make it boiling hot, skim it clear, and pour it 
over the plums to nearly or quite cover them ; cover 
the vessel and set it by for a day or two ; then drain 
off the liquid, set it to boil again, skim it clear, and 
pour it over the fruit, as before directed ; let it re- 
main, as before, then put the whole together into a 
preserving kettle, set it over a slow lire, and let 
them simmer until the syrup is quite a jelly ; then 
turn them into jell}^ pots, and when cold, cover with 
paper, and keep the same as currant jelly, in a cool 
dry place. 



R E jM A R K S 



ARRANGEMENT AND FURNITURE OF THE BREAKFAST 
AND DINING-ROOM FOR FAMILIES. 



The dining or breakfast-room ehould be cool, light, and 
airy, with not much more than the indispensable furniture. 

In summer, the floor covered with a straw-iuattiug or an 
oil-cloth; in winter, with a dark, warm lookinj; carpet. 

A ?i<leboar<J, or narrow tables, at the side or end of the room, 
for the convenience of dessert and changes of dishes; or else 
have duiiil) waites-s, (which are stands supporting large trays ) 

Most modern houses are built with sliding-closets : when 
the dining-room is above the kitchen, this is almost indispen- 
sable : or, the waiters' pantry — between the dining room and 
kitctien — has an open communicalion with it, that the dishes 
may be passed to and from the cook, without the delay and 
awkwardness of opening and shutting the doors: or, when 
there are no servants in attendance, it is convenient to have 
the dessert arranged on a tiay covered with a white napkin, 
and placed on a stand or small table at the left hand of the 
mistress or head of the tai)le, and one on the other hand, for 
receiving empty plates, &c. 

For Breakfast, 

Have a white cloth, with the folds regular and perceptible ; 
let each dish be polished with a soft napkin as it is placed 
nt)on the table, otherwise there is apt to be a dimness, from 
having been put together before they were perfectly dried ; 
and further, to remove the traces of the necessary handling, 
in putting them to their places and returning them to the table. 

The plates may be put in a ]jile at the left hand of the car- 
ver, or at regular inteivals ai'ound the lalde. A vjist difl'erence 
nsay be made in the appearance and neatness of the table, by 
the manner in which the knives and forks, and spoons, and 
other paraphernalia, are placed. 

The coflce-urn or jiot should have on its brightest face, and 
rU the recommeudativc warmth of its nature — reudy for a free 



BREAKFAST. 399 

outpouring; the cream or hoilcci uiilk shmilcl not Inck heat, 
au(i, not "to waste its sweetness" on the unappreciatin^ air, 
should be contained in a covered pitcher of tin or other metal; 
the sugar-hasia, whether of the same as the other dishes, or 
of metal, should he bright and covered, with a large-si/.ed tea 
or sugar-'jpoon beside it ; the cups and saucers may be placed 
in heaps of three, within the circle of the sugar, slop, and 
cream veaseis. Let the urn or coffee-pot be set at the right- 
liand side of the one who serves it; and if tea is used, let it 
he placed on the same side iu a line with it; the one to be 
least called for, to stand at the outer corner of the tray — which 
may be placed at the middle of the broadside of the table, or 
at one end. 

Before putting; the dishes on it, the tray should be covered 
with a white n;ii)kin, fringed at the ends. 

Small napkins or doyles, folded in four and ironed very 
smoothly, maybe laid at each plate, which should be reversed, 
or turned the bottom side up, and the knife and fork at the 
right hand side, or the knife at the side and a silver fork in 
front of the plate. Since so it is, that many Americans dislike 
the use of a silver fork — finding it exceedingly clumsy and 
awkward — it is best to place the one belonging to the knife 
Avith it, at the side of the plate, leaving it optional which to 
make use of. 

Lei the cruet-stand or castor occupy the centre of the table. 
If there are more than five or six persons, have two small plates 
of butter, one at either end of the table, and opposite each 
other: let there be two plates of bread or rolls, or one of either 
of these, and the other place for hot griddle cakes, or corn 
bread, or toast. 

Opposite the tray or head of the table, let the steak, or fry, 
(or whatever principal dish,) be placed, w'nh the carving knife 
and fork before it, and dishes of hominy or boiled rice, or 
mashed potatoes and boiled eggs or hash, opposite each other, 
and the plates of bread, between the steak-dish and tray, hav- 
ing one of the plates of butter betw ecu each two, and the castor 
in the centre; also one or two salt-stands filled with tine salt 
and neatly marked with a teaspoon or otherwise, and a salt- 
epoon across each, may be placed diagonally opposite each 
other. These, with a pitcher of ice-water and several tum- 
blei"s, occupying the corners of the table on either side of tho 
carver, complete the breakfast-table. 

Jf there is a servant or waiter in attendance, let such stand 
at the left liand of the mistress or head of the table, with a 
small tray, and pass the cuj)s to and from her, presenting it 
at the left-hanil. 



400 WIN'TF.R BRKAKFAST. 

by ihc ri;^ht hand, without tur.iin;^; it is very awkward to re- 
ceive it at the other hand, beiiiy; obliged to pass back the elbow, 
and, ir ill the least embarrassed, iudau-^er ol' tilting the cup. 

Bills nf Fare comprising some of the 7navTi combinations suitable for 
simple fiiiiiihj brcalifasls. For the relief of young housekeepers 

CofTee and tea, or chocolate, either or both ; broiled beef- 
steak, or veal or latidj, fried or itroiied ; with boiled hominy 
or mashed potatoes, or potatoes fried, baked, or roasted ; and 
shccd wheat bread and corn breakfast-cakes or griddle-cakes. 

IJroiled or fried chicken; or clatns stewed, or fritters, or 
fried; or broiled or fried ham, with eggs fried, boiled, poached, 
or ornlet; with mashed or fried potatoes, and such warm 
and cold bread as may be desired. 

Salt or fresh fish, fried or broiled, and hot rolls or cold bread, 
with tea or coti'ee, constitute a very popular family breakfast 
in summer; there may be the addition of such a variety of 
bread, hot or cold, as may be preferred; and mashed, or fried, 
or roasted potatoes; or boiled hominy; also dressed cucum- 
bers, or stewed tomatoes, and stewed fruit or ripe berries. 

Clam omlet will generally be liked by those who are fond 
of clams. 

Green sweet corn, boiled, and served with cold meat or 
steaks, is suitable for breakfast. Smoked beef, fried or friz- 
zled, or salt cad, relish; or a bit of salmon or smoked shad, broil- 
ed, with the other requisites, make a nice relishing breafast. 

Hashed meat, or meat and potato hash, is suitable at any 
time, and with any other dishes. 

Hot rolls or nuitfins, warm biscuits, velvet cakes or bread 
cakes, and twisted bread or rye bread, or short cakes, are 
some of the varieties of bread for summer breakfasts, together 
Avith dry and milk toast. 

Bread for breakfast should be cut in slices nearly half an 
inch thick, and arranged neatly on a folded napkin or doyle, 
on flat plates. Rye bread one day olil, cut in this way, is 
much liked. 

None but the best sweet butter should be brought to the 
breakfast or tea-table. 

For JVinttr Breakfasts. 

Fried oysters ; or soft-shell clams, fried; or fried or broile(f 
chicken ; or tripe, broiled or fried ; with boiled hominy, or hot 
torn bread and rolls; and tea or coffee. 

Buckwheat griddle-cakes, with friod steaks, ham, or sail- 



TEA IN SUMMER. 401 

saj^vrs, or cold meat or hash, are a popular breakfast for winter 
With many families, buckwheat cakes are the constant break- 
fast, with some little varieties of meat, and tea or coffee, during 
the winter. It will be found more healthful to vary occasion 
ally, with corn ;^riddle-cakes, or muffins, or some other hot 
cakes. The best of sweet butter, and syrup, should be served 
with these cakes. 

Hea'l-cheese, with rolls and coffee, make a nice breakfast ; 
also fried sausages; or meat or cod-fish cakes. A shoulder o( 
lamb may be boned and broiled ; or a breast may be uicelv 
and tho"oughly broiled ; or lamb or chickens stewed. 

Cold meat, sliced, and fried potatoes, and parsnips, fried; 
with boiled hominy, or corn bread or griddle-cakes, may be liked. 



Pine Apple cut and sugared for serving dt tea or dessert. 

Pare off the roagli outside and cut it in thick small pieces 
rather than slices, and strew them plentifully with pulverized 
white sugar, an hour or two before serving. 

Oranfjts cut in the same manner to serve for dessert or 
supper. 

Lxincheons^ Suppers^ and Desserts require similar prepara- 
tion and arrangement, with the addition of cold meats, salads, 
sardines, &c., or oysters fi ied, stewed, or roasted, or any of 
the other thousand-and-one tit-bits too numerous to men- 
tion. 



Arrangement of Table and Bills of Fare for Tea. 

SUMMER. 
Let a pure white cloth be neatly laid ; let the tray be covered 
with a white napkin ; and on it, as for breakfast, the sugar, 
cream, and sloi)-basin, containing the spoons and the cups 
and saucers within them. Let it be placed in the middle of 
one side or at one end. Put around the tables as many small 
plates as may be wanted, with a small knife in front oV each, 
or at its side; at the other end or side, opposite the tray, let 
the dish of ripe or stewed fruit be set, witli a large spoon and 
a pile of small saucers in front or at tlie side of it. Qu either 
side, at some little distance from it, let there be plates, with 
bread sliced, about the eighth of an inch in thickness; or let 
one dish be of hot wigs, or rusk, or tefVrbispuit, Let a fine iRould 
26 



402 BTNIVER TABLE. 

of butler occu|)y the centre of the table; let its knife be beside 
it; and on each side a small plate, the one with cold meat, 
ham, or tongue, sliced thin, (and a fork to helj) it;) the other 
with sliced cheese, or a fresh [)otchecse. A pitcher o( ice- 
water, with small tumi)ler3 surrounding it, may occupy pue 
corner, and a basket or plate of cake the other. 

Or a glass-dish of custard may occupy the place mentioned 
for the fruit, and it (the fruit) be distributed in small saucers, 
with line white sugar heaped on the centre of each, and placetl 
upon each plate : this gives the table a very pretty appear- 
ance. Or, the custard baked in small cups, may occupy the 
places of the .saucers of fruit. 

Smoked beef, chopped thin, or Bologna sausages, sliced, may 
be served at tea; also, cheese; this may be sliced or grated. 

For Winter Tea-Table. 

The same appurtenances, with the addition of forks, are 
requisite, with perhaps an urn of coffee, for winter tea-table. 

Oysters pickled, in the place of cold meat, or stewed in the 
place of fruit, or instead of the stew, a bit of broiled fish, or 
ham or fried oysters, with hot tea-biscuit, and rusks or wigs, 
and stewed or pieserved fruit, and fancy cakes. 

Gratetl cocoanut, with tart |)reserves, or currant jelly, or 
cranbeiry jam, may be served thus: grate the white meat of 
a cocoanut, and put it in a flat glass dish, then turn a mould 
of jelly upon the middle of it. 

The Dinner-Table. 

rhis requires quite a different arrangement, not having the 
tray of cups, etc. 

First, lay the cloth smoothly and evenly, place the castor in 
the centre, with a glass salt dish at some little distance on 
either siile of it ; lay the plates around the table at regular and 
proper distances, leaving elljow roon- for each person, turn ihe 
[dates down 'as directeil for breakfast, set a tnMii)ler on e:u-h 
plate, with a fringed napkin, in which is folded a piece of 
bread, cvu an inch thick and two ;ind a half inches long, or a 
cold roll instead ; place the na|ikin in the tund)ler, or upon tiie 
phue, and the tumbler on the cloth in front of it ; put a knife 
at the side of the jdate and the silver fork in front. 

When two dishes of me it are served, one should be roa-^t, 
and the other stewed, fried, or boiled, or cold, and placed one at 
ejtjier ead of the table ; a boiled fish or moat pie, or poultry, 



DINNEH TABLte. 403 

may occupy o.ie end of the table instead ; boiled potatoes and 
spinach may be served with and placed in front of roast beef 
or veal, and mashed potatoes and pickles, or a dressed salad 
with cold meat, with such other vegetables as may he in sea- 
son ; boiled beets or asparagus may be served instead of spin- 
ach; and peas and new potatoes with land); a small plate of 
butter or a fancy mould, and a plate with a doyle spread over 
it, with properly cut bread and a pitcher of ice water, may be 
dispensed in the intermediate places, or at the corners. When 
the meat and vegetables are removed, let the table be brushed 
free from crumbs with a small table brush on to a small tray. 

For the dessert, have a large tray covered with a white nap- 
kin, on which place the pastry, puddings, and small plates, 
with the spoons, knives, and fork{» for dessert, as many as there 
may be persons ; let fruits, nuts, and creams, auil jelly or 
blancmange, be distributed over the table as may be, also the 
pastry and puddings, plates, etc.; if there are pies and pud- 
dings, or cream, let there be a knife, fork, and spoon and plate 
and saucer, foreac^h person. 

For a dinner of invited friends without much ceremony, 
pies or tarts and cheese, and some fruit or nuts and raisins, or 
pudding or blancmange and jelly, or jam or icecream, is amply 
sulHcient. 

For family dinner, the dessert is generally of one of these, 
or melon, or boiled rice with a sauce, or some other simple 
dessert, of which a great manj^ may be found in this book. A 
successive variety of fish, flesh, and fowl, is conducive to 
health, besides pleasing one's palate. 

For large dinners, soup is always the first dish, and after it 
is fish or l)oiled meat, witli potatoes, plain, boiled, and mashed, 
and such sauces as may be proper with the fish and meat; after 
these come the roasts, with every vai-iety of seasonable vegeta- 
ble ; small dishes of filed or stewed meat or poultry, and oys- 
ter and meat pie or chicken-salad and currie, sweetbreads and 
ragout, may be intersj)crsed throughout the table, those oppo 
site each other to be tlished in like manner, to give the whole 
a tasteful and regular appearance, with the castors, butter and 
salt stands, of which last there should be one to every foui 
pbrsons. 

.After these are done with, the cloth is cleared, and the 
crumbs and bits of bread are brushed from it on to a small 
salver by means of a tai)le brush; then is placed the dessert. 

Whatever pyramids or other ornaments there may be, 
should be [ilaced, the most conspicuous and oiaifimental in the 
centre, and others (of which there should be duplicates) in 
either side of it, at greater or less tlistance apart, according i) 



404 CHRISTMAS DIiVJjER. 

the aumber of them ; next distribute the pastry regularly, 
according to the several varieties ; uext, the puddings and 
blancmange or charlotte de russe, or fruit and icecream; and 
lastly, nuts and raisins, or grapes ami jellies, instead of char- 
lotte de russe. 

jBt7/s of Fare for Ceremonious Family Dinners^ 



At one end of the table, a tureen of soup with a pile of 
plates beside it, or a boiled fish with potatoes and its proper 
sauce — at the other end, a roast of meat or poultry with pota- 
toes and seasonable vegetables. For dessert, pastry, with 
pudding, or ripe fruit, or nuts and raisins. 

A roast of meat, or a boiled and roasted ham, with mashed 
potatoes and spinach or asparagus, at one end, and a boiled 
lobster and lettuce, or a lobster salad with bread, butter, &c., 
at the other. Dessert — boiled pudding or rice, with a sauce; 
pastry may be added ; or, instead of any of these, a baked pud- 
ding or custard, and paste cakes or jelly tarts. 

A fine boiled fish, with potatoes and sauce, and a meat pie 
or pot pie with pickles or salad ; with pastry and ripe fruit or 
melon, or a boiled pudding or boiled rice. Pine apple may 
be pared and sliced or cut small, and strewed plentifully with 
sugar an hour before serving. 

Holiday Dinners. 

Great attention should be paid to the arrangement of theta- 
We, which should abound in appropriate ornaments, such as 
evergreens for Christmas and New Year, national emblematic 
devices for F'ourth of July, &c. 

Roast turkey and mince pies for Christmas and New Year, 
are with us what roast beef aud plum pudding are to the Eng- 
lish. 

To Arrange a Christmas Dinner. 

Place a high pyramid of evergreens (made as before direot- 
ed) in the centre of the table. Let a roasted turkey of uncom- 
mon s^ze occupy the middle or centre of one side of the table, 
on one end let there be a cold boiled ham, and at the other, 
fricasseed chicken or a roast pig; with the turkey serve 
mashed potatoes and turnips, boiled onions and dressed celery, 
or other salad with apple sauce — near the ham j)lace fried or 
ma bed potatoes and jnckles or miMigocs : and with the ])ig or 



FOURTH OF JULY DINNER. 405 

* 

fricassee, the same as ^\ith the turkey; large pitchers of sweet 
cider (or where that is not desired, ice water) should be placed 
diagoiinlly opposite each other, on two corners of the table; 
boiled turkey with oyster sauce may occupy the place of the 
Tricassee, or instead, a fine oyster pie. 

For dessert, tiiere should be one or Xv^o verylar^e and orna- 
mental mince pies, one sufficiently large that each of the com- 
pany may be helped from it, in tokeu of common interest, is 
desirable. 

Icecreams and jellies and jams and ripe fruits and nuts, 
with sweet cider and syrup water of different sorts, or wines, 
complete the dessert. Biscuit and jelly sandwich may be 
served at dessert, or paste puff's and charlotte de russe or 
blancmange with stands of jelly. 

'Ntw Ytafs Dinner — a Cold Collation. 

In New York city, where it is the custom for ladies to remain 
at home to receive the calls of their gentlemen friends, there 
is no time nor occasion for dinners ; should it be desirable, it 
would be similar to that for Christmas, or instead — a cold 
roasted turkey, (bone it if you can) cold boiled ham or tongue, 
a large glass salad-bowl of i)ickled oysters, or an oyster pio 
with dressed celery or a chicken salad, with jelly puffs and 
tarts and small mince pies, blancmange, de russe and jellies 
and icecream and fancy cakes, with syrup water and orgeat or 
lemonade for temperance, or wines and punch. 

The manner of celebrating New Year's day by calls, is a 
peculiarity of our own, and having so few which are " native 
here," many of our wisest and best, have wished that this might 
in no wise be slighted. Many a feud-divided family have been 
united, and misunderstanding friends been brought together, 
under the all-pervading hospitality and genial influence which 
distinguishes the day. 

Fourth of July. 

There is generally a cold collation on this day. 

Let the centre of the table be ornamented by a pyramid of 
evergreens or laurel, which may he made thus: make a stand 
or frame not lees than three *'eet high, make a long wreath of 
the richest laurel or evergreens, and beginning at the top, 
wind it around the frame until the bottom is reached ; at the 
eummit, let there lie a miniature flag of our country, or a smnli 
bust or statue of Washington, and at regular distances down- 
ward, small silk flags with the coat of arms and mottoes (.f 



406 CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

• 
each several State in tlio T.'nion; or instead of the flap;9, take 
as many streamers of diU'ereiit sliailes of ccdored ri!)l)on3 as 
there are Stares, or stars cut from gold or silver paper. The 
flags may he |);tinted hy ladies wliose national feelings and 
talents inspire them to the work. — A cold l)oiled ham and cold* 
roasted poultry may he placed on one end of the tahle, 
or at the middle of one side, and lobster and chicken salads at 
the sides or end, with hread and butter sandwich and crackers 
and soda biscuit ; such |)asty, jelly tans, jellies, floating island 
or hlaucmange and baskets of cut cake and maccaroons, as 
may be desired, may he distributed around the tahle ; and 
syrup water and lemonade, with a fine bowl of temperance 
beverage and bottled soda, which will generally leave a mora 
clear recollection, than wines, cordials, and champagne. 

Thanksgiving Dinner. 

The suhstantials for Thanksgiving dinner are similar to 
those for Christmas, whilst pumpkin pie crowns the dessert, 
(see Thanksgiving pie,) and the pyramids are of maca- 
roons, &c. 

A Fine Temperance Beverage. 

To the juice of a dozen fine fresh lemons, pressed so as to 
extract the et^sence from the skins, j>ut one pound of double 
refined sugar; to one quart of picked raspberries or strawber- 
ries (or a pint of preserved fruit), put half a pound of fine 
sugar — pare a ripe pine apple and cut it in thin slices, and 
each slice in four or six pieces, and put with it half a pound of 
sugar; stir the lemon juice with the sugar until it is all dis- 
solved, crush the strawberries, and slightly bruise the pine- 
apple; put the lemi.u into a large bowl, and add to it three 
quarts of ice water, tiien add the strawberry and pine-apj)le. 
stir it until ihc sugar is all dissolved, then set the bowl on ice 
for an hour before serving. Dip it from the bowl into small 
tumblers, three parts fill them, and serve with sponge cake cut 
small, I'alo Alto cakes and small sugar cakes. 

|{(<ttled fruit, or pine-appie preserved without cooking, may 
be used in winter. 

Champagne Punzh 

May i)e made as above directed, with the addition of a bottle 
of champagne. Or another pumdimay be made by putting to 
the Temperance Beverage, of brandy and rum half a pint 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 407 

each, or more according to the quantity required. Sprigs of 
fresh green mint added to it, and put into a tumbler half tilled 
with tiiiely chipped ice, with glass tubes for sipping it, will 
make mint julap. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 
MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

To Makk Watkr Grukl. — Put a quart of water or milk 
into a ste\v-i)an, and set it over the fire : into a pint bowl put 
a heapin-; t.ildespoonfnl of sweet corn meal, an<l a small tea- 
spoonful of Salt, make it a smooth hotter with milk; when the 
water or milk in the stew i)an is '.loilinj^ iiot, stir it into ihe bat- 
ter, and let it boil s:ent!y for half an hour; when served, it may 
be sweetened with loaf sug;ar and a little nutmeji; grated over. 
for a relaxed state of the system, or sweeten with brown sugar, 
make it with water, and boil a fevv raisins with it, Avhen the 
opposite is the c;ise. A bit of butter and a wineglass of wine, 
or a tablespoonful of brandy, m;iy be added to water gruel, 
when it is wanted for a strengthening nourishment. VV^ater 
gruel is generally given after a dose of castor oil, or after an 
emetic, or almost any thorough medicine. 

OAT-?>lEAri Gruel. — Make precisely as directed for corn 
meal ; these gruels, made thus, are extremely nourishing and 
grateful to the palate, with only salt or sugar, &c. Infants, 
before weaning, and immediately after, are apt to be font! of 
gruel or pauada 

Arrowroot. — This is vnry nourishing and light, either for 
invalids or infants; make it with milk or water — put a pint of 
either into a stew-p;in, make it boiling hot, add a saltspoonfui 
of salt, put a heaped teaspoonfnl of grdund Bermuda arrow- 
root into a cup, make it smooth with cold milk, stir it into the 
stew-pan, and let it simmer for two »r three minutes: then 
turn it into a bowl, s^veeten ami grate nutmeg over, if liked ; 
should it i)e prefeir&d thin, use less arrowroot. 

This shoidd he made only as much as is wanted at a time, 
since it will become as thin as wnter if heated over. Arrow- 
root may be made in small nuantities, by ndxing a teaspoouful 



408 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

smooth in a cup Aviih cold water or milk, tben pour upon it, 
stirring it all the time, boiling milk or water to make it thiok 
or thinner to your taste — add a few grains of salt and sugar to 
taste. 

Carragan Moss. — Wash and pick a tablespoonful of Irish 
moss, and put it into a tin cup, pour on it half a pint of boiling 
water, and set it on a stove or coals for a sh.ort time ; when it 
is all dissolved, add sugar and nutmeg to taste. This may he 
made with milk, to resemble custard, and is wonderfully nour- 
ishing and delicate. Delicate infants may be fed on it when 
they win take no other nourishment. 

Arrowroot Blancmange. — Put a quart of milk to boil, 
take an ounce of Bermuda arrowroot ground fine, make it a 
smooth batter with cold milk, add a teaspoouful of salt; when 
the milk is boiling hot, stir the batter into it, continue to stir it 
over a gentle fire (that it may not be scorched) for three or 
four minutes, sweeten to taste with double refined sugar, and 
flavor with lemon extract or orange flower water, or boil a 
stick of cinnanion or vanilla bean in the milk before putting in 
the arrowroot; dip a mould into cold water, strain the blanc- 
mange through a muslin into the mould, when perfectly cold 
turn it out ; serve currant jelly or jam with it. 

Rice-Flour Blancmange. — Make as directed for arrow- 
root blancmange, a small teacupful of ground rice to a quart of 
milk. 

Thickened Milk, {Milk Soup.) — Put a quart of milk over 
the fire to boil, put a teacupful of wheat flour into a basin, 
sprinkle over it enough water to make it damp, then work it 
between the hands until it forms in small smooth rolls, put a 
teaspoonful of salt to the milk, and when it is boiling hot, stir 
in the flour, let it boil gently for ten or twelve minutes, then 
turn it into a tureen, add sugar and nutmeg if liked, or without 
either. 

This is very light and nourishing for invalids or chiidren, 
except in cases of constipation, which boiled milk increases. 

Milk Porridge. — Make a quart of milk boiling hot: make 
a tablespoonful of wheat flour, a smooth batter with cold milk; 
add a teaspoonful of salt, and stir it into the boiling milk ; 
contiinic to stir it for five minutes then put it into a basin or 
tureen; sweeten to taste; flavor with nutmeg or cinuamcn 
'i'his is very nourishing and agreeable either for cJiildren or 



MISCKLLANEOUS KECEIPTS. 409 

adult?. Sweetened with loaf sugar, and nutmeg grated plenti- 
fully over it, will make it a most excellent remeily for loose- 
ness or dysentery. Or, boiled milk without the thickeniug, 
sweetened with loaf sugar, and flavored with grated nutmeg, 
has the same elTect. 

Buttermilk Pop. — Make a quart of buttermilk boiling hot, 
wet a tablespoonful of corn meal or wheat flour, and make it 
a smooth batter with water, and stir it into the milk, with a 
teaspoonful of salt; continue to stir it for five minutes when 
wheat flour is used, or fifteen when it is made with corn meal. 
Sweeten to taste with sugar or syrup, and add nutmeg or 
ground cinncimou, if liked. This is eaten with bread broken 
into it. 

Grkkn CoRff Soop, (very e.xctlhnt.) — Cut the corn from 
the col), (sweet corn to be preferred;) put it into a stew-pan, 
with a quarter more of sweet milk; aild a teaspoonful of salt; 
let it boil gently for half an hour, then add a bit of sweet but- 
ter the size of an cgs,, and pepper to taste ; and serve with 
rolls or toast. A blade of mace may be added to the flavor if 
liked. 

Toast Water —Cut a slice from a wheat loaf; toast it 
dry and brown without burning; put it into a pitcher, and 
pour over it a pint or more of water. A very little lemon- 
juice may be added to it, with sugar, if desired. 

Apple-Water. — Cut tart apples quite small ; pour boiling 
water over them, and set it w here it will simmer gently for 
half an hour; then strain off the liquor; sweeten to taste, and 
serve. Or, take baked apples, and finish in the same manner. 

Baked Apples. — Put tart or sweet apples into a pan, and 
set it into a moderate oven for nearly an hour, or a full hour 
for sweet apples, until they are soft enough to mash. 

Lemon Water. — Cut a small fresh skin lemon in very thin 
slices; put them into a pitcher, pour a pint of boiling v/ater 
over; cover it, and let it stand until cold; then sweeten to 
taste, and serve 

« 

To Mull Cider. — Take a pint of sweet cider; resei^^'e a 
teaciipfui of it; then to the remainiler put an equal quantity 
of water, and set it to boil, with a teaspoonful of whole alspice; 
beat three eggs very light, and by degrees stir the cold cider 

R 



410 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

to them; then stir them into the foiling cider aiul water; con- 
tinue to atir it uiilii smooth; sweeten to taste; ijrate a little 
nutmeg over, and serve hot in tumblers, with doug,hauts or 
crullers. , 

Mulled Wine. — Make the same as directed to mull cider, 
of port, or Madeira. 

Rice Milk. — Wash a large teaspoonful of rice, and put it 
to 3 quart of sweet inilU, with a teaspoonful of salt; cover it. 
and set it over the fire for nearly an hour : then take it up : 
add sugar to taste, with nutmeg or ground cinnamon. 

Sago. — Let it soak for an hour or more in cold water, tc 
take olTthe eariliy taste; then rinse it through another water; 
put a teacupful into a dish ; pour over it a quart of boiling wa 
ter, and let it boil gently for nearly an hour; then sweeten to 
taste ; grate nutmeg over, and serve — or, serve with a sauce. 

Sago Mile. — Soak the sago ; then finish as rice milk. 

Tapioca.-— Make as direc;.ed for rice. 

Barley Water. — Put a 'arge tablespoonfnl of well-wash- 
ed ])ear!barley into a pitcher; pour over it boiling water; 
cover it, and let it remain till cold ; ^then drain off the water • 
sweeten to taste, and, if likecfi, add the juice of a lemon, and 
grated nutmeg. 

IJroth, in Haste. — Chop some roast meat or broiled steak 
quite fine: to a teacuplui put a pint or more of boiling water; 
cover it, and set it over a gentle fire for ten minutes; season to 
taste. This broth for invalids or children is both excellent 
and convenient. A cracker may be rolled fine, and pat with 
the meat before putting on the water. 

Pa.nada. — r>reak stale bread or soda crackers small, and 
put them into a bowl ; put a bit of butter to it, and pour boil- 
ing water over, to make it quite wet; work it fine with a sfioon ; 
'•idi\ sugar and nutmeg to taste, and more water, to mi'.ke it 
thiiinei'. Uaisitis, |)icked fiee from stems, fnd rinsed it; cold 
water, may be put io^vith the bread, when there is no objec- 
tion to the eflect produced by them — they being laxative. 

Prunks, Stkwed. — I'inse or wash ihe prunes, as may he 
necessary; then put them into a stew-pan, with a teacuj^ful 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 411 

of clean brown sugar to a pound, and waier more than to cover 
them; cover the pan, and let them stew j;cntly for nearly an 
hour, until they are soft, and the syrup is rich. 

To Removk Stains from thf. Hands. — Dampen the hands 
first in water, then rub them with tartaric acid, or salt of lem- 
ons, as you would with soap; rinse them and rub them dry. 
Tartaric acid, or salt of lemons, will quickly remove stains 
from white muslin or linens. Put less than half a teaspoonful 
of the salt or aciJ into a tahlespoonful of water; wet the stain 
with it, and lay it in the sun for an hour; wet it once or twice 
with cold water during the time : if this does not quite remove 
it, repeat the acid water, and lay it in the sun. Tomato juice 
■will remove stains from the Iiands. 

Tomato Pie. — Take the yellow small tomatoes, ripe but not 
sofr ; pare them with a sharp knife; cut them in two across; 
take out the juice and seeds ; then cut the tomatoes small, 
and season and finish as directed for apple pie. (see page 251.) 

Tomato Tart. — Pare and take the seeds from the tomatoes; 
cut them small, and stew them with sugar and nutmeg, with 
a very little water or lemon juice; make it quite sweet, and 
finish as directed for apple tart, (see page 251.) 

Rhubarb Prkskrve. — Strip off the outer skin; cut the 
stalks in inch lengths, and finish ae directed for tomatoes 

Water-Mklon Pickles. — Prepare the rind of water- 
melon as directed for sweeimeat preserve, and put them into 
cold, spiced vinegar ; or, cut them in strips the length and 
breadth of a finger. 

Large Plums — May be pared with a sharp knife, then pre- 
served the same aa directed for peaches. 

Ribs of Beef. — A fine roasting-piece of beef from the ribs 
may first be boned, which is a great improvement. 

A Fore-Quarteu ok Veal. — The bone may be taken 
from a shoulder of veal, without cutting it off; stuff the place 
of it with potato or bread-stuffing. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS 



RICE PIE. 

Boil a pint of milk, with a pint of cold milk mix smooth- 
\y three heaping tablespoonfuls of rice flour and four well 
beaten eggs, fl.ivor with extract of lemon, (or boil lemon 
peel in the milk), then stir ihe eggs, milk, &c., into the 
boiling milk — sweeten to taste — let it cool ; add a wine- 
glass of Aladeira wine, if liked, and some nutmeg, line 
dishes with pie paste, and finish the same as pumpkin. , 

RICE CaSTARD. 

Boil one quart of milk, to one tablespoonful of rice flour, 
put one beaten egg, and enough of cold milk to make a bat- 
ter, then stir it into the boiling milk, sweeten to taste — add 
nutmeg and peach water or lemon extract, a teaspoonful of 
either, strain it, and serve. 

A FRENCH DESSERT. 

Beat four eggs to a quart of milk, sweeten and flavor to 
taste, cut slices of baker's bread and steep them until 
thoroughly saturated, then fry in hot butter, and serve. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. 

Put two ounces of vermicelli into a quart of milk, and 
boil it over a gentle fire until dissolved, then let it cool, add 
three well beaten eggs, bake in a quick oven for one hour, 
and serve with wine or brandy sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Make a stiff* batter with one quart of milk, and as much 
lifted wheat flour as may be necessary ; add three well 



ORANGE PUDDING. 4l3 

beaten eggs and two ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, tie 
it in a bag, and boil for two hours ; serve with a sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a cofl'ee cup full of tapioca into two quarts of milk, 
and set it near the fire for an hour, or put it in hot milk — 
let it cool, then add six well beaten eggs, sweeten to taste, 
flavor with lemon or peach water or nutmeg, and bake for 
one hour in a hot oven. 

> COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk, when cool, add six well beaten 
eggs and a piece of butter the size of an egg, and the white 
meat of a cocoanut, grated fine, flavour, and sweeten to taste ; 
put it intqja buttered pan ; grate two crackers over, and 
bake in a quick oven — when it is done, it will rise in the 
middle. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Grate a sixpenny loaf of baker's bread, and moisten it 
with milk, then add to it half a teacup of wheat flour, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of brown sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of saleralus, one pound of raisins, stoned, 
one pound of currants, half a pound of citron, one wine 
glass of brandy, one nutmeg, grated, and ground cinnamon 
and alspice, each a teaspoonful — tie it in a cloth, and 
boil for five hours ; serve with a sauce. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil one pound of potatoes, and grate them fine, add half 
a pound of sugar, and six beaten eggs, one wine glass of 
brandy, grated orange peel, cinnamon and nutmeg, each 
a teasooonful — bake in a quick oven, and serve. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One pound of butter with one pound of sugar beaten to a 
froth, eight eggs well beaten, a fresh lemon, grated, (ihe pip 
taken out), the skins of three oranges boiled, and beaten to 
a pulp, and the juice strained ; add the orange and lemon 



414 FLOUR PUDDING BAKED IN CUPS. 

juice after the eggs — add a wineglass of wine or brandy 
and nutmeg — bake in a quick oven. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Eight large pippens, pared, boiled tender, and mashed, 
half a pound of butter, lialf a pound of sugar, six eggs beat- 
en, the juice of a sweet orange, and the rind grated, and a 
glass of wine — bake in a quick oven. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. ^ 

Boil three pints of sweet milk, and stir into it one pint of 
Indian meal, when cold, add five well beaten eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a pound of raisins, stoned, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, sweeten and spice to taste, and 
bake nearly two hours in a quick oven. • 

CHARLIE'S APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding dish well, then put in an inch deep of 
ckopped apples, strew over sugar and spice, with a few 
bits of butter, then an inch deep of bread crumbs or rolled 
crackers, then another layer of apples, spice, &c., and 
lastly crackers or bread crumbs ; then again apples, and so 
fill the dish ; press the whole firmly down by turning a plate 
over it — bake six hours. 

MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. 

Half a pound of grated apples, half a pound of fine white 
sugar, half a pound of butter, six eggs well beaten, the peel 
of one lemon grated, and the strained juice of two ; line 
the dish with pie paste, put the pudding in, and bake in a 
quick oven. ' 

FLOUR PUDDING BAKED IN CUPS. 

Five heaping teaspoonfuls of wheat flour beaten with 
five eggs, add as much milk as will make a thin batter, 
sweeten with two table spoonfuls of sugar, add half a nut- 
meg, g.-ated, and a little lemon extract, bake ia little but- 
tered cups, in a quick oven 



SPONGE CAKE. 415 



PLAIN INDIAN PUDDING. 

Take a quart of milk, boiling hot, stir into it two teacups 
of yf-llow corn meal, add two egiis well beaten, and a tea- 
spoonful of sail, with a teacup of light brown sugar, and a 
bit o( butter the size of an e^rg ; add nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and a little ginger, and bake two hours. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Grate half a pound of carrots, and half a pound of bread, 
add half a nutmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of salt, and the 
same of cinnamon, put to it four table spoonfuls of sugar, 
four well beaten eggs, half a pound of butter, melted, one 
glass of wine and a pint of milk, beat the whole together, 
put it into a buttered dish, sprinkle fine sugar over, and 
bake. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Take three pounds of risen dough, one pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, one pound of currants, six beaten eggs, 
one glass of brandy, one nutmeg, grated, and half a tea- 
spoonful of alspice ; work the butter, sugar and eggs well 
together, then work it into the dough, make it in a loaf, 
and bake the same as bread. 

DROP BISCUITS. 

Take a piece of butter, the size of an egg, one quart of 
milk, four beaten eggs, and to make a batter so thick as to 
drop without running; add grated nutmeg and lemon ex- 
tract — let it stand one hour, then drop it on a floured tin, in 
small cakes, and bake in a quick oven, to a fine brown color. 

A SPONGE CAKE. 

Take twelve eggs, and their weight of sugar, and hall 
their weight of flour, beat the yolks and sugar together, 
then add the flour, and lastly, the white, having beaten them 
lo a high froth, stir them lightly together, add half a grated 
nutmeg, put it into a paper-lined pan, and bake quickly. 



416 COCOANUT CAKE. 



SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 

Take two eggs, with their weight in sugar, and half their 
•weight in flour, flavor with lemon or rose water ; make a 
mixture as for rice pie — put the sponge cake mixture into 
a buttered basin, and when the pie mixture is cold pour it 
over, and bake. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One pound of fine while sugar, one pound of flour, seven 
ounces of sweet butter, beaten to a cream — ihe whites 
of eight eggs beaten to a froth, half a nutmeg, grated, 
and some lemon extract, if liked, or a little rose water — 
bake in a paper-lined pan. Almonds blanched and pounded 
to a paste may be added or substituted for butter. 

ALBANY CAKES. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, half a pound of sugar, 
one teacup of sour milk, one egg, one teacupful of salera- 
tus, dissolved in a little water, one tablespoonful of rose 
■water or brandy, and half a nutmeg, grated, or a teaspoon- 
ful of .ground cinnamon, roll out very thin, and bake in a 
quick oven for ten minutes. 

A GENERAL RULE /OR MAKING SPONGE 
CAKE. 

Take the weight of the eggs used in sugar, and half 
the weight of flour, beat the yolks and sugar together, 
then add the flour, and, lastly, the whites, having beaten 
them to a high froth, stir them thoroughly together, put it 
into a paper-lined basin, or pan, and bake in a quick oven ; 
the cake may be flavored with lemon, rose, or vanilla ex- 
tracts, and a little nutmeg, or with a little brandy. Pounded 
almonds or grated cocoanut, may be added to sponge cake 
mixture. 

A COCOANUT CAKE. 

Grate the white meat of one cocoanut — take half a pound 
of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, six ounces of 



WASHINGTON BREAKFAST CAKE. 417 

butter, and six beaten eggs for the cake, flavor to taste, 
when well beaten, siir in the cocoaniu, and bake as pound 
cake. 

INDIAN BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Take a quart of milk, scalding hot, stir into it as much 
corn meal as will make a thick batter, add of salt and sal- 
eratus, in fine powder, each a teaspootiful, and when a lit- 
tle cooled, two well beaten eggs, bake in buttered pans, in 
a quick oven. 

INDIAN BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Wheat flour, one pint bowlful, Indian or corn meal ditto, 
three well beaten e^gs, one tablespoonful of butler, and 
a piitt of milk — bake in small pans, buttered — a quick 
oven. 

INDIAN CAKES. 

Make a quart of milk boiling hot, stir it into a pint of 
sweet white Indian meal, after it has quite cooled, add four 
beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of wheat flour, one table- 
spoonful of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt ; bake in shal- 
low pans in a quick oven. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart of milk, one pint of corn meal, four well beaten 
eggs, four lablespoonfuls of flour, and one teas|)oonful of 
salt, beat it well together, and bake on a griddle or in a 
pan. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk, a bit of butter the size of a large nut, 
two well beaten ejrgs, and two lablespoonfuls of yeast^ 
warm the milk and butter together, then add ihe other in- 
gredients — let it set in a warm place for an hour, oi 
more, and bake in rings on a griddle. 

WASHINGTON BREAKFAST CAKE. 

One pound and a half of flour, two ounces of butter, one 
pint of milk, three well beaten eggs, two lablespoonfuls of 
x7 & 



418 CRACKLtNGS. 

sugar, and a small teaspoonful of salt, beat it well together 
put it in pans an inch deep, and bake in a quick oven. 

PEACH POT PIE. 

Make a paste of one teacup of water and half a cup of 
shortening, (if lard or beef dripping is used, sail it,) and as 
much wheal flour as will make a nice piisie ; lake a small 
iriKi pot, butter the sides, roll out your paste, reserve enough 
to cover tlie top of the pie, put some around the sides, leav- 
ing the bottom imcovered, the size of a teaplale ; pare ball 
a peck of peaches, and cut them in two, leaving half a 
dozen witli the stones in. If you have more paste, cut it in 
slips, and put it in with the peaches ; put them in the pot, 
strew half a pound of sugar over, grate nearly a nutmeg 
over, cut a tablespoouful of butter in bits, and strew ihem 
in, add a teacup of water, and a small teaspoonful of salt, 
put the top crust over, cut a slit in the middle, cover the 
pot, and set it over a gentle fire for one hour, when it may 
be put in a hot ove^ to brown. Apples or cherries may be 
done in the same manner. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Make a short cake of sour milk or cream, make it in a 
<*ake the size of a dinner plate, bake it, then break it 
through the middle, make a pint of strawberries licjuid with 
sweet cream, and sweeten with white sugar, spread it 
over the lower part of the cake, put the top over, let it stand 
for an hour then cut it in wedge shape pieces, and serve. 

PORK AND APPLE PIE. 

Line a tin with a pie paste, nearly fill it with peeled and 
quartered tart apples, cover it with thin slices of fat salt 
pork, add pepper, put a top crust over, and bake in a quick 
oven for one hour. This is an old-fashioned farmer's pie, 
and eaten with the addition of syrup, a very much relished 
dinner. 

CRACKLINGS. 

Take of cold veal or poultry, and one-half as much ham, 
chopped fine, mix with them an equal quantity of bread 



TOMATO CATSUP. 419 

crumbs, add to it beaten eggs to moisten it, make it in 
small flat cakes, and fry a nice brown in salted lard or 
beef drippings. Potatoes may be used instead of bread 
crumbs. 

NOODLES AND BEEFSTEAK 

Break two eggs into wheat flour enough fo make a stifT 
paste, then roll out to the thickness of a knife blade, let it 
lay half an hour, then strew a little flour over, roll it up, 
and with a sharp knife shave across it as fine as possible, 
put them into boiling water for fifteen minutes, tlien take 
them out with a skimmer. Fry a fat beefsteak with plenty 
of gravy, have ready two tahlespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
put half your noodles on a steak dish, strew half the grated 
cheese over, lay on the steak, put over it the noodles and 
the remainder of the cheese, pocr the gravy over, and 
serve. The cheese may be omitted. 

TO MAKE NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Make as directed above, and drop them into the soup 
fifteen minutes before taking it up, instead of putting them 
in boiling water — they are preferred to macaroni or ver- 
micelli. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Cut one bushel of tomatos in thin slices, and put them 
in layers in an earthen vessel, strewing salt between each 
layer, one quart of salt for the whole quantity; let them re- 
main for twelve hours, then stew them slowly until quite 
soft, rub them through a fine sieve, put them again to stew, 
add one gallon of vinegar, eight tablespoonfuls of mustard 
powder, six tablespoonfuls of black pepper, four ditto cay- 
enne, two ditto alspice, cloves ditto ; let it simmer for one 
hour and a half, let it become cold, then bottle and seal it. 
A porcelain kettle, or an earthen pipkin, is the only safe 
article fur making catsup, the action of the acid on met.ils 
being so very poisonous; an earthen pipkin of yellow ware^ 
is decidedly the best vessel for stewing tomatos. 



ADDITIONAL IN TWELFTH THOUSAND. 



BEOWN GRAVY SOUP. 

Put into a soiiprpot the bones of roast beef 
and broiled steak bones, together ^vitll the root 
end of tongue, poultry giblets and carcass and a 
knuckle of veal and tlie bone of a ham — the 
meat luiving been all cut off — let them sim- 
mer M'ith water to cover them for four or live 
hours or longer, then poui- it tlirough a colander 
into a deep basin or stone pot, and set it away until 
the next day, when take off the cake of fat from 
the top and pour it off tree from sediment; put it 
into the soup-j)ot, add a blade of nuice and three or 
four whole cloves, with a small bit of di'ied red 
])eppe!", thicken with two or -three table-spoonfuUs 
of nicely browned flour ; luivc some nicely toasted 
bi-ead cut into dice on the tureen, and pour over 
the soup. 

MUSHEOOMS ^yiTIT BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a dozen or more nice fresh mushrooms, 
skin them and wash them thoroughly through sev- 
eral waters, then having taken them from the Avater 
put them into a stewpan with less than half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and the same of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of port wine or water, and half a table- 
spoonful of butter. Cover the saucepan, set it over 
the fire, shake it frequently, dredge in a tea-spoonful 
of tlour, let it stew about twenty minutes, then pour 
it over a broiled beefsteak, and serve hot. 

TOMATOS AVITH BEEFSTEAK. 

Take the skins from a dozen ripe tomatos, 
put them into a stewpan with a tea-spoonful of 
salt and the same of pepper, add a small bit of butter, 
dredge in a tea-spoonful of flour, (either browned or 



POTATO CAKES. 421 

not ns may be preferred), let them stew for at least 
Lalf an hour, then having broiled and nicely seasoned 
a beefsteak as previously directed, pour over the to- 
matos and serve hot. A tea-spoonful of sugar put 
to the tomatos whilst stewing is considered a great 
irnprovement by some tastes, or a tea-spoonful of 
made mustard. 

TO FRY SAUSAGES. 

Original and sujperior receijpt. 

Put the sausages into a frying pan, pour boiling 
W'ater over to cover them, cover the pan and set 
them on the back of the lire for ten or fifteen min- 
utes, then take them from the water wdtli a skimmer 
or into a colander, roll each one singly in wheat flour 
until it is all white, tlien having a frying pan with 
boiling hot lard or pork fat, put in the sausages, roll 
them over that they may be browned on every side, 
tlien serve hot. 

TOMATOS FRIED. 

Take four tomatos, and without skinning them 
cut tliem into rather thick slices (quarter of an inch), 
flour them, make a little butter or lard hot in a fry- 
ing pan, put in the sliced tomatos, and when one 
side is broAvned turn the other and do likewise, serve 
in a dish or over a broiled steak or chicken. 

POTATO CAKES, 

To serve with Roast DucJcs. 

Having boiled some potatos, chop them fine, 
season with pepper and salt, to one dozen large sized 
potatos put a table-spoonful of butter, break into 
them one fresh ^'^g, then stir them well together, 
form them in cakes about half an inch thick, and 
put tliem in the pan under the duck (or else fry 
them), and serve with them. 



422 KICE CAKES. 

PEACHES PRESERV'D WITHOUT COOKING, 
To equal the finest Braiidy Peaches. 

Brnsh the down from the peaclies and pnt them 
into a deep basin, pour boilini^ water over to cover 
them, then cover it with a thickly t'okled toAvel, 
let it remain until the water is nearly cold, take 
them out one by one and rub ofl' tlie skins with a 
coarse towel, put a layer of tliem in the jar or can, 
cover them with a thick layer of the best pulverized 
white sugar, then put another layer of peaches, and 
peaches and sugar alternately until the jar or can is 
full, the sugar being last, and immediately close 
and seal them, — set them in a cool, dry, dark place. 

Peaches may be cut in halves, or smaller, and 
done in the same manner. Sec pineapples without 
cooking. 

Green Gages may be preserved without cooking, 
the same as peaches. 

GREEIS" CORN FRITTERS. 

Cut sugar corn from the cob, scrape whatever of 
the milk of the corn may remain on the cob ; — to a 
quart bowl of the cut corn put a tea cup of wheat 
flour and two beaten eggs, Avith enough milk to make 
a batter ; make a little sweet butter hot in a fiying 
pan, and make the fritters of a table-spoonful of the 
batter ; turn them, that both sides may be nicely 
browned. 

RICE CAKES. 

These are made of cold boiled rice with eggs and 
milk, and a very little wheat flour to make a batter. 
Bake on a griddle or in afryingpan, with nice sweet 
butter, for breakfast or a side dish at dinner, or for 
dessert with ground cinnamon and fine sui^ar. 



CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUIT. 423 

COEN STAECH OR FAEINA. 

Made as directed for blanc mange, on the pack- 
ages, with the addition of a little lemon or vanilla 
flavor, as may be liked, poured into moulds lirsl: 
dipped in cold water, and set on ice for six or moro 
hours. Serve with sweet cream. 

POTATOS BAKED IN CUPS. 

Mash potatos with butter, and season with salt 
and pepper. Butter some earthen tea cups and till 
them with the prepared potato and bake them in an 
oven. Or, having siiaped them in cups or bowls, 
wet them over with beaten egg and brown them in 
an oven or before the lire ; or, instead of the i}gg, 
dredge with wheat flour, and baste Avitli a little biit- 
ter. 

PEACH FEITTERS. 
Made the same as apple fritters. 

CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUIT. 

To a quart of fine wheat flour put two tea-spoon- 
fuls of cream tartar and one of soda, rub it through 
a sieve, add a tea cup of sweet butter, work it through 
the flour, then wet it into a paste with enough sweet 
milk; work it as little as possible, and let the paste 
be as soft as can be rolled out on a well floured })aste 
board, let them be an inch thick, cut them in small 
round or square cakes, and bake in a hot oven for 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

Rolls may be made in the same manner, omitting 
the butter and adding a teaspoonful of salt ; roll 
them between the hands in cakes the length of a fin- 
ger, and bake. . 



424 LAUDED SWEETBREAD. 

CREAM OF TARTAR COOKIES. 

To a quart of flour put two tea spoonfuls of cream 
of tartar and one of soda, pass it tlirougli a sieve, 
add to it two tea cups of brown suirar, one tea cup 
of butter, and one or two eggs, with enougliniilk to 
make it a paste, add a grated nutmeg, roll half an 
inch thick and cut in small cakes. 

DELICIOUS AND DELICATE MINCE PIES. 

Boil a fine piece of beef, free from strings or fat ; 
when it is tender put it into a colander and let it be- 
come cold, then chop it very line, put to it enough 
of the very best Stuart's syrup to slightly moisten it 
or rather hold it togethei*, add to it ground cinnamon 
or cassia, ground cloves, alspice and mace or nutmeg 
as it may suit the taste to have it more or less high- 
ly spiced ; pack it down close in an earthen or stone 
jar, dip a bit of muslin in syrup (one side) and press 
it upon the prepared meat. — keep it in a cool place. 
When wanted for use take a pint bowl of the meat, 
add to it a quart of the very best pippin or greening 
apples, pared and chopped not too finely, put to it 
a pint of the best Madeira wine and a wine glass of 
brandy, a tea cup of nicely cleaned and dried zante 
currants, and the same of raisins stoned and chopped, 
and a quarter of citron cut small ; mix all well to- 
gether, add enough sugar to make it really sweet, 
and it is ready for the paste. Cider of tlie best sort 
may be n^ed instead of wine, and the juice of two 
lemons instead of, or in addition to the brandy. 

LARDED SWEETBREAD. 

Parboil two or three sweetbreads, let them be- 
come cold, then lard th^m down the middle with 
bits of fat bacon, and on each side with bits of lem- 
on peel, and beyond that with a little pickled cucum- 



* SWEETBREADS STEWED. 425 

ber cut email, then stew tliem geutly under a rich 
gravy thickened with a little flour, add a little 
mushroom powder, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, 
a little salt, and a squeeze or two of lemon juice. 

SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 

Trim off the tough part, then scald them for a few 
minutes in a stewpan of water and a little salt (the 
heart sweetbreads), then take them out into a basin 
of cold water until cool, have an egg beat up in a 
dish, and also have ready some fine bread crumbs 
and clarified butter. Run a skewer through the 
sweetbreads and fasten on the spit, egg them all 
over, shake bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread crumbs again and 
roast them for a quarter of an hour, take them from 
the skewer and make a gravy of butter and a little 
browned flour with hot water or a little lemon juice, 
and a shake of cayenne. Make it hot and serve 
in the dish under the sweetbread. 



SWEETBREADS FRIED. 

Prepare them as for roasting, then fry in butter 
made hot, turn them to brown them nicely, tlien 
make a little grary with water or lemon juice, and 
serve. 

SWEETBREADS STEWED. 

Parboil them, then put them into a stew-pan 
with a little water or milk : work a little butter and 
flour together, and add it with a blade or two ot 
mace, some salt and white pepper, and, if liked, a 
little chopped parsley. Garnish with thin slices ot 
lemon. 



436 VEAL CAKES, 

VEAL COLLOPS. 

Cut tlie veal from the leg or other lean parts into 
pieces the size of a large oyster; have a seasoning 
of j)epper, salt, and a little ground niiiee, or sweet 
herl)s ; ruh some over eacli ; then di[) them into 
beaten egg, and afterwards into line bread crumbs 
or rolled crackers, and frj in sweet bntter, the 
same as oysters. These both look and taste like 
oysters. 

SWEETBREADS LIKE OYSTEES. 

Boil the sweetbreads tender in water and a little 
salt ; then pound or mash them fine ; add bread 
crumbs, a little bntter, pepper, and salt, and lemon 
^ juice. Season them nicely ; then add enough 
beaten es!:^^ to bind all together. Make them in 
cakes the size of an oyster, and fry and serve. 

WHITE MIKCE OF YEAL. 

Chop some cold real very fine ; season with a 
little mace, white pepper, and a little water, and a 
bit of bntter worked to a paste with wheat flour : a 
cup of cream may be added at the last. 

A wine-glass of Madeira or Port wine, instead of 
the cream, may be added, and makes another dish. 

YEAL CAKES. 

Take three qnarters of a pound of lean veal, 
quarter of a pound of beef suet, half the rind of a . 
lemon chopped fine, a little mace, pepper, salt, and 
a very little white onion. Mix these together ; 
beat them well in a mortar, make them into small 
cakes, and fry them a nice brown. 



MACCAEONI SWKET. 427 

JULIENNE sour. 

This • sonp is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, 
onions, celerj, cabbage, parslej, and other vegeta- 
bles : the roots are cut in tliin slips, about an incli 
long ; the vegetables are halved, and then sliced. 
Fry or stew the roots in a little butter, and stew 
the other vegetables in a little of the broth, before 
adding all the broth. For a Julienne root cutter, 
see Eerrian, 601 Broadway. 

MACCAEONI WITII CHEESE. 

Simmer quarter of a pound of maccaroni in a 
quart of milk, until the pipes are well swelled and 
tender ; then butter a pudding dish, y)ut in a layer 
of maccaroni ; strew it plentifully with grated 
cheese and bits of butter ; then another layer of 
maccaroni, and grated cheese and butter, and mac- 
caroni, alternately, until the dish is full, the cheese 
being last ; then put over the whole bits of batter, 
or melt the butter and put it over ; then put it into 
a moderate oven until it is nicely browned. Serve 
hot. 

The cheese for this purpose should be cut and 
allowed to become dry before it is grated. Pine- 
apple, or old English or Parmesan, should be used. 
The milk in wdiich the maccaroni is steeped must 
also be added, if not all absorbed. 

MACCARONI SWEET. 

^ Boil two ounces of maccaroni in a pint of milk, 
"with a bit of lemon peel and a stick of cinnamon. 
When the pipes are swelled to their utmost size 
•without breaking, lay them on a custard dish ; pour 
a custard over them whilst hot. Serve cold. 



4:28 COKN STAKCn. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Put a quart of milk into a farina kettle : when it 
is boiling Lot, stir in enough of the dry farina, stir- 
ring it all the time, to make it quite thick. Add a 
small teaspoonful of salt. When it has boiled for 
twenty minutes or half an hour, take it from the 
fire, have ready the yolks of three eggs, beaten 
smooth ; stir the hot farina with a spoon, adding 
by degrees the beaten yolks, and stirring it vig- 
orously all the time, that it may be well blended. 
Butter a pudding dish large enough to contain it, 
pour it in, and brown it in a hot or quick oven, fif- 
teen or twenty minutes before serving. 

Wine, Brandy, or Lemon Sauce. See page 240. 

This is an original receipt, and makes a most del- 
icate pudding, superior to cocoanut, but having that 
peculiar flavor. 

FARINA. 

Tliis most excellent article of food may be pre- 
pared in a variety of ways. Made as directed in 
the preceding receipt, before adding the eggs, with 
the addition of a little sugar and lemon or vanilla 
flavor, or a stick of cinnamon, (boiled in the milk 
before adding the farina,) and served cold \vith 
sweet cream, it is one of the most acceptable of sum- 
mer desserts. Dip a jelly mould first in cold water, 
pour in the boiled farina, and when cold set it on 
ice. Serve the following day. 

Farina may be colored yellow with the yolk of 
one egg;^ and served in the same manner. The 
mould should be an ear of corn when this is done. 

CORN STARCH 
May be prepared and served the same as farina. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 429 

CORN STARCH CUSTARD. 

Set a quart of milk to boil, (use a farina kettle,) 
to three well-beaten eggs add a large tea-spoonful- 
of corn starch, beat it smooth, then stir it into the 
boiling milk ; continue to stir it, and let it boil for 
twenty minutes ; then turn it into a china dish, or 
when cooled, a glass bowl. Set it in a cold place, 
or on ice. Having beaten the Avhite of the eggs to 
a high froth with a table-spoonful or two of pulver- 
ized sugar, heap it on before serving. 

The corn starch should be sweetened to taste, and 
flavored with lemon or vanilla. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Grate a stale loaf of baker's bread, butter a pud- 
ding dish well with sweet butter, strew it plenti- 
fully with bread crumbs ; then having cored and 
sliced rich tart or sour apples, (pippins or greenings 
are best,) put a layer of them on the bread ; strew 
plentifully with light brown sugar and bits of but- 
ter, with grated nutmeg or cinnamon ; then another 
layer of bread crumbs and apples, bread, &c., alter- 
nately, until the dish is full — the bread and butter 
and spice being the last. Bake tvro hours in a 
moderate oven. 

This is a delicious pudding. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take the white meat of a chicken, either boiled, 
roasted, or fricasseed ; cut it small, or mince it tine ; 
take the same quantity or more of white tender cel- 
ery, cut small ; mix the celery and chicken together 
an hour or two before it is wanted ; then add the 
salad dressing, (see page 186.) Mix the whole to? 
gether, put it on a dish, make it in an oval form, 
spread some of the dressing over the outside. Gar- 



4:30 SOFT CKAB3. 

nisli witli the most delicate leaves of celery arouiid 
tlie edge, and the white of the egg cnt in rings, 
and green ])ickles cut in thin lengthwise slices — ■ 
small cueiinihcr pickles are to be used. Pickled 
beets may be added, cut in slices, and then in dia- 
monds or stars, alternately with the green pickles 
and eggs. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Must be made and dressed in the same manner 
as directed for chicken salad, adding the green 
inside and soft parts of the lobster, and garnish with 
the small claws of lobster. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Chop cold boiled potatos in square pieces, rather 
small, and dress the same as any other salad. 

Lettuce, celery, potatos, water-cresses, or cab- 
bage, with cold boiled beets, green pickles, may bo 
used for salads. . 

SOFT CRABS. 

Scald the crabs : take off the claws and spongy 
part and sand ; wipe them dry, and broil or fry 
them nicely. Season with sweet butter, and pepper 
and salt, 

SUET FRUIT PUDDING. 

WITHOUT KGGS. 

To one pound of wheat flour, add one tca-spoon- 
fnl of cream of tartar, and half as much soda — rub 
.it through a sieve ; chop one pound of beef suet 



COKN BKEAD. 431 

finely, free it from strings and shreds, and put it to 
the flour with a pound of chopped raisins or cur- 
rants, one teacup of syrup, one tahle-spoonful of 
ground cinnamon, lialf a table-spoonful of allspice, 
and the same of cloves, with a little ground mace 
or nutmeg ; tie it in a floured cloth, and boil three 
hours — serve with brandy sauce. Citron may be 
added, or the pudding may be made with it alone. 

DELICIOUS COEN BEE AD. 

Measure a quart of sweet, freshly ground corn 
meal, add to it a large teacup of wheat flour, two 
tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one tea-spoonful 
of soda in powder ; work the whole through a sieve, 
then add to it a table-spoonful of sweet butter, and 
the same of syrup; add three well beaten eggs and 
enough milk to make a batter ; beat it well — it 
should not be much thicker batter than griddle 
cakeSj Butter tin pans or basins, fill them an inch 
or more- deep, and bake in a quick oven for ono 
bom- or more. This caimot be surpassed. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Beat together a large table-spoonful of butter 
with two of sugar; add one well beaten Qgg; rub 
two even tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar in three 
cups of flower and add them; dissolve one even 
tea-spoon of soda in a cup of milk, add it last; 
bake in a flat pan in a quick oven. When done 
let it get cold, cut in three layers or in half, as 
you please, cover one layer with strawberries, 
sprinkle them with sugar ; put on a layer of the 
cake, put another layer of strawberries and sugar, 
lay on the top layer and dust sugar over. 

The strawberries are (I think) nicer if a syrup 
is made by putting three large spoonsful of sugar 
in one and a half gills of water ; let it dissolve 
and boil a few moments to form a syrup, remove 



432 TERRAPINS. 

from the fire, put the berries in, shake them well, 
and when cool put on the cake in hiyers. 
PAN'D OYSTERS. 

Take fifty large oysters, rinse them with a 
little clean water and let them drain. Then put 
them in a stew-pan with quarter of a pound of 
butter, and sufficient salt ; red and black pepper 
to season them well. Put the pan over a clear 
fire and stir while cooking. When the oysters 
begin to shrink, remove them from the fire, and 
serve immediatelv in a well heated covered dish. 
TERRAPINS. 

Take four terrapins and let them simmer in a 
kettle of boiling water for ten minutes; then 
take them out, and remove the nails and loose 
skin. Throw out the water just used, rinse the 
kettle thoroughly and fill it again Avith clean 
salted water, boiling liot; then wash the terrapins 
in warm water, return them to the kettle, and 
let them boil until thoroughly tender. The time 
required to boil a terrapin Avill depend somewliat 
upon its size and ago, but when it is done sufli- 
ciently, the body will split at the side, and the 
claws become very tender. When done, take 
them out of the kettle and let them get cool ; 
then remove the shells, and carefully clcaji the 
terrapins, being very particular to remove the 
gall, sandbag, entrails and all the spongy parts. 
Out the moat very lino, place it in a stew-pan 
with three tea-spoonsful of fiower, mixed w^itli a 
pound of fresh butter, until thoroughly smooth ; 
then put the pan over a clear fire, and season 
with salt, red and black pepper. When it comes 
to boil add half a pint of Madeira wine. Let it 
sinunor a few minutes, being careful to stir it 
well ; remove from the fire, and serve it in a well 
heated covered dish. For two terrapins use only 
half the above ino-redients. 



BEEF MUTTON. 

BEEF. 



AOO 




a 


The Sirloin. 


b 


The Riiiiii), or Round, 


c 


Efige-Bniie. 


d 


Hiittock. 


■e 


MoHse-Buttock. 


f 


Leg. 


g 


Tliick Flank. 


h 


Veiny Pusce. 


i 


Plate Piece. 


j 


Ihhi. 


k 


Prime Ril)s. 


I 


Clii.ck Ribs. 


m 


Brisket. 


n 


Shoulder. 


o 


Clod. 


P 


Neck. 


q 


Shin. 


r 


Head. 



MUTTON. 




28 



a Leg. 

h Shoulder. 

c Loin. 



d Lnin. 
e Meek. 
/ Breast. 



484 



VEAL PORK. 

VEAL. 




a 


Loin, best end. 


c 


Chump End. 


b 


Fillet. 


d 


Knuckle. 


e 


Neck, best end. 


f 


Breast, best end 


h 


•Knuckle. 


ff 


Blade- Bone. 


J 


Scrag, or Neck. 


I 


Breast. 



PORK. 




Ham. 

Hind Loin. 
Fore Loi'n. 
Spare-Rib. 
Hand, or Spring 
Belly. 



HINTS 



ETIUUETTE OF THE DINNER TABLE. 



Without a perfect knowledge of the art of carving, it is im- 
possible to perforin the hnnurs of the tahle with propriety ; and 
nothing can he more disagreeable to one of a sensitive disposi- 
tion, than to behold a person, at the head of a Aveil-furnished 
board, hacking the finest joints, and giving them the appear 
ance of having been gnawed by dogs. 

It also merits attention in an economical point of view; a 
bad carver will mangle joints so as not to be able to fill half a 
dozen plates from a sirloin of beef, or a larg;e tongue; which, 
besides creatinn; a great difference in the <laily consumption in 
families, often occasions disgust in delicate persona, causing 
them to loathe the provisions, however good, which are set be- 
fore thein, if helped in a clumsy manner. 

One cannot, therefore, too strongly urge the study of this 
useful branch of domestic economy ; and I doubt not that 
whoever pays due attention to the following instructions, will, 
after a little practice, without which all precept is unavailing, 
speedily acquire the reputation of being a good carver. 

A few hints are prefixed on the etiquette of the dinner table, 
which will be found useful. In that, however, much must be 
left to a quick and observant eye, and a determination to ren- 
der yourself as agreeable as possible. 

4.S Host. — The important day on which you feast your 
friends being arrived, you will be duly prepared to receive the 
first detachment. It were almost needless to observe that the 
brief interval before dinner is announced, may be easily filled 
up by the common-place in(puries after health, and observa- 
tions on the weather; as the company increases, provided 
they were previously acquainted, you will find your labors in 
keeping up the conversation very agreeably diminished. 

While your guests are awaiting the annouucemeut of din- 



40G HINTS ON ETIQUETTE. 

ner, it will he expedient that you should iutimate to the gen« 
tlemeu of the party, as uu<ii)trusively as possii)!e, which lady 
you wish each to taUc in charge, that, when the tuonieut 
arrives for your adjouruiiieut to the d;uiiig-room, there may 
not be half a do/.eu claimants lor the honor of escorting /a /y/u« 
belle of the party, while some plain demoiselle is under the 
painful necessity of escorting herself. Such a scene as this 
shoidd he carefully provided agaiust by the mode above sug- 
gested. 

When dinner is announced, you will rise and request your 
friends to proceed to the dining-room, yourself leading the 
way, in company with your xiiost distinguished female visitor, 
followed immediately by the hostess, accompanied by the gen- 
tleman who has the best claim to such an honor. The re- 
mainder of the guests then follow, each gentleman accompa- 
nied by the lady previously pointed out to him. 

Arrived at the dining-room, you will request the lady whom 
you conducted to take her seat on your right hand ; then, 
standing behind your chair, you will direct all your visitors to 
their respective seats.* 

Having taken your seat, you will now dispatch soup to each 
of your guests, from the pile of plates placed on your right 
hand, without questioning any whsther you shall help them or 
not; but, dealing it out silently, you will first help the person 
at your right hand, then at your left, and so throughout the 
table. 

You will not ask to be allowed to help your guests, but sup- 
ply a plate in silence, and hand it to your servants, who will 
offer it to such of the company as are unprovided. Never 
offer soup or fish a second time. 

If a dish be on the table, some parts of which are preferred 
to others, according to the taste of the individuals, all should 
have the opportunity of choice. You will simply ask each 
one if he has any preference for a particular part ; if he re- 
plies in the negative, you are not to repeat the question, nor 
insist that he must have a preference. 

Do not attempt to eulogize your dishes, or apologize thai 
you cannot recommend them, — this is extreme bad taste ; as 
also is the vaunting of the excellence of your wines, &c. &.c. 

Do not insist upon your guests partaking of particular 
dishes. Do not ask persons more than once, and never force 
a supply upon their plates. It is ill-bred, though common, to 
press any one to eat ; and, moreover, it is a great annoyance 
to be crammed like turkeys. 

Neither send away your plate, nor relinquish your knife and 
fork, till your guests have fioiahed. 



HINTS ON ETIQUETTE. 437 

Soup being removed, the gentleman who supports the lady 
of the house on her right, should request the honor of taking 
wine with her ; this movement will he the signal (or the rest. 
Should he neglect to do this, you must challenge some lady. 

Until the cloth be removed, you must not drink wine except 
with another. If you are asked to take wine, it is a breach of 
etiquette to refuse. In performing this ceremony, (which is 
Aery agreeable if the wine be good,) you catcii the person's 
eye, and bow politely. It is not necessary to say anything. 

If you have children, never introduce them after dinner, un- 
less particularly asked for, and then avoid it if possible. 

Never make any observations to your servants at dinner, 
other than to request them to provide you with what you re- 
quire, or to take away that which may be removed. 

With the dessert, you will have a small plate, two wine- 
glasses, and doylts, ]jlace(l before each guest. If fresh fruit 
be on the table, as pears, apples, nectarines, &:c., a knife with 
a silver or silver-plated blade should be placed by the side of 
each plate; a steel blade, in addition to being discolored by the 
juices, imparts an unpleasant flavor to the fruit. 

As Guest. — To dnie out, it is usually understood that you 
must be invited; there are, however, some gentlemen, who 
have attained to that high degree of ref.uemcnt which enables 
them to dispense with such a stupid ceremony. They drop 
in as dinner is being served up, when it is impossible that the 
party on whom they intrude can do other than request them to 
stay and dine, though we suspect he has a much stronger fn- 
clination to kick the unwelcome guest into the street. 

We would recommend you to eschew such practices ; but 
when invited, return an answer in plain terms, accepting or 
declining. If you accept, be there at the appointed time. It 
is inconvenient, on many accounts, to yourself and to your 
friends, cither to be too late or too early. 

You will probal)ly have to \\n'\i a little time before dinner is 
announced. During thit short period, reiuler yourself as 
agreeable as possible to the assembled company. 

Your host will doubtless point out to you the lady he wishes 
you to escort to the dining-room. You will be in readiness to 
attend upon her the moment you are summoned to adjourn. 
Offer her your right arm, and follow in order. ShouUl you 
have to pass down stairs, you will give the lady the wall. You 
will take your seat at the table on the right hand of the ladv 
you conducted. 

Being seated, soup will be handed round. When offered. 
take it; but if you prefer fish, pass it ou to your neighbor. 



433 HINTS ON ETIQUETTE. 

You miisi not ;isk for soup or fish a second time; it will uol 
be ofTered — yon would not l<e so rude or selfish ;is to keep the 
company waiting lor tlie second course, that you may have 
the pleasure of demolislnn}; a double j)oition offish. 

Fish must i)e eaten with a silver fork, as the acid in the 
sauce, acting on the steel of an ordinary fork, gives au mi- 
pleasant Havor to the dish. For this reason, also, a knife 
should not he used in eating fish. 

If asked whether you have a preference for any dish, or any 
particular part of a dish, answer plainly and distinctly as you 
wish. 

Pay as much attention to your companion on your left, as 
politeness requires, hut do not he unnecessar.ly ofllcious. 
People do not like to he stared at when eating. 

When you are helped to anything, do not wait until the rest 
of the company are provided. This is very common iu the 
country, hut shows a want of good breeding. 

Do not allow your plate to be overloaded with a multifarious 
assortment of vegetables, but rather confine yourself to one 
kind. When you take another sort of meat, or a dish not pro- 
perly a vegetable, you must change your plate. 

If you have the honor of sitting on the riglit hand of the 
hostess, you will, immediately on the removal of soup, request 
the honor of taking wine with her. 

Finally, to do all these things well, and to be au fait at a 
dinner party, be perfectly at you ease. To be at ease is a 
great step towards enjoying your own dinner, and making 
yourself agreeable to the company. Fancy yourself at home ; 
performing all the ceremonies without any apparent clFort. 
For the rest, observation and your own judgment will be the 
best guide, and render you perfect in the etiquette of the din- 
Dcr-table. 



CARVING. 4:39 



CARVING. 



In carving, your knife should not l»e too heavy, but of a suf- 
ficient siae, and keen edj^e. lu using it, no great persoual 
strength is required, as constant practice will render it au easy 
task to carve the most dilHcult articles ; more depending on 
address than force. 

The dish should l>e sufficiently near to enable the carver to 
reach it without rising, aud the seat should be elevated so as 
to give couunaud over the joint. 

Show no partiality in serving, but let each person have a 
share of such articles as are considered best ; for however you 
conciliate the one you favor, you must bear in mind that you 
make enemies of the other guests. 



FISH 

Requires very little carving. It should be carefully helped 
with a fish-slice, which, not being sharp, prevents the flakea 
from being broken ; and in salmon and cod these are large, 
aud add much to their beauty. A portion of the roe, milt or 
liver should be given to each person. 




Mackerel. 

In helping, first cut off the head at 1, as that part is very 
inferior and unsavory : then divide down the back, and give a 
side to each. If less is asked for, the thickest end, Avhich is 
the most choice, should be served. Inquire if the roe is liked. 
It may be found between 1 aud 2. That of the female is hard, 
of the male, soft. 



440 



CARVING. 




Salmon 

la rarely sent to the table whole, but a piece cut from the 
middle of a large fish, which is the best flavored part of it. 
Make an incision along the back 1-2, and another from 5-6 ; 
then divide the side about the middle, in the line 3-4 ; cut the 
thickest part, between 1-3, 2-4, for the lean, the remainder 
for the fat. Ask which is preferred, and help as the fancy of 
your guests may demand. When the fish is very thick, do not 
venture too near the bone, as there it has an ill flavor, and is 
discolored. 

In paying your respects to a whole Salmon, you will find the 
choice parts next the head, the thin part next; the tail is con- 
sidered less savory. 

Carp, Perch, HaddocJc, Etc. 

will be easily helped, by attending to the foregoing directions. 
The head of the Carp is esteemed a delicacy, which should be 
borne in mind. 




Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Introduce the fish-slice at I, and cut quite through the back, 
as far as 2. Then help pioccs from between 3 and 4; and 
witii each slice give a portion of the sound, which lines the 
under side of the back bone. It is thin, and of a darker color 
than the other part of the fish, and is esteemed a delicacy. 

Some persons are partial to the tongue and palate, for which 
vou mtist insert a apoon into the mouth. The jelly part is 



CARVING. 



44:1 



anoiit the jaw ; the firm part ^vithin the head, on which are 
some other delicate pickings ; theliuest portions may be found 
about the shoulders. 




Turbot. 

The under side of this fish is the most esteemed, and is 
placed upperniobt on the dish. The fisli-slice must he intro- 
duced at 1, and an incision made as far as 2 ; then cut from 
the middle, which is the primest part. After helping liie whole 
of that side, the upper part must he attacked, and as it is dif- 
ficult to divide the hack bone, raise it with the fork, while you 
separate a portion \\'nh the fish-slice. This part is more solid, 
and is preferred by some, though it is less delicate than the 
under sidcr The f\v.3 are esteemed a nicety, and should be at- 
tended to accordingly. 

Brill, Soles, Plaice, 

nndjlat fish in general, may be served in the satn« manner as 
a Turbot. 



JOINTS. 

In helping the more fleshy jo'"ts, such as a Sirloin of Beef, 
Leg of Mutton. Fillet of Veal, cut thin smooth slices, and let 
the knife pass through to the bones of Mutton and Beef. 

It would prevent much trouble, if the joints of the loin, neck 
and I'reast. were out through by the butcher, previous to the 
cooking, so that wlu-usent to table, they maybe easily severed. 
Should the whole of ihe meat belonging to each bone be too 
thick, one or more slices may be taken olf between every two 
bones. 

In some boiled joints, round and aitch-bone of beef for in- 
stance, the water renders the outsides vapid, aud of course on 

s* ■ 



44r2 CARVING. 

fit to be eaten ; you will therefore be particular to cut off and 
lay asitie a thick slice from the top, before you begin to serve. 

Saddle, of Mutton. 

This is an excellent joint, and produces many nice bits. Cut 
the ivhole length of it close to the i)ack bi>ne, and take ofT 
Bonie Ion;; thin slices in that direction. The upper division 
con.sists of lean ; the fat may be easily got at by cutting from 
the left side. 




Shoulder of Mutton, 

Cut in to the bone at the line 1, and help thin slices of lean 
from each side of the incision ; the prime part of the fat lies 
at the outer ed^e, at 2. 

Should more meat be required than can be got from that 
part, cut on either side of the line 3, which represents the 
blade bone, and some good and delicate slices may be procured, 
liy cuttinj;; horizontally from the underside, many " nice bits" 
will be obtained. 

Loin of Mutton. 

■^ . . 
As the bones of this joiirt are divided, it is very easily man- 
aged. Begin at the narrow end, and take off the chops; when 
the joints are cut through, some slices of raea^mav be obtained 
between the bones. 

Haunch of Mutton. 

f^onsists of the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble a 
haunch of venison. It must be helped at table in a «unilar 
Diauner. 



CARVING. 



443 




Ltg of Mutton. 

The finest part is situated in the centre, at 1, between the 
knuckle and farther end ; insert the knife there, and cut thin, 
deep slices each way, as far in as 2. The outside rarely heinj; 
very fat, some neat cuts may he ohtained off the broad end, 
at -i. The knuckle of a fine \e^ is tender, though dry, and 
many prefer it, ahhouj^h the other is the most juicy. There 
are some ^ood cuts on the broad end of the back of the leg, 
from which slices may be procured lengthways. 

'l"he cramp hone is by some esteemed a delicacy ; to get it 
out, cut down to the thigh bone, at 4, and pass the knife under 
it iu a semi-circular course, to 5. 



J S 




Fore Quarter of Lamb, 

First divide ^le shoulder from the scoven, t\ hich consists 
of the breast and ribs, by passing the knife under the knuckle, 
in the direction of 1, 2, 3 and cutting so as to leave a fnir por- 
tion of meat on the ribs : lavit ( ii a separate dish; the other part, 
which, after being sprinkled over with pepperand salt,%houl<l he 
divided in the line 3-4. This will separate the ribs from the 
gristly part, and you n/ay help from either, as may be chosen, 
cutting as directed by the lines 5, (J. 



444 



CARVING. 



Shoulder of Lamb 

must he carved like a shoulder of muttoD, ot which it is a 
miniature edition. 

Leg of Lamb. 

Follow the directions given for leg of mutton, at page 422. 

Loin of I^mb 

m?y he helped similar to a loin of mutton. See page 421. 
This, and the two foie;^oiug, being small joints, should ho 
helped sparin^:;ly, as there is very little meat on them, espe- 
r.ially when first in season. 




Ailch-Bont of Beef 

Cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the entire surface, as 
maikc<l 1-2, tlien help. There are two sorts of fat to this 
joint, and as tastes <litrer, it is necessary to iearn which is pre- 
ferred. The solid fat will be found at 3, and must be cut hori- 
ziintally ; the softer, which resembles marrow, at the back of 
the bone, below 4. 

A siUer skewer should be substituted for the one which 
keeps the meat properly together while boiling, and it may be 
withdrawn when you cut down to it. 

Round of Beef. * 

This joint is so very easy to attend to, that wo have not 
deemed ij necessary to give a drawing of it ; it only requires a 
steady h;iiid and a sharp knife. The upper surface being 
rpm()ved, as diiected for the aitch-l)one of beef, carve thin 
slices, ant! give a portion of fat with each. 

You must cut the meat as even as possible, as it is of couse 
nuence to preserve the beauty of its appearaace. 



CARVINQ. 



415 




Sirloin of Beef. 

There are two modes of helping this joint. The better wny 
is by carving long tliin slices from I to 2; the other way is hy 
cutting it across, which, however, spoils it. The most tender 
and prime part is in the direction of the line 3 ; there will also 
be found some delicate fat, part of which should be given with 
each piece. 

Ribs of Beef 

may be carved similar to the sirloin, always commencing at tho 
thin end of the jojut, and cutting long slices, so as to give fat and 
lean together. 




A Breast of Veal 

is composed of the ribs and brisket, which must be separated by 
cutting through the line 1-2 ; the latter is the thickest and has 
gristles. Divide each portion into convenient pieces and pro- 
ceed to help. 




A Tongue. 

Cut nearly through the middle, at the line 1, and take thm 
f«lices from each side. The fat is situated underneath, at the 
"oot of the touKue. 



446 



CARVING. 




A Calf's Head. 

Cut thin slices from 1 to 2, and let the knife penetrate to me 
bone. At the thick part of the neck end, S, the throat sv\eet- 
bread is situated ; carve slices from 3 to 4, and help with the 
other part. Should the eve be asked Cf>r, it must be extracted 
with the point of the knife, and a portion ^iven. The palate, 
esteemed a delicacy, is situated nnder the head, and some fine 
lean may be found by removing the jaw-bone ; portions of each 
of these should be helped round. 

A Loin of Veal 

should be jointed previous to being sent to taMe, w4»en each di- 
vision may be easily cut through with a knife. The fat sur- 
rounds the kidney, and portions of each should be given with the 
other parts. ^ 




FiUtt of Veal 

resembles a round of beef, and should be cari'ed similar to It, 
in thin and very smooth slices, off the top. Cut deep into the 
flap, between 1 and 2, for the stulfing, and help a portion of if 
to eich person 

Slices of lemon are always served'with this dish. 



CARVING. 



447 



'=%:i 




<^y 



Roast Pig. 

As this is usually divided as above, l)efore sent to tal)le, lit- 
tle remains to he done liy ihe carver. First separRte a shoul- 
der from the hody, and then the lej^ ; divide the ri!>s info con- 
venient portions, and send around « ith a sufficiency of the snif- 
fing and gruvy. Many prefer the neck end between the 
shoulders, although the ribs are considered the finest part, but 
as this all depends on taste, the question should be put. The 
ear is reckoned a delicaey. 

Should the head not be divided, it must be done, and the 
bi-aius taken out, and mixed with the gravy and stuffing. 

A Loin of Pork 

is cut up in the same manner as a loin of mutton. See 
page 42J. 




Leg of Pork 

Commence carving about midway, between the knuckle 
and farther end, and cut thin deep slices from eithtfr side of 
the line 1. For the seasoning in a roast leg, lift it up, and it 
will be found under the skiu at the large end. 

Hand of Pork. 

Cut thin slices from this delicate joint, either across near the 
knuckle, or from the blade bone, as directed for a shoulder of 
mutton. Tliis forms a nice dish for a tete a tete diuuer ; there 
is not suiriciciut for a third pertion. 



418 



CARVING. 




The usual mode of carving this joint, is by I'^ng delicate 
slices, through the thick fat, in the direction of 1-2, laying open 
the bone at each cut, which brings you to the prime part at 
once. A more saving way is to commence at the knuckle 
and proceed onwards. 

Some persons take out a round piece at 3, and enlarge the 
hole, by cutting thin circuhir slices, with a sharp knife. This 
keeps the meat moist, and preserves the gravy, but seldom 
looks handsome. 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

The carving-knife for poultry is smaller and lighter than the 
meat carver ; the point is more peaked, and the handle 
longer. 

In cutting up a turkey, goose, duck, or wild fowl, more 
pi-ime pieces may be obtained by carving slices from pinion 
to pinion, without making wings; this is an advantage when 
your party is large, as it makes the bird go farther. 




A Fowl. 

It will be more conveniect, in carving this, to take it on yonr 
plate, and lay the joints, a* divided, neatly on the dish. Fix 



CARVING. 449 

jour fork in the middle of the breast, and take the wiug off in 
the direction of 1-2; divide the joint at 1, lift up the pinion 
with your fork, and draw the wing towards the leg, which will 
separate the fleshy part more naturally than by the knife ; cut 
between the leg and body at 3 to the bone, 2, give the blade a 
sudden turn, and the joint will break if the fowl is not old. 
When a similar operation is performed on the other side, take 
off the merrythought, by cutting in to the bone at 4, and turn- 
ing it back, which will detach it; next remove the neck 
bones and divide the breast from the back, by cutting through 
the whole of the ribs, close to the breast. Turn up the back, 
press the point of the knife about halfway between the neck 
and rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate easily. 
Turn the rump from you, take off the sidesmen, and the opera- 
tion is complete. 

The breast and wings are the most delicate parts, but the 
leg is more juicy in a young bird. Great care should be taken 
to cut the wings as handsome as possible. 

A Partridge 

is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, only, on account of the 
smallness of the bird, the merrythought is seldom divided from 
the breast. The wings, breast, and merrythought, are the 
finest parts of it, but the wing is considered the best, and the 
tip of it is reckoned the most delicious morsel of the whole. 




A Pheasant. 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast, and make incisions 
to the bone at 1-2, then take off the leg in the line 3-4, and the 
wiug at 3-5 ; sever the other side in the same manner, and 
separate the slices you had previously divided on the breast. In 
taking off the wings, be careful not to venture loo near the 
Vieck, or you will hit on the neck boue, frurn which the wing 
29 



450 CARVING. 

nhould be divuled. Pass the knife thron^jb ihe line G, an«l under 
the nieriythouj^ht towards the ueck, which will detach it. The 
other p;nts may be served as directed for a fowl. 

The breast, wings, and ineny thought, are the most delicate 
parts, although the leg has a high ilavor. 

A Turkey. 

The finest parts of this bird are the breast and win^s; the 
latter will bear some delicate slices beiug taktu off. Alter the 
four quarters are severed, the thighs must be divided from the 
drum-slicks, which, being tough, should be reserved till last. 
Ill other respects, a turkey must be dealt with exactly as 
recommended for a fowl, except that it has no iiierrythoughf. 

Give a portion of the stuffing, or forced meat, w hich is iugide 
the breast, to each person. 

JFoodcocJcs, Grouse, etc., 

are carved similar to a fnwl, if not too Bmall, when they may 
be cut in quarters, and helped. 

Snipes, being smaller, should be divided in halves. 




pigeons. 

The usual way of carving these binls is to insert the knife 
Ht 1, and cut to 2 and 3, when each portion may be divided 
into two pieces, and helped. .Sometimes they nve cut in halves, 
either across v>r down the middle: but as the lower part is 
thought the best, the first m()de is the fairest. 

Should they be very large and fine, they may be served like 
fowls. 

A Goose. 

Take off the wing by putting the fork into the small end of 
die pinion, and press it close to the body ; divide the joint at 
i with the knife, carrying it along as far as 2. Remove the 
leg, by cuttiig in the direction of 2-3, and divide the thigh 



CARVING. 



451 




from the drumstick ; tlien sever the liinhs on the other siHe, 
aud cut some long slices froiri each side of the breast, between 
the hues a and b. 

To s;et at the stuffing, the aproa must be removed, by cutting 
from 4 to 5 by 3. It is rarely necessary to cut up the whole of 
the gvtose, unless the company is large ; but the merrythought 
may be taken oft". There are two sidebones by the >ving, 
which may bacut olT. as like vise the back aud lower sidebones. 
The best pieces are the breast and thighs 

A Duck. 

Remove the legs and wings as directed above for a goose, 
aud cut some slices from each side of the breast. The season- 
ing will be found under the flap, as in the other bird. Should 
it be necessary, the merrythoHght, sidebones &c., can be de- 
tached in the same manner as recommeuded for a fowl. 




Haunch of Venison. 

First let out the gravy, by cutting in to the bone across the 
joint at 1-2; then turn the broad end towards you, make as 
deep an i icision as you can froui •'} to 4, aud help thin slices 
from each side. The greater part of the fat, which is much 
esicemed, will be found on the left side ; and those who carve 
must take care to proportion both it and the gravy to the num- 
ber of the company. 

Hare. 



Insert tile point of the knife inside the shoulder at 1, and di- 
vide all the way down to the rump at 2 : do ibo same on the 



452 CARVING. 



other side, and you will have the hare in three pieces. Pass 
the knife under the rise of the shoulder at 2-1, to take it off". 
The leg may be severed in a similar manner; then behead it, 
cut off the ears close to the roots, and divide the upper from 
the lower jaw. Next place the former flat on a plate, put the 
point of the knife into the forehead, and divide it through the 
centre, dowu to the nose. Cut the back into convenient por- 
tions, lay the pieces neatly on the dish, and proceed to serve 
the company, giving some stuffing, (which will be found in the 
inside,) and gravy to each person. 

The prime parts are the hack and legs ; the ears are consid- 
ered a luxury by some, as are the head and brains ; they may 
be distributed to those that like them. 

Should the hare not be very tender, it will be difficult to di- 
vide the sides from the back, but take off the legs, by cutting 
through the joints, which you must endeavor to hit. You will 
then be able to cut a few slices from each side of the back. 
Next dissever the shoulders, which are called the sportsman's 
joints, and are preferred by many. The back, &c., may then 
be carved as directed above. 

Rabbit. 

The directions for cutting up a hare will be amply sufficient 
to enable the carver to dispose of this animal. The best part 
is the shoulders and back, which must be divided into three or 
four pieces, according to its size. The head should uot be 
given unless asked for. 

BohhiVs Yeast Potcder is one of the improvements of the day. 
May be used in making biscuits, instead of cream of tartar and 
soda. 

" What Cheer " Calm. 

An old friend with a new name. See "Turnpike" Cakes, 
page 277 of this book. Much trouble ma}^ be saved by pur- 
chasing a box of these yeast cakes, as they are the .same as. di- 
rected in the above mentioned recipe. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

A-LA-MODE Beef. 82, 83 

A-LA-POLONAISE, CAKES 249, 250 

Albany Bkkakfast Cakes 3To 

Albany Cakes 410 

ALM ACKS 381 

Almond Biscottes 32J 

Almond Cake 300, 301 

Almond Duop Cakes 311 

Almond Drops 316 

Almond Ji'mbles 293 

Almond Macaroons 316, 317 

Almond Meringues 320, 321 

Almond Pound-cake 308 

Almond Pudding, baked 220 

Almond Pudding, boiled 220, 221 

Almond Spice Biscuits 315,321 

Amber Color, for Soups 14 

Anchovy Sauce 196, 197 

Apple and Pork Pie 418 

Apple and Quince Jelly 352 

Apple Charlotte 215 

Apple Dumplings 212, 213 

Apple Dumplings (Dried)... .213, 214 

Apple Dumplings CW'hole) 216 

Apple Fritters, with Ej^gs 212 

Apple Fritters, without Eggs.. 2li 

Apple Jelly 355,*357 

Apple Mince Pie 263, 234 

Apple Pie 251 

Apple Pie (Dried) 252 

Apple Pudding, baked 414, 429 

Apple Pudding, boiled, with Eggs 212 
Apple Pudding, boiled, without 

Eggs 212 

Apple Pudding, Charlie's 414 

Apple Sauce for Goose, etc 199 

Apple Sauce for Puddings.. .241, 242 
Apple Tart. 251, 252 



page 

Apple Tart (Dried) 252, 253 

Apple-water 409 

Apples, baked 409 

Apples, Crab, trf preserve... 355, 356 

Apples, fried 199 

Apples in Batter 229 

Apples in Jelly 357, 358 

Apples, Lady, to preserve... 355, 356 
Apples, Pine (see Pineapples) . . 346 

Apples, to dry 353 

Apples, to preserve 356 

Apples, to preserve for Tarts or 

Common Use .381, 382 

Apples, to stew 376, 377 

Apricots, to preserve 363 

Arrangement and Bill of Fare 
for Tea-table, in Summer 
AND Winter 40i, 402 

ARRANGE-MENT AND FURNITURE 

of Breakfast and Dining- 
room 398-407 

Arrow-root Blanc-mange 408 

Arrow-root, to cook 407, 408 

Artichokes, to boil 183 

Artichokes, to prepare for Table 188 

Artificial Cheese 206, 207 

Asparagus, Choice of 182 

Asparagus Salad 182, 183 

Asparagus, to boil 182 

Asparagus, to stew 182 

Bacon, to fry or broil 109, 110 

Bakers' Bread, to make 263, 269 

Bakers' Bolls, to make 278, 279 

Bakers' Yeast, to make 277 

Baking Bread, Biscuit, Rolls, 

Cakes, etc.. Directions for.264-2C3 
Baking, heating Ovens for. 205 



454. 



TAGE 

Baking of Cakes 304 

Baking Pies, Tarts, etc., Direc- 
tions for 243-245 

Balls, Egg, for Soup 28 

Balls, Snow 214, 215 

Bauceriues, to prescrva 360, C70 

Barlev-wateh 410 

Bass, Sea, to cook o9 

Bass, Striped, to hoil 41 

Bass, Striped, to fiT 41 

Batter, Apples in 2Ja 

Batter PrDDiNG, boiled 2J5 

Batter Pudding, Cheap 216, 217 

Batter Pi'dding, Rich 217 

Bean Soup (Dried) 21 

Bean Soit (Green) 20, 21 

Beans and Corn 1S:3, 1S4 

Beans and Pork, to boil 115 

Ceans, Green, to boil 1S3 

Beans, Green, to pickle 392 

Beans, Lima, to cook 184 

Beef, Aitch-bone of, to carve 444 

Beef, A-la-mode 82, 83 

Beef and Onion Stew. 78, 79 

Beef and Potato Hash 75, 76 

Beep, a Round of, to stew 72, 73 

Beef, Bouilli 73 

Beef Broth 25 

Beef Cakes 76 

Beef, Cold, to serve 84 

Beef, Corned 06, 67 

Beef, Corned, to boil with Vege- 
tables 119 

Beef, Frizzed 170 

Beef IIead-ciieese 71 

Beef Heart, to bake 73, 74 

Beef Heart, to roast 73,74 

Beef Heart, tostew 74 

Beef, Joints of 433 

Beef Kidneys, to cook 74, 75 

Beef Liver, to cook ...70, 71 

Bf.kf Liver, to smoke 67 

Beef, Minced 80 

Beef, Pickled C3 

Beef, Potted Head of 71 

Beef, Proper pieces of, for smo- 
king C7 

Beef. Ribs of, to carve 445 

Beef, Ribs of, to roast 411 

Beef, Roast, Vegetables for 81 



f PAGE 

Beef, Round of, to carve 444 

Beef. Round of, to cook (French 

receipt) 83 

Beef, Sirloin of, to cai-ve 445 

Beef, Salted or Corned, to keep 

for years 66, 67 

Beef, Salted, to boil with Vege- 
tables 169 

Beef, Sandwich 329 

Beef, Shin of. Soup 2.3. 24 

Beef Skirts, to cook 60, 72 

Beef, Smoked 75 

Beef, Smoked, aBreukfa.stofl69, 170 
Beef, Smoked, to make an Ome- 
lette of. 169 

Beef, Smoked, to serve 170 

Beep, Smoked, with eggs 169 

Beef Soup 24, 25 

Beef Steak and Noodles 419 

Beef Steak, Mushrooms with . . 420 

Beep Steak, onions with 71 

Beef Steak Pie 77, 73 

Beep Steak Pudding 73 

Beef Steak, Tomatoes with..420, 421 

Beep Steaks, Choice of 70 

Beef Steaks, fried, with Gi-avy . 79 

Beef Steaks, to broil 76, 77 

1!eef Steaks, to fi-y 77 

Beef Steaks, to fry (to ta.ste like 

a broil) 77 

Beef to bake... 81, 82 

Beef to choose 65, 66 

I Beef, to hash 75 

Beef, to keep sweet 65, 66 

Beef Tongue, to carve 445 

Beef Tongues, to pickle 60, 67 

Beef, topickle 63 

Beef, to roast so, 81 

Beef, to salt for immediate use 67, 63 

Heef, to smoke 75 

Beef, to stew (Ragout) 72 

;!eef Tripe 63 

Beef Tripe, to broil 70 

Beef Tripe, to clean 6<», 69 

r.EEF Tripe, to fricassee 70 

Beef Tripe, to fry C9 

Beef Tripe, how to make Roila 

j Cheese with 69, 70 

I Beets, to pickle r,94. 3G5 

i BKtT.s, old, to cook 179, ISO 



INDEX. 



455 



PAGE 

Beets, young, to cook 1V9 

Beet Tops, to cook 1 T8, 1T9 

Beverage, a Temperance 406 

Bill of Fake for :i t'amily Break- 
fast 400 

Bill of Fake for Tea-Table in 

Summer 401, 402 

Bill of Fake for Tea-Table in 

Winter. 4a2 

Bird's Xest, to make, of Mac- 
aroni, etc 156, 157 

Birds, small, to broil 161 

EiKDS, small, to fry 161 

Birds, small, to roast 162 

Birds, to cook (see Poultry and 

Game) 135-164 

Ducks 152-154 

PartrUlges 160 

Pigeons 154-160 

Quails 160 

Small Birds 161-162 

Snipe 160 

Woodcock 160 

Birds, to keep from tainting. 181, 162 

Birds, to roast 162 

Biscottes, Almond 322 

Biscottes, Pistachio 322 

BisciTT AND Jelly Sandwich.. 30S 
Biscuit, Directions for baking 264-26S 
Biscuit, Directions for making 264-323 

BiSCTTiTS, Almond Spice 315, 321 

Biscuits, Cream of Tartar 423 

Biscuits, Diet sic 

Biscuits, Drop 415 

BlSCiniS, Milk 2S5, 2SG 

Biscuits, Naples 30S 

Biscuits, or Bread Cake 274 

Biscuits, Pistachio 322, 323 

Biscuits, Savoy 307, 30S 

BiscnTS, Soda 2S5 

Biscuits, Spoon 309 

Blackkekkies, to prepare for 

Table 336 

Blackberries, to preserve 369 

Blackberry Pie 258 

Blackbekry Pudding 230 

Blackberry Syrup 369 

Black Fisn, to boil 41 

Black Fish, to bmi! 39 

Black Fish, to fry 39, 40 

Black Fish, to stcv,- 40 



page 

Black Tea, to make 331 

Blanc-Mange, Arrow-root 408 

Blanc-Mange, Ribbon : 223 

Blanc-Mange, Riec-tlour 4(» 

Blanc-Mange, to make 223 

Bologna Saitsages, to make 102 

BouiLLi, Beef 73 

Brains, Calf's, to make a Dish of 86 

Bkandied Peaches 361, 362 

Brandy, Green Gages in 372, 373 

Brandy, Lemon 384 

Brandy Peaches 331 

Brandy Peaches, to preserve 

Peaches without cooking, 

equal to 422 

Brandy. Pears in 374 

Brandy, Plums in 372 

Brandy, Rose 333 

Brandy S a uce 240 

Brandy Sauce, Liquid 240, 241 

Bread and Butter Pudding, 

baked 226, 227 

Bread and Butter Sandwich.. 320 

Bread, Bakers', to make 268, 269 

Bread. Brown 273 

Bread Cake 415 

Bread Cake, or Biscuit 274 

Bread, Corn, Delicious 431 

Bread, Diet 30T 

Bread, Directions for baking. 264-263 
Bread, Directions for making 

(see Ccikvs and ItoUs) 264-274 

Bread, Dyspepsia 273 

Bread Fuitteks 233 

Bread. Graham 273 

Bre.\d, Indian Corn 274 

Bread, Indian Meal 274 

Bread, Potato 270, 271 

Bread Pudding, baked 225 

Bread Pudding, boiled, 225, 226, 233 

Bread, Rye 272 

Bread, Saleratus in 265, 266 

Bread, to knead 273, 274 

Bread, Twist 271 

Bread, VoLatile Salts in 205, 266 

Bread, A^Hieat and Indian. ..271. 272 

Bread, 'Wlieat, to make 269, 270 

Breakfast. Bill of Fare for 400 

Breakfast Cakes, Alliany 275 

Breakfast Cakes, Cornmeal 274, 275 
Bke^vefast Cakes, Indian 41T 



456 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Breakfast Cakes, Indian Meal. 275 
Bkeakfast Cakes, Washing- 
ton 417, 418 

Breakfast, Family, Bill of Fare 

for. 400 

Breakfast of Smoked Beef.. 169, 170 
BuEAKFAST-RooM, Arrangement 

and Furniture of. 398-407 

Breakfast-Table, Arrangement 

of. 398-400 

Breakfast, Winter, Bill of Fare 

for 400, 401 

Bride Cake (Rich) 314, 315 

Brill, to carve 441 

Broth, Beef^see Soup) 25 

Broth, Chicken 27 

Broth, Mutton 28, 29 

Broth, to make in haste 410 

Broth, Vea! 28 

Brown Bread 273 

Brown Gravy Soup 420 

Browning for Gravies 31 

Browning for Soups 14, si 

Buckwheat Cakes, to bake, 279, 2S0 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 279 

Bullhead Soup, to make 19 

Buns, Conunon 284, 285 

Buns, Cross 285 

Buns, Currant 290 

Butchers' Meat, Directions for 

buying and dressing 65-130 

Butter, Clarified los 

Butter (Cold) and Vinegar 

Sauce 195, 196 

Butter Crackers 235 

Butter, Delicious, to make 200 

Butter, Directions for making 

and keeping 200-206 

Butter, Drawn, to make 105 

Butter, Melted 198 

Butter, Salt, to freshen 200 

Butter Sauce 196 

Butter, Toast without 209 

Butter, to make , . 202-206 

Butter, to make In haste 200, 201 

Butter, to make sweet for winter 

use 201, 202 

Butter, to preserve for winter.. 201 
Buttered Lobster, to prepare. 49 

Buttermilk Muffins 280 

Buttermilk Pop. 409 

BCTTEEMILK TEA CaKES 281, 282 



PAOR 

BcTTERMn-K, Uses of. 205, 206 

Butternuts, to pickle 392 

Cabbage and Milk Soup 16, 17 

Cabbage and Potatoes, to cook 

together 194 

Cabbage, Red, to dress 187 

Cabbage, Red, to pickle 394 

Cabbage Salad 186 

Cabbage, Savoy 118 

Cabbage Soup 30 

Cabbage Sprouts, to boil 178 

Cabbage, to boil 187 

Cabbage, to prepare for boiling. 119 

Cake, Almond 300, 301 

Cake, Almond Pound 308 

Cake, Bread 415 

Cake, Breakfast (Cornmeal). 274, 275 

Cake, Breakfast (Indian) 417 

Cake, Breakfast (Washingt'n)417, 418 

Cake, Bride (Rich) 314, 315 

Cake, Cocoanut 416, 417 

Cake, Cocoanut Cup 299, 300 

Cake, Cocoanut, or Candy ...321, 322 

Cake, Cocoanut Pound SOG 

Cake, Cocoanut Sponge 312 

Cake, Common Cup 293 

Cake, Composition 300 

Cake, Cornmeal Breakfast. ..274, 275 

Cake, Cream Cup 293 

Cake, Cup (see Citp Cake) 293 

Cake, Delicate 416 

Cake, Dover 303 

Cake, French Tea 310, 311 

Cake, Fruit (Rich) 312, 313 

Cake, Harrison 307 

Cake, Hickory-nut 306 

Cake, Honey 297 

Cake, Indian Breakfast 417 

Cake, Jackson 303 

Cake, Johnny 276 

Cake, Lady (White) 301, 302 

Cake, Lady (Yellow) 301 

Cake, Lafayette 303 

Cake, Loaf 310 

Cake, One-Two-Three-Four 294 

Cake, Ornamental Frosting for. . 320 

Cake, Pearlash 295 

Cake, Plum .114 

Cake, Queen r.Qj 

Cake, Rye Bread 272, 271 

Cake, Scotch 315, 316 



INDEX. 



457 



PAGE 

Cake, Short, Strawberry 418, 431, 432 

Cake, Soda 299 

Cake, Sponge 30", 416 

Cake, Sponge (Cocounut) 312 

Cake, Sponge Pudding 41i5 

Cake, Strawberry Short. 41S, 431, 432 

Cake, Tea (Frencli) 310, 311 

Cake, Tea, Thanksgiving 30j, 300 

Cake, Teacup, without Eggs 230 

Cake, to clean Currants for 314 

Cake, to Frost or Ice 310, 320 

Cake Trifle 303 

Cake, Wasliington "01 

Cake, Wasliington Breakfast 417, 413 

Cake, Wedding, to make 313 

Cakes a-la-Polonaise 240, 251 

CAKE5?, Albany 410 

Cakes, Albany Breakfast 276 

Cakes, Almond Drop 311 

Cakes, Beef. 70 

Cakes, Buckwheat Griddle 270 

Cakes, Buckwheat, to bake.. 27J, 250 

Cakes, Buttermilk Tea 281, 232 

Cakes, Citron Heart 3C2 

Cakes, Codfish 35 

Cakes, Cream Tea 2S1 

Cakes, Cup (Molasses) 207 

Cakes, Directionsfor baking and 

making 264-203 

Cakes, Drop 311, 312 

Cakes, Fried 257, 23S 

Cakes, Griddle (Buckwheat) 279 

Cakes, Griddle (Indian) 276, 27G 

Cakes, Indian 417 

Cakes, Indian Griddle 276 

Cakes, Indian meal Breakfast . . 27o 
Cakes, Indian meal Griddle.. 275, 276 

Cakes, Lemon Drop 311 

Cakes, Molasses Cup 297 

Cakes, Palo- Alto 303 

Cakes, Paste 2S4 

Cakes, Portugal 295 

Cakes, Pound 305 

Cakes, Pound, small 304 

Cakes, Rice 422 

Cakes, Rout Drop 312 

Cakes, Saleratus used in 265, 263 

Cakes, Short 2S4 

Cakes, Short, Rice Flour 2S4 

Cakes, Short, Rye 277 

Cakes, Small, to make 292, 293 

Cakes, Spanisli 295 



PAGE 

Cakes, Spice 294 

Cakes, Spice (Rich) 294, 295 

Cakes, Sponge (Small) . .293,, 294, SOT 

Cakes, Sponge, to make 416 

Cakes, Sugar Drop 311, 312 

Cakes, Taylor. 293 

Cakes, Tea (Buttermilk) 281 

Cakes, Tea (Cream). 281 

Cakes, Tea (Wigs) 297, 293 

Cakes, to bake 304 

Cakes, to keep fresh 26S 

Cakes, to make Icing for 319 

Cakes, Turnpike 277, 273 

Cakes, Veal 426 

Cakes, Velvet 283 

Cakes, Volatile Salts in 265, 268 

Cakes, AVebster 302, 303 

Cakes, "What Cheer" or Turn- 
pike 277 

Cakes, White 294 

Cakes, AVine 295 

Cakes, Yeast 277, 273 

*** Other Cakes will he found 
dinner tJieir respective names. 

Calf's Brains, a dish of ss 

Calf's Feet Jelly 333 

Calf's Feet, Roasted 94, 95 

Calf's Feet, Stewed 95 

Calf's Head (a fine disli) 86, 87 

Calf's Head Cheese 88, 338 

C ALFS' Head Soup 26, 27 

Calf's Head, to carve 446 

Calf's Head, to cook 85-87 

Calf's Liver, to cook 85 

Candied Lemon Peel 353 

Candied Orange Peel 353 

Candies, to clarify Sugar for 339 

Candy, Cocoanut 321, 322 

Candy, Cream 341 

Candy, Hoarhound 341 

Candy, Lemon (Common) 340 

Candy, Molasses (Taif\ ) 341, 342 

Candy, Peppermint 341 

Candy, Rose 341 

Candy, Twist, Comiuon 341 

C.iNELLONS 218, 249 

Canellons Clacks 249 

Caxtelopes, to prepare for Ta- 
ble 387 

Canvas-back DrcKS, to cook.l53, 154 

Caper Saixe, Imitation 196 

Capillaire 383 



458 



DnjEX. 



TAGE 

Carolina Potatoes (sec Sweet 

Potaloes) i:c 

Carp, to carve 440 

Carragan Moss 40S 

Carrot Pi'dding 415 

Carrots, Mashed 184, 1S5 

Carrots, Old or Winter, to cook. 1S4 

Carrots, to boil 1S4 

Carting, Directions for 439^52 

Catfish or Bullhead Soup I'J 

Catsup, Oyster 394 

Catsup, Tomato .303, 394, 419 

Catsup, Walnut 333 

Cauliflower Salad 180 

Cauliflower, to boil 185 

Celery, to prepare for Table, . . . 1S6 

Champagne Punch 40G, 4'JT 

Charcoal, use of, in cookinjj 244, 215 

Charlie's Apple I'udding 414 

Charlotte, Apple 215 

Charlotte, Peach 2lo 

Charlotte Russe 221, 2-2 

Cheese, Artiflcial 206, 207 

Cheese, Calf's Head 85, 233 

Cheese, Cottage 205, 20G 

Cheese, Cream 207 

Cheese, Head (see Ueaa-Olieese) 

71, 86, 97 

Cheese, Macaroni with .*. . 427 

Cheese, Milk 207 

Cheese, Pot 200 

Cheese, Quince 352, 353 

Cheese, Roasted 20S 

Cheese, RoUa, to make 63, 70 

Cheese Sandwiches S29 

Cherries, a Dessert of 213 

Cherries, Dried 254 

Cherries, Ripe, for Tea 337 

Cherries, to dry 3C7 

Cherries, to preserve 3G7 

Cherries, to preserve for Tarts 

or common use 3S1, 3S2 

Cherry Pie (Dried) 254 

Cherry Pie (Sour) 254, 255 

Cherry Pudding 220, 230 

Cherry Water 3S3, 38 i 

Chicken Broth 27 

Chicken Currie 13.) 

Chicken Patties 142, 143 

Chicken Pie 140, 141 

Chicken Pie, to ser\'e G3 

Chicken Pot-Pie I4l, 142 



page 

Chicken Pot-Pie, to dish a 142 

Chicken Salad 429, 430 

Chicken Salad, in form of a Nest 143 

CHICKEN Soup, White 22 

Chicken Soup, Yellow 21, 22 

Chicken, to boil (see i^>f/)- • • 130, 137 
Chicken, to broil like a Steak.l39, 140 

Chicken, to fry 140 

Chicken, to prepare for cook- 
ing 135, 136 

Chicken, to roast 137-139 

Chickens Scolloped 142 

Chickens, Stuffing for 135, 1S6 

Chocolate, to make 330 

CiiOP, Lamb, like a Crown 122 

Chops, Mutton, broiled 130 

Chops, Mutton, fried 120, 130 

Chops, Pork, to cook 109 

CnowDEPs Clam, to make 55, 56 

Chowder, Fish, to make 47 

Chowder, Oyster, to make CI, 62 

Chowder, to make 47 

Christmas Dinner, liow tQ_ ar- 
range 404, 405 

Christmas Plum Pudding ..21s, 219 

cider, to mull 409, 410 

Cider Vinegar, to make 393 

Cinnamon Sauce 242 

Cinnamon Wafers 2S3 

Citron Heart Cakes S02 

Citron Pudding 217 

Citron, to preserve 353, 354 

Clam Chowder, to make 55, 58 

Ci.am Fritters, to make 53 

Clam, Hard-shell, Omelette 63 

Clam Pie, to make 53, 54 

Clam Pot-Pie, to make 54, 55 

Clam Soup 29 

Clams, Hard-shell, Ch.oice of. ..51, 62 

Clams, Hard-shell, to boil 52 

Clams, Hard-shell, to fry 52, 53 

Clams, Hard-shell, to stew 52 

Clams, Sand (small) to make 

Chowder with 61, 62 

Clams, Scolloped 66 

Clams, Sea, to cook 65 

Clams, Soft-shell. Season for 50 

Clams, Soft-shell, to boil 50, 51 

Clams, Soft -shell, to fry 51 

Ct.am.s. Soft -shell, to stew 51 

Clams, time required to stew, ... 62 
Clams, to pickle 55 



INDEX. 



459 



PAGE I 

Claeified Sugar for Pkeserv- [ 

ING Zio • 

Clotted Ckeaji... 331, 332 

CocaiXEAL, to prepare, to color | 

pink or red 321 | 

CocjAN'i'f Cake -110, 417J 

CocoANiT Cake os. Candy. .321, 322 ! 
CocoANLT CLP Cake 200, 300 \ 

COCOANUT DUOPS 317 I 

CocoANUT Duops, Pyramid of. 323,324 
COCOAXCT, Grated— a Dish of 

Saow 23S, 233 

CocoANiT Kisses 319 

CocoAKi'T Macaroons 317 

CocoANUT Meringues 321 

CocoANi'T Pound Cake 30G 

COCOANUT PUDDING..217, 213, 228, 413 

CocoANiT Sponge Cake 312 

Cod, baked 37 

Cod, Cold boiled, to make a Dish 

of 35, 36 

Cod, Fresh, Descriprioii of 30 

Cod, Fresh, to boil *j 

Cod, Fresh, to broil 30 

Cod, Salt, stewed 3 j 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, to 

carve 440, 441 

Codfish Cakes 35 

Codfish, Dried, to boil 34, 35 

Codfish, Salt, to boil Potatoes 

with 112 

Codfish Steaks, fried 36, 37 

Coffee, to make 330 

Cold Butter and Vinegar 

Sauce 195, 136 

Cold Collations 405, 406 

CoLDSLAW, to make 186,187 

Collation, Cold, for Fourth of 

July 405, 406 

Collation, Cold, for Kew Year's 

Day 405 

Collops, Veal 425 

Colors FOR Soups 14 

Composition Cake 300 

Cooked Meats, to make Soup 

from 11, 12 

Cookery for Invalids 407 

Cookies, Cream of Tartar 424 

Cooking, to preserve Peaches 

without 422 

Cooking, to preserve Pine-apples 

wltUout 340,347 



page 
Cooking, Use of Charcoal in .244, 245 

Corn Ckead, Delicious 431 

Corned Beef, to boil with Vege- 
tables 119 

Corned Beef, to keep for Years 

(see See/) 66, 67 

Corned Pork, to boil with Vege- 
tables 117, 118 

Corn, Green, Fritters 422 

Corn, Green, Soup 409 

Corn, Green, to boil loo, 191 

Corn, Green, to roast 191 

Corn, Green, to serve 190 

Corn-meal Breakfast Cake.274, 275 
Corn-meal Fritters, with Eggs 235 
Corn-meal Fritters, without 

Eggs 235 

Corn-meal Pudding 230, 237 

Corn Starch Custard 429 

Corn Starch, to prepare 423, 42S 

Cottage-cheese 205, 206 

Crab Apples, to preserve 355, 356 

Crabs, Soft, to cook 430 

Crabs, to boil 50 

Crabs, to clioose 50 

Crackers, Butter 285 

Crackers, Dyspepsia 278 

Cracklings 418, 419 

Cranberry Jam ' 199 

Cranberry Pie 255 

Cranberry Sauce 199 

Cranberry Sauce, for Puddings 241 

Cranberry Tarts 255 

Cream Candy 341 

Cream Cheese 207 

Cream, Clotted 331, 332 

Cream Cup Cake 298 

Cream Custard 229 

Cream, Hasty 331 

Cream, Ice (see Ice O-eam) 332 

Cream, Lemon, Floating Island . 218 

Cream Mock 221 

Cream of Tartar Biscuit 423 

Ckeaji of Tartar Cookies 424 

Cream of Tartar Rolls 423 

Cream Pie 258, 259 

Cream Sauce, to make 198 

Cream Sherbet 3S5 

Cream Snow 331 

Cream, S>Tup of 331 

Cream Tarts, Sugar Paste 248 

Cbeam tea Cakes. 281 



460 



HTOEX. 



rAGB 

Cream, to cause to rise quick- 
ly 204, 205 

Cream, to keep sweet y 331 

Cream, Wliipt 221 

Cross Buns 285 

Crullers, Delicate 288, 289 

Crullers, Plain 288 

Crullers, Richer 238 

CiiULLERS, Richest 288 

Crullers, to fry 286 

Crumpets, to make. 281 

Crumpets, Wheat and Indian 27G 

Cucumbers, to choose 189 

Cucumbers, to pickle 3SS, 389 

Cucumbers, to prepare for Table. 189 

Cup Cake, Cocoanut 299, 300 

Cup Cake, Common 293 

Cup Cake, Cream 298 

Cup Cakes, Molasses 297 

Cups, Flour Pudding baked in. . . 414 

Cups, to bake Potatoes in 423 

Curd Pui>dikgs, small 234 

Currant Buns 290 

Currant Fritters (Dried) 237 

Currant Jam 3GS 

Currant Jelly 368, 369 

Currant Jelly Dumplings 232 

Currant Jelly, Lamb Steaks 

with 122, 123 

Currant Jelly Pudding 231 

Currant Jelly, without cook- 
ing 370 

Currant Pie (Green) 25?, 258 

Currant Pie (Ripe) 257 

Currant Pudding (Dried) 229 

Currant Pudding (Ripe) 230 

Currant Tarts (Green) 257, 258 

Currant-water 333 

Currant-water Ice 333 

Currants, for Cake, to clean 314 

Currants, Ripe, for Tea 387 

Currants, to preserve 367, 368 

Currie, Chicken 139 

CURKIE, Mutton 129 

Cltirie Powder, to make 198 

Custard Common 210, 211 

Custard, Corn Starch 429 

Custard, Cream 229 

Custard Fritters 230, 231 

Custard Pie, which makes its 

own paste >. 259 

Costard Pici. ...:.. ....;' 25!) 



rAGE 

Custard, Rice 412 

Custards, small 225, 220 

Cutlets, Pigeon 160 

Cutlets, Pork, to cook 109 

Damsons, to pickle 397 

Damsons, to preserve 373 

Delicate Cake 416 

Dessert, a Frencii 412 

Dessert, a Nice 215, 216 

Dessert at Dinner, Arrange- 
ment of 403 

Dessert, Hominy as 192 

Dessert of Pine-apples 401 

Dessert, Omelette for 229 

Dessert, Oranges as 401 

Diet Biscuit 310 

Diet Bread 307 

Dining-room, Arrangement and 

Furniture of 398-407 

dinner, a Christmas, how to ar- 
range 404, 405 

Dinner, Arrangement of Dessert 

at 403 

Dinner, a Thanksgiving 406 

Dinner, Duties of Guest at. . .437, 438 

Dinner, Duties of Host at 435-437 

Dinner, New Year's 405 

Dinners, Family.... llo, 110, 119, 120 
Dinners, Family (Summer), Bill 

of Fare for 404 

Dinners, Holiday 404 

Dinners, Large, to serve 403, 404 

Dinner-table, Arrangement of 

(see Table) 402-404 

Dinner-table, Etiquette of.. .435-438 

Doughnuts, to fry 286 

Doughnuts, to make 286, 287 

Doughnuts, without Yeast 287 

Dover Cake 303 

Drawn Butter, to make 195 

Dressing, Salad 186 

Drop Biscuits 415 

Drop Cakes 311 

Drop Cakes, Almond 311 

Drop Cakes, Lemon 311 

Drop Cakes, Su;rar 311, 313 

Drop Cakes, Rout 312 

Drops, Almond .".16 

Drops, Coco.inut 317 

Drops, Cocoanut, P3Tamid of 323, 324 
Duck, to can-e ^ 461 



IKDEX. 



461 



PAGE 

DrcK, Veal roasted to look like 

a 91, 9- 

UucKS, Canvas-back, to cook 153, 154 
Ducks, Roast, Potato Cakes to 

serve wth 421 

Ducks, to choose 152, 153 

DrcKS, to roast in a Pot 154 

Ducks, 'Wikl, to cook 152, 153 

Dumplings, Apple 212, 213 

Dumplings, Apple (Dried) ...213, 214 

DuMPLiNCiS, Apple (Whole) 216 

Dumplings, Currant Jelly 232 

Dumplings, Egg 234 

Dumplings, Egg, for Soup 28 

Dumplings, Indian Meal 223, 224 

Dumplings, I'eacli (Dried) 213 

Dumplings, Peach (Ripe) 214 

Dumplings, Rhubarb 214 

Dumplings, Veast 224 

Dutch Omelette 168, 169 

Dyspepsia Bread 273 

Dyspepsia Crackers 278 

Eels, Choice of 44 

Eels, to bake 44, 45 

Eels, to fricassee 45 

Eels, to fry 45 

Eels, to prepare for cooking 44 

Egg Balls for Soup 23 

Egg Dumplings 234 

Egg Dumplings for Soup 28 

Egg Pancakes 232 

Egg Plant, to cook 191 

Egg Pudding 227 

Egg Rusk , 282, 283 

Egg Sauce 195 

Eggs and Ham, fried 114 

Eggs, Apple Fritters with 212 

Eggs, Apple Fritters without 211, 212 

Eggs, Apple Pudding witli 212 

Eggs, Apple Pudding without ... 212 
Eggs, Corn-meal Fritters with... 236 
Eggs, Corn-meal Fritters without 235 

Eggs, Frothed 239 

Eggs, Omelettes, etc. (see Onw- 

lettes) 164-169 

Eggs Poached, with Fried Ham 114 

Eggs, Rice Pudding with 227 

Eggs, Rice Pudding without 227 

Eggs, Soft Gingerbread with- 
out 296 



PAGE 

Eggs, Stirred 167 

Eggs, Suet Fruit Pudding with- 
out 430, 431 

Eggs, Teacup Cake without 299 

Eggs, to boil (in their Shells) 165-167 

Eggs, to choose 164 

Eggs, to keep I6i, 165 

Eggs, to make a French Omelette 

with 167,163 

Eggs, to make an Omelette au 

Natnrel with 167 

Eggs, to make an Omelette with 168 

Eggs, to poach 166 

Eggs, to poach in Balls 167 

Eggs, with Smoked Beef 169 

Etiquette of the Dinnek- 

Table 435-433 

Evening Parties, Refreshments 
for 326, 327 

Family Breakfast, Bill of Fare 
for 400 

Family Dinners . . .115, 116, 119, 120 
Family Dinners (Summer), Bill 

of Fare for 404 

Family Pie Crust, Short.... 247, 248 
Fare, Bill of, for Family Br'kfast 400 
Fare, Bill of, for Family Dinners 401 

Fare, Bill of, for Tea 401, 402 

Farina Pudding 428 

Farina, to cook 423, 428 

Feet, Calves', roasted 94, 95 

Feet, Calves', stewed 95 

Figs, Roasted 384 

Filbert Meringues 321 

Fingers, Lady 309, 310 

Fish, Black, to boil 41 

Fish, Black, to fry 39, 40 

Fish, Black, to stew 40 

Fish Chowder, to make 47 

Fish, Directions for carving. .439-441 

Brill 441 

Carp 440 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 440, 441 

Haddock 440 

Mackerel 439 

Perch 440 

Plaice 441 

Salmon 440 

Soles 441 

Turbot » 441 



462 



INDEX. 



l-AGE 

Fish, Directions for cooking (see 
under respective names ; 

also Slwll Fis?i) S3-47 

IJass, Striped 41 

Black Fish ?>0 

Cod ^ 31-37 

Eels r. 44, 4J 

Haddock 37 

Ilaliimt 41 

Herrings 47 

Mackerel, 43, 46 

PercTi 41 

Pike or Pickerel 47 

Salmon 41-44 

Sea Bass 33 

Sliad 37, 33 

Trout 46 

Fisn, Flat, to carve 441 

Fish, General Remarks on 32, 33 

Fish, Rules for choosing 32 

Fish, Salt, to prepare for cooking 34 

Fisu, Sauces for 195-199 

Fish, Shell, to cook 4S-C4 

Fisu Soup 21 

Fish, to Ixiil 32, 33 

Fish, to broil 33, 34 

Fisii, to fry 33, 31 

Fish, to serve Horse-radish with 194 
Flavoring Stews, Powder for.. 19S 

Floating Island 218 

Floating Island, Lemon Cream 218 
Flock Gravy, for Veal Chops 88, 89 

Flour, Prepared, to make 289 

Flour Pudding, baked in Cups.. 414 

Flour, to brown 190 

Fourth of July, a Cold Collation 

for 405, 40G 

Fowl, Boiled, Stuffing for 136 

Fowl, Roast, .Stuffing for 135, 136 

Fowl, to boil (see C7ucken). . .130, 137 
Fowl, to broil like a Steak. . .139, 140 

Fowl, to carve 448, 449 

Fowl, to fry 140 

Fowl, to roast 135-137 

French Dessert, a 412 

French Cmelette, to make.. 167, 163 
French Receipt for Cooking 

Round OF Beef 83 

French Rolls for Tea 284 

French Te-^-cakes 310, sii 

Fricasseed Eels 45 



PAGK 

Fricasseed Goose 150 

Fricasseed Tripe 70 

FiiicAssEED Turkey 147, 143 

Fried Cakes 287, 283 

Fried Ovsters (sec Oijsteis) 57 

KitiTTERS, Apple, with Eggs 212 

Fritters, Apple, without Eggs 

211, 212 

Fritters, Bread 2-33 

Fritters, Clam 53. 

Fritters, Corn-meal, with Eggs 235 
Fritters, Corn-meal, without 

Eggs 235 

Fritters, CuiTant, Dried 237 

Fritters, Custard 230, 231 

Fritters, Green Corn 422 

Fritters, Jelly 231 

Fritters, Jelly in 231 

Fritters, Oyster, to make. — 56, 57 

Fritters, Parsnip 185, 186 

Fritters, Peach 423 

Fritters, Rhubarb 230 

Frizzed Beef 170 

Frosting for Cake 319, 320 

Frosting, Ornamental 320 

Frothed Eggs 233 

Fruit Cake, Rich 312, 313 

Fruit, General Directions for 

preserving 343-345 

Fruit, Kettles for presei-ving — 343 

Fruit, Paste Pudding with 214 

Fruit, Preserved, Management 

of. 395-397 

Fruit Pudding, Suet, without 

Eggs 430, 431 

Fruit Sandwich 329 

FRurr, to bottle 345, 346 

Fruit, to candy 359 

FRUrr, to color Green, for pre- 
serving in Sugar or Vinegar 342 
Fruit, to color Yellow, for pre- 
serving 342. 343 

Fruit, to keep fresh 345, 346 

FRurr, to preserve for Tarts. .381, 382 
Fruits, Directions for preserving 
(see under their respective 

names) 342-385 

Almacks 381 

Apple Jelly 356, 357 

Apples in Jelly 357, 358 

Apples, to dry 363 



403 



TAGE 

FauiTS, Directions for preserv- 
ia<? {coiUinitecl). 

Apples, to preserve 056 

Apples, to stew 3To, 37 7 

Apricots 36o 

Barberries oiiu, 37U 

Dlacklierries 36u 

Cherries 3G7 

Citron 353, 3o4 

Crab, or Laily Apples.... 3i5, 350 

Currant Jam 36S 

Currant Jeily 368-370 

Currants 367, 30S 

Damsons 373 

Ginger, Green 3o0, 3S1 

Gooseberries 370 

Grape Jelly 37;) 

Grapes 37S-3S0 

Grapes, to dry 3S0 

•Green Gages 37.-374, 4J2 

Lady Apples 355, 356 

Lemon or Orange Peel 35S 

Lemons 354 

Limes 354 

Harmalade, to make 358 

Marmalad',', Transparent 331 

Mulberries 332 

Musk-inelous S54 

Nectarines SyJ, 3^3 

Orange Jelly 357 

Oranjjes in Jelly 354, 355 

Peacli Jelly 362, 363 

Peach Marmalade 3S2 

Poaches 353-3^4 

Peaches, lirandy 361, 362 

Peaclies, to dry 303 

Peacl'.cs, to preserve without 

cooking 422 

Pear Marmalade 375 

Pears, IJrandy 374 

Pears, to bake 375, 376 

Pears, to dry 374 

Pears, to preserve 374, 375 

Pine-apple Jelly 347, 343 

Pine-api)les 340-343 

Pippins in slices 350 

Plums 370-374 

Plums, I >r."< ndy 3T2 

PMims. p!i;-;;!u 37 L 

Plums, to dry C74 

Quince and Apple JoDy 352 



FACE 

FuuiTS, Directions for preserv- 
ing (continued). 

Quince Cheese 352, 353 

Quince Jelly 351 

Quince Marmalade Sol 

(Quinces 349-351 

llaspberries 306 

Pihubarb Preserve 411 

Strawberries 334-363 

Strawberry Jam, or Marma- 
lade 305, 366 

Tomatoes 377 

Tomatoes, Candied 377, 3"S 

Tomato Jam 373 

^\'atermclons 353 

FiifiTS, Kipe, or Melons, to pre- 
pare lor Table 3S5-3S7 

Riackberries 336 

Cantelopes 3S7 

Cherries 387 

Currants for Tea 3S7 

Huckleberries or Whortleber- 
ries 386, 387 

Muskmelons 387 

Peaciies, Ripe 385 

Raspberries 3S3 

Strawberries 386 

AVatermelons 387 

Game, etc., to carve 44S-450 

G AMK, to cook (see Fowl) 135-161 

Ducks, Canvas-back 153, 154 

Ducks, Wild 153, 154 

Partridges 160 

Pheasant 160 

Pigeons 154-164 

Prairie Hen 160 

(quails 160 

Snipe 160 

Squirrels 162-16 1 

Hares 1G2-161 

P.ab'oils 162-16 1 

Woodcock ICO 

Game, to keep from tainting 101, 162 

GlN\iE;iR!tEA:), M.);asS23 235, 290 

GlNGKltllBKAn, Soft 205, 290 

GlXGKKBKEAI), Soit, uitliout K3;4-S 206 
GlNGKll NfTS 2G7 

Gi.Ntiiiii Roots (nrecn), to pre- 
serve 3^0, 3n 



464 



INDEX- 



TAG E 

Glacee, Omelette 240 

G LACES, c'auellons 249 

OourfE, Fricasseed 160 

Goose I'ot-1'ie 150 

Goose, Uoasl, Vegetables for 151 

Guos£, SteweU, to make a Uagout 

of 151, 152 

Goose, to brown-stcw a whole... 151 

Goose, to carve 450, 451 

Goose, to choose a 14S 

Goose, to roast a 14S-151 

GoosEBEHKiEs, Red, to keep 370 

Goosebeukies, to preserve STO 

GoosEiiEituY Ties 25S 

GOOSEBEllUY TaUTS 258 

Gotham Piddinu 235 

Gkaha.m Kkead 273 

Gkape Jelly 379 

GiiAPE Pie (Green) 25S 

Gkai'E Tauts (Green) 258 

Gkapes, Green, to preserve 380 

GiiAPES, to dry S7'J 

GiiAPES, to dry in clusters 3S0 

Gkapes, to preserve 378 

GiiAPES, to preserve (i new 

way 378, 379 

Grapes, to preserve in Bunches.. 379 

Gravies, lUowning for 31 

Gkavv fo:i Veal ciiops 83, 89 

Gkavy, Haul Ill 

Gravy Soi'p ( IJrown) 420 

Gravy SofP, Stock lor 29, 30 

Gkavy, Stock for 29, 30 

Gkeex Bean Soi'p 20, 21 

Green Beass, to boil 183 

Green Beans, to pickie 392 

Green Corn Fritters 422 

Green Corn Pi-ddino 237, 23S 

Green Corn Socp 409 

Green Corn, to boll 190, 191 

Green Corn, to roast 191 

Green Corn, to serve 190 

Green Currant Pie 257, 25S 

Green Currant Takts 257, 258 

Green Gage Pie 254 

Green Gage Tarts 254 

GuEEN Gaces, Jam of 373, 374 

Green Gages, to brandy 372, 373 

Grhen Gages, to i)rescrve 372 

GuEEN Ginger Roots 3S0, 381 

Gbeen Gkape Pie 258 



page 

Green Grape Tarts 258 

Green Grapes, to preserve 380 

Green Grapes, for Pies ami Tarts 258 
Green Onions, to prepare for 

Table. 189 

Green Pea Soup 17, 18 

Gkeen Peas, to cook 181 

Green Pum Pie 254 

Green Tea, to make 330, 331 

Green, to color Fruit, for pre- 
serving 342 

Green, to color Soups 14 

Greens, to boil 178 

Griddle Cakes, Buckwheat 279 

Griddle Cakes, Indian 276, 417 

Griddle Cakes, ludian-nieal 275, 276 

Grouse, to carve 450 

Gruel, Oatmeal, to make 407 

Gruel, Water, to make 407 

Haddock, to carve 440 

Haddock, to cook 37 

Halibut, Cold boiled, to serve. .. 41 

Halibut, to boil 41 

Halibut, to broil 41 

Halibut, to fry 41 

Ham and Egos, Fried 114 

IIa-M, Boiled witli Vegetables— a 

Family Dinner 115, 116 

Ham, Fried, Poached Eggs with 114 

Ham Gravy Ill 

Ham Omelette 163 

Ham Sandwich 329 

Ham, to boil 107, 103 

Ham, to broil .110, ill 

Ham, to carve a 448 

Ham, to fry HO 

Ham.s, dry salted 99 

Hams, Mutton 127 

Hams, to choose 107 

IlAMS, to cure 98, 99 

Hams, to smoke (see Pork) 99 

Hands, to remove Stains from 

the 411 

Hap.d-siiell Clams (sec Clams) 51 

Hare Soup 23 

Hake, to carve 451, 452 

Hakes, to choose, dress, and 

cook 162-1C4 

Haukison Cake 307 

Uakslet, Pigs', to make a Dish of 104 



INDEX. 



465 



FACE 

Harslet, Sheep's, hashed (see 

MuUon) 121, 127, 128 

Hash, Potato and Beef 75, 76 

Haste, to make Soup in 31 

Hasty Ckeam 331 

Hazel-nut Meringues 321 

Head, a Beef's, Potted 71 

Head, a CalPs, to carve 446 

Head, a Call's to cook So-S7 

Head, a Hog's, to pickje 100 

Head, a Pig's, to prepare for 

baking 102, 103 

Head-cheese, Beef. 71 

Head-cueese, CalPs 86, 338 

Head-cueese, Pork 97 

Heart, Beefs, to bake or roast.. 73, 74 

Heakt, Beef's, to stew 74 

Heart Cakes, Citron 302 

Hedge Hog, to make a 239 

Herrings, fresh, to boil 47 

Herrings, to cook 47 

HicKOKY-NUT Cake 306 

Hoakiiol'nd Candy 341 

Hog, to cut up a 95, 96 

HoG's Head, Pickled 100 

Hog's Lakd 96 

Holiday Dinners 404 

Hominy, as Dessert 192 

Hominy, boiled 192 

Honey Cake 297 

Horse-radish, to prepare 194 

Huckleberries, to prepare for 

Table 386, 387 

Huckleberry Pie 257 

Huckleberry Pudding '230 



33, 330, 



Ice Cream, Lemon 

Ice Ckeam, to make 332, 

Ice Ckeam, Vanilla 

Ice, Currant- water 

Ice, Orange-water 

Icing for Cakes 

Indian and Wheat Bread.. 271, 
Indian and Wheat Cki-mpets.. 

Indian Breakfast Cake 

Indian Cakes 

Indian Corn Bread 

Indian Gkiddle Cakes 276, 

Indian Meal Bread 

Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes 

Indian Meal Dumplings 223, 

30 



PAGE 

Indian Meal Griddle Cakes 275, 276 

Indian Meal Muffins 277 

Indian Pudding, Baked 414 

Indian Pudding, Cheap 224 

Indian Pudding, Plain 415 

Indian Pudding, to make 120 

Invalids, Cookery for 407 

Isinglass, Kinds of 222 

Isinglass, to clarify 222, 223 

Island, Floating 218 

Island, Floating, Lemon Cream.. 213 
Ivory Dust Jelly 338, 339 

Jackson Cake t.. 306 

Jam, Cranberry 199 

Jam, Currant 368 

Jam of Gkeen Gages 373, 374 

Jam, Raspberry 366 

Jam, Strawberry 365, 366 

Jam, Tomato 378 

Jars fok Preserved Fruit — 344 

Jaune Mange 339 

Jelly and Biscuit Sandwich.. 308 

Jelly and Wafers 291, -292 

Jelly, Apple 3:)6, 357 

Jelly, Apples in 357, 358 

Jelly, CalPs Febt 333 

Jelly, Currant 368, 3G9 

Jelly, Currant, Dumplings 232 

Jelly, Currant, Pudding 231 

Jelly, Currant, without cooking 370 

Jelly Fritters 231 

Jelly, Grape 379 

Jelly in Fritters 231 

Jelly, Ivory Dust 33S, 339 

Jelly Kisses 318, 319 

Jelly, Orange 357 

Jelly, Oranges in 35 1, 355 

Jelly Pancakes 232, 2.33 

Jelly, Peach 302, 363 

Jelly, Pine-apple .347,348 

Jelly, Quince 351, .352 

Jelly, Quince and Apple 352 

Jelly Sandwich 329 

Jelly Strainers 34s, .349 

Jelly Syrup, Quinces in 350, 351 

Jelly Tarts, Sweet Paste 248 

Jelly, Wine 338 

Johnny Cake 276 

Juice, Lemon, to keep 333, 3.34 

Julienne Soup 427 

U 



466 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

JuiiY FouRTn, a Colrt Collation 

for 405, 406 

Jumbles, Almoml 293 

Jumbles, Common 292 

Jumbles, Soft, 299 

Jumbles, to make 292 

Kettles, Preserving S43 

Kidneys, Beef, tacoolc 74, 75 

Kisses ai7, sis 

Kisses, Cocoaimt oi9 

Kisses, Jelly 318, S19 

Kkaut, Sour, to make 112, 113 

Kkaut, Sour, to serve 115 

Lady Apples, to preserve . . .055, 350 

Lady-cake, vriiite 301, 302 

Lady-cake, Yellow soi 

Lady-fingeks, to make.. 267, 309, 310 

LAFAY'ETTK CiVKE SOS 

Lamb, a Breast of, to broil,. ..121, 122 

Lamb Cuop, like a Crown 122 

Lamb, Fore Quarter of, to can'e_ 443 

.Lamb, Joints ot 121 

Lamb, Leg of, to car\-c 4U 

Lamb, Loin of, to carve 444 

Lamb, Quarter of, boiled 124 

Lamb, (Juarter of, roasted or bak- 
ed 123, 124 

Lamb, Shoulder of, to carve 444 

L.\.mb Son* 25, 2G 

Lamb Steaks, witU ■^^"ine or Cur- 
rant Jelly 122,123 

Lamb Stewtjd with Peas 122 

Lamb, to choose 121 

Lamb, to roast a Pig like 105 

Lard, to make OG, ill 

IjAeded Sweetbread 424,* 425 

Leeks, Uses of 194 

Leavex, to make 278. 

Lemonade, to make C34 

Lemon and Stkup Sauce 241 

Lemon Bkanuy 384 

Lemon Candy, Common 340 

Lemon Candy or Rock 340 

Lemon Cream, Floating Island . . 213 

Lemon Drop Cakes sil 

Lemon Ice Creajc 332 

Lemon Juice, to keep 333, S'U 

Lemon Peel, Caudiod 35S 

Lemon Pie 255 



FACE 

Lemow PrmnxG 220 

Lemon Piddino, lliclv 22S 

Lemon Sauce, for Meat 107, 198 

Lemox Sauce, for I^iUdings 241 

Lemon Sauce, for Puddings, Rich 242 

Lemon Suerdet 38i> 

Lemon Suuaiu 333 

Lemon Syrup, 336 

Lemon Watep^ 333, 409 

Lemons, to preserve 354 

LEPrucE, to prepare for Table. . . ISS 

Light Roli.s. 2S0, 28-4 

Lima Beans, to cook 184 

Limes, to preserve 354 

Liquid Brandy or V»'ine Sauce 

{see Sauce) 240, 243 

Liter, Beeves', to cook 70, 71 

Liver, Beeves', to smoke GT 

Liver, Calfs, to cook 85 

Loaf Cake 310 

Lobster, Boiled, Sour Sauce 

for 48, 49 

Lobster, Buttered 49 

Lobster, Choice of 48 

LoESTEit Salad 49, 50, 439 

Lobster Sauce 19T 

Lobster Soup, to make IS 

Lobster, to boil 48 

Lobster, to broil 49 

Macaroni Soup 2S 

macaroni. Sweet 42T 

Macaroni with Cueese. 427 

Macaroons, Almond 316, 317 

Macaroons, Cocoanut 31T 

Macaroons, Pyramid of. 323, 324 

Mackerel, Fresh, to cook 4j 

?.I ACK Eiirj., Salt, to tlress 45 

Mack erel, to dry 45, 46 

JIackerel, to carve 439 

Mackerel, to S.at 45 

Maigp^e, Soup, to make 20 

Mange, Glanc, tomake 22S 

Manus, Jaune 339 

M.ANGOES ami otlter Pickles, I>i- 

rectio'is for ma'.aog. 38S-39T 

Mxngoe.^ Melon 390, 391 

Maple Sugar Sauce 242 

Mari,bor(>ugh Puiwixg 414 

Marmalade 358 

MARMALADIi PeaCll 3G2 



INDEX. 



467 



PAGE 

Makmalade, Pear 37 j 

Marmalade, liuiucc 351 

Makmalade, Kdspberry 3fjo 

MAUiiALADE, strawberry 365, 366 

Mau.malade, Trauspareut 3sl 

MaukowkaT PEA.S, to cook. ..ISl, IS J 

Mauuow i'UODINa '2:Li 

AIeai., Cori) (.-ice Corn Mnil) ii35 

Meal, Indian, Dumplings 223, 224 

Meat, Directions for Iwiliug and.... 

serving with Vegetables 112 

Meat from wliicli Soup has been 

made, to serve cold 12 

Meat, Joints of, to carve. 441-44S 

Meat, Mince Pie 261-263 

Meat Pie, to serve 03 

Meat Sandwich 329 

Meat, Sauces for 195-199 

Meat, SiUisiigc 100 

Meat, Soup without 19 

Meats, cooked, to make Soup 

from 11, 12 

Meats, Directions for buying and 

dressing ., 65-130 

Meats, Directions for cooking 

(see Beef, Lamb, MuUon, 

Pork anil Veal) 65-130 

Melon Makgoes 390, 391 

Melon, Water, Preserves 353 

Melted Butteu, to prepare 19S 

Mei{ingue Pie 250, 264 

Meuingues, Almond 320, 321 

Meringues, Cocoanut 321 

Meringues, Filbert 321 

Meringues, Hazelnut 321 

Meringues, Pyramid of 323, 32i 

Milk and Cabbage Soup 16, 17 

Milk Biscuits, to make 2S0 

Milk, Cellar for 205 

Milk Cheese, to make 207 

Milk or Soda Biscuit 2S5 

Milk, Oysters stewed with 69 

Milk Porridge 40S, 409 

Milk Punch 3S4 

Milk, Rice 410 

Milk, Sago 410 

Milk Soup 403 

Milk, Tapioca 410 

Milk, Thickened 40S 

Milk, Tliick Sour, Use of 206 

Milk Toast. 203, 203 



fags 
Milk, to destroy the Unpleasant 
Plavor of, from cows feeding 

on turnips 206 

Milk, to keep 202, 203 

Minced Beef so 

Mince Pie, Apple 203, 204 

Mince Pie, Meat 261 

Mince Pie Meat, Domestic. 262, 203 
Minue Pie Mixture, to finish... 263 
Mince Pie Mixture, to make. . . 202 

Mince Pie, to be served warm 262 

Mince Pie, to make 263 

Mince Pies, Delicious 424 

Mince, White, of Veal 426 

Mint Sauce 197 

Minute Pudding 211, 280 

Miscellaneous Receipts — 407-432 

Mixture, Mince Pie, to finish 263 

Mixture, Mince Pie, to make 262 

Mock Cream 221 

Mock Cream Pie 259 

Mock Turtle Soup 20 

Mock Venison, to make 126, 127 

Molasses Candy (Taify) 341, 342 

Molasses Cup Cakes. 297 

Moss, Carrigan 408 

Mottoes, to make 324 

Mould, Omelette SoutHe in a ... 238 

Mould on Preserves 344 

Mrs. Cowing's Peach Pickles 397 

Mits. Madison's Whim 313 

Muffin^ 417 

Muffin', Buttermilk 280 

Muffins, Iiidian Meal 277 

Muffins, to make 2S0, 2Sl 

Mulberries, to preserve 382 

Mulberry Syrup 382 

Mulled Cider 409, 410 

Mulled Wine 410 

Muscles, to cook 64 

Muscles, to stew 64 

Mushrooms, Description of. ..191, 192 

Mushrooms, to broil 192 

Mushrooms with Beefsteak 423 

Mitskmelon, Preserve* 354 

Muskmelons, to prepare for 

Table 387 

Mustard, to make 394 

Mutton, a Breast of, to broil 129 

Mutton, a shoulder of, to broil.. 129 
Mutton Broth 28, 29! 



468 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Mutton Chops, Broiled 130 

Ml'TTON CHOPS, Fried 129, 130 

MurroN Curkie l-y 

Mutton Hams, 1-' 

Mutton, Haunch of, to carve 442 

Mutton, Haunch of, to cook..l-2S, 129 

Mutton, Joints of 433 

Mutton, liCg of, boiled 130 

Mutton, Leg of, to carve 443 

Mutton, Leg of, to roast l2o 

Mutton, Loin of, to carve 442 

Mutton, Observations on 125, 12G 

Mutton Pasty, to cat like Venison I2ti 

Mutton, Saddle of, to carve 44 J 

Mutton, Shoulder of, to carve. . . 442 

Mutton Steaks, to broil 13 J 

Mutton, to make Mock VeuLson 

from 126,127 

Mutton, to make taste like Ven- 
ison 12'^ 



Naples Biscuit 

Nasturtium, or Imitation Caper 
Sauce 

Nastuktiums, to pickle 

Nectakines, to bottle 

Nectarines, to candy 382, 

Nectakines, to preserve 

Ne-w-Year's Day, a Cold Colla- 
tion for 

ilTEW-YEAR's Dinner 

Noodles and Beefsteak...^... 

Noodles for Soup, to make 

Nothings, to make - 

Nuts, Ginger 

Oatmeal Gruel, to make 

Oatmeal, to cook 

Olives, to pickle plums like. .391, 

Omelette au Naturel - 

Omelette, Dutch 168, 

Omelette for Dessert 

Omelette, French 16", 

Omelette Glacee 

Omelette, Ham 

Omelette of Hard-siiell Clams. . 

Omelette of Smoked Beef 

Omelette Souflee 

Omelette Souflee in a Mould.. 

Omelette, SpanLsU 

Omelette, to make an 



PAGE 

Omelette wtih Sweetmeats.. 239, 240 

One-two-tureefouk Cake, 294 

Onion and Beef Stew "8, 79 

Onion Sauce 197 

Onion Soup 22 

Onions, Beefsteak ■with 71 

Onions, Green, to prepare for 

Table 189 

Onions, Store, to dress 189 

Onions, to boil 189, 190 

Onions, to pickle 391 

Onions, Winter, to dress 189 

Orange Jelly 357 

Orange Peel. Candied 358 

Orange Pudding 413, 414 

Orange Sherbet 334 

Orange Sugar 333 

Orange-water 333 

Orange-water Ice 334 

Oranges as Dessert 40l 

Oranges in Jelly 354, 355 

OllGEAT 334, 335 

Oknamental Frosting 320 

Ornaments for Pies 258, 259 

Ovens, Remarks on 343, 344 

O.x-uead Soup 17 

Oyster Catsup 394 

Oyster Chowder, to make Gl, 62 

Oyster Fritters, to make 56, 57 

Oyster Pie, to make 62, 63 

Oyster Pie, to serve 63 

Oyster Sauce 197 

Oyster Soup, to make 15, 16 

Oyster Supper, Directions con- 
cerning 32S, 329 

' Oyster, Vegetable, to cook 191 

Oysters au Parmesan 63 

Oysters, Choice of 56 

Oysters, Panned 431, 432 

Oysters, Pickled, to ser\'e 61 

Oysters, Scolloped 6.3, 64 

Oysters, Season for 56 

Oysters, Small, to fry 58 

Oysters, Small, to pickle 61 

Oysters, Sweetbreads hke 428 

Oysters, to boil 58, 59 

Oysters, to broil 58 

Oysters, to fecil 56 

Oysters, to fricassee 59 

Oysters, to fry > 67 

Oysters, to fry in Batter 57 



INBEX. 



4C9 



PAGE 

Otsteks, to pickle (No. 1) 69, 60 

Oysters, to pickle (No. 2) 60, 61 

Oysteus, to roast 58 

Oystkks, to stew witli Milk 59 

Oysters, to stew with Wine .... 63 

Talo-Alto Cakes 303 

Panada 410 

Pancakes, Egrg 232 

Pancakes, Jelly 232, 233 

Panned Oysteks -131, 432 

Parmesan, Oysters au 63 

Parsley Sauce l9o 

Parsnip Fritters 185,186 

Parsnip Stew 120 

Parsnips, to boil 185' 

Parsnips, to fry 185 

Parties, Evening, Refreshments 

for 326, 327 

Partridge, to carve 449 

Partridges, to cook 160 

Party, Tea, Directions about 327, 328 
Party, Winter, Refreshments for 327 

Paste Cakes 284 

Paste Jelly Takts, Sweet 248 

Paste Pudding, with Fruit 214 

Paste, Puff, Common (for Pies)245, 246 

Paste, Putt; Finest (for Pufls) 245 

Paste, Puff, Light 246 

Paste Puffs 247 

Paste Tarts 247 

Pasty, Mutton, to eat like Veni- 
son 126 

Pasty, Venison 133, 134 

, Patience, Tablets de 309, 310 

Patties, Chicken 142, 143 

Peach Charlotte 215 

Peach Dumplings (Drieil) 213 

Peach Dumplings (Ripe) 214 

Peach Fritters 423 

Peach Jelly 362, 363 

Peach Marmalade 362 

Peach Pickles, Mrs. Cowing's.. 397 

Peach Pie (Dried) 253 

Peach Pie (Ripe) 255 

Peach Pie (Wiiole) 255 

Peach Pot-Pie -. 418 

Peach Preserve 363, 361 

Peach TART,(priecl) 253 

Peaches, Braiulied 361, 362 

Peaches, Brandy 361 



PAGE 

Peaches, Fried 193 

Peaches, Ripe, to prepare for 

Table 385, 386 

Peaches, to dry 363 

Peaches, to pickle 392,393 

Peaches, to preserve 359, 360 

Peaches, to preserve wiiole.. 360, S6l 
Peaches, to preserve witliout 
cooking (equal to Brandy 

Peaches) 422 

Peaches, to stew 376 

Pearlash Cake 296 

Pear Marmalade 375 

Pears, Large Bell, to preserve... 375 

Pears, to liake 375, 376 

Pears, to dry 374 

Pears to preserve 374, 375 

Pears, to preserve in Brandy 374 

Pears, to stew 375 

Pea Soup (Green) 17, 13 

Peas, Green, to cook 181 

Peas, Lamb stewed with 122 

Pe.\s, Marrowfat, to cook 181, 182 

Peas (Split) Soup 21 

Peel, Orange and Lemon, to 

candy 358 

Peppermint Candy 341 

Peppers, Green, to pickle 388,389 

Perch, to carve 440 

Perch, to fry 41 

Phe.\sant, to carve 449, 450 

Picicle for beef 66, 67 

Pickled Reef 68 

Pickled Clasis 55 

Pickled Oysters 59-61 

Pickled Pork 96 

Pickled Salmon 43 

Pickles, Directions for making 
(see under their respective 

names) 3S8-397 

Beets 394, 395 

Butternuts 392 

Cabbage, Red 394 

Cucumbers 388, 389 

Green Beans 392 

Green Peppers 389, 390 

Melon Mangoes 390, 391 

Nasturtiums 391 

Onions 391 

Peaches 392, 393, 397 

Plums 391, 392, 397 



470 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Tickles, Directions for making 
(coulinaed). 

Toiiiiiloes 39 j 

"Walnuts 392 

Pickles, Management of. 095-397 

Tickles, Peacli, Mrs. Cowing's... 397 

TiCKEUEL, to cook 47 

Pickles, to color Green 342 

Pickles, Water-melon 411 

Pie, a Labor-saving 2o9 

Pie, Apple 251 

Pie, Apple (Dried) 252 

Pie, Beefsteak 77, 7S 

Pie, Ulackbcny 253 

Pie, Cherry ( Drieil) 254 

Pie, Cherry (Sour) 254, 255 

Pie, Chicken 140, 141 

Pie, Chicken, to serve 63 

Pie, Clam, to make 53, 54 

Pie, Cranberry 265 

Pie, Cream 258, 250 

Pie Ckust, Family (Short). . . .247, 24S 

Pie, Currant (Green) 257, 25S 

Pie, CuiTant (Ripe) 257 

Pie, Custard, which makes its 

own Paste 259 

Pie, Gooseberry. 25S 

Pie, Grape (Green) 258 

Pie, Green Gage 254 

Pie, Huckleberry 257 

Pie, IIucklebeiTy and Grape 25S 

Pie, Lemon 256 

PiE-siAKiNG, Remarks on 250, 251 

Pie, Meat, to sei-ve C3 

Pie, Meringue 256, 264 

Pie, Mince, Apple 263, 264 

Pie, Mince, Meat for 261 

Pie, Mince, Meat for Domestic 262, 263 
Pie, Mince, Mixture, to finish. . . 263 
Pie, Mince, Mixture, to make... 262 
Pie, Mince, to be served Warm. . 262 

Pie, Mince, to make 203,424 

Pie, Mock Cream 2.')9 

Pie, Oyster, to make G2, GC 

Pie, Oyster, to serve 03 

Pie, Peach (Dried) 253 

Pie, Peach (Ripe) 255 

Pie, Peach (Whole) 255 

Pie, Pigeon 158, 159 

Pie, Pig's Feet 106, 107 

Pie, Plum (Dried) 253 



FAGB 

Pie, Plum (Green) 254 

Pie, Plum (Kipe) 253, 254 

Pie, Pork and Apple 418 

Pie, Pumpkin 260 

PIE, Rhubarb 256 

Pie, Rice 259, 412 

Pie, Rice Flour 200 

Pie, Sweet Potato 177 

Pie, Thanksgiving 200, 261 

Pie, Tomato 411 

Pie, A'eal 92, 93 

Pie, Whortleberry 257 

Pies, Custard 259 

Pies, Directions for baking and 
making (see Puddings and 

Tarts) 243-264 

Pies, Mince, Delicious 424 

Pies, Ornaments for 258, 259 

Pies, Pair Paste for 245, 246 

Fig, Roast, Sauces to sene with 

(see Pork) 104 

Pig, Roast, to carve 447 

Pig, to bake a 104 

Pig, to roast a 103 

Pig, to roast like Lamb 105 

Pig's Cheek, to cook 103 

Pig's Feet Pie 106, 107 

Pig's Feet, soused 106 

Pig's Hakslet, to make a Dish of 104 
Pig's Head, to prepare for bak- 
ing 102, 103 

Pigeox Ci:tlets 160 

PiGEOx Pie 15S, 159 

Pigeon Pot-pie 159 

Pigeons, Choice of 154, 155 

Pigeons, to broil 155 

Pigeons, to carve 450 

Pigeons, to fry 155, 156 

Pigeons, to make a Bird's Nest 

of 156, 157 

Pigeons, to roast 159, 160 

Pigeons, to stew brown 157, 158 

Pigeons, to stew (White) 156 

Pike ok Pickerel, to cook 47 

Pine Aitle, Dessert of 401 

Pine-apple Jelly 347, 348 

Pine-apple Pkeseuve 347 

Pine-apple Syrup 335, 336 

Pine-apples, to preserve whole. 348 
Pine-apples to preserve without 
cooking 346, 347 



INDEX. 



471 



FACE 

Pink, to color Preserves 'G40 

PiXK, to prepare Cocliineul for 

coloring 321 

PirpiNS, to preserve in Slices Siii 

Pistachio Uiscottes U--! 

Pistachio BiscfiT o2-2, 3-3 

Plaice, to carve 411 

Plant, Erse, to cook lOi 

Pn'M Cake 314 

Pi.fM Pie (Driei".) 2.J3 

Pi-IM Pie (Greeu) 204 

Pli'M Pie (Uipc) 2J3, 2o4 

Plcm Pudding 219, 220, 413 

Plkm PrDDiNG, Ciiristmas...21S, 219 

Plum Pudding, Sauce lor 242 

I'LUM Taut (l)ric<l) 2':.3 

Plums, General Remarks on 370 

Plums, Green Gage, to bran- 
dy 372, 373 

Plums, Green Gage, to preserve 372 

Plums, Large, to preserve 411 

Plums, Purple, to preserve 371 

Plums, to dry 374 

Plums, to pickle 397 

Plums, to pickle like Olives.. 391, 392 
Plums, to preserve for Tarts, or 

Common Use 381, 382 

Plums, to preserve in lirandy. . . . 372 
Plums, to preserve without the 

Skins sn 

Poached Eggs 166 

Poached Eggs, in Balls i67 

Poached Eggs, with Fried Ilaia 114 

Pods, Radish, to pickle 395 

Pone, or Corn-meal Breakfast 

Cake 274, 273 

Pop, ButtermiJk 409 

Pork, a Hand of, to carve (sec 

P(O) 447 

Pork, a Leg of, to carve 447 

POKiC, a Loin of, to carve 447 

Pork and apple Pie 418 

POKK and Beans, to hake 115 

Pork and Beans, to boil 115 

Poke, a Pickle for 99, 100 

POKK Cheese, soused cs 

Pork, Choice of 0,i, Ci} 

Pork Chops, to cook 109 

Pork, Corned, and Beans 115 

Fork, Corned, to boil with Vege- 
tables 117, 118 



PAGE 

PoKK Cutlets, to cook 109 

Pork, Fresh, to stew 105,105 

Pork, General Remarks on 95, 90 

I'oRK Hams (see //(T«)s) 107 

PoUvK, Headcheese 97 

PouK, Joints of 434 

PoKK, Leg of, to bake or roast. .. 105 

Pork, Leg of, to boil 103 

PoKK, Loin of, to roast 1*5 

Pork, Pickled 93 

Poi:k, Salt, to fry or broil 109, 110 

PuKK, Sauces to serve with 104 

I'ourc Sausages, Meat for 100 

I\)Ki; Sausages (to eat cold), to 

1:;.;:- 101,102 

PoKK S .us\(;,.s, to make 100, 101 

Poi.K, Suioked, to make a Stew 

of. 108 

Pork, Spare-rib of 96 

Pons Steaks, to cook 109 

PoKK, Tenderloin of 105 

PoKK, to salt (Farmers' Way) 93 

Porridge, Miik 40s, 409 

Portable Soup, to make 14, 15 

Porter-house Steaks 76 

Portugal Cakes 205 

Potato and Beef Hash 75, 73 

Potato and Veal Pie 93 

Potato Bread 270, 271 

I'OSATO Cakes, to serve wit!i 

Roast l)\icks 421 

Pot aid Pudding 413 

Potato Salad 43a 

Potatoes and Cabbage, to cook 

together 194 

Potatoes baked in Cups 423 

Potatoes, Cold, Boiled, to pre- 
pare for Table .' 174 

Potatoes (Sew), to boil 173, 174 

Potatoes (Oi(l), Mashed 173 

Potatoes (Old), to boil 172 

Potatoes, Sweet, to bake 176 

Potatoes, Sweet, to boil 170,177 

Potatoes, Sweet, to roast 176 

Potatoes, to bake 175 

Potatoes, to boil wirii Codlish.. 112 

Potatoes, to broil 173 

1'otatoes, to cook in haste 174 

Potatoes, to fry 174, 175 

Potatoes, to hash 175 

Potatoes, to prepare for Soups. . 13 



472 



ISDEX. 



PAGE I 

Potatoes, to roast 175, iTo 

Potatoes, Veal ininceil witli UJ 

roT-cuEKSK, to make 'JOG 

roriMK, Cliicken ...l-l), lil 

PoT-PiH, Cliickca, to Dish a 142 

roT-i'iiD, C'laiii, to make .'ji, 55 

I\)T-riE, Ooi)so l.'.O 

I'oT-PiE, Teacli iVi 

I'OT-PiE, Pigeon l.yj 

POT-PIE, Veal 'Si, ;: i 

POULTPvY, Boiling of lOG 

PofLTUY, Choice of 135 

PouLTUY, Game, etc., to carve 448-450 
PoiLTitY, Gflieral Remarks on 

(see C/iickeiis and Foicl) 105 

Poultry, Pioasting of. 105, lOG 

PouLTKY, Sauces for 195-199 

PorLTiJY, to keep from taint- 
ing: 161, 1G2 

POUNO-CAKE, Almond SOd 

Pound-cake, Cocoanut GOG 

Pound-cakes, Small 304 

Pound-cakes, to make 305 

PowDEP., CruRiE, to make 198 

Pp.epap.ed Flour, to make 2S9 

PuESEUVED FuuiT, Jars for 344 

Pr.ESEUVES, Poam on 344,345 

Presekves, Monia on 344 

Preserves, Peach 303, 3C4 

Preserves, Pine-apple 34C-34S 

Preserves, Rhubarb 411 

Preserves, Strawberry 334, 365 

Preserves, Sugar for 343 

1'reserves, to color Green 342 

Preserves, to color Pink 343 

Preserves, to color Yellow.. 342, 343 
Preserving Fruits, Directions 

for 343-345 

Preserving, to clarify Sugar for 345 

Prune Pudding 215 

Prunes, to stevr 3S0, 410, 411 

Pudding, Almond, baked 220 

Pudding, Almond, boiled 220, 221 

Pudding, Apple, baked 414 

Pudding, Apple, boiled 423 

Pudding, Apple, boiled, with 

Eggs 212 

Pudding, Apple, boiled, wiihont 

Eggs 212 

Pudding, Batter, boil'ed 225 

PuDDiUG, Batter, Cheap 216,217 



^ PAGE 

Pudding, Batter, Rich 217 

PuDuiN(!, Beefsteak 78 

Pudding, Blackberry 230 

Pudding, Bread and Butter, 

baked 226, 227 

Pudding, Bread, baked 225 

Pudding, Bread, boiled.. 225, 226, 233 

PuDr)iN(j Carrot 415 

Pudding, Charlie's Apple 414 

Pudding, Chcn-y 229, 230 

Pudding, Citron 217 

Pudding, Cocoanur, baked... 22S, 413 
Pudding, Cocoanut, boiled... 217, 218 

Pudding, Corn-meal 236, 237 

Pudding, Currant 230 

Pudding, Currant, Dried 229 

Pudding, Currant Jelly 231 

Pudding, Egg 227 

Pudding, Farina 428 

Pudding, Flour, baked iu Cups.. 414 

Pudding, Gotham 235 

Pudding, Green Corn 237, 233 

Pudding, Huckleberry 230 

Pudding, Indian, baked 414 

Pudding, Indian, Cheap 224 

Pudding, Indian, Plain 415 

Pudding, Indian, to make 120 

Pudding, Lemon 220 

Pudding, Lemon, Rich 228 

Pudding, Marlborough 414 

Pudding, Marrow 223 

Pudding, Minute 211, 280 

Pudding, Orange 413, 414 

Pudding, Paste, with Fruit 214 

Pudding, Plum 219, 220, 413 

Pudding, Plum, Christmas... 218, 219 

Pudding, Plum, Sauce for 243 

Pudding, Potato 413 

Pudding, Prune 215 

Pudding, (Juaking 2I6 

Pudding, Ratafia 2.33 

Pudding, Rice Flour 227 

Pudding, Rice, with Eggs 227 

Pudding, Rice, without Eggs 227 

Pudding Sauces, to make 240-242 

Apple Sailce 241, 242 

Brandy or Wine Sauce 240 

Brandy or Wine Sauce, Li- 
quid 240, 241 

BrandySauce 240 

Cinnamon Sauce 242 



INDEX. 



473 



PAGE 

Pudding Sauces, to make (co;i- 
tinue<X). 

Craaberrj' Sauce 241 

Lemon ana Syrup Sauce 241 

Lemon Sauce 241 

Lemon Sauce, Ricii 242 

Maple Sugar Sauce 242 

Plum Pudding, Sauce for 242 

Sweet Sauce 241 

Wine Sauce 240, 241 

Pudding, Sponge Cake 229, 416 

Pudding, Suet 112, 413 

Pudding, Suet, boiled 224, 225 

Pudding, Suet, Fruit, witiiout 

Eggs 430,431 

Pudding, Sweet Potato 228 

Pudding, Tapioca 413 

Pudding, Transparent 234 

Pudding, Vermicelli 412 

Pudding, Wlieat and Inaija..235, 235 

Pudding, White- 230 

Puddings, baking of. 210 

Puddings, boiling of. .209, 210 

Puddings, Curd, Small 234 

Puddings, Etc., Direction.? for 
making (see Pies, Tarts, and 

DumvUnrjS) 209-242 

Puddings, Lemon Sauce for 242 

Puddings, Small 227, 223 

Puff Paste, Common (for Pies). . 245 
Puff Paste, Finest (for Puffs) ... 245 

Puff Paste, Liglit 24G 

Puffs, Paste 247 

Pumpkin Pie 260 

Pumpkins, to preserve ITl, 172 

Punch, Cliampagne 406, 407 

Punch, Milk 3S4 

Pyramid, an Ornamental 324 

Pyramid of Cocoa-nut Drops, 
Macaroons, cr Meringue, to 
make a 323, 324 

QuAHOGS (see Clams) 52 

Quails, to cook IGO 

Quaking Pudding 210 

Queen Cake 305 

Quince and Apple Jelly 352 

Quince Cheese 352, 353 

Quince Jelly 351, 352 

Quince Marmalade 351 

QuDfCEa in Jelly Syrup 350, 351 



PAGK 

Quinces, to keep 349 

Quinces, to preserve 349, 350 

Quinces, to stew 378 

Rabbit, to carve 452 

Rabbit, Welsh, to make 208 

Rabbits, to clioose, dress, and 

cook 102-164 

Radishes, Kinds of. 187 

Radishes, to prepare for Table 187,188 

Radish Pods, to pickle 395 

Ragout, Beef, to make 72 

Ragout, Veal ..83, 90 

Ragout, to make a, of stewed 

Goose 151, 152 

Raspbekuies, Dried, to stew.. 366, 367 
Raspberries, to prepare for Table 386 

Raspberries, to preserve 366 

Raspberry Jam 366 

Raspberry Marmalade 366 

Raspberry Sykup 335 

Raspberry Vinegar 384 

Ratafia Pudding 233 

Receipts, Miscellaneous 407-432 

Red Cabbage, to dress 187 

Red Cabbage, to pickle 394 

Red, to color Soup 14 

Red, to prepare Cochineal for 

coloring 321 

Refreshments for a Winter 

Party 327 

Refreshments for Evening Par- 
ties 326, 327 

Refreshment Tables, Direc- 
tions for setting 325-329 

Rennet, to prepare 207, 208 

Rhubarb Dumplings 214 

Rhubarb Fritters 230 

Rhubarb Pie 256 

RnUBAllB Pres-i^rve 411 

Rhubarb Tart • 256, 257 

Ribbon Blanc-mange 223 

Rice Cakes 422 

Rice Custard 412 

Rice-flour Blanc-mange 408 

Rice-flour Pie 200 

Rice-flour Pudding 227 

Rice-flouk Short-cakes 284 

Rice Milk 410 

Rice Pie 259, 412 

Rice Pudding with Eggs 227 

V* 



474 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Rice PnuDiSG >rithont Eggs 227 

KoAST Pig, to carve (see P<£7) 447 

]>()CK OB Lemon Candy S40 

RoLLA Cheese, to make 69, "0 

KoLLS, Bakers', to make 278, 279 

Rolls, Cream of Tartar 423 

Rolls, DirccUons for baking 265 

Rolls, Directions for making — 2C4 

Rolls, Frencli, for Tea 284 

Rolls, Liglit 283, 284 

Room, Breakfast, Arrangement 

antl Furniture of 39S-407 

Room, Dining-, Arrangement and 

Furniture of 308-407 

Rose Brandy 333 

Rose Candy 341 

Rout Drop-cakes 312 

Rusk, Egg 282, 283 

Rusk, Tea 282 

RUSSR, Cliarlotte 221, 222 

RUTA-BAGA TU1;NI1'S, tO boil..ll9, 120 
RUTA-BAGA TURNirS, tO COOk 177 

Rte Bread 272 

Rye Bkead Cake 272,273 

Rye Suokt-cakes 277 

Sago Milk 410 

Sago, to cook 410 

Salad, Asparagus 182, 1S3 

Salad, Cabbage ISO 

Salad, Cauliflower 185 

Salad, Cliicken 143, 420, 430 

Salad Dressing 18 J 

Salad, Lubster 49, SO, 430 

Salad, Potato. 4C0 

Salad, Red Cabbage 1S7 

Salad, Water-cresses used as 104 

Saleiiatus, Use of, in Bread or 

Cakes 265, 26G 

Salmon, Dried or Smoked, to 

V)roil 43, 44 

Salmon, Sait, a Disli of a 

Salmon, Salt, to cook 44 

Salmon, Spiced, to piclclc 43 

Salmon, to bake 42 

Salmon, to boil.... 41, 42 

Salmon, to broil , 42 

Salmon, to carve ,,,.,. 440 

Salmon, to dry, or smoke .,.,,.. 43 
Salmon, to tell when fresh..... . , 41 

g.^i,U0N TKQyx, to cook.; — , , . , 45 



rA6B 

Salsify, to cooTc 191 

Salt Fish, to soak (see Fish) 34 

Sandwiches, to make .329, 330 

Beef Sandwich 329 

Biscuit and Jelly 303 

Bread and Butter 329 

Bread for 329 

Caeese 329 

Cold Meat 329 

Eggs, Colli, boiled 329 

Fruit 329 

Ham 329 

Jelly 329 

Tongue 329 

Sangakee, AVine 337 

Sauces for Meat, Fisli, Poultry, 

or Vegetables 195-199 

Anchovy Sauce 196, 19T 

Apple Sance 199 

Apples, Fried 199 

Butler, Clarified 198 

Butter, Cold, and Vinegar 

Sance 195, 196 

Butter, Drawn, to make 195 

Butter. Melted 193 

Butter Sauce 196' 

Caper Sauce, Imitation 193 

Craulicrry Sance, or Jam 199 

Cream Sauce 193 

Currie Powder 19S 

Egg Sauce 195 

Flour, to brown 196 

Lemon Sauce 197, 193 

Lobster Sauce 19T 

Jlint Sance 197 

Nasturtium Sauce 196 

Onion Sauce 19T 

Oy.ster Sauce 19T 

Parsley Sauce 105 

Peaches, Fned 199 

Shalot Sauce 196 

Sour Sauce 193 

Sour Sauce, for boiled Lob- 
sters 43, 49 

Venison Sance 134 

Sauces for Puddings 240-242 

Apple Sauce 241, 242 

Brandy or Wine Sauce 240 

Brandy or VTine Sauce, 

Liquid 240, 241 

Brandy Sauce 240 



475 



PAGE 

Sauces for Puddings {continued). 

Cinnamon Sauce 242 

Cranberry Sauce 211 

Lemon and Syrup Sauce 241 

Lemon Sauce 24 1 

Lemon Sauce, Rich 242 

Maple Sugar Sauce 242 

Plum Pudding, Sauce for 242 

Sweet Sauce 241 

■Wine Sauce -..240, 241 

Saucks, to serve witli Roast Pig 

or Pork 104 

Sausage Meat, Reef G6 

Sausage Meat. Pork loo 

Sausage Meat, to cook witli 

Vegetables 117 

Sausages, Bologna, to make 102 

Sausages, Pried, Vegetaljles with in 

Sausages, Pork, Meat for loO 

Sausages, Pork, to make 100, 101 

Sausages, to fry 421 

Sausages, Veal ST 

Savoy Biscuit., 307, G03 

Savoy Cabbage lis 

Saa'oy Soup 29 

Scolloped Clams 66 

Scolloped Oysteks G3, G4 

Scolloped Tomatoes 194 

Scollops, to boil CO 

Scotch Cake sio, sie 

Sea Bass, to cook u j 

Sea Clams, to cook 5j 

Shad, baked 3S, 39 

Shad, broiled 33 

Shad, fried 37, 3S 

Shad, to dry or smoke 43 

Shad, when in season 37 

Shalot Sauce lOC 

Shalots, to prepare for Table.. . . 1S9 

Sheep's Hakslet, hashed 127, 12S 

Shell-fish, Directions for cook- 
ing (see under respective 

names) 48-04 

Clams, Hard-shell 51-55 

Clams, Sea 05 

Clams, Soft-shell 50, 51 

Crabs so 

Lobsters 4S-50 

Muscles C4 

Oysters (see Oijstei's) 56-64 

Scollops 50 



page 

Shekeet, Cream 385 

Shekbet, Lemon 385 

Sherbet, Orange 334 

SuEKBET, Strawberry 335, 385 

Shin oi'^ Beef Soup 23, 24 

Shout-cake,. Strawberry 418, 431, 432 

Suokt-cakes 284 

SuoiiT-CAifES, Rice Flour 284 

SuoKT-CAKES, Rye 277 

Simple Sykup, to make 339, 340 

Skikts, Beef, to cook 66, 73 

Small Biuds, to broil (see Birds) 161 

Small Cakes, to make 292, 293 

SMALL Puddings 227, 22S 

Smoked Beef (see £&'/, Smntcecl) 75 

Snaps, Ginger 296 

Snipe, to cook 160 

.S.NOW, a Dish of, — Cocoa-nut 

grated 238, 230 

Snow, a Dish uf,— Wliipt Cream 221 

Snow-balls .-..214, 215 

Snow cueam 331 

Soda Cake ; 299 

Soda or Milk Biscuit 285 

Soft Cuabs, to cook -. 430 

Soft Gingeu-bp.ead 295, 290 

Soft Gisgeu-bread, without 

Eggs 296 

Soft J umbles 299 

Soft-shell Clams (see Clams).. 50 

Soles, to carve 441 

SouFFLEE, Omelette 233 

Soufflee Omelette, in a Mould 233 

Soup Beef 24, 25 

Soup, Brown Gravy 420 

SOUP, Bullhead 19 

SOUP, Cabbage 30 

Soup, Cabbage and Milk 10, 17 

SOUP, Calf's Head 26, 27 

Soup, Cattish 19 

Soup, Chicken, Vv'hitc 22 

Soup, Chicken, Yellow 21, 22 

Soup, Clam 29 

Soup, Dried Bean 21 

Soup, Egg Ralls for 23 

Soup, Kgg Dumplings for 23 

Soup, Fish 21 

Soup, Green Bean 20, 21 

Soup, Green Corn 409 

Soup, Green Pea 17, IS 

Soup, Hare 23 



476 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Soup IN Haste. 31 

SoiP, Julienne 427 

Soup, Lamb 25, 20 

Soup, Lobster 10 

Soup, Macaroni 2H 

Soup, Maigre 20 

Soup, Milk 408 

Soup, Milk anil Cabbage 16, 17 

Soup, Jlock Turtle 2U 

Soup, NootUesfor. 419 

Soup, Oaiou 22 

SOUP, Ox-heatl 17 

Soup, Oyster. 15, 16 

Soup, Pea (Green) 17, 13 

Soup, Portable 14, 15 

Soup, Savoy 20 

Soup, SWu of Beef. 23, 24 

Soup, soon made 31 

Soup, Split Peas 21 

Soup, StMsk for Gravy 29, 30 

Soup, to prepare Vegetables for 12-14 

Soup, Turtle, to make 18, 19 

Soup, Veal 25, 26 

Soup, Vegetable, for Summer.. 30, 31 

Soup, Vegetables for 12, 13 

Soup, A'ermicelli 28 

Soup, without Meat 19 

SouPON, fried 237 

SoupoN, to make 236, 237 

Soups (see Broth) 11-31 

Soups, Browning for 31 

Soups, Directions for making.. .11-14 

Soups, Tliickeniug for 13 

Soups, to color brown 14 

Soups, to color green 14 

Soups, to color red 14 

Soups, to color yellow 14 

Soups, Vegetables for 12-14 

Soups, wliite, to make 14 

SouPv Kraut, to make 112, 113 

Soup. Kkaut, to serve 113 

Sour Sauch 195 

Souk Sauch for boiled Lobsters 48, 40 

Spanish Cakes 205 

Spanish Omelette 163 

Spice Biscuits, Almond 315, 321 

SPIC3 Cakes, Rich 294, 295 

Spice Cakes, to make 294 

Spiced Salmon, to pickle 43 

Spinach, boiled US, 119 

Spinach, to cook ISO, isi 



PAOS 

Spi.nach, with fried Sausages.. . . 117 

Split Peas Soup 21 

Sponge Cake 30", 415 

.Sponge Cake, Cocoanut 312 

SPONGE-CAKE Pudding 229, 416 

Sponge Cakes, General llules 

for making 416 

Spo.vge Cakes, .small 293,294, 307 

Spoon Biscuits 309 

Spuouts, Cabbage, to boil 178, 179 

ScjUASH, Summer, to cook.. ..177, 178 

Squash, AVinter, to cook 178 

Squikkels, to choose, dress, and 

cook 162-16* 

Stains, to remove from the Hand 411 

Stauch, Corn, Custard 429 

Stakch, Corn, to cook 423 

Steaks, Beef, Choice of (sec Beef- 
steak) 76 

Steaks, Codflsh, fried 3'}, 37 

Steaks, Ijamb, witii Wine or Cur- 
rant Jelly 122, 123 

Steaks, Mutton, to broil 130 

Steaks, Pork, to cook 109 

Steak.s, Porter-house 76 

Steaks, Sirloin 76 

Steaks, Venison, fried 131,132 

Steaks, Venison, to broil 132 

Stew, Beef and Onion 78, 79 

Stew of Smoked Pork, to make 108 

Stew, Parsnip 120 

Stews, Powder for flavoring 198 

Stock for Gravy 29,30 

Stock for Gravv Soup 29, 30 

Store Onions, to dress 189 

Strainers, Jelly 318, 349 

Strawberries, to prepare for 

Table 3S6 

Strawberries, to preserve.. 364, 365 
Strawberries, to preserve 

Whole 366 

Strawiseukies to stew for Tarts 368 

Strawberry Jam 305, 306 

Strawberry Marmalade.. .365, 38S 

Strawb!;rry Sherbet 335, 385 

Strawberry Short-cake... 41S, 431 

STRAWBEitRY Syrup 335 

Striped P.as.s, to boil 41 

Striped Bass, to fry 41 

Stuffing for boiled Fowl 138 

Stuffing for roast FowL 135, 136 



INDEX. 



477 



PAGE 

Succotash, to make 116, 117, 183, 184 
Suet Fkuit Pudding, without 

Eggs 430, 431 

Suet Puddinu 412,413 

Suet Pudding, boiled 224, 225 

Sugar 1>i:op Cakes 3li, 312 

Sugar for Preserves 343 

Sugar, Lemon 333 

Sugar, Orauge 333 

Sugar I'aste Cueam Takts — 248 
Sugar, to clarify for CMudies — 339 
Sugar, to clarify for presei-v- 

ing 345 

Summer Squash, to cook 177, 178 

Summer Vegetable Soui' 30, 31 

Suppers, Oyster, Directions 

about 328, 329 

Sweetbread, Larded 424, 425 

Sweetbreads like Oysters 426 

Sweetbreads, to fry 425 

Sweetbreads, to roast 425 

Sweetbreads, to stew 425 

Sweetbreads, Veal 87, 88 

Sweet Macaroni 427 

Sweetmeats, Omelette with.. 239, 240 
Sweet or Carolina Potatoes.. 176 

Sweet Paste Jelly Tarts 24S 

Sweet Pot.\to Pie 177 

Sweet Potato Pudding 228 

Sweet Pot.^toes, to bake 176 

Sweet PoT.iTOEs to boil 176, 177 

Sweet Potatoes, to roast 176 

Sweet Sauce 241 

Syllabub 337 

Syrup and Lemon Sauce 241 

Syrup, Blackberry 369 

Syrup, Jelly, Quinces in .350, 351 

Syrup, Lemon 330 

Sy'rup, Mulberry 3S2 

Syrup of Cream 831 

Syrup, Pine-apple 335, 336 

Syrup, Raspberry 335 

SY'RUP, Simple, to make 339, 340 

Syrup, Strawberry 335 

SYTtup, Vanilla 330 

T.4BLE, Arrangement of, for 
Breakfast 39S-1C0 

Table, Dinner, Arrangement 

of 402-404 

Table, Dinner, Etiquette of... 435-433 



* PAGE 

Table, Tea, Arrangement of and 
Bills of Fare lor, in Summer 

and Winter 401, 402 

Table, to prepare Ripe Fruits or 

Melons for 3S5-3ST 

Tables, Refreshment, Directions 

for setting 325-329 

Tablets de Patience 309, 310 

Taffy, toniake 341, 342 

Tainting, how to keep Game 

from 161, 162 

Tapioca Milk 410 

Tapioca Pudding 413 

Tart, Apple 251, 252 

Tart, Apple (Dried) 252, 253 

Tarts, Cranberry 255 

Tarts, Currant (Green) 257, 258 

Tarts, Etc., Directions for bak- 
ing and making 243-264 

Tarts, Gooseberry 258 

Tarts, Grape (Green) 258 

Takts, Green Gage 254 

Tarts, Paste 247 

Tarts, Peach (Dried) 253 

Tarts, Plum (Dried) 253 

Tarts, Rhubarb 256, 257 

Tarts, Strawberries stewed for.. 366 

Tarts, Sugar Paste Cream 248 

Tarts, Sweet Paste Jelly 248 

Tarts, Tomato 411 

Tarts, to preserve Fruit for. .381, 3S2 

Taylor Cakes 293 

Tea, Black, to make 331 

Tea-cake, French 310, 311 

Tea-cake, Thanksgiving 305, 306 

Te.v-cakes, Buttermilk 2S1, 282 

Tea-cakes, Cream 2S1 

Tea-cakes— Wigs 297, 298 

Teacup Cake without Eggs 299 

Tea, Frencli Roils for 2S4 

Tea, Green, to make 300, 331 

Tea, Indian-meal Bread for 274 

Tea-party', Directions about.. 327, 323 

Tea, Ripe Clierries for 387 

Tea, Ripe Currants for 387 

Tea Rusk 232 

Tea-table, Directions for set- 
ting .327, 328 

Tea-table, Sunmier, Arrange- 
ment of, and Bill of Fare 
for 401, 402 



478 



EvDEX. 



, PAGH 

Tea-table, ATinter, Arrangemeut 

of, aud Uill of Fare for 402 

Tea, to serve I'iue-applcs at 4j1 

Tempkhanck Devekaoe, a 4uJ 

Tebkapins 4.;.: 

TiiANKSfJivixu DiXNEi:, a 4'jj 

TUANKSOIVIXa I'iE coo. •2C<1 

TUAXKSGITl.NU TEA-CAI:E GOo, SJJ 

Toast, Milk 20S, 20J 

Toast, to make 2JS 

Toast, Water 4u3 

Toast witliout Duttcr £00 

Tomato Catsup SJJ, 304, 410 

Tomato Jam G73 

Tomato I'ik 411 

Tomato Tap.t 4ii 

Tomatoes, Caadiud 077, S7o 

Tomatoes, Scolloped 104 

Tomatoes, to Ijakc 102 

Tomatoes, to broil 103, 104 

Tomatoes, to fry 4Jl 

Tomatoes, to pickle SOo 

Tomatoes, to preserve 377 

Tomatoes, to serve raw 103 

Ti)M ATOES, to stow 130 

Tomatoes witli Beefsteak 420. 421 

Toxfi ue, a, to carve 443 

TON'OUE Sandwich 320 

Tongues, Beeves', to pickle C7, C . 

Tongues, Beeves', to smoke cr 

ToNGUE.s, Pigs', to smoke o: 

Transparent jSIarmalads cu 

Transparent Pudding 2:;i 

Trifle 21^ 

Trifle Cake 30.^ 

Trifles, to make 2:0 

Tripe, Beef c; 

Tkipe, Beef, to broil 7 J 

TuiPE, Beef, to clean GS, CO 

Tripe, Beef, to fricassee 70 

Tripe, Beef, to fr^' co 

Tripe, Beef, to make Rolla 

CUeese with CO, 70 

Trout, Salmon, to cook 43 

Trout, to cook 40 

TuRiiOT, to carve 4-!i 

Turkev, Fricasseeil (Brown)..147, 143 

Turkey, Fricasseed (White).. 147 

Turkey, P.oast 144-14G 

Turkey, to boil 14G, m: 

Turkey to carve 4:0 



PAGE 

Turkeys, Choice of 143, 144 

Turnips, Green Leaves of, to boil 173 
Turnips, Uutu-baga, Directions 

for boiling 119, 120, 1T7 

Turnips, to destroy tlic Unpleas- 
ant Flavor imparled to MiHc 

by Cows feeding on 2C0 

Turnips, Winter, to cook 177 

Turnips, Yehow, to boil 110, 120 

Turnips, Young, to boil l^T 

Turnpike Cakes, to make. ..27", 273 

Turtle Soup (Mock) 20 

Turtle Soup, to make is, 19 

Twist Bread 271 

Twist, Common Candy 341 

Vanilla Ice Cp.eam 332 

Vanilla Syrup 336 

Veal, a Breast of, to car\e 445 

Veal, a Fillet ol', to carve 446 

Veal, a Loin of, to carve 440 

Veal and Potato Pie 93 

Veal Brotu 23 

Veal Cakes 426 

Veal, Choice of S4, 85 

Veal Cuops, Gravy for S3, 89 

Veal Chops, to fry or broil S8, 89 

Veal Chops, to stew 89 

Veal Collops 426 

Veal, Fore Quarter cf, to dress 

a 411 

Veal, Joints of 434 

Veal, Minced witli Potatoes 92 

Veal Pie <% 03 

Veal Pot-pie 03, C 4 

\'eal. Roasted to look like a 

Duck 01, G2 

Veal Sausages 67 

Veal Soup 25, 20 

Veal, stewed brown 69 

Veal, stewed with Vegetables 

(Ragout) 89, OO 

Veal Sweetbreads S". 88 

\'E.VL, to l)0il S5 

Veal, to lush 92 

Veal, to roast S:0, 01 

Veal. AVhite Mince ui 426 

■Vegetable Oyster, to cook 101 

Vegetap.le Soup for Summer.. 30, CI 
VEfiKTAKLES boiled with Ham (a 

Fanilly Dinner) 115, 116 



INDEX. 



479 



PAGE 

Vegetables, Directions for boil- 
ing and serving Meatwitli.. 1:2 

Vegetables k.x Koast Lieef si 

Vegetables for Roast Goose — 151 

Vegetables for Soups 12-U 

Vegetables, Sauces for 195-190 

Vegetables, to boil witli Corned 

Beef 113 

Vegetables, to boil with Corned 

Pork 117.118 

Vegetables, to boil with Salted 

Beef 119 

Vegetables, to cook, etc. (see 
also under tlieir respective 

names) lTO-194 

Artichokes ISS, 1S9 

Asparagus 1S2, 183 

Beans 1S3 

Beans Lima 184 

Beets 1T9, ISO 

Cabbages 130, IS", 10-1 

Cabbage Sprouts ITS, 179 

Carrots 184, 1S5 

Cauliflower 1S.3 

Celery 15G 

Cucumbers 1S9 

Egg riant 191 

Green Corn (see Corn) 190, loi 

Hominy 1^'- 

Horse-radish 104 

Leeks 104 

Lettuce 1 58 

Mushrooms 191, 102 

Onions 1S9 

Parsnips 185, ISO 

Peas 181,182 

Potatoes (see Potatoes) 172 

Radishes 1S7, 1S3 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster. . 191 

Shalots ISO 

Spinach ISO, ISl 

Squash 177, 178 

Sweet Potatoes 176, 177 

Tomatoes 192-194 

Turnips 177 

AVater-cresses 1S4 

Vegetables, to preserve for 

Winter Use 170-172 

Vegetables, Veal stewed with 89, 90 
Vegetables with fried Sausages 117 
Velvet Cakes 2S3 



tage 

Venison, a Pretty Dish of. 1:34 

Venison, Choice of 131 

Venison, lluuuch of, to carve . . . 451 

Venison, JJock, to make 126, 127 

Venison, Mutton I'astj-, to eat 

like 126 

Venison PAsri' 1.03, 1C4 

Venison, roasted 132, 133 

Venison Sauce 1C4 

Venison Steaks, fried 131, 132 

Venison Steaks, to broil 132 

Venison, to make Mutton taste 

like 126 

Venison, to stew 132 

Vermicelli Pudding 412 

Vermicelli Sour 28 

Vinegar and Cold Buttek 

Sauce 195, 190 

Vinegar, Cider, tcTuiake 393 

Vinegar, Raspberry 3S4 

Volatile Salts, Use of, in Bread 

or Cakes 265, 266 

Wafers and Jelly 291, 202 

Wafers, Cinnamon 293 

W.U'EKS, to make 291 

AVaffles, to make 290 

Waffles, Yeast 200, 291 

Walnut Catsup 393 

Walnuts, to pickle 392 

Washington Breakfast-cake.. 417 

Washington Cake 304 

Water, Apple 409 

Water, , Barley 410 

Water, Clicrry 383, 384 

Water-ckesses, to dress 194 

Water, Currant 333 

Water Gruel, to make 407 

Water, Lemon 333, 409 

Water, Orange 333 

Water, Toast 409 

Watermelon Pickles 411 

Watermelon Preserves 353 

Watermelons, to prepare for 

Table 337 

Webster Cakes 302, 303 

Wedding Cake, to make 313 

Welsh Rabbit, to make 208 

"What Cheer" Cakes, or 

Turnpike Cakes 277 

Wheat and Indian Bread.. 271, 273 



4S0 



INDEX. 



rACE 

Wheat axd Indian Cecmpets . 2:6 
■\Vheat and Indian Itd- 

UING 23 0, 230 

Wheat Bkead, to make 200, 270 

Whim, Mrs. Madiyoii's 313 

WUIPT t'KEAM 221 

White Cakes .". 29-i 

AVhite Lady-cake 301,302 

White Mince of Veal 426 

White Pidding 230 

White Solt, Chicken 22 

White Soui-s, Directions about 11 
Whoktlebeiikies, to prepare for 

Table 3SG, 3S7 

WnOKTLEBEUUY TIE 257 

AViGS, to make 2S0, 200, 297, 298 

Wild Dicks, to cook 102, 153 

AViNE Cakes 295 

Wine Jelly 338 

Wine ok Ckandy Sauce, Li- 
quid 240, 241 

Wine, Oysters stewed witli C3 

Wine Sangaeee 337 

Wine Sauce 240 

Wine Sauce, Liquid 240, 241 

Wine, to mull 4lo 



FACE 

Wine, to stew Oysters -nith 63 

Winter Uheakfast, liill ol' Fare 

for 400, 401 

Winter rARrv", Kefreshjients 

f o r 327 

Winter Squash, to cook 1T3 

AVinter, to preserve Vegetables 

for Use in tlie 170-172 

Winter Turnips, to cook 177 

Winter Use, to preserve Lutter 

for 201 

Woodcocks, to cane 450 

AVooDcocKS, to cook ICO 

Yeast, Bakers', to make 277 

Yeast Cakes, to make 277, 278 

Yeast Dumplings 224 

Yeast Powder, Babbit's 452 

Yeast, to make Doughnuts with- 
out 2S7 

Yeast AVaffles 290, 201 

A'ELLOW Lady-cake sol 

A'ellow Soup 14 

Yellow, to color Fruit for pre- 

serv'ing 342, 343 

Yellow Turnips, to boil 119, 120 



THE END. 



Popular Boots Sent Free of Tostag-e at the Prices annexed. 
The Reason "Why : General Science. A careful collection 

of somo tuousands of reasons tor things, which, though genei'ally known, are 
' imperfectly unJfrstood. A book of cc jdensed scientitio knowledge for the mil- 
lion. 13y the author of " Inquire AVithm." It is a handsume 12mo volume, of 
:,56pa2;js, printed on fine paper, bound in cloth, gi^t, and emboliished wjt'i a 
large number of wood cuts, illustrating the various subjects treated of. Th s 
work assigris reasons for the thousands of things that daily fall undt-r the ry.; 
of the intelligent observer, and of which he seeks a simple and clear cspiana'-ion. 
EXAMPLE. 
Why decs silver tarnish tohen exposed to the. Ugldf Wlty is the slij Hue f T'i,3 
volume answers 1,325 similar questions. Price $1 5 .> 

Tiie Biblical Reason "Why: A IIand-BooIc for BinLic.vr, 

Si vnr.NTs, and a Guide lo Family Scripture Headings. By the author of '• In- 
quire Within," &c. Uiautilully illustrated, large IJmo, cloth, gilt side and 
buck. This work gives lieasons, founded upon the Bible, and assigned by Iho 
most eminent Divines «ind Christian PMlcsophers, for the great and all-absorb- 
ing events recorded in the History of the Bible, the Life of our Saviour, and tha 
Acts of his Apostles. 

EXAMPLE. 
why did the first [patriarchs attain such extreme longevity f 

Wliy is the Hook of the Prophecies of IsaiaJi a strong proof of the auih'Hlicily 
of the whole Bible? 
This volume answers upwards of 1,400 similar questions. Price § 1 50 

The Reason "Why : ISTatural History. B3' *iie author of 

" Imiuirc Within," "The Biblical lleason Why," &c. iJTno, cloth, gilt sidn 
and back. Giving Reasons for liundreds of interesting facts in conuection with 
Zoology, and thi-owing a light upon the peculiar habits and instincts of the 
various Orders of the Animal Kingdom. 

EXAMPLE. 

Why do dngs turn around two or three times before they lie down t 

Why do birds often roost upon one leg? 
This volume auawers about 1,500 similar questions. Price $1 ,50 

The Corner Cupboard ; or, FhHs for Everybody. Ey the antlior 
of " Inquire Within," " The Keason Why," &c. Largo 12mo, 400 pages, cloth, 
gilt side and back, illusti-atcd with over One Thousand Engravings. Bmbraciug 
Facts about — I. Things not generally known. II. Things that ought to bo 
known. III. Things worth knowing. The "Corner Cupboard " is 



A Complete Vovfcctioncr. 

A Complete Cook. 

A Complete Family Doctor. 

A Complete Gardener. 

A Complete Father's Book. 

A Complete Mother's Book. 

A Complete Family Book. 

A Friend at Everybody's 



A Complete Lady's Book. 
A Complete Gi^nlleman's Book. 
A Complete Uoy's Book. 
A Cumplete Girl's Book. 
A Complete JItaster's Book. 
A Complete Servant's Book. 
A Complete Amusement Book, 
Elbow in Time of Need. 



It tells about the food wo consume, the clothes we wear, the hotiso we live in, 
and facta Irom the Arts and Sciences, as well as from Literature, Manufacture, 
Commerce, Anatomy, Physiology, the Garden and Field, the whole forming .-i 
Complete Encyclopedia of Useful Knowjfdge. Whether in the parlor or the 
kitchen, tho chamber or the boudoir, at home or abroad, it mny be very appro- i 
priately called the Family's Heady Adviser. Price ., §1 50 

Epitome of Braithwaite's RetrosDect of Practical : 

Medicine and Surstry* Containing a conde'hsed summary of the ino.^t : 

important cases ; their Treatment and all the Remedies, and other useful ma, - I 

tcrs embraced in the Forty Volumes — the whole being alphabetically cla^siticd, j 

and supplied with an addenda, comprising a Table of French Weights and Moas- I 

v.ros, reduced to Engish Standard — a List of Inoompatibles — i complete List of ! 

the Mus\os, their O-igin, Insertion, and Uses, respectively — Explanatiims of ! 

the principal Abbreviations occurring in Pharmaceutical Fomiuj^ — a Vocabu- i 

lary of Latin Woi-ds most, frequently used in Prescriptions, nndrt Copious lude:;. I 

By WAi-'jcn S. Wlli.k, Jl. V>. Two volumes, lnrgi>. Hvo., each volume contaiiiiri'.T ■ 
over 900 pages of closely jirlnted imttcr. 8ubit.-in(ial!y I'ound in sheip. Pri'-e, 

for the Set .■-.- $10 00 



:nd C3.g1i Orders to DICK & FITZGEBAXD, 18 Ann St., N. Y. 



Topular Books Sent Free of Postagfc at the Prices annexed. 



ThO SOCiablO ; or, One Tiiousand a:id One Home Amu-envnts. Con- 
tainiiio; Actmi; Proverbs, Dramalic Charades, Artlng Charades, or Prawin"- 
rciDUi J'auiom.mi.-j, Jlusio.il lJurlc.i<jucs, Tableaux V:vanta, I'ar'nr Game?, Gam. 3 
of Actiun, forieil-s, .Soiriicc iu Sj)ort .and i'arlor Magic, ani a choice c^iiltvtion of 
curious inenhil an I mjchanical Pu^izlcs, &3., illustrated w.th nearly SCO En^jrav- 
iii:;s and I);a'j;rinn, l!ie whole bcin.^ a fund of uover-cndingrcntcriainiaciit. L'y 
tho author ot " T;ir» Magician's Own Uoo!;." Kcarly 400 jiafjis, l^rao, elolh, piit 
siJe stamp. "T.ic Suciablc ; or, Ono Thousand and One Homo Amusements," 
is a repintory of gam.s and other cntoi-ta^nmeu'.-s, calculated for t!ie use of 
family jiartios the fireside circle or those social gatlierings amona; friends ar.d 
neijfh'oors vhich r^ss away the winter cveninps with so miiih animation nnd 
dch^hf. It is impiJSsiblc fur any comp.any to exhaust all the sources of irrc- 
)(roachablo mirth and mutual cajoymont produced in this volume 
Price SI 50 

TllO Magician's OvVn Book ; or, A Complete Cukk to t:.e Art 

of Conjuring. Dcinj a lland-l> lok of Parlor Magic, anl containing several 
hundred amu?=ing Magical, Miignctical, ILlcctrical, nnd Chi mical i:! tperimcnt^-, 
Astoui.^hln-.? Transmutation:;, Wonderful Sloif;ht-ol-IIand and Caid Tricks, 
Curious and Pcrplex'ng Puzzles, Quaint and Kntertainins Tricks and Questions 
iii Numbers, Se:-ret \Vr tin» explained, Sleights and Sabilet es iu liogerdemain, 
&c., togethor with all the most noted Tricks of Modern Performers. Illustrated 
with over .^OD Woa I Engravings, 12mo, cloth, gilt side an 1 back .stamp, 400 pages. 
Hero is the whole process made simple of manipulating tho cirds, and perfonn- 
ing Tricks with Sleight-of-hand. Price $1 50 

Parlor Theatricals; or, Winter Eveninfjs' Eniertamrmnt. ConUin- 
iu ; Acting Proverbs. Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or I)r.iwin;;-room 
Pantomimes, Musical Jjurlesques, Tableaux Vivanfs, &c. Bv the author of 
"The Sociable," "Tho Magician's Own IJook," "The S^-cret <)ut," &c. 12mo, 
gilt side and back, illustrated with descriptive engravings and diagranxs. 
Price - 7 5 c<«. 

The Book of 1,000 Tales and Amusin?; Adrentures. 

Containing over .^00 engravings and 4.110 pages. This is a magnificent 
book, and is cr-immod full of tho narratives and adventures of travelers, the ro- 
mantic talcs o. celebrated warriors, nmiising stories in Natural ll.story, besides 
a thousand things rebiting to curious tricks, cntertnining sports, pastimesand 
games. In this capital work we have our old friend Peter Parley again, and ho 
tells his stories as v.-ell as ever. The book is worth ton times tho price we ask 
forit. Price $1 50 

Ladiep' Guide to Crochet. Ey Mr.s. Ann s. Stephkns. Co-- 

piously illustrated with original and very choice designs in Croc'not. etc., printed 
in colors, separate from the letter press, on tinted paper. Also with numerous 
wood-cuts printed with the letter press, explanatory of terms, etc. Oblong, pp. 
117, beautifully bound in e.-.tra cloth, gilt. This is by far the best wock on tho 
subject of Crochet yet published. There are plenty of other books containing 
Crochet patterns, but the difficulty is, they do not have the ncccisary instructions 
how to work them, and arc, therefore, useless. This work, however, supplies 
this much-fel*. and glaring deficiency, and has the terras in Crochc* so clearly ex- 
plained, that any Crochet pattern, however difficult, may be worked with case. 
Price $1 25 

10,000 "Wonderful Things. Cotuprising the Marvelous and 

Karo, Odd, Curious, Quaint, Eccentric, and Extraordinary, in all Ages and 
Nation", iu Art, Nature, and Science, including many wonders of the world, en- 
riched with hundicds of Authentic Illustrations. Edited by Edmund Fiixinguam 
King, ?f. A., author of "I4fe of Newton." &o., <S:o. 1-mo, cloth, gilt side and 
liack. In tho present work, interesting scenes from Nature, curiosities of Art, 
C'>stuni>, .and (Customs of a by-gone period, rather predominate ; but we have 
devote. I many of its pages to descriptions of remarkable occurrences, beautiful 
land =c;'. pes, stupendous waterfalls, and sublime sea pieces. Price.. $1 50 



'--J 



Sei; 1 Ccsa Orders to DICK & nTZGERALD, 18 Arm St.,N. Y. 



Popular Books sent Free of Postag^e at the Prices annexed, 



The American Boy's Book of Sports and Games. A 

Repository of ia and out door Amusements for Boys and Youth. Illustrated 
With neariy 70) engravings, designed by Whit;', Iloriick, Weir and Ilarvey, and 
enjp-avc.l by N. Orr. 600 pp., 12mo. Kxtra Cloth, pilt side ;ind bacii, extra gold, 
$3. JO. Extra clnili, full pdc cdies, back and tide, $4.00. This is, unquestionably, 
tho most attractivii and valuablj Hook of its k nd ever issued in this or any other 
country. It has been three yeari ia preparation, and embraces all thosports and 
(?ame3 that tend to develop the physical constitution, improve the mind and 
heart, and relieve the tedium of leisure hours, both in the parlor and the field. 
The engravings are in tlio first style of the art, and embrace < ightfuil paf.'e orna- 
mental titles, iliustrating; the several departments of the work, beautifully print- 
ed on tinted paper. The book is issued in the best stylo, bein;; printed on fine, 
sized paper, and handsomely bound in extra cloth, with gilt side ana back. The 
following will give an idea of its contents : 



Part I— The Play- Ground ; or, 

()nT-Oo:ii i;am£3 with a.v:i wit; out 
Tors. Includii.j Games of Activily anJ 
Speed ; Giimes wiih 'iuvs. Marbles, Tops, 
lUiups. Kites. Archery, iialls ; with Cricket, 
Croquet and Base-Bail. 

Part IT— Athletic and Graceful 

ItBCKEATlO.NS. Ir.cludiii? (ivmuaati^ s, 
Skating. Swimming, r.owing, s.iiling. Horse- 
macship. i;iiling, Drivijs, Angiicg, Feuciug 
and Broadsword. 

Part lil-Amusenients with Pets. 

t;oic;Ti.sii,? .'■liiuing n'.Ml TaHiM;? Birds, Pi- 
goons. Douiest.c an.l Aii»ati.; Kowls. Rabbits. 
Squirrels, Mire. l/u;.ie.a Pi?s, Kaccoon aii't 
Opossum, Dogs, Saliiiutl rre:>ii 'A'ater Aquaria. 



Part IV— Play-Room Games for 

I(AI.>.Y DAYS. lucludiu.- Round Games and 
For eiti. Board and Slate Ganiei, aud TabU 
aud Toj CTaiaes. 



Part V— Evening- Amusements. 

Cnmpreh'*ud.i)5 Comic Diversiuns. I'ailor 
Ma^c. Tricks with Cards, i?cientific Hecrea- 
tious aad I'uzilus. 



Part VI— Mechanical and Mis 

CKr.LANEUIS AMCiE.MKNTS. Inciudi.-is l 
Carpi^ntry. Paintiii*. Gu'dcniug, Postage' ' 
^tiiinps a:jd l''ragmeiits. 



" Trump's " Amsrican H07I9 ; or, Gentleniens IlanJlookofGame!. 
Containing clenr and complete descriptions of all tho Games jdayed in the United 
States, with the American liules for playing them, iuoludin-:? Whi.st, Euchre, 
Besique. Cribbatre, .^I'.-Fours, X.00, Poker, iBrapr, Piquet, Koarie, iloston, Cassinu, 
Chess, Checkers, B^ck-^anuaon, Dominoes, Billiards, and a hundred other games. 
To which is appended an lilaborato Treatise on tho Doctrine of Chances. 

Reasons \vhy the "American Iloyle" must b3 the Standard Authority for 
all Games playad in tii3 Unite 1 States : 



Because it is an American E-iok, prepared Trith 
great care, with the aid and counsel of a l;trge 
number of the best piajers .bolii amateur a:.d pro- 
fessional.' io Ihiscoun'rv. 

'I he Kules.deicripti.ini. definition.? andtechnl- 
erlitiesar.'a'.l »;mp.ified and adapted to;bi.'- several 
games as they are autually plav. d here. 

>:anj of our (tinn-s arop'^citliarly American, and 
cannot be ioie) i;ibly described except by a;i 
American who undersiands them, while Ihoio of 
f.Tc;?n origin have become so c'lance 1 by Ameri- 
can n-«difications. as in make the Kuropeaa rules 
aad descriptions as lii^ely to mislead as to instruct. 



In prenarinij tin's wor'c the best or frreatest 
weight of autliority for each I'articuiar game baj 
b^en taken up-tn disputed points. 

The important game's of Che.»s. Draughts, and 
Backgammon are illustrated with over l-'-O dia- 
grams of games, problems and critical posilioiiF, 
nil of v.hicii hav'j l.fjen carefuUv played \ipon the 
b'jar I eiuct* t'le work was nereotrped. and liparly 
10'^ errors (which app-ar in Kngiish Game Books 
and their American repi-ints) h:»ve bci'ii conect'd. 

All the games playc I in Ihn Vui'e.l Btales, 
whether of honie or fnreien oi-jein. are given as 
they are jdaycd by Americans at the preseiit day, 



12ino., 500 pages, cloth, gilt side and back, profusely illustrated. rrice..$3 00. 

Brisbane's Golden Ready Reckoner, Calculated in Dol- 
lars ai'd Cents, being a useful Assistant to Traders in buying and seUin^ various 
sorts of commoilitifs, either whole-ale or retail, showing at cnco the amount or 
value of any number oi articles ; or quantity of proods, or auy merchandise, either 
by tho gallon, quart, pint, ounce, pound, qu.trlcr, hundreii, yard, foot, inch, 
biiJhel, e'c, ia a 1 easy .Tnd plain manner. To which are aided, Interest T.tblcs 
c.Ueulalod in dj'il.irs and cents, f r d;iys and forinonths, at SiX per c< nt., and at 
seven per cent., per annum, altern.a'ely ; aud a creat number of other Tables and 
Rules for calculation, never before in print. Bound in boards, cloth bark. By 
"William D. Bsisdanb, A. M., Accountant, Bookkeeper, ic. Price.. 35 ct». 



Send Ca.sh Orders to DICK £: FITZGEBALD, 18 Ajm St., N. Y. 



Popular Books sent Free of Postage at the Prices annexed. 

Parlor Theatricals ; <"'. Winter Evenings' Enlertnnment. Contain- 
ing; Acting I'loverbs, Dramatic Charades, Acting Charades, or Drawing-room 
Pantomimes, ifusical liurics(iucs, Tabieaux Vivants, io. ; with In-structions for 
Am.iti'urs; liow to Construct a Stage and Curtain; how to pet up Costumes and 
I'ropcrties, on t!ie "Making V\)" of Cliaracters, Exits and Entrances; how to 
arranKO Tableaux, etc. Illustrated with Engravings. Taper covers, priCe 30 cts. 
iJound in boards, cloth back, 50 cts. 

The Parlor Ivlagiciail ; o''. One Hundred Trick-, for the Drawing -Room, 
cont lining an Extensive aud Mi-;ccUancous Collection of Conjuring? and Lcgerdc- 
m.iin; Slciglits with Dice, Dorainoe?, Cards, Ilibbons, Rin^^^, Fruit, Coin, Balls, 
Handkerchiefs, etc., all of which may bo Pcrlormcd in the I'arlor or Diawing-Room, 
without the aid of any ai:paratu;5 ; also cminaein^ a choice variety of Curious Do- 
ceptions, which may be performed with the aid of simple appiratus ; tlie whole 
illustrated and clearly explained with 121 engravings. Paper covers, price ."JO cts. 
Bound in boards, with cloth back ..50 ctu. 

The Book of 500 Curious Puzzles. Containinic a lartrc col- 
lection of entertaining Paradoxes, Perplexing Deception in numbers, and Amusing 
Tricks in Geometry. By tlie author of " The Sociable," " The Secret Out," "The 
Magician's Own Baok.'i. Illustrated with a Great Variety of Eufrravings. This 
book will have a large sale. It will furnish Fun and Amusement for a. whole 

winter. Paper covers, price. ^Octs. 

Bound in boai'ds, wiith cloth back 50 els. 

Book of Riddles and Five Hundred Home iimuse- 

xaezxts, containing a Choice and Carious Collection of lliddles. Charades, Enigmas, 
Kebuses, Anagrams, Transpositions, Conundrums, Amusing Puzzles, Queer Sleights, 
Kecreatinns in Arithmetic, Fire^iilo Games, and Natural Magic, embracing Enter- 
taining Amusements in Magnetism, Chemistry, Second Sight, aud Sraplo Itccrea- 
tioni in Science for Family an I Social Pastime, illustrated with sixty engravings. 

P.iper covers, price SOcSs. 

Bound in boards, with cloth back — oO as. 

Parlor Tricks with Cards, contniniiio: Explanations of all Uic 
Tricks and Deceptions with Playing Cards ever invented, cmbrac'ug Tricks with 
Cards perfonnod by Sleight-of-hand ; by the aid of Memory, ilcntal Calculation, 
»nd Arrangcmi'nt of the Cards ; by the aid of Confoderacy, an I Tricks I'orf irmc I 
by the aid nf Prepared Carvls. The wlioleillustratedan Imade plain anleasy, with 

seventy engravings. Paper covers, price 30 cts. 

Bound in boards with clot a back 50 els. 

Th3 Book of Firesid-3 G-aniOS. Containing: an r.xplanation of 
the most Entertaining Gaines suited to ihe Family Circlj as a Xlecreation, such as 
Games of Action, Games which merely require attention. Games wiiicli requir-j 
memory. Catch Games, which have f.ir their objects Tricks or My.itifi cation. Games 
in which an. opportunity is afforded to disiilay Gallantry, Wit, tr some slight 
knowledge of certain B -lenees, Amusing Forfeits, Fireside Games for 'Winter Even- 
ing Amusement, etc. Paper covers, price ,30 cts. 

Bound in boards, with cloth back 50 ct!>. 

The Post's CoiHIOanion ; ^l DicUonary of all Allou-alle RhymfiH vi 
ihe English Language.. ''This is a Book to aid aspiring genius in the Composition 
of Rhymes, and in Poetical Elfusions generally. It gives tin Perfect, the 
Imperfect, and the Allowable Rhymes, and will enable you to ascertain, to a 
certainty, whether any word can be mated. It is invaluable to any one who desires 
to court the muses, and is used by some of the best writers in the country. 
Price - 1 35 cts* 

Rarey & Knov/lson's Com'^olGte Horse Tamer .and Far- 
rier, comprising the whole Theory of 'I'aming or Breaking the IIorKc, by aNc^\ and 
Improved Method, as practiced with prrcat success in the 'United States, and in all tlie 
Countries of Europe, by J. S. Rauf.t, contain'ng Rules for selecting ;i pood Horse, 
for Feeding Horses, etc. Also, The Complete pAKniEa; or, Ilnrse Dorlar ; a Guide 
for the Tr-atmap-tof Horfcj in all Diseases to which that n-ilde rmimal is liable, 
lie'nj lh"i result of fifty year^'oTtensi'-j practice of the author, 1 y Jnux C. Knowl- 
SON, <luring his life, an English FiTr'cr of higli popularity, cent ain'ng. the latest 
dis.'ovcr'cs in the cure of S'lavin. Illustrated with descriptive Engravings. Bound 
in bo.ards, wi'.h cloth buck 60 cts. 

Sand Cash Orders to DIOK & FITZOKTCAT.D, 18 Ann St., HT. V. 



■-ll 

Topular Books sent Free of Postage at the Prices annexed. 

Live and Learn ; A Guide for all who wish to Speak fiud V/ritc cor- 
reoEly; inirUculaiiy intended asa Book of Reference for the solution of difficulties 
coan-'oted with. Grammar, Composition. Punctuation, &c., &c., n'itli cxpla- 
n ition oi'Iiatinauili''iunch words and phnisesofrreiiuentoccurrcn^ein newspapers, 
ro'/iews, jrenodicais, and books in general, containing examples of one tlioiisanl 
mistakes, o( ilaily occurr. uce, in speakint;, writiuK, and pronunciation. 21() 
fii^.'S, cloUi, i::mo. "l^ive and Learn" is a most useful booK, de.>;igncil as a 
g.i.de to Gramma.r, Composition, and Punctuation. So few people speak or 
*wit<3 really good granun ir, and fewer still pun< (uate decently, that a book that 
iuiurms Ihem haw to do so— and not only that indicates their faults, but shows 
ta.i:n how they are to be corrected — cannot fail to be popular; tliere is not a pci- 
Bji\, indeed, who might not learn, something from it. Price 75 cis. 

Inqilira "Within, for anylhin,? j'ou want to know. A book of 
Univovs.il Knowlodije. containin;? more than Three Thousand Facts for the Peo- 
ple, and will give you correct information on every possible .subject that you 
ever he.ird or tlioui^Iit of! Whetlicr you may desire to make love to a pretty 
p:;rl, or cook a dinner — to cure a sick friend or cut an acquaintance— to get up a 
diiiiier party or dini> abroad — to iday at cards, at chess, or any other popuar 
game, or go to church— whether you wish to establish yourself in life according 
t.) the rules of eUciuette, or live in a plaia, penteel way — this is a book thitt tells 
ho.v to do it. It is the most wonderful and valuable book ever "printed. 
Iroe - :. $1 50 

Tr-O S3Cr3t Out; O"". O'n^ TJivt-mwl Ti-kks with Cirds. A Book 
whioii esijiains all the Tricks an i Deceptions with Playing Cards ever known or 
invented, an 1 iiLves, besides, a ^:eat m my new and interestins; oni.'S — the whole 
beinjc described so accurately .and carefully, with Engravings to illustrate them, 
thit anybody can easily learn how to i-raetico these Tricks. This book contains, 
in addition to its num tous Card Tric-ks above described, full and easily under- 
stood explanations of s>rae T«-o Ran Ireil iiiid Forty of the most curious, amus- 
ing, and interostin;^ Slei^ht-of-Iland ;iiid Li-L'crdemain Tricks ever invented, 
and which are illustrated by Kusravin;.;, to make each Trick understood with 
cue. Illustrated by about 300 Eni^raviiiirs, and bound in a handsome pilt bnid- 
in^. It '-.ontains about four hundred pages. Price.. SI 50 

LaU^lliDg G-as. An Encyclopaedia of "VVit, Wisdom, and Wind- 
By Sa.m Slick, Jr. Comically illustrated with 100 original and laughable cngrav- 
in:>;-!, at!d nearly TjOO side-extendins; Jokes, and other thir.gs to get f::t on ; and 
the bfc.st ff it is, that everj-thing about the book is new and fresh — all ncv,- — new 
designs, ne-v stories, new type — no comic-almanac stuff. It will be found acom- 
plete antidote to " hard times." Price $i5c(ii« 

Charley "White's Joke Book. Being a perfect Ca.^kut of Fun, 
the first and onl'' work of the kind ever published. Containing a full expose of 
all the most ls,ugi?able Jokes, Witticisms. &e., as told by the celebrated Ethio- 
pian Comedian, Charles "Whitr. 91 pages. Price 13 cts. 

Bla.ok Wit and Darkey ConversationB. ry c.nw.i.rs 

"White. Containing a large collection of Laughable Anecdotes, Jokes, Stories, 
Witticisms, and Darkey Conversations. Price 13 cfs. 

Chi"DR from Unclf^ Sam's Jack -Knife, illustrated wijh over 

one hundred Comical Ent^raTings, and comprisin? a collection of over five hun- 
dred laughable Stories, Funny -Adventures, Comic Poetry. Queer Cimundrums, 
Terrific Puns, Witty Savings, Sublime Jok?s, and Sentimental Sentences. The 
whole being a mo3t"i)erfect portfolio for those who love to laugn. Large octavo. 
Price - 35 cts. 

FCsl's Ethiopioil Comicalities. Contalninp: StranjTC Sayinprs, 
Eecentric Doings, Curlesnuo Soceches. Laughable Drolleries, Funny Stories, in- 
terspersed with Pt^fmed Wit, Broad Humor, and Cutting ?arc.ism, copied ver- 
batim, a9 recited by the celebrated Ethiopian Comedian. With several Comic 
Illuatxations. Prieo -.13 cts. 



Send Cash Orders to DICK & FIT2GSI1AI.D, 18 Ann St, N. "ST. 



Popular Books sent Free of Postage at the Prices annexed. 



That's It; or, riain Teaching. By the author cf " Inquire Y.'itLin," 
" Thi; ICuasoii Why,' "_Tlic Corner Cui>board," " Live and Learn," " The B.bii- 
cal Uoason Wfiy," Arc. Iliustratcd with over 1,200 "Wood tuls. l^mo, cKit!;, 
(»ilt s;dc an I back. >Vc c .inMiend to Ihc attcn:ion of parents, tcachc;-.=, ji.-.l 
frien U of iioyalar improvement, the recommendations which '-That's It; or, 
Plain Teaching," has received fiom gentlemen Weil (lualified to pronounce iuilj;- 
mont -.ipon the soundness of its mural tone, and the accuracy of tlic varied in- 
fornia'.ion confa.ned in its pnges. Kvcry illustration is employed for a purpose, 
or a number of purposes, ami i-i m.ide, by numerous leferences, explanatory of 
thiu'^i which, without such assistan-^e, ooukl only be imperfectly conceivid. 'J'l.c 
work contains nearly 400 patjes, and over ), COO wood ciip;ravintrs, r.nd foims ov.e 
of the cheapest and most interesting i^ooks of elementary instruction ever i-.v.'i- 
lished. I'nco Ql 50 

Narratives and Adventures of Travelers in Africa. 

Illustrated with numerous line iingravings, and containing a Map of Airira, e.i 
which the routes of Dr. Livingstone and Ur. Larth arc accurately traced. L ir;-e 
12mo, Kilt baciv. An intense interest has recently been awakened, and widely 
cxtendod, in rej;ard to South Africa. Uuestions are, ia consequence, frenuentiy 
arisin;? as to the character of ils surface, its diversified tnbcs, its plants, and lis 
animals; and llio remarkable circumstances under v.'h;ch, after long conceal- 
ment, they have been gradually disclosed to our view. The object cf the present 
volume is to meet such inquiries by proper details, on the highest author. ty, 
abund.Tntly interspersed With true stories of chivalricciiierpriseaud heart-thrill- 
ing .ailvcnture. It respectfully solicits, therefore, the acceptance of all rank?, 
' and of ail ages. I'rice .- §2 00 

Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor ; or, Guid-. 

to the Three l<i/inhoiic Di-grees of tie Ancient Yin-k iiite : a:id to tlie Di-grees 
of Maik -M.istri-. I'ast Mast.'i-. Most K.xeelleat .M;.ster, and the i:(.y:il AreU. i:y 
MALOi>i.."il C iH'scAX. Jixiilaijieil and iiiu-rpreled by co|iici!is notes and numerous 
en^iMviiij^s. Altliodirii this woi-k is a conipiete Uitiial of the Symbolic and Chup- 
ter Depees. nnvi is al:>o piMlu^eiy illustrated with en^ravin^s of the Secret Sijjiis 
and <>i'ip<, it is not so niucli tbedesign of the authur to gratifv the curiosity of the 
uniuilialiMl. as t<< furiiisn a guide to tile younger members <it' the order, by means 
of whicii I heir progri'ss froiii grade to grade may be f.icilitated. The '■ work " laid 
dowji in liiis book ditfers from anv thing heretofore published. No Mason should 

be wiUioiit it. JJcuiid in Cloth. Price $.2 50 

Leather tucks (I'ociiet-Kook Style) with gilt edges 3 00 

Tlie Lady's Manual of Fancy "Work. A Complete in- 
structor in every variety of Ornamental Needle-Work, trith a list of materials 
and hints for their selection; advice on making up and trimming, liie whole 
being a complete Lexicon of Fancy Needie-^\ oik. By Mus. Puli, an. Editor of 
the London and Paris Ga>;ette of Fashion, and Director of the Work-table of 
Frank Leslie's Magazine, Illustrated Magazine, i^c, ice. Illustratcil with over 
300 Engravings, by the best artists, with eight large pattern plates, elegantly 
printed in colors, on tinted paper. Large octavo, beautifully bound in fine cloth, 
with gilt side and back stamp. There is no imaginable species of Fancy Needle- 
Work, Knotting, Knitting, Netting, Lace-Work, Embroidery, Crochet, &c., &c., 
which may not be found fully illustrated in th.s votunie ; .ind here are complete 
instructions for the inexperienced, from the pen of cue of the ablest of nredlo- 
womeu of the present age. Price.... S2 00 

Anecdotes of Love. Bein.cc n tmc acconnt of the most remark- 
able events connected with the llistory of Love in nil Ages and among all 
Nations. l!y Lola MoNTEZ, Countess of Landsfeldt. Large 12mo, cloth. Those 
romant.o and surprising anecdotes really contain all of the most tragic and 
comic events connected with the history of the tender passion among all Nations 
and in all Ages of the World. It is jirecisely the kind of book which a man will 
find it imno.sslb'o to relinquish untd he has read it through from the first to the 
last chapter. And besides the exciting love histories (mbraced in this volume, 
it really cjiitains a great deal of v.iluablc historic lore, which is not to be found 
except "by reading through interminable volumes. Price -.— $1 50 



Sind Cash Orders to DICK & FITZGERiLLD, 18 Ann Si;., IJ. Y, 



